 Have you always been comfortable talking to people who are not your age?   Um Ive always been comfortable talking to um well... dont know how to answer that question honestly. Ive never felt like Im particularly good at talking to anyone I guess is the answer!  This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... And need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Author John Green is 41 but hes built a career on his ability to connect with teenagers. His best-known young adult novel is The Fault in Our Stars--a story about two teens both dying of cancer who fall in love. Even before that book came out he had a huge following of teenagers online. He reaches them where they already spend a lot of time...on Youtube.  Good morning Hank its Wednesday August 31 Back in 2007 he and his brother Hank started an experiment where they posted weekly videos for each other...and soon other people began to watch too. Now more than a million people subscribe to their channel many of them teenage fans looking for advice and a sense of community.  So Hank I want to address the people who have recently ended or will soon end their formal education and enter what is known as the real world. OK the first thing that youll notice upon entering the real world is that it is neither more or less real than the previous worlds you have encountered. When John was growing up in Orlando he didnt feel like he had a real sense of community. He was close to his parents and to his younger brother Hank but he also spent a lot of time alone with his thoughts and his head wasnt always a comfortable place to be.  I always understood that when I was a kid kind of intuitively that a big part of who I was was what I was thinking and the feeling of not being able to choose those thoughts not being able to decide well thats an irrational worry lets leave that one behind not being able to reassure myself and not being able to be reassured by people who loved me and cared for me was really scary inin part because it meant that my self was built on a foundation of sand on some level.  It meant that there was no bedrock. John was diagnosed with obsessive compulsive disorder in his twenties but he struggled with anxiety long before that. When he was 14 he asked his parents to transfer him out of public school to a boarding school in Alabama.  I was really struggling socially was really struggling academically I was a really poor student and it seemed to me like alike a way out. Like a chance to reinvent myself a chance to become a different person and not be stuck with all of the memories that everyone you know in my school had of me.  Did you changed the way you dressed? Starting to change the way you presented yourself when you started boarding school?  I did a little bit. When I was in public school I kind of wore like a trench coat and I wore a lot of black and then when I went to boarding school I tried to be more--I tried to transition from like The Cure to like The Grateful Dead kind of   throw more a hippie vibe more like tie-dye shirts. It didnt really work but I did give it a go. I mean I really was never remotely successful.  Well what do you mean what was nothow were you not successful in sort of casting that image?  Well for starters I did not particularly like The Grateful Dead  so there was  that problem. But also Im not somebody who can convey like laid back and comfortable you know thats not the--thats not the vibe I give off. When John graduated from high school in the mid-nineties he went on to Kenyon College in Ohio where he majored in English and religious studies.and planned to become an Episcopal priest.  I didnt have a particularly wide understanding of possible careers you know? Like I thought that I could be a professor or a lawyer or a doctor or a minister . So of those jobs minister seemed like the one that was like the best fit for me because I liked going to church and I was Episcopalian I still am and so...it was not very well thought out if Im being honest. John was accepted to divinity school but before he started he spent six months ministering to sick children at a hospital in Ohio.  It was in Columbus but I was living at the time in a little town called Mount Vernon which was near where I went to college and then I would kind of commute and hour and a half to Columbus every day.  What was that work like for you?  It was hard. It was tough. I had a lot of admirations for people who work in children hospitals for longer than 6 months because I couldnt it takes a certain kind of a fortitude that I didnt have.  Were many of the children that you worked with were they dying?  Yeah. In a lot of cases they died um in some cases they didnt but as past of the job while you were on call--youd have these 24 hour on call periods--and while you were on call you would get called to any serious trauma case. And so sometimes that meant a kid had rolled over on their four wheeler and they were sick but they were going to be okay and sometimes it meant that kid had rolled over on their four wheeler and they were going to die. And you know all of my fancy ideas gleaned from theology about why bad things happen and why theres evil in the world... Like all of those ideas  meant very little to me when it came to actually beingbeing with people in those situations.  Do you have any memories of whatwhat would you do when you were driving home?  You know it varied.  A lot of the times Id just listened to music and kind of scream along to it sometimes I would drive in silence. On difficult you know in the hardI remember the hardest days you know I would drive home andand have to stop uh a lot of times. Id have to stop and just cry for a while cry until I fell asleep and then wake up and drive back to my apartment. Most days I would drive home and take that time to separate myself from the hospital and you know be in mymy real life but... some days that wasnt possible. John decided divinity school was not going to be the right choice for him. He moved to Chicago without much of a plan...started writing his first novel...and got a day job at Booklist a trade publication for librarians. But after a few years of that work John was feeling stuck. For the first time his anxiety and obsessive thoughts became debilitating.  I had a really bad period of mental health in 2001 and I triedI tried to quit my job and very generously my boss um told me to go home for a couple weeks and see if I could um recover in enough to return to work. But Id been unwell for a long time and Id been getting worse for a long time and it was one of those things where I didnt notice how desperate the situation was until you know I was in real danger and I was you know not eating. Andyeah I mean there was like a two or three week period where I consumed no calories except for in the form of Sprite so thats not great like  I probably should have recognized a little earlier in that period that things were not uh firing at all cylinders. But yeah I mean it was uh it was awful. It was awful. I wouldnt wish that on anybody.  Did you say Im sick to your boss or did yourthe people you worked with recognize that you were sick?  Uh the people that I worked recognized that there was something wrong but you know I neededId already needed a lot of support . So I dont know that it looked from the outside like a crisis because I was still going to work I was still getting my work done I was still productive. But you know II didnt I didnt accept that there was a problem until uh I mean I did I knewI knew that I was in bad shape but I didntI didnt accept kind of the scope of the size of the crisis until uh one night I called my parents and I told them that I needed to uh not  not be alone and sorry.  Its okay.  Theythey were there in like 12 hours.  Its good you made that phone call.  Yea I mean the uhit is good. The theyou know the kindness involved on the part of my parents in that is uh something Ill always be very grateful for. And then I went on this weird road trip with my dad. The craziest part about that trip was that we stopped in Indianapolis a city where my dad was from but I had no relationship with you know I didnt think about Indianapolis one way or another. We stopped at Indianapolis at the Borders Bookstore downtown. I just remember walking around that bookstore and just thinking like my life hasI have no future Im never going to be able to get a handle on this Im never going to be okay Im never going to have any stability in my life Im too much of a fuck up Im too much of a disaster. Youu know and now I live in Indianapolis and I...yeah. I think about that all the time. I think about that almost every day. Coming up.John Green on writing a bestselling high school love story...even when he didnt have a lot to go on from his own life.  I wanted to fall in love I wanted to have long term relationship it just kept not working out you know II think for a lot of reasons maybe largely because like being 15 16 years old is not particularly conducive to um you know stability.  For the past few weeks weve been collecting your stories about sex ed fails...the things you learned about sex when you were young...that you later found out were totally wrong. This voice memo came in from a listener about a terrible sex ed class he had in high school...the instructor brought a boy up in front of the class... And then he starts talking about how condoms prevent pregnancy 90 of the time which isnt even true its more like 98 if you use them correctly and then he puts this boy on a table like he has him lay down and then out of nowhere he pulls out this cinderblock and hes dangling it over this boys crotch and screaming like red-face screaming how do you like those odds now? Theres a one in ten chance Im going to drop this cinderblock on you! Is there something you learned about sexeither in a class or just something you picked up from a friend... that makes you cringe now? Record a voice memo and share it with us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And also  I want to let you know that John Green and his brother Hank host three different podcasts that are now part of WNYC studios..where we produce our show...one of them Dear Hank and John is basically a podcast version of their long-running youtube videos.they take listener questions and give advice. Its a really fun listen. Find it at dearhankandjohn.org. On the next episode...I check in with Rachel Swidenbank and her husband Hiroki Takeuchi...I first talked with them last year...after Hiroki was paralyzed from the waist down in a biking accident. Theyve made a lot of progress since then...and gotten more used to the things that wont ever be the same.  We used to be those like those loser people who would like try and get through the airport as fast as possible and turn up as late as possible and then get off the plane as quickly and you know be the first to passport control like it was some sort of race. Um and now it is like we are always the last people off the plane.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. A lot of John Greens books are about young people experiencing the all-consuming rush of first love. For John...that first happened in college.  I was 19 it was my sophomore year and um this wasthis was long before meeting people on the internet was a normal thing to do but I was a very early internet adopter because my dad brought home CompuServe  in like 1992 or 1993. And it was a friend of mine from the student forum of CompuServe in the early '90s. We just talked on the phone and  became friends and then I drove out to meet her one like fall break or something and it was pretty immediate. I think most of the workmost of the ground work had been laid before we even met in person and then we fell in love and had a really lovely and complicated and difficult and good romantic relationship for a few years and then eventually broke up.  Yeah. I imagine it must have felt so excitingit sounds like you are a person who from a young age liked loved the idea of love  and then to feel it  must have been like yes here it is.  Oh yea no and I mean and of course the great thing about falling in love for the first time is that it feels totally unprecedented you know? It feels like nothing like that has ever happened before in human history. Um and so itsits extremely intoxicating. In his mid-twenties not long after his mental health crisis in Chicago...John started dating a woman named Sarah.  We had this like one year long email correspondence before we actually uh hooked up for the first time. I was trying to think of the proper word I was gonna say dated but we didntwe didnt go on a date so...   Thats a pattern for you seducing seducing people from long distance with your words over the internet.  Oh I dont know about that  I mean I would sayI would say that it was a mutual seduction. You know one of the best gifts I ever received was when we got engaged Sarah had all of those emails printed and bound and gave them to me. And we do occasionally go back and look at them and--oh my gosh talk about two people who were stunningly oblivious to the fact that they were um clearly interested in each other! Uh but yeah it worked out eventually. They got married and when Sarah got a curator job at an art museum in Indianapolis they moved there. John settled into a comfortable routine...writing full-time and making YouTube videos with his brother. Then in 2012 when he was 34 he and Sarah had their first child..and John published The Fault In Our Stars. It has sold more than 23 million copies and was made into a movie in 2014 that grossed more than 300 million.  And when that happened it was really exciting and it was also a little bit intimidating because it felt like there was a lot of attention on that story and kind of by proxy on me and I had always wanted that I always kind of sought that out but when it happened it was definitely a little bit overwhelming at first.  II want to ask you about 2015 um and after the sort of scope of the incredible mass of success of The Fault in Our Stars was clear or had become more clear um and youre working on trying to work on your next novel... was that thethe first mental health crisis youd had since you were in your early 20s?  No but it was definitely the worst since my early 20s. Id had a few but on some level thats to be expected. I dont think that theres like a magical way out of having difficult periods for me even with the techniques of therapy and the medication I take and stuff... but yeah what happened in 2015 was definitely muchmuch worse than anything else except when I was in my early 20s.  How was it different to feel yourself in crisis when youre now not a single man youre married you have kids did it...  feel different?  It did I felt ...I felt horrible and I felt ...I felt like a total failure as aas a dad as a husband... I felt totally lost and it was difficult for me to you know engage with the outside world enough to read a menu let alone try to make breakfast for my kids or whatever.  And this might sound off butbut Im wondering just what you described in Chicago it wasyou sounded so alone when you were in crisis ... Did it in some ways make it easier that you had people around or did it compound the feelings of isolation that you couldnt feel connected to them?  To be honest I dont think either. I think the isolation in both cases was kind of absolute because at its core it was so internal. I mean part of what made both of those experiences so terrifying and so painful was the fact that I couldnt describe it to anyone and so when I was in that terrible constant mental anguish thatintense psychic pain. It felt very isolating and alone you know because I was the only person who had that pain.  Were you still posting videos on the Internet during that time  when you when you think I was at my lowest point at that point?  Oh yeah no I look at those and um actually just watched one the other day for...that doesnt matter  Im interested that youre watching it I was looking back trying to sort of pinpoint when youwhen it was  Yea I talked about it in one video um andbut if you watch any of the videos from like the few weeks around there you can see theres like or at least I can see theres like something in my eyes theres like something visible like alike a fear a panic almost um that I can see in my eyes. And I mean I would edit those videos and upload them and just that would be the only work I did all week um because you know at this point my brother and I had been making these videos back and forth to each other for 12 years now Ive made a video for 4 or 5 hundred Tuesdays in a row um and so II wanted to you know I wanted to continue that it was important for me to continue that I also knew that its not good for me to withdraw you know I felt the urge to withdraw but I know from experience that um thats not healthy for me toto withdraw further from the world. You know that only compounds the problem even though it feels like a solution. And thenand then I got on the better medication that started working I started to feel better right near the end of the year like right at Christmas.  Youre now in your early 40s...  Very early!  Very early 40s um . How does it feel to be a middle aged man?  Oh good. Yeah it was about 5 years ago that I put a pair of pants before a cocktail party and I said to my wife I feel like I look like a middle age man in these pants! And she paused for just like a second too long and I realized--it happened.   Youre like it was a joke and shes agreeing with me.  Yeha and shes not laughing because shes looking at me and shes seeing a middle aged man.  What kind of pants were they?   They were khakis. I threw them away! I was like no!  This was before I had accepted it. But if you double my age it will be a very reasonable age at which to die. So I guessI think thats the definition of middle age. Um Ill just answer the question honestly. I love my life right now. I dont know if Ill love it tomorrow but I love it right now. I have this sense of stability that I didnt have for a lot of my life. Yeah I dont know! I totally underestimated adulthood when I was a kid. I thought adulthood was something that you ran from and then eventually it overtook you and then and you had to just like stay still until you died I thought that you stopped changing. I remember when I was a little kid looking at my dads shoes you know. my dad had had the same pair of shoes for like 10 years and I remember thinking what it would be like to have your feet not grow for 10 years? That sounds awful! And now I have 10 year old shoes and they are so comfortable. How could I have not understood how comfortable they are and how nice it is to feel comfortable? And how when you feel comfortable in parts of your life that allows you to take risks in other parts of your life? And I think adulthood in general is totally underrated. Thats John Green...his newest book Turtles All The Way Down is about a teenage girl who struggles with OCD...and you can find his and Hanks full slate of podcasts at wnycstudios.org Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Stephanie Joyce Joanna Solotaroff Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. And dont forget to send us your stories about sex ed fails...were collecting your voice memos. Email them to us deathsexmoneywnyc.org. One thing I loved about making this episode is it allowed me to tell the team about my love of the country song Strawberry Wine by Deana Carter. Because believe it or not strawberry wine came up when I talked to John.  When I was in boarding school I drank a lot of Strawberry Hill and Boone's Farms  I dont think that theyre legally allowed to call it wine I think that they have to call it a malt beverage.  Its like Kool-Aid with like just gross booze inserted at the very end if I remember.  Thats exactly right.  I recently had some and itit does not hold up . Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.