Yesi Ortiz Ive had to learn how to let go. Its not my fault. Its not my fault that shes angry at me. Its not my fault. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  Lets get back to the music L.A.! For almost ten years Yesi Ortiz has been the midday DJ at Power 106 a hip hop station in Los Angeles.  Yeah what up! Its your girl Yesi Ortiz on Power 106. One-hundred dollars in tickets to the sold-out Weeknd show!  When I am on-air I have always been very flirty very innocent could be dangerous. Yesi is a familiar voice in LA she interviews celebrities...  Jennifer Lopez! L.A. stay with me... gives away prizes  One hundred dollars! Yes a hundred dollars!  jokes around on air.  Hello! But off mic  I do not share my news here. None whatsoever.  You do not talk about your kids at work?  Meaning like my personal struggles you know? I do not. At all. When Yesi says her kids shes talking about the six children she is been raising since just before she started working at Power 106. When she was 25 years old. The kids biological mom is Yesi's sister. Before they came to live with Yesi she thought she might lose them forever.  I remember the social worker specifically telling me uh because I wanted to go visit and she said 'No I do not think it is a wise idea for you to come visit anymore because it will be harder for the kids to say goodbye to you.' I said 'What do you mean?' And they are like 'Well they are gonna be adopted. Your sister's not going to get them back.' And I just remember feeling like devastated. De-va-stated. Yesi and her older sister are three years apart. Their parents emigrated from Mexico to California Orange County where Yesi was born. She says they were some of the first Latinos in her town when she was growing up.  And it was a little challenging because I didnt really speak good English so the teachers did not really pay me attentionpay any attention to me. So there went my education. Her parents split up when she was little. She lived with her mom at first but when she was 12 she moved in with her dad and his extended family.  I slept on the living room floor and my dad slept on the living room couch. So it was you knowdid not really have my own bed growing up until like I think I was like 16 maybe.  Why did you go to live with your dad?  Um you know my mom and I never had the best relationship. She was always after my sister. My sister was a troublemaker you know. And they would physically fight. Like my mom would slap her my sister would slap her back. My dad would be like 'Do not act this way.' Like 'Okay Dad. I am not gonnaI am not gonna act like my sister. I promise.' And she didnt. While Yesis sister started having kids while she was a teenager Yesi went to community college studied to be an EMT. She got a job working at a hospital pharmacy.  Once I basically ran the entire pharmacy except for filling up the prescriptions I was like What now? Then she won an on-air contest on her favorite radio station.  Power 106. Power 106 where hip-hop lives.  I was like 'Oh my god! I just talked to my favorite radio personality and now I am you knowI am on the radio. This is exciting!' She enrolled at a vocational broadcasting school and six months in she got an on-air job in Las Vegas a weekend shift.  So I would make the commute from Long Beach to Vegas. Get my Red Bull my beef jerky and I was out. Yeah.  And working seven days a week.  And working seven days a week yeah. After enduring that five hour commute for months she moved to Vegas full time.  I was like 'All right. This is it. I am going to start my career.'  At this point youre like 22 years old.  Yep about 22 years old.  And when did you realize that your sister was in real trouble?  It was probably like six seven months into that where I started hearing trouble about my sister. Her sister and her sisters husband both got arrested for assaulting each other Yesi says. And their kids Yesis six nieces and nephews ended up in the foster care system. Yesi felt like she had to step up.  You know my sister hadwas having kids since she was 15. She never really had a real job. She had baby after baby after baby after baby at 16- 15-years-old. So she did not really know how to go out and find a job. So what is she do? She just starts slacking on it. Next thing you know she is drinking. Next thing you know she does not have any kids there is no responsibility. She falls into drugs.  What sorts of drugs was she abusing?  She was doing meth. She was doing marijuana. Um mostly meth. Yeah. So and next thing you know shes nowhere to be found. Its like the kids are gonna be taken away. What are you doing? You have to understand that when my sister was 15 and she had her baby I was 12 and I was there at the delivery room. So if I get emotional I am sorry.  It is okay.  'ecause this is where it gets really emotional so it is really hard for me to talk about. So you have to understand that I raised the babies without birthing them you know giving birth. Angel my oldest he wanted to spend more time with me that his own mom. You know? He would come to me and he would cry 'Ta.' He would call me 'Ta' like tia. 'Ta Ta Ta.' And he would put his little hands out and he would want to come with me.  Where were you when you had that conversation with the social worker?  I was in Vegas.  And she says to you 'These kids are not coming back.'  Yeah Igosh I could notI could not accept that. Yesi started the process of becoming a foster parent. She took parenting classes moved to San Diego and eventually went to court.  I am like 'I am going to get the kids.' And then it was time for me to hit the stand and it was my time for my testimony and here I am witheach child is represented with a lawyer so they all have a public defender plus social workers have a public defender so there is seven lawyers in the office plus my lawyer. And my sister has a public defender and her husband has a public defender. And here I am doing my testimony about what am I going to do 'It is six birthdays it is six dentist appointments. It is you know what do you do for a living? How much money do you make?' I mean you are just stripped down you know. We got the hearing. The judge made the decision and he ruled in my favor. All the lawyers were like in shock. Every single one of them. And I just started crying. Yeah I started crying. My lawyer starts crying. We are all crying. All the lawyers are pissed off.  I can say that I hope. They were upset.  Did you have to testify against your sister?  Yeah yeah. I had to say she is not capable ofshe is not fit right now. She is not fit to take care of them you know. So I had to tell the truth.  What is the age range when they come to live with you?  Um Mikey was five and Angel was 12. He was about to turn 12 years-old.  And three boys and three girls.  Three boys three girls.  Were you the only adult in the house?  Yeah.  How did that work?   I do not know! Um my scheduleI was doing morning show. I went into work at like 00 AM and I got off at like 00. So I was able to hire a nanny to come at my house at 00 AM and she was literally asleep until like 00 and then um she would um take the kids to school and then I would pick them up. And because I got off at 00 and I went in at 00 me and the little ones would take our naps and the older ones would be sitting up doing their homework.  Did you have enough money?  No no I was living paycheck to paycheck. Sometimes I had to borrow money. The bills were really expensive. School shopping was expensive. Shoes. I had perks because of the radio station so movie passes and stuff like that. You know wed get one bucket of popcorn and free refills so that was easy. You know wed sneak a juicebox in or whatever.  Was your sister in touch with them?  Sometimes. And it would suckit would suck big time because she would really want to come and see them and she would say 'I am gonna come and see you.' And then she would not come. And so I would have to make up a lie and I would make up an excuse. You know and so at that point I was like You know what? You are not doing this anymore. I am not going to keep telling them that you are coming down and then you are not going to visit them. You are not doing that because who is picking up the pieces of their broken hearts? Me. I am telling them it is okay. You are not. This isI am not doing thisI cannot do this to them. So I no did not let her come. Coming upwhat it was like in the hardest moments to be single young and raising a half dozen teenagers.  I felt really frustrated that nobody was like asking me if I was okay you know. It always like the minute I walked in the door it was like 'I want want want want want want want want want want.' And no one was asking me how like my day was. Our latest episode with Jonathan Clark who lost his wife in the Columbia Shuttle disaster prompted some of you to reach out with your own stories of grief. In the story of the Clark family I would be the son who lost a mother Jake wrote me in an email. His mother committed suicide. My memory of the rest of that summer is astonishingly unreliable which still scares me a little bit he wrote. He went on to describe the years of confusion guilt and secrets that followedyou can see excerpts of it on our Facebook pagebut he ended it on this note. He said I guess if there is one message I wanted to get out that I wish I had been told its this Its ok to stop being sad. You can email us anytime at the show or send your voice memos to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. I have something else to tell you about. Were partnering with Selected Shorts the public radio show that features live readings of short stories and we need your help picking out what will be read on that show. The stories have to have something to do with death sex or moneywhich we know most short stories do. But the other criteria is the stories have to be 20 pages or less. So if you have a favorite short short story to suggest send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And well share a list of all of your suggestions. On the next episodememories of World War II. Norman Lear I have no way of expressing what Iwhat I felt except remembering how I didnt care when I saw the bombs drop and thinking they mightnot might probably are gonnainnocent people are gonna get killed. Andand I didnt care. I talk with legendary TV producer Norman Lear about life in combat long before The Jeffersons and Archie and Edith. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When Yesi Ortizs six nieces and nephews moved in with her they were all living in San Diego. Soon after Yesi landed her dream jobto be the midday DJ at LAs Power 106. But life at home didnt get easier.  Man I cannot tell you how many stories we have had good and bad. Cause you know a lot of the kids have a lot of issues abandonment issues anxiety depression and I have had them all in counseling.  And you have to come to work and be this warm inviting upbeat presence on the air.  Yes.  No matter what is going on.  No matter what. Leave it at the door.  Was that ever hard?  Yeah yeah. Yeah absolutely it was definitely hard. Uh there were moments where I would get a phone call and it is like 'Your son did this today or blah blah blah or this is happening at the house. And really I had to take a few deep breaths and um wipe the tears away and just turn on the microphone and do your job. It was hard for sure but I love what I do. LIke I love music. That was my escape you know?  The champagne is already poppin LA! We having a party here power106.com and check out the full live stream.  Were there moments where you felt really resentful that this had to be on you?  I was not resentful about that it had to be on me. It was resentful that it has happening to them. Because they were the innocent ones. I was just caught in the crossfire of thethe emotions. They were the ones being hurt. So I was more resentment for them. Not because this was happening to me. It was like This is happening to them and how do you not see that? How the mother of thethe woman that gave birth to them how do you not see that? And it would get me really angry really upset and really mad. And then there was times where you know they would act up like my 20-year-old who isher and I are so close. She ran away when she was 14 I found her at the friend's house and you know she would be like 'You are not my mom.' And thisand 'You are right I am not your mom. I do not want to be your mom because the definition of your mother is not here. She is not here. She is not present. She is not going with you to your parent conferences. She is not here loving you protecting you giving you a place to stay. So no youre right I am not your mom and I do not want to be your mom. I am your parent' you know? And it was those moments where it would hurt. That would hurt. You know I have had definitely my mistakes as a parent but I am very okay with um saying I messed up. 'I am sorry I messed up. I amIm your parent and I am sorry I was not there as much as I could have been there for you.'  Were you out working or out...  Yeah I was out working networking you know I had to make those sacrifices. I would not miss a parent-teacher conference. I would not miss a back-to-school night. And I would not miss a little league game. But I would miss dinner at home. Or I would miss coming home and checking up to see if you did your homework because there was something else. So I had to really - everyday was a game of chessof what waswhat I needed to do whatwhere I could go and what I should do what was the priority.  Describe for me what is your dating life been like?  It is been a rollercoaster! It is been such a rollercoaster of dating. It is been one of those things where it is like you know you meet a great guy and then he turns out to be a douchebag and then you meet another great guy and he does not care that you have so many kidsit is admirablebut you know he is not ready for a relationship. So my firstone of my first dates with the kids was actually on my front porch. So it was on my front porch. I was like Were not going anywhere and youre not coming inside the house.  Whywhy could not he come in the house?  'ecause I did not want the kids to hear a man's voice in the house. I did not want them to feel like 'Oh my aunt is leaving us now too.' You know? And recently just recently you knowyou know the moment where you are just like 'That is it. Every man looks like my ex-boyfriend. I am not dating anybody. You look like my ex-boyfriend. You remind me of my ex-boyfriend. I am not even touching you. I am not even talking to you.' When I went through that Boom! Here comes this amazing guy and  He does not look like your ex-boyfriend.  Does not look like my ex-boyfriend. And you know we have just started recently dating exclusively now so it is kind of freaking awesome. Yeah. And we joke because he is got a PhD in psychology and I am like 'Oh this is why it works 'ecause you get - you - this is why it works. I needed a mental health physician to date someone like me. This is why it works. So.  How does that work having a serious boyfriend...  Mmhm.  When you have the kids still at home?  You know luckily for me the kids actually do not mind this one.  Are you able to spend the night at his place?  No huh-uh. No I would not do that. Even if Ino. I do not feel comfortable leaving the house when the kids areand they are teenagers right? So yeah no. Huh-uh.  Does he stay over?  Yeah he stays over. Yeah he stays over and um you know it isit is a different relationship for me because he is inhe is open about his sexuality and he is a virgin. Very religious. So it is a new type of relationship with me. So there is nothing that he wants from me. I have dated those men that wanted something from me and they were the only reasons why they dated me 'ecause they wanted 'Oh here's the girl who loves to help people.' You know?  How did your boyfriend tell you he was a virgin?  Uh when we first started dating. We were in the car you know we were talking aboutwe were already very open about both our pasts and our family and stuff like that. He was like 'Look I really really like you. Like really like you.' And I said 'Oh well I like you too you know.' He is like 'Before we go any further' he is like he is like 'I am not in this to date just to date.' He is like 'I really like you in hopes of having a relationship someday and I really hope of you know being married one day and I really really like you. I feel I have to tell you this now. And I am like 'Tell me what? You know? What is going on? And he was like 'Um I have never you know had full sex with a woman.' I am like 'Wait what?' And he was like 'I have never you know fully penetrated.' And I was like 'Oh. And I sat back and I was like I had just freshlylike I had like a few months prior to that broken up with my ex-boyfriend and I was soso I was still in my heart like I do not even wanna have that right now soand I asked him questions and Im like 'Do you have fun? Like what is oral to you? What is this that and the third?' And we had a conversation about it and um he was very open very honest which I totally respect and you know I was honest with him as well. And I was like You know I thinkI think intimacy is a very important part of a relationship however right now I am so not wanting to be intimate with anybody. And its worked out you know so far.  Are you religious?  I was very religious and then somewhere I lost my faith and then I found it again and I am coming back to it.  Are you Catholic?  Yeah I grew up Catholic and then I went Christian and then I failed and thenI think meeting him was for a reason.  You said you 'failed' as a Christian?  Yeah I think I failed.  What is that mean?  To me I think that just means II started feeling a lot of hate in my heart for my sister and hate towards my mom and I was really angry. I was really mad. And um I just felt They do not care. You know? Nobody cared whatI was like 'What about me?' And I became very like this selfish person I felt. Like I felt that nobody was like asking me if I was okay.  How did that passage end and how did you let go of that?  I went back to church. I went back to church and I was just like 'It is okay. I gotta let go and I gotta let God. It is okay.' I startedI worried so much. And I still sometimes worry but I had worried so much and I just realized 'Yesi you cannot control other people's emotions. It is only how you are going to react. Right? We have all heard that. It is easier said than done. It is easier to say it than practice that. And it was a lot of practicing that I had to do.  Do you think you will have kids of your own biological kids?  Um I will never be a single parent again. If that means me not having any children then that is what that means. But I will never be a single parent again. I do notthat is the hardest job in the world is to be a single parent.  One more question about your on-air persona. There is a part of your on air personality that is flirty...  The last time you and I got to see each other we were supposed to have a baby. 50  Yeah.  It seems at odds with the very family-focused life that you have described.   Right?  So how do you - how do you think of those two things fitting together?  I think it is a Yesi Ortiz that is always been there. You know I grew up as a tomboy so I was never looked at as the woman to be threatened by and um I was never really a woman towherewherewhere men felt physically like drawn to you know. So I had to find like ways to communicate and I have always been very social and flirty like that you know. I feelso thats like a Yesi Ortiz pre-children and it kind of stayed that way which is awesome. And then I have to go home and someone's hungry. 'You did not make dinner this week!' Ugh god okay. Yesi Ortiz. Shes on the air on LAs Power 106 from 00 to 00 every weekday. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Destry Sibley and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And dont forget! Send us your short story recommendations to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And if you havent yet please go to iTunes and leave us a review. It really helps other people find the show on the iTunes charts. Yesis kids are growing up. Three have moved out. And Yesi says the house feels oddly quiet now.  This year is the first time I have had mymy own bedroom.  Wow.  Yeah. Yeah.  What have you done in your bedroom by yourself?  You know I had that isit is crazy 'ecause I do not even know how to decorate. I do not know! I do not know what I like you know. I do not know if I like incense or candles or Febreze! Like I do not know! Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.