Norman Lear The fact of my life is wherever you are at that moment it took every bit every second every split second of your life to get there. Its gone. You did it. Its over. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lotand need to talk about more.  We dont often talk about death sex and money. Im Anna Sale.  My name is Norman Lear. I was born on the 27th of July 1922 which makes me 93 if Im counting correctly. Norman Lear is the TV writer and producer behind iconic sitcoms like The Jeffersons All in the Family Good Times and Maude.  Carol! You want to move? Then move!  You mean that?  No. His shows took real life and put it on the small screen  All right! We both own a house we both own the furniture we both own the window. Half and half. I want my half closed! and they became some of the most-watched TV programs of the 70s and 80s.  Hold it Diane. We are the Jeffersons.   Norman spends most of his time in Southern California...but I talked with him a few weeks ago in the luxury building in Manhattan where he has an apartment. Its been called New Yorks most exclusive address.  I wanted to be able to say to my kids not you will not want for anything at all far from that. But you will not be desperate for a dollar. And that meant different things along the way. You know probably when I was a kid it meant that if you had 200000 you were not going to be desperate. And along with the times the number increased. Its now 60 billion. Thats a joke.   Normans worth an estimated 700 million according to Inside Philanthropy. But growing up he didnt have much. His father was arrested when Norman was a kid for selling fake bonds.  When my father was hauled off I was nine years old  to prison he served three years  and my mother was selling all the furniture cause she thought we couldnt live any longer in that much shame and she needed the money and god knows what. So the evening he was taken away she had people over and they were buying furniture. And she was selling my dads red leather chair. And that hurt more than anything. And in the middle of all of that some horses ass of a neighbor or a relative or something  an adult  put his hand on my shoulder and said Youre the man of the house now. And I dont know whether in that instant or the next morning or  but reflecting on it certainly I thought My god. How funny strange that is. You know. And then  and then he said Ah the man of the house doesnt cry.  Did your dad ever tell you why he went to prison? Did he speak to you directly about it?  Well I read the paper. I knew why he went to prison. And my mother had said to him I dont like those men Herman dont go with those men. She tried to warn him. But nobody ever told Herman anything. He  Ive been everywhere the grass grows green and I know everything he used to say. I adored my father. I continue to love him despite all the difficulty because he leaned into life. He ate it up. You know and whatever was going wrong he was you know gonna turn it around in the next twenty minutes. In two days to two weeks he was gonna have a million dollars always.  And when - when you think about how your father was trying to raise you as a young man what did he teach you about what it was to be a man?  Well now were getting into the sex part. Because the one thing I can remember  couple of thingsadvice that he gave me Norman he said never take a wet deck. He had been in the Navy. Now a wet deck in his terminology meant you know three guys are gonna have sex with the same woman you be first.  So pretty vulgar advice.  Thats  yeah. Pretty - and then at one point I was driving a Good Humor truck came home at 00 30 at night. He leaned out of the bedroom window and threw me the keys to the car and said Why dont you and Sid that was a friend of mine why dont you and Sid go up to Troy and get laid? He thought it was time that I thought about that. So you know I dont  I dont like saying what I heard myself say because  out of affection for him. Poor bastard. I mean this is what he knew.  Did you go to Troy?  We went to Troy yeah. We would -  we spent an hour driving around Troy got there about 4 oclock or something in the morning. Looking for red lights. Because it was supposed to be notorious for a red light district. No - no such thing. At least not for us. And we came back. Normans father died in 1957 but he kept showing up in Normans work for decades. When Archie yelled at Edith to stifle! during an argument on All in the Family  Now stifle yourself will ya!  Oh that is a terrible thing to say! ...thats what Herman Lear used to yell at Normans mother.  I used to sit at the kitchen table and I would score their arguments. Normans father also showed up in the psychiatrists office with Bea Arthur on Maude.  My father again! The man never gave me one decent moment not one! Maybe one...  That was a real experience in my life. I rewrote it. When it came to a grandstand play he was good at it. I was dating my first wife the woman who became my first wife. I was gonna pick her up in West Hartford in my car which was a Model T or something. It was an ancient car we paid 35 for or something. And my father was driving a  a Hudson Terraplane new car at the time. And he was gonna come home  he said You take my car. So he was due home at let us say 00 and then 00 and finally I left and drove through Meridan and Waterbury. And all that distance away from Hartford there is suddenly a honk-honk-honk behind me. And my father has caught up with me in the Terraplane. And we exchanged cars. And  and I take my girl to the  to the theater properly.  And that was  a giant uh ... that was it overwhelmed me. So I wanted to do that with Maude. She came into her psychiatrists office.  Anyway the thing is I cant believe Im here. I mean me Maude Findlay actually talking to a psychiatrist!  And then she remembered something about her father.  And then he broke every traffic law in the books so that he could get there in time to give me this coat with a Persian lamb collar so that I could wear it to the prom.  It was the same kind of grandstand gesture. And Maude crying on the couch said What am I talking about? I loved my father.  Oh how could I have forgotten a thing like that?  She had previously said I guess Doctor this will be the last time I see you. And anyway after realizing that she loved him after all she got up and walked to the door  and turned around. And the way she said...  See you Friday?  Oh my god. How I treasure that.   Norman Lears TV shows poked holes in the blindspots and bigotries of older generations...without losing affection for them. Coming upwhat Norman learned from the generation after him his children  Is there a blind spot that youve had that your children have revealed to you?  Im sure. I you know I will reflexively jump  leap to a liberal position before I have thought it through.  We noticed last week that it was exactly a year ago that our episode with actress Ellen Burstyn came out. It is one of my favorites. So this week I called her for an update.  People have talked to me on the street. I actually had somebody say I have been practicing shouldless days. And I said oh that is great! I am so glad I was a good influence.  That is awesome to hear especially on the streets of New York City you know?  Yeah yep.  So how have you been in the last year?  Oh god it is just been the busiest year of my life. I did not expect age 82 to be the busiest year of my life. I just got home from actually Shreveport and while I was in Shreveport I was shooting a wonderful independent film called The Tale with Laura Dern. The week before I was in Baltimore shooting another episode of House of Cards. I think I have done five for this new season. I cannot remember if it is four or five. I think it is five. I also did an appearance on Allison Janney's new show called Mom which I just love. She has a half hour comedy that is just wonderful and that'ill air November 5th I understand which I am unfortunately not gonna see because I will be on a plane to Oslo. I got asked if I would accept a lifetime achievement award at the Stockholm Film Festival and seeing as how the first thing on my bucket list number one was to see the fjords of Norway that is close enough to Stockholm to say yes.  So you are going to see the fjords and get a lifetime achievement award in one trip?  Yeah.  That is really living up the bucket list I gotta say.  Well I think if you wanna go to the places that are on your bucket list you have to call in some really strange shots.  When was your last shouldless day?  Actually it was Saturday because I got home because of storms and connections I got to the airport in Shreveport at 15 in the morning on Friday and I got home at 00 at night. So Saturday became my shouldless day. I do not think I even took my dog for a walk. I had a dog walker for that day.  That is an incredible indulgence to still have a dog walker come.  Oh and I did two other films! One called Wiener Dog written and directed by Todd Solondz who is a wonderful filmmaker. And another one called Custody. Those will all be out next year. So I hope I will be able to just sit back and let them play without me not have to do too much.  Thank you Ms. Burstyn for your time again it is such a privilege to get to talk to you.  You are welcome thanks for calling. Oh Ellen. You can find our episode with her at our website  deathsexmoney.org. On the next episode  Hi Anna and the Death Sex  Money team. This is Caroline in St. Paul and Im responding to your inquiry about the people who arent having sex. And I am one of them. Your stories about why you are not having sex.  This dry spell started out as a choice I had a messy breakup but that was almost 5 years ago. And while Im fine with it I would also like for a change to happen. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. A decade before Norman Lear started working in television he began another career  as a soldier. When Norman was a sophomore at Emerson College Japan attacked Pearl Harbor.  You enlisted when you were a college student...  I did.  ...which is not something you hear of happening in 2015. To leave college.  Certainly we dont see people like me and you enlisting   Yeah.   and probably 90 of your listeners arent enlisting. Kids who are hungry for something that makes for a career  to learn something or to have the comfort of a dollar  are enlisting.  And you served in Europe during World War II?  Yeah.  Do you think back on your time in Europe often or does that feel like a long time ago?  My wife and I  Lyn and I were in Berlin three weeks ago. Flying into Berlin was an experience I dont have words for because I had bombed  I had been in a plane bombing it twice. I have no way of expressing what I  what I felt except remembering how I didnt care when I saw the bombs drop and then gather with the bombs from other planes and looking at a hundred if not thousands of bombs falling. And thinking they might  not might probably are gonna fall on farms or coops or  innocent people are gonna get killed. And  and I didnt care. And then thinking about that hours later or days later  I dont know when. Often wondering if anybody gave me a piece of paper and said Sign this That youre somebody who would never give a shit how many people were killed innocently down there I have to believe I would never sign it. But I do remember feeling it what I described. The feeling was Screw em! You know? I mean to make it a little clearer if somebody harmed my  one of my children I know I could drive four hours and kill the son of a bitch in front of his family. Now thats a feeling I just shared with you that is total but I want to believe I could never do it. But Im expressing something thats there. Norman has six children from all three of his marriages.  There was one daughter at the end of my first marriage and three at the end of my second marriage. And three more children in my third marriage. I have five daughters and one son. The daughters range from  I love saying this  from 20 to 69.  Wow. I mean when you say that thats incredible  thats incredible.  I know its quite a   quite a spread.  Do you think you were a different sort of father to your children since you had them at such different points in your life?  Looking back I wasnt an ever-present  I was much more an ever-present father to my television shows. And you know Ive learned not to regret. But if I had to do it all over again I think I would lean the other way. Norman met the mother of his three youngest children Lyn in 1984. At the time Norman and his second wife Frances were separated.  I was determined not to divorce. And so I caused Frances to divorce me. They were spending the weekdays apart and trying to make it work on the weekends.  Thats how I met Lyn. One of those weekends when we were trying to work it out we had a dinner party and  and one of the guests called and said he had a blind date could he bring her. So I met Lyn at my front door.  Why after getting divorced once and feeling like it was a good decision why  why did you not want to get divorced again?  I dont know something to do with my children. I do not  I dont know. I cant explain everything in my own behavior all the time. But what Ive told myself is foolishly the grown children. I wouldnt do that to them.  And Lyn  I want to know more about Lyn. She  she is a student of psychology. Shes 25 years younger than you. You were  you were famous when she met you.  I was well-known.  Yeah.  She is 25 years younger which never seemed to matter at all.  What struck you about her?  She was deeply spiritual. Deeply spiritual. And I was not  my family was not religious as Jews. I was bar mitzvahed but that was kind of you know more tradition than religion. We hit it off on these weekends of  of spiritual conversation. You know we never stopped talking about 'whats it all about Alfie?'. And its still the best conversation going and nobody knows in my opinion.  Did you want to become a father again when you married Lyn? Did you want to have more children?  Well we had talked about that and I knew that you know I had agreed I would become a father because she just had to have a child. What I didnt expect was that she would want more children. But by the time she wanted another child I was thinking that my son which was a big surprise to me  by then you know when he was a couple years old I thought his life would be happier if he grew up with another kid in the house. And then we had twins!  You were having your first child with Lyn when your older children were of childbearing age  Yeah.  ...and what was that like?  Very difficult. My  my middle daughter was you know had for four or five years been hoping wishing trying to be pregnant. And her dad is suddenly married to a younger woman and in a years time or less shes pregnant. And that happened before my daughter got pregnant. So that was not an easy time. But I can tell you today we have Thanksgiving and Christmas coming and well all be together as a result of everybody wishing to be together.  How - what was that - whats that process been like of trying to make sure that your kids who  some of whom have different moms  that they have a relationship together and that theyre close? Like how have you - how has that unfolded over the years?  I do not know. Love. Theyve spent time together. And fallen in love with each other. And that hasnt  that part hasnt been tough. It grew naturally.  How are you talking to your family about death and your death?  Thats a conversation that hasnt started. I havent talked to them about that. I can see that you know the way they express themselves and the - the way they reach to help me physically and so forth  I can see that its on the kids mind. But I have not brought myself to talk about that. I think - I do not feel near that you know. Im not  Im not someone whos afraid of it. I think its interesting that - that we approach it  at least this is my point of view  not knowing you know. My wife Lyn will tell you something greater better is next. She is thoroughly convinced that we go on from here. Im thoroughly convinced that thats possible but I do not know. Im  Im content that you know were going to get a lot of answers to either the deepest questions at death or not.  Or not! Thats Norman Lear. His memoir Even This I Get to Experience is now available in paperback. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Destry Sibley and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And I want to ask you to please leave us a review on iTunes because it helps other people find the show! Norman Lear thanks a lot of people at the end of his book including his barber Little Joe. Hes been cutting Normans hair for 50 years.  Little Joe Torrenueva. Yeah he used to come up at Thanksgiving when we were all together and spend Thanksgiving morning cutting hair. Wed all sit around watching him cut this individual and that individual. We had a ball. There isnt anybody in my family that doesnt know Little Joe. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.