Anna Sale This is Death Sex  Money. I am Anna Sale and welcome to day two of the first-ever.... Andrew Dunn Audio We Love Festival! Anna All this week we are bringing you some of our favorite recent podcast pieces from across the audio world. Yesterday we shared the first episode of a brand new series from the BBC World Service called Goodbye To All This. It is a beautiful show about family love and loss. If you have not heard it yet make sure you go back and listen. Do not forget that this Friday October 16th we are closing out our festival with a very special live event featuring the host of the Back Issue podcast Josh Gwynn and Tracy Clayton. Join us on Zoom at 00 PM Eastern time. You can get all the details at thegreenspace.org and that is green with an E. Today we are bringing you an episode from the podcast called Constellation Prize from The Believer magazine. The host and creator of this show is Bianca Giaever and this episode is called Crossing Guard. If you have been craving some intimate human connection you are about to get some. Listen and afterward I will talk more with Bianca. Bianca Giaever From The Believer magazine welcome to Constellation Prize. Last summer the main thing that felt good to me was sitting in cafes and reading novels. The book that struck the deepest was a work of existentialism called Nausea by John-Paul Sartre. It was written 80 years ago but to me it perfectly described my experience of being a freelancer in Brooklyn in 2019. Like this line for example. Female  Wednesday I must not be afraid. Bianca Or this one. Female  Three oclock an odd moment in the afternoon. Today it is intolerable. Bianca The main character is named Antoinean and this book is his diary. He is so lonely that things are starting to get weird. Female  If you look at yourself too long in the mirror you will see a monkey what I see is well below the monkey on the fringe of the vegetable world. Am I myself not a wave of icy air? Bianca That is summer of reading Sartre I was confronting a new feeling in my life a feeling of loneliness. It was like there was something between me and the people I was speaking to. Like I existed in another realm. There is no socially acceptable way to tell my friends I am lonely no bureau of loneliness I could report my feelings too. Instead I got on the internet and I started reading articles. I read that loneliness is a public health epidemic with real physical side effects. As a predictor of early death it is on par with obesity or smoking. Almost a third of Americans live alone and half say that they feel lonely and those numbers are rising. The younger people are the lonelier they say they feel. Then someone told me about a quote Pope John Paul II had said You feel alone try to find someone who is lonelier than you. I had never paid attention to anything a Pope had said but I took this idea to heart. I thought maybe I could find a stranger in New York City who also feels lonely and then ask to document their life for many months. Through doing this we would get to know each other and we would both become less lonely. I started walking around recording myself thinking about this idea. It would be like an adventure I thought an adventure in the ordinary world. I do not know who it is going to be or when I am going to find them. I am just going to try to open myself up to New York City. Where was I going to find a stranger who is willing to be my subject? I knew there were lonely people all around me in New York City. I just wondered where could I find them. I realized that churches are places where strangers gather where people often come alone. I figured all I had to do is find someone sitting by themselves and try to sense. if they were also lonely. I started going to a bunch of religious gatherings in New York looking for my stranger. I went to Quaker meetings on Sundays the spiritual reading group on Mondays and daily mass during the week. I did not tell my parents I was doing this because they hate religion. For this exact reason I found it very alluring. At church I sat down in a pew knocked my water bottle over. The church services were often boring but it was the coffee hour afterward that I relished. A group of us would gather in the corner of a huge basement. It looked like someone had booked a venue too big for the size of a party. We huddled around coffee cake Lipton tea and stale bagels. I talked to an old man wearing a wig. I met a nine-year-old who had written a poem and dated it 2019 AD. I interviewed a businessman on Wall Street- Businessman  and how small the earth is compared to Jupiter and how small-- Bianca -a former nun- Nun We would file shareholder resolutions. There is a -- Bianca - a Quaker- Quaker Even the beans were in color coordination. Bianca -but none of them felt right. The process was like dating. I did not know exactly what I was looking for but I knew I had not found it. Weeks went by. Then one day at a Catholic reading group a middle-aged woman caught my eye. I could not tell her age. It could have been anywhere between 40 and 60. I saw her bending down to play with the kids even getting on the floor with them. I would always admired people who could play with other people's kids. I went up to talk to her and she told me about making necklaces how the beads came alive to her. Then she told me that she is a school-crossing guard. The people on the street who wait to see us but we never really stop to see them. I told her I was a radio producer that I wanted to interview her about her life. She seemed unsurprised. She immediately said yes maybe she too was ready for adventure. I rode my bike to her apartment in downtown Brooklyn on a Saturday afternoon. It was a crisp bright fall day. I took the elevator up to the sixth floor of her apartment building and stood for a second in the hallway. Test test. I felt nervous and awkward. I do not like rolling tape when I first arrive but I did it anyway. Hello. Sophia Hello.  Bianca You are waiting expectantly. Sophia Yes. Are you recording already? Bianca Yes. It is a technique. Sophia Really? Bianca Yes. Sophia I thought you were just dressed up and ready to go. Bianca Well that too but I do not have to if-- Sophia Oh that is so cool. No that is fine. That is totally fine and also you . Bianca I took off my shoes started looking around the living room. Sophia I am just going to light a candle. I am going to pray and I would invite you to say anything you want to. Bianca Okay. You are going to pray out loud? Sophia Yes. Bianca Awesome. Sophia Dear God sorry I forgot about you. Thank you for the tingles that I received in my body this morning. That was nice. I just want to say thank you for sending Bianca to me. Thank you for helping me tell the truth. Would you like to wish for anything or? Bianca Yes. I am grateful that Sophia is trusting me with her story and willing to be vulnerable with me. I hope that in exchange I can be a trustworthy keeper of her words which are trapped somewhere in this electronic file but have the potential to help someone else who might be lonely. I hope that one day they reach that person in their time of need. This idea that God had sent me to speak to her I did not really believe it. On my way over I had been feeling some doubt about interviewing random lonely people. This confidence from God was nice to hear. Sophia I said Fine. I am just going to listen to it. Bianca Sophia lived in a one-bedroom apartment it looked pretty clean but then she told me. Sophia I spent about three hours cleaning up before you came over. Bianca Wow. Sophia Total honesty so refreshing. Bianca We were sitting on the couch in her living room and the interview had unofficially begun. Sophia One of the reasons I love podcasts and radio is because I can do it while I am cleaning up because I realized that when you live alone having a voice makes you feel like you are with other people. It helps me fall asleep and it helps me wake up in the morning. I do not like to listen first thing in the morning but then when that first loneliness comes  just being able to listen to-- I love audiobooks as well but I like radio pieces better and like the Moth and Death Sex and Money. Bianca We were 30 minutes into our conversation and when Sophia told me about listening to podcasts she had almost been crying and I was not sure why. I gently tried to circle back around. I noticed it was like emotional to talk about. I wanted to talk about why it was emotional? Sophia Because I lived here with my husband and I was married for 10 years. Then he asked me for a divorce three days before my baptism. I miss him a lot and in some ways I feel like maybe I got married to just have somebody with me all the time. . . . Bianca It is 00 AM. Sophia has agreed to let me put a wireless microphone on her while she does her crossing guard duties. I am crouched wearing headphones 30 feet away. She is Five foot one 48 years old standing on a street corner in Brooklyn memo book in her pocket excellent posture. For her one of the joys of being a crossing guard is dressing for the weather. Today blue cargo pants detachable hood and whistle a long yellow raincoat. She sings in Latin to pass the early hours and then the morning rush. Sophia Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Can you wait? Please wait for the light. Honkidy honk honk honk honk. Someone who is been to . What? Female  I call her the purveyor of joy. She does not know that. Sophia His friend is  I like this little girl. Where is your brother? To wait for the light. There is a lot of Japanese parents. Good morning . Bianca Sophia loves languages. For all her regulars that pass by she is learned to greet them in their family's language of origin. Sophia . Thank you. .  morningwatch out. Do not do what your parents do. I saw you . Female  Have a nice day. Sophia Have a very nice day. You are so polite. Female  Morning. Sophia Good morning dance teacher. Oh Harry Potter. Someone's going to Hogwarts. You got a splinter in your toe and then-- Female  Morning. Sophia Good morning. You made it. Yes. There must be a parents' meeting today. Hipster mama. Wow. I am a narc.  I am a snitch. Bianca Sophia is a great crossing guard. People literally stop and tell her this. Speaker Hello. Female  You are really great crossing guard. Sophia Thank you very much. You are a great mom. Bianca Honestly on Sophia's corner I rarely saw little kids walking alone to school. To me her job seemed like a whimsical Relic like a seltzer man or a switchboard operator. I started to brush up on my crossing guard history. In the US crossing guards began in the 1920s. They exist all over the world New Zealand Germany and the UK where they are called lollipop men and ladies. In New York City crossing guards make 13.50 an hour and are almost all women. It is not a living wage. Many of them live in public housing and are supported by a family member. I found a competition called America's Favorite Crossing Guards and I checked out the winners. Last year Chief Lynn Woolford in Montana won he wears a different hat to the corner every day. The year before Ms. Sarah in Maryland was recognized for her 50 years of service. Sophia has this town greeter mentality. Sophia They are my constituents. They are the people that I serve. I think of them as my constituents or as guests at a party that I am hosting. I am a little bit strict about my corner that I feel that it belongs to me while I am working there and so that I should make it the way I want it to be. Bianca Her constituents are gradually warming up to her. Sophia When I first started saying good morning people looked like a telephone booth had  spoken to them. Some of them were literally looking for the source of the voice like they were just like . Bianca As I was getting to know Sophia I was continuing down my path of existential inquiry mainly reading Sartre's Nausea in cafes. In the book Antoinean is working on a book about a man named Roy Oban and this relationship between the author and subject becomes a codependent one. He needed me in order to exist and I needed him so as not to feel my existence. I felt this was Sophia focusing on her life provided a welcome distraction from my own. I exist that is all and that trouble is so vague so metaphysical that I am ashamed of it. There is a bed in your kitchen. Sophia Yes . Yes there is. There is a bed in the kitchen. Bianca Back in Sophia's apartment. Sophia Now I am thinking I was going to ask you to help me actually lift this support part of the bed. Bianca Today I was helping her build a new bed so she had a clean start after the divorce. I had started dropping by on weekends to interview her for a few hours. We would sit on her couch and talk. She set her timer for 45 minutes so that we would remember to stop and take snack breaks.  Sophia There we go so it is time for a break. Bianca Sophia's story took a long time to unfold mostly because she loves tangents and I do too. The picture of her life began with these pieces. I learned that she is Canadian. Her mother immigrated from Japan her father from China. She told me that her younger brother has down syndrome that he would write long operas in his room and that she grew up to the sound of opera coming through his bedroom walls. He is her spiritual guru. She says that even the way he eats a sandwich is devotional. Sophia Longing for the peanut butter sandwich in union with the peanut butter sandwich. Bianca She said that her mother was a violin teacher and she was a violin prodigy. She told me about her grandfather in Japan who painted his eyebrows with black ink. She said that on Tuesday nights she is in an adult intro to basketball class and this week they are learning to dribble. She keeps files on everyone in her apartment building so she can remember their names. Sophia People think I am amazing because I remember everyone's name. Bianca She told me gossip. Sophia He is wearing a toupee. Bianca She read me her prayer journals. Sophia Please ask our Lord to bring his peace to the negotiations for divorce. Bianca Months went by and I kept coming over. We talked about her hopes and dreams. Sophia A lot of little streams little rivulets of cash. Bianca She asked me questions. Sophia Are your parents hippies? Bianca I recorded her laugh to her own puns- Sophia . Bianca -the blow of her nose after she cried. I fact-checked as much as I could and it was all true. She answered all of my questions with honesty. All winter long I kept visiting the corner. I sat on a bench in my big red coat. Sophia said I looked like a big glowing flower. The repetition on the corner was starting to feel like a meditation. I really loved being there. After a while I knew all the regulars and the morning unfolded like a choreographed dance. It began with the fully-loaded food carts waking up in their lot across the street and their drivers guiding them over the crosswalk with no control. Sophia This thing is like a big boulder coming down a mountain. Bianca Enter the old Italian man who shouts I love you. I love you. Male  You take care of me. Sophia . Bianca Then. Sophia Oh this is Meals on Wheels. Turkey bean chili oh it is lunch. Male  It is lunch but we are early. Sophia That is right. Turkey bean chili and rice. I could eat that. Bianca Then the police car. Sophia I wave to police cars but  they do not wave back to me but that is okay. We are at the bottom of the totem pole. Bianca Then the three dogs that she is named after the three tenors. Sophia You look like Carreras. Bianca The kids who do not like to be crossed. Sophia That is rebel number two. Yes. Victory. Bianca The mom who is always late. Sophia Lord have mercy on her heart. Perhaps she works the night shift. Bianca She has rituals with many of the kids. When she misses one- Sophia Looking back and hoping that I will catch their eye. It is heartbreaking actually. Bianca -there is drama. Sophia The guys were supposed to come and pave the road and somebody had stolen their machine. How could you? Do you just hotwire that thing and drive away? How do people not notice you driving away -- Bianca Of course there are trucks. Sophia Oh my goodness. I love trucks. It is like being in a world of giants. They have their own atmosphere traveling with them. Basically some of them are so hot. It is like a weather system. Oh well if I see a woman driving a truck oh forget about it. That is the best. Then what is not to love about a car on top of a truck. Bianca On the corner I would lean against the big blue mailbox in the sun with my headphones while Sophia talked to me through her microphone from the crosswalk. I saw some people staring at her wondering if she was talking to herself. Sophia I was standing here his morning and I realized well two things. The first thing is nature. Nature do you know that thing about the eternal return? He says a great way to think about your life is that you for everything every decision you are making everything you do you say to yourself What if I had to live this life exactly the life that I have had eternally? Just over and over it is like reincarnation but the same life. Then act-- Bianca Nature reminded her of Kimo and Kimo reminded her of the myth of Sisyphus pushing a boulder up the hill. Sophia I am starting to identify more with manual workers who work with their bodies. You know what? If you push a boulder up the hill all day you are going to have a good sleep.  You are not going to have problems with insomnia. Morning. Male  Morning. Sophia I think as a professor I was looking for some external meaning. Bianca That is right. Before becoming a crossing guard Sophia was an atheist philosophy professor. Sophia Working on my dissertation six days a week. Good morning. Bianca Columbia University PhD tenured philosophy professor at a university in Brooklyn. I knew many people who had ascended the ladder of ambition but rarely met people who had voluntarily climbed down it. I slowly unraveled the story of how Sophia went from married to divorced philosophy professor to crossing guard and atheist to Catholic. Since she was a kid she never knew what she wanted to be when she grew up. No job felt right. No vocation called to her. Sophia All I could get was a big black cloud of nothing. Bianca She did the philosophy PhD to please her parents. When she got the job she developed depression and chronic fatigue. Sophia Just skip until I quit my job as a professor. Bianca Her husband had the income to support them both and health insurance. Her days were suddenly free and she started thinking about what she really wanted to do in the world. Then one day in the middle of the week she noticed her neighbor in the lobby looking very dressed up. Sophia Beautifully resplendent in this silk sari with brocade embroidery and it was a Tuesday at 45 AM. Bianca The neighbor said she was going to a mass across the street and invited Sophia. Sophia She just had this look of happiness. She is like I am going for my mass I love my mass. I was like It belongs to you what? Bianca Sophia's like Okay. Daily mass will help me get out of bed when I am unemployed. Sophia It is just a social practice just like anything else like a book club  or like a workout. Bianca When she got there it reminded her of a philosophy class. Sophia The Monday to Friday crowd is like the graduate seminar and the Sunday mass is like the undergraduate intro class that is basically what it is. Bianca Then she became obsessed with a priest holding the Eucharist. Sophia The way he was looking at this little wafer like it was his baby. Bianca She was like You do not actually think Jesus is in the wafer do you? Sophia He said Not only do I and all Catholics in the world believe that but it happens to be true. It was like watching The X Files like The truth is out there. Bianca Then she is like Well what if I allowed myself the possibility to think it might be true. Sophia If he is outside of time and space he can do anything. It would be easy for him to go into a piece of wafer. He can go into wine he can go into a wafer he can do anything he wants to he is God. My mind just kind of cracked open the door to if this is true then look how interesting the world becomes. Bianca Then she started getting Eucharist envy she wanted to taste the wafer and when she finally did. Sophia I have only been high on marijuana a couple of times that is the closest thing I can think of. It was kind of like the world has all these sharp edges and pokey things and nothing really hurts as much as usual. Bianca She and her husband were supposed to have their 10th anniversary in Paris. Instead he divorced her. I do not have his permission to go into the details of why they split up but after 10 years together Sofia wanted a deeper relationship and she suggested they separate. Her idea was that some time apart would spark romance. Sophia I had this whole elaborate fantasy in my mind that this was the thing that would restart reboot everything but now I realize  that I had not really discussed this with him and it was a big shock to him and so after a few weeks of living without me he decided that he preferred it that way and then he told me that he had actually been fantasizing about getting out of the marriage. Bianca Shortly after that is when I stepped in and started recording Sophia. Sophia Yes I cried a lot yesterday. That is one of the reasons I started going to church is that churches are really good places to cry and nobody asks you what the problem is and as long as you are on your knees and have your hands like this they assume that you are just praying and crying is normal. Men cry everybody can be crying in the pew and people are like Oh yes she is praying she is crying that is socially acceptable. In fact it is approved. It is like Oh she is very devout. She is crying because she loves God so much. I can stay in there and cry as long as I need to and there are not a lot of places like that. Bianca After the divorce Sophia had 60 days before she would be off her husband's health insurance. She started looking for a job that included benefits that would still give her enough time to figure out what she really wanted to do. At church she met a school crossing guard. It is 25 hours a week the woman told her And it comes with health insurance. Sophia went to the police academy to check out the training and there she found a number of life's little pleasures. Sophia Yes it was unexpectedly beautiful. I really started enjoying the sight of people in rows. Bianca Sofia's appreciation of these moments was so apparent so contagious that when she started opening up to me about her depression I was startled. She told me that suicide is a regular thought for her. That her younger brother is the main reason she stops herself. At first I thought how could someone who finds so much joy in a uniform supply store feel that way but I realized it was a desperate type of joy. She needed the joy she experienced on the corner for survival. Sophia Because I have considered suicide many times and think about it a lot I realized that I need to squeeze the joy out of everything I can. I need reasons to live every day and if a white glove makes me really happy then I am going to take that and if a bite of brownie makes me really happy then I will take that. Bianca This attunement to life's little pleasures was my favorite thing about being on the corner with Sophia and it comes up often in Nausea. For Aontoine mundane pleasures are the antidote to the shame of existence. My life put out feelers towards small pleasures in every direction. He walks the city and bathes in rectangles of yellow light. He watches a man innocently eat a slice of bread. He revisits the same park but it starts to look different. It did not have its usual look. It smiled at me. I felt violently that I was having an adventure. For Sophia the Catholic church was masterful at creating these moments like communion for instance. Sophia We are not supposed to receive communion more than once a day but some of us do . Bianca You? Is this a confession? Sophia Yes I am unrepentant. Bianca Now Sophia has been a Catholic for two years and a crossing guard for one but the pay is so low and there is so little recognition that she is had to keep convincing herself that she is on the right path. Sophia Maybe I have already had my time of leadership in the spotlight. Now the rest of my life is just living in the shadows being mostly invisible. That would be such a relief if I could just do that and people did not expect more from me. I think I expected more of myself and through prayer I have started to realize that it would be completely fine for me to stay where I am.  Part of being a crossing guard is I now see that I have an opportunity to pray for every person who passes my corner. Now I feel like well it is part of my job to be that person who is looking out for everyone on the block. Then also when people are clearly suffering to just silently not to make a big deal not to do anything that would let anyone know that I was praying for them but to just do it in my heart while I am there while they are in front of me. If it works great. If it does not work it still does something for me because it is getting me into the habit of having empathy for people and wishing them well sighs. Bianca Is this an emotional topic? Sophia A little bit. Yes. Well to be honest I feel sad that I did not grow up with a lot of people I knew praying for me. It is sad that there are some people who do not have anyone to pray for them. Whenever I think of that that just makes me sad. That there are many many people that I see on the street who do not seem to have anyone who prays for them or anyone who really cares if anything happens to them. I feel like everyone should at least have someone to say goodbye to them or to bury them I guess. Bianca Do you fear that for yourself? Sophia Yes I do not have children. My brother is 11 months younger than me but people with down syndrome tend to die earlier. My parents are older than me. Someday someone's going to get this apartment and I do not know who. I do not know who to leave it to. Basically I have no heir or I do not know who is going to bury me basically. Bianca I will bury you.  Sophia Do you know what you are getting into when you say that? Bianca Yes I am sure it is a lot. Sophia You are a very generous person because I do not know if you are planning to marry and have kids and stuff but by the time I die who knows where you will be. You could be in another country. You will have more obligations. Bianca I do not think I will be another country but yes. I keep in close touch with the people I interview. They stay in my life in intimate ways. I stumble over my words. I did not know what else to do other than offer. Had I struck the deepest loneliness possible the loneliness we are afraid we will feel when we are dying?  Bianca My time with Sophia had helped my loneliness but it had not solved it. I had no priest no shaman to go to with my problem. I went to the contemporary equivalent my doctor. When I told her about my loneliness she prescribed antidepressants. I wanted to tell her that I was not depressed I was lonely. I was lonely because I lived thousands of miles away from my parents because I grew up thousands of miles from my grandparents because my mom was an immigrant we were always reaching across different cultures. I wanted to tell her I was lonely because I was beholden to no one. Nothing was expected of me. I had no responsibilities other than my own material well-being which meant that I fought with my roommates about money. I wanted to tell her that I lived a life separate from the rhythms of nature and I was not born into any belief system that moving my car for street sweeping had become a cherished ritual in my life. Most of all I wanted to tell her that my loneliness was beyond the physical and into the spiritual realm. I longed for ceremony for stories and mythology to guide me. Had I unconsciously gone looking in churches to fill this void? I did not say that to the doctor. I took the prescription and I filled it and the loneliness was dulled.  Bianca It is been six months since I started following Sophia. I am in an Antoine mood again. Where shall I go? What shall I do? Back to the long walks with my hands behind my back. Sophia Morning. Morning sir. Here's Edwin. Bianca On my last visit to the corner I told Sophia to say the end of the story on her own. She had the microphone clip to her and I walked away to get a coffee. Sophia Oh my assignment. Well first thing that popped into my mind was the most dramatic ending of course is that one or both of us gets hit by a truck  while crossing the street. Not you Bianca but possibly me so that you could then finish the story and it would be my legacy. It is funny because I would love for the story to end with me still being a crossing guard just showing up and being present for people. Being present is the essence of my job. Good morning. Bianca After following Sophia for months I did feel less lonely with her and she felt less lonely with me but it was time to go our separate ways. I moved out of New York. Not sure where I would go next. I am between two cities. Who remembers me? I thought of Sophia often- Sophia Bye scooter boy . Bianca -standing on a New York City corner talking to the Meals on Wheels people. Sophia Thank you so much for feeding our old people. Male  Thank you. You are welcome. Sophia Without you I am sure they would die. Bianca I feel something brush against me lightly. I dare not move. I am afraid it will go away. Something I did not know anymore. A sort of joy. Sophia if only I could capture her. Then I could feel less lonely. I could think about her life. As something precious almost legendary. Tomorrow is a school day. Tomorrow it will rain. Tomorrow it will rain in Brooklyn. Tomorrow the crossing guard will wear her Yellow Jacket. It flows in me gently gently I exist. It is so sweet so slow.  Anna That is Bianca Giaever in the episode Crossing Guard from her podcast called Constellation Prize. I will talk with Bianca about making this after the break.  Anna This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale and I am now here with Bianca Giaever the producer of Constellation Prize from The Believer Magazine. We heard the first episode from that show Crossing Guard before the break. Hi Bianca. Bianca Hello thanks for having me. Anna Congratulations on your show it is such a special thing to get to listen to. Bianca Thank you. Thank you so much. Anna When you think about how to describe this particular piece Crossing Guard to people do you describe it as a profile? Do you describe it as an essay? What are the words you have found yourself using? Bianca Yes. I do describe it as a bit of both. I have always been really interested in character over plot primarily. The conceit of this story was that I would get to just really go in on character and it would be a complete dissection of one character who I chose at random. I do not know. I actually do not need to describe it to anyone usually this is my first time.  Bianca I am just like Listen to this please. I have been in a pandemic so it is just all over Twitter. It is an honor to even be able to describe it at all. When I am describing the podcast to people I guess I do use the word performance art sometimes because it is a highly conceptual episode in the sense that I went into it with a concept almost the way a piece of performance art would begin with a concept. Anna You also talk about finding Sophia meeting Sophia because you were lonely and looking for other lonely people. Are you feeling lonely right now? Bianca  Yes. I think I always feel lonely. Loneliness and anxiety are two constant themes in my work and it is a bit of an obsession. Even when I am around other people I feel lonely not in a like pity me way but in a spiritual way. I think part of that comes from having grown up in this time with atheist parents and not a strong sense of community or belonging or no religion to belong to. I think there is a kind of searching to fill the void which loneliness is one word for it. It is hard to fully describe and my work is constantly trying to describe it. Apparently Sartre felt it too hundreds of years ago. Or not hundreds of years ago decades ago . Anna I am interested that you said it is growing up right now. It is both feels like a specific phenomenon right now that feeling you are describing and also a timeless feature of being human. Bianca Totally. Yes. Obviously being single in a pandemic right now is not helping my loneliness  a ton. Obviously this piece was produced before the pandemic and we released it in the pandemic. I was like Is this going to work? Is this going to feel weird? It ended up really resonating with people because if you are single right now or even if you have family and you are stuck with just one or two people it is a very isolating time. Here in Vermont someone just posted on Front Porch Forum with the subject alone and they were like I need to know is anyone else alone right now? It is hard to even remember that other people are alone. She is like It seems like everywhere I go I see couples and so I responded. I was like I am also alone. Thank you for posting because there is such a stigma to loneliness and it is hard to even tell other people that you are lonely. It is very awkward. Even saying it out loud just to you it felt like a transgression or something. Anna I like that that conversation happened on a place called Front Porch Forum. Also there is something really sweet like thinking about you two shouting across to each other from your front porches  where you are by yourselves. Bianca Oh my gosh I need to do a piece about Front Porch Forum. It is insane the posts. This one person has been trying to give away a rooster for six months and no one wants it. They are like Still have the rooster. Anyone? Anyone?  Anna Well I also want to talk to you about your creative inspiration because all this week as part of our Audio We Love Festival we are asking the creators of the shows that we are featuring about the things that inspired them while they were making them. You already mentioned John-Paul Sartre who you talk about in the piece. What is something else that you were either going back to or thinking about as you were making this something that provided you inspiration? Bianca I mentioned performance art. One of the pieces that I almost mentioned and put in the story as well but ended up cutting last minute is a piece by the performance artist Sophie Calle that she did in 1980. I do not know how to pronounce even the title of this piece  because it is in French. Anna Well spell it for us. How is it spelled? Bianca Okay. S-U-I-T-E V--N-I-T-I-E-N-N-E. Hang on I am putting it into a translator right now. French translate Vnitienne Suite. That is how it translated. Anna Sophie Calle spell it C-A-L. Bianca C-A-L-L-E. Anna C-A-L-L-E okay. Bianca I think it is pronounced Calle. Anyway so she met a stranger at a party in Paris I believe and she decided to follow that stranger all the way to Venice. He got on a plane. She followed him to the airport just out of sight. She got a ticket and she went to Venice. She was photographing him from a distance and it is all these photos of the back of his head. Her whole practice is very voyeuristic. It is about trying to get to know people based on the ephemera of their lives. She has another piece from the following year called The Hotel where she works as a cleaning person in a hotel and goes through stranger's things and tries to find out everything she can about them. These are highly conceptual character-based pieces about-- To me the longing to know strangers' stories based on the little pieces that you see of them out in the world. I have always been interested in audio as a format for performance art as the deliverable for performance art. I was interested in doing something similar where I also chose a stranger and followed them. Vito Acconci is a famous performance artist. He also had a piece in 1969 that was literally called Following Peace. He has a quote about it where he says I am almost not an I anymore because I put myself in the service of this scheme. That was what I ended up achieving at certain moments of this peace where I wanted to forget myself because I was so immersed in another person's life. I wanted that feeling because being an I is so lonely. By committing to Sophia the obsession with Sophia for six months I did lose myself in it and I did need an obsession at that time. I do think of obsession as a cure for depression. Anna Is there anything else that you think of when you think about what gave you fuel when you were working through this piece? Bianca Totally. It almost is a lonely experience until the piece is released because you are so alone in this obsession with this person. The book Nausea came to me through an artist friend named Nirvan Mullick. It is a bit of a cliche. It is a little embarrassing to be reading Sartre because it is so like I do not know like college kid discovers existentialism but the book just-- Anna It is time. It is we need that. When you need it you need it. Bianca You need that. Yes. It is very earnest. My friend Nirvan Mullick his entire career has been based around an obsession of perfect moments. He is been working on a one-second film for 25 years. He actually is the one who told me about Nausea because it mentions perfect moments. In Nauseathere is a thread of him trying to find perfect moments in the city and that definitely is very present in the piece. Actually Nirvan and I and another friend we text each other a perfect moment from every day as a practice- Anna Oh. Bianca -and  so that was definitely inspiring me because I feel like some people orient their lives in a way to create and find perfect moments. The way Nirvana lives his life he definitely does that. I try to as well because we have this practice. Sophia does that too. On the corner she is looking for perfect moments and she is trying to create perfect moments. I try to capture those in the piece. A perfect moment could be as simple as someone smiling back to her who had not smiled the five days previously or a moment of standing in the sun when the sun hits you perfectly. There were a lot of those in Nausea. Sophia and I had some perfect moments in our conversation and so in a way the piece felt stringing together the perfect moments to create the ultimate perfect moment. Anna What was your perfect moment yesterday that you texted? Bianca  I can literally pull it up. I had so many. I had a few. Realizing that I do not like bananas finally just admitting that to myself was one of yesterday's perfect moments. Anna . Bianca This guy I have a small crush on texted me saying he liked a radio piece I made. A moment can be perfectly terrible as well. Sometimes when things go so perfectly wrong all at once it is like Wow this is perfectly horrible but it is still perfect.  Anna I have one more question for you and that is are you and Sophia still in touch? Bianca We are still in touch of course. I stay in deep touch if that is a phrase with people when I do really long pieces about them like this. She sent me photos of herself all decked out like her latest outfits and all her PPE for the pandemic updates on when she moves corners I always hear about it. Being a crossing guard in a pandemic is a whole new chapter. She tells me about how she is still crossing kids to come get their lunches from school but it is not quite the same. That sort of thing. I think she still feels lonely. Especially in the pandemic it is really hard and she cannot hang out with-- Normally she sees kids and babysits and that sort of thing. Yes we keep in touch but it is not nearly to the degree that it used to be. Just like I check in every couple of weeks. Anna Bianca thank you for making this and for sharing it with us. Bianca Oh thanks for playing it and thanks for talking to me about it. I really appreciate it.  Anna You can find Constellation Prize from The Believer magazine wherever you listen to podcasts. Crossing Guard was written and produced by Bianca Giaever. It was edited by Hayden Bennett music by Zubin Hensler and Stellwagon Symphonette. Mixing by Zubin Hensler. Special thanks to Lille Allen Jacob Blumberg Andrew Leland Laura Irving Caveh Zahedi Jay Allison and to Sophia. If you would like to subscribe to The Believer magazine we have a discount code for you too. You can enter DSM for 20 off. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. Anabel Bacon is producing our Audio We Love Festival. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Special thanks to Michelle Xu for her work on the festival. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Twitter annasale. The show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. Do not forget to sign up for our weekly newsletter. To get Audio We Love recommendations every single week just text DSM news to 70101. There is even more Audio We Love coming your way tomorrow. Walter You have never told me this before. You also wanted to be a cheerleader? Ellie Yes because they look so cute with the little skirt. They were so popular. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.