This is Anna. A couple weeks ago we did an episode with a woman we called Alice. She talked about why she shoplifts and why shes not really afraid of getting caught. Alice Im a white female so I mean I think I would get off a lot easier than some other people would.  How does that feel to say out loud? Alice Its kind of disgusting to me but I mean its how the world is so I sort of use it to my advantage. We got a lot of responses to this episodemostly negative. Trevor Oh god! I was like so appalled! Hearing someone justify stealing upset a lot of you. One of you commented Im not a violent person but I fantasized about smacking her.  Someone else wrote Ive never been so angry listening to a podcast. Karah whose husband works in retail sent in a voice memo. Karah I really wish that Alice could hear the anger and defeat from my husband when he tells me that his store was hit again. It felt like there was more to talk about here. So I reached back out to two listeners to hear why they reacted the way they did. I called up Alyssa from Atlanta. She would written us an email saying she felt almost betrayed by the episode because she could not find a way to connect to Alice. Alyssa When I ended this episode I really felt like I did not understand why she was chosen in particular to have such a large platform. Like what about her made her interestingor not interesting butworthy? So you know why give a microphone to somebody who justifies her behavior by saying I am poor or I grew up poor?  Do you think we should have done this episode? Alyssa Oh thats such a hard question for me because something Ive been thinking about is if this were fiction would I be interested? And I think the answer is yes. Because I want to know about like people who are conflicted  I want to know about people who like make choices that are different from me and people who make choices that I think are like dangerous or like wrong but I dont want to know that like real people see danger they see darkness and they go for it.  And one thing we heard a lot from people is how Alice talked about race. Are you white-- do you identify as white? Alyssa Yes yes I am white.  Like how do you think being white affected the way you heard this? Alyssa I think its really frustrating to have a white woman openly admit that being a white woman gets you out of things. But that shes going to use that to her advantage. It like...it seems like...it just sort of makes all white women look bad in a way. And I think like thats probably another thing that is hard to listen to is that white women do have an easier time with a lot of things and that--just everybody gets painted with one brush so you have to be really careful when youre using that brush when youre speaking on behalf of white women. Like you do have that privilege so be careful you know? Like I dont know. Its a hard thing to hear. Its a hard thing to hear that somebody openly admits that theyre taking advantage of white privilege. Thats hard.  And its shaming to hear as a white person knowing that we walk around with. Yeah. Totally Trevor a listener in Brooklyn told me Alices comment about whiteness wasnt a surprise to him but it still hurt. And he was disappointed by my response to it. Trevor It was just hard to hear. Because as a black person youre just like OK this is what we say is a problem and here this white woman is admitting to yeah I probably get away with this because Im white and youre just like oh my god it just left such a bad taste in my mouth. It was disgusting.  You said in your comment because of people like her I am the one followed around in the store. Trevor Yes! Yeah! I mean I am. The thing is Ive never shoplifted in my adult life. I mean I may have as a child because children just dont know better they pick up things. But as an adult Ive never stolen from a store but Im followed around the store constantly.And its just frustrating because youre like I make good money why would I be stealing from you?  And you also said this was a very problematic episode. Trevor Oh my god it was so problematic.  Tell me about that. Trevor Well there was one instance and Im not trying to call you out--  Please do! Thats why Im calling you! Im calling you to call us out Trevor. Trevor No no no no! There was one instance where she had said something and I was just like okay Ms. Sale can go in there right now and tell her as a white woman to another white woman and it was just like oh they missed that opportunity because she could have said something to her and put her on the spot like did you think that was right to be doing this? And I was just like you didnt say it and I was just like its alright Im not going to be mad at them cause it was a difficult episode. It was just very difficult.  Mmm. You said you make good money-- Trevor Well I did when I was middle class yes.  Wait so how do you define yourself now? Trevor Oh well now Im formerly middle class. Thats what I am now.  What happened? Trevor Thats a good question! I think Im well educated well--really technologically proficient and I think I have a lot to bring to the table but these employers are just like nope!  How are you supporting yourself? Trevor Well right now Im on public assistance. And people are like but you look so good! And Im like well I still have my middle-class wardrobe!   Huh. And when you say public assistance what sort of public assistance? Trevor Literally public assistance. Like thats-thats SNAP they call it now what people used to call food stamps and I also get cash benefits in addition every month.  Mmhmm. And how longs that been? Trevor Oh its been at least four years.  So when Alice said I feel more comfortable--she basically says she feels more comfortable stealing food for her family than she would applying for food stamps Trevor And that was...you know what that brought up for me? It brought up a level of shame. Because I actually had initial shame when I went to apply for public assistance because I grew up on it and I was just like this is such a horrible legacy that my family is now once again on public assistance. So I think what she was dealing with was a certain level of shame. I think she should have actually got these benefits that as an American citizen she qualifies for. Like why not go out and get those food stamps? Theres no shame in that.  Mmm. Is there anything you learned from how she told her story? Trevor  I learned how hard it is for people in this country who dont have money and some of the things we have to do.  And so I could relate a little to what she had done because I had done some things that I wasnt proud of also.  Like what? Trevor Somebody had delivered some Nutrisystem food for one of my neighbors and they hadnt picked it up in a few days and I deal with really terrible food insecurities so I was hungry and I took the box.  Mmm. Trevor  And I was like okay so this is really bad but like you know what theyll replace it Im literally out of my food stamps or SNAP benefits I dont have any food and heres basically a box of food sitting in my lobby. Im like-- Im like--so unless so I could relate to her level of desperation. Alice I think a lot of people almost everybody has gone through a patch where they cant make ends meet. So I dont feel like they dont understand where Im coming from. This is Alice. I called her back to talk about the reaction to the episode. She would read a lot of your Facebook comments including Trevor's. AliceAnd it did stick with me and I have been thinking about it quite a bit.  It is a little upsetting to hear from you know a black person about how Im using my privilege to my advantage how it might affect them. I guess I realized that because Im an unassuming white woman I can get away with everything but I hadnt really thought about how that translates to the fact that oh theres shoplifting weve gotta you know follow around the black people. Alice had listened to the episode on her own but she told me she had not talked to anybody about it. And she would noticed some things by hearing how she would told her story. Alice Um I learned that  this is going to kind of sound silly but Ive been into true crime podcasts and they were talking about speech patterns and the way that I was stuttering over stealing and shoplifting and just the words that pretty much you know Im confessing to it the way I was stuttering over it really just--it was like oh maybe I do feel bad about this. You know?  Wow. Alice That I thought was kind of funny. But I can--I can definitely see where it would seem ridiculous. Especially the part where I was talking about not wanting to go on food stamps. Whenever I was talking about it it made sense. But as I was listening to it even I was like thats not a very good argument! Thats really dumb!    And...and my last question is as you as you get ready to move to Florida as you think about how youre going to make it do you think--do you think listening to this episode and looking at some of the responses are going to make you make different choices than you might have otherwise? Alice Hearing them from other people definitely is a different experience--because its been so private its just been me in my own head debating myself. You know I need this money to make rent but this is so wrong you know back and forth but hearing it from other people it does kind of give me that funny feeling in my gut. Its not really like guilt its almost like embarrassment I guess?  Yeah. Alice I dont know that its really going to affect my choices but I mean like I said my goal is once I get down to Florida to not shoplift. Like I want it to be a clean slate you know start fresh and just do it right. Thats a woman were calling Alice. Thanks to all of you for your responses to that episode and to Alice for listening to them. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.