Hey its Anna. I wanted to let you know that this episode includes a description of a rape. It comes up at the start of the second half if you want to skip. Maria Hinojosa I do not I do not think you can be practicing self love and being angry at everybody else. I just do not think you can do it. I do not think you can be like oh my God. And I am going to go and meditate but I hate this motherfucker and fuck you and I hate you and you and you and Im not forgiving no. So this is what I am saying that I had to have a moment where everything would have came crumbling down except for key people in my life who said you know these people love you right? So so so what are you going to do? This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. For more than 25 years journalist Maria Hinojosa has hosted the public radio show Latino USA. She is also been a correspondent for NPR PBS and CNN and is the CEO of her own production company.  In order to survive the world that I have been playing in the world of media you have to have a huge fucking ego. There as not no other way to do it. In most newsrooms where shes worked Maria was the first or only Latina. And she writes in a new memoir called Once I Was You shes often felt underestimated and undermined by her white colleagues.  And I talk about this a lot by the way to my students. Uh most of whom are of color most of whom are first-generation is that as Latinos and Latinas and as women and people of color in general we have to walk. And I actually I I strut for them. I get in the front of the class. Usually I am wearing my six inch heels or something like that. So strutting is easy and I am strutting and I am like you are walking in a space like this! Your shoulders are back you know everything about everybody. You are the shit. We have to um fluff up our own peacock feathers as we walk into any space and believe like we are the most incredible people because we have to! But when we talked Maria admitted that all these decades of having to push and puff herself up have taken a toll.  You know my marriage almost broke up because of my ego. And the the the ego of course stems from insecurity. Its all insecurity. And my trusty companion is the imposter syndrome that is just right there on my shoulder. Maria knew she wanted to be a journalist since she was a teenager growing up in Chicago. She came to New York in 1979 for college and hosted a late-night radio show playing Latin American protest music and interviewing activists and throwing some legendary New York City dance parties.  So there would be like 300 people with a DJ no air conditioning completely sweating it up. And wed dance until four oclock in the morning. And then depending on whether or not we had money we would get on the subway and the subway was completely graffitied up. Again no air conditioning and we would be rocking on the subways at four oclock in the morning. Anna Sale I want to go back to when you first arrived in New York City and you had grown up in in a Mexican family in Chicago you were the youngest of your siblings. You arrive in New York City. When you think about the the community that you built. what did it look like? And how did you find them?  Um thank you for taking me back to this. Ah I love this part of my life. I swear I was so much fun and it was so much fun. Oh my god it was so much fun. It was New York City early 1980s. By the way there were no Mexicans in New York. Could not find tortillas anywhere. Nowhere.  In New York City?  Couldnt find mynowhere in New York City could you find tortillas.  Huh.  Nowhere. Nowhere. Had to start having them sent to me in a box from Chicago. Um so so you know what it felt like it felt like I would walk out and I would be like oye me soy Mexicana and then would be like y que?  Huh.  You are Mexican and so what? And what that allowed me to do and for some Mexicans this is controversial but for me it allowed me to walk away from my Mexican nationalism because I I really dont I think nationalism any in any way shape or form is well hello we are living through it. And so I was glad to be able to walk away from my Mexican nationalism my Mexican-centric experience in Chicago and just be like bro wait wait yo soy Latino Americana. I am Latin American yo I got I got my Argentinian people over here. I got my Salvadoreans. I am eating pupusas I am dancing salsa. Celia Cruz is now a part of my life. You know everything exploded for me. And I felt like I was part of a continent.  I love that! I am part of a continent. Is that something you actually said out loud? Like there was  Claro!  Yeah I huh.  Oh absolutely. Also because this was the 1980s in Latin America and we were very conscious about uh a unified Latin America. This was a time of of a lot of activism. And I was to be to be clear among Latinos and Latinas this is an interesting and necessary conversation but there were people who were like yeme Maria why do you why do you identify as a Latina? You are Mexican. And I am like Latina is all of us. Yeah but you know you are not Puerto Rican. I am like no I am not. And so I always again opened up the conversation as like can we see our humanity in each other? And that was I mean that was the best experience in New York was just like oh my God. And then there were like this whole Bohemian thing that was going on. There were artists everywhere. One of those artists was German Perez who would eventually become Marias husband. She met him a few years after graduating from college.  He is like you got to come and see my artwork. And I am like oh boy. And so I went to his house and I saw his paintings and I kind of th th that is it. Like I was like you painted this? And it was Taino Indians in an arrieito in a moon dance that he had captured with all the colors and the palm trees growing out of their heads. And I was like ahhh! And then it could have been a one night stand. But he was like hey I am just letting you know I am not playing. I am looking to form Im I am looking to form a clan. And I was like a clan a clan? What are you a bear? And he was like I want my family to be the most important thing in my life. I want to protect my family. And I want a family that we are going to see we are going to understand that we have to protect and take care of each other. That is what I want to do. Maria and German married in 1991 and started their family while Maria was also building her career as a journalist. Maria was the primary breadwinner first as a reporter at NPR then at CNN starting in 1997. But balancing work and her time with her husband and their two kids wasnt easy.  Doing live television is a drug. It becomes an addiction. It becomes an addiction like an adrenaline addiction. Um but it can also you know it can ruin your life. So so coming home from work could look like shit I was just gone for three days reporting on the beheading of a man in in in Iraq. And I was at his parents' home doing live shots 18 hours a day and now I am walking home and I am walking into my house and I have to basically stand at my front door. I learned this from a from a woman named Marianna who had HIV and then AIDS. And she would say when I come home she was from the Bronx Puerto Rican. And she when I come home AIDS stays outside the door! AIDS do not come inside the door with me! And I was like what do you mean? Shes like I stand outside the door. Me hago la limpia. Me limpio. I clean myself. I cleanse literally you know you have seen that you wipe it off you wipe it off your face. And you shake your hands you wipe it off your legs and that is what I would do. And then I would walk in the front door and I would be like hey! Hola! What is up? And the kids would come running and I would be like what is up? Hey Mama. Um and oftentimes my husband might or might not be happy you know? Cause he just got stuck with being with the kids for three or four days. So I it was hard you know I mean it was a real stress. You cant do that with a partner um who is gonna who is going to give you shit all the time and we did not have the kind of salaries to be hiring full time nanny kind of thing.  You talked about being on television feeling addictive. Um and it is a very competitive environment. You are at that point already a very experienced veteran um journalist uh do do you feel like looking back that your time with cable news distorted your values?  Well that is exactly what my husband would say.  What would he say?  Thats exactlyI no no no. I mean uh woo no I mean he was like look you understand what is going to happen. You are going to end up on The Tonight Show being made fun of because what CNN is asking you to do. And you are going to suffer the consequences of their ratings game. You are you know you need to be very careful because and I think that um I think what actually set him off was I mean he he could see it kind of coming. He was able to see we could all see it. CNN was suddenly getting flashier. I mean CNN basically was asking us to in a ratings battle to be more um in Spanish we say amarillista uh you know yellow journalism. You know you may remember a CNN reporter getting tasered live on camera. And we were all just like holy shit. And it is like okay great and so now that is what is expected of us. Like I am going to have to get tasered in order to be taken seriously by the new president of CNN US. I have to like do you understand? Like everything was getting warped.  Yeah.  And German fell in love with me because he saw the journalist in me. He saw the woman who was fighting for the first amendment. So for German to say you are you are teetering here. Like it could happen any moment. And I knew it could. Yeah it was it was hard.  Huh.  The problem is is that like I was rejecting a part of my Mexican Latina mother self because I did not want to become my mother and subservient to my husband but I was kind of throwing out the baby with the bath water which was like you all can take care of yourselves I will see you later. I gotta go do this. Cause I got to I got to build up my ego and I got to keep this job going. And I got to keep on getting to yes and yes and yes.  How what do you remember the moment you realized oh this marriage and family this this is not guaranteed to me I might I might lose this?  It it could have happened during those CNN moments but I think I um I just maneuvered out of it really quickly. I was able to get another job I left CNN I was hired at NOW on PBS and life changed in different ways but the moment where that happened and it was very clear was um it was 2016.  Oh.  And and and yeah it was it was recent. And that was a moment when we we almost separated. The marriage almost did not make it. Coming up the revelation that happened leading up to that crisis point and how Maria had to take a hard look at herself and her priorities to preserve her marriage.  I did make a choice. My my therapist said you know Maria your children they are going to see what this looks like. They are going to see what this choice looks like. And that is an incredible lesson because he loves you. This man loves you. And honestly I gotta be very honest with you the idea of having sex with another person totally freaked me out.  Last week I asked you to head over to our Pandemic Tool Kit spreadsheet and give me some suggestions of what to do with the many many cans of coconut milk currently taking up valuable space in my kitchen. You sent recipes for a red lentil curry a chocolate coconut pie even whipped cream with coconut milk. Thank you Carrie Kulia and Laurie but I gotta be honest I havent brought myself to do anything special because I am feeling so exhausted by the endless march of meal prep and dishes. And its made us wonder what youre noticing about your relationship to food right now six months into our much more homebound lives. How have your food routines changed? Who are you cooking for and eating with? How are you thinking about money and food right now? And I wanna know whats been your most memorable meal of the last six months has been? Tell us about how food is working in your life right now. You can record a voice memo and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org and you can see our Pandemic Tool Kit at deathsexmoney.orgpandemictoolkit.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. In her new book Maria Hinojosa writes frankly about desire and sex and also about how when she was 16 years old and on a date she was raped. But it took her years before she could call it that.  I did not really I did not call it a rape.  Uh huh.  You know uh it was not I was definitely not even dealing with it or thinking about it. I grew up on the South side of Chicago. So I understand I was always wary of streets and being alone and being a woman. And you know a rape is a man you know with a knife to your neck uh in in in an alley. I amma I am going to be honest with you. Here's what I used to call it. It was a baby rape.  Oh you would say that. Why  Can you imagine?  Why would you say that?  Because I was like wait it was not a real rape. It was like a baby rape. I cannot horr how horrible.  Why why did baby rape feel like a more comfortable way to describe it than to just say rape? What what did it do? Why was that helpful?  Because it well one because I participated I got in the car. I said yes I saw him walking out to go buy rubber rubbers condoms. Um you know and I did not get out of the car. I did not tell him when I realized he was an asshole after all like I should have said take me back home. I do not want to go. And I did not. And I thought that because I was I did say no that I always knew. I always said no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no. I said no the whole time. But maybe it was that kind of a no. So was it a screaming no? You know so I guess that means that it was not a real rape. I was not screaming... no! The thing about rape and sexual assault with women is that we its were convinced we we we made this happen. We were at fault there was something wrong with us. Like this is you know that is the trajectory. And of course that is deeply ingrained. So it changed when my therapist we were doing deep therapy on this. and that that was that was like 2015.  So you were in your fifties you were in your fifties before you used the word rape for what happened to you as a teenager?  Oh yeah. I was feeling really I I I was admitting in the in the therapy. I was like  es que? Why did I do that? Why did I go with him? I mean like I understood like why why why did I do that? Like I could tell he was an asshole. Like sure he was cute but he was nothing special. Like why? And then she said Maria you were a 16 year old girl. You had every right to be hot and horny and want him cause that is what you feel when you are 16. And also I I thought I had not fought back. You I mean now of course when you do therapy that is what happens. You are like oh shit! Its that he held me down. That is why I did not fight back. That is why I had not been able to fight back. Once I was able to understand what was going on it just really just comes all uh vomiting out. I just always was like why am I I I I said to my therapist I remember by now I had been seeing her for 10 years I I just like I do not even know how to start sex. Like how did? And she is like oh really? God girl I just walk into the kitchen and I start taking off my bra and I am just like I could never Im like I could never you know just like I could never... thank thank God that my husband never gave up. Honestly. As Maria was processing all of this she was also at a professional high point. After years of working for some of the countrys biggest news organizations and winning numerous journalism awards along the way shed founded her own production company Futuro Media Group in 2010. But the demands of being an executive while still hosting and reporting intensified the pressures on her marriage.  I was busy working and German would be like sweetie you know you are missing all kinds of stuff. And I would be like yeah yeah yeah. I just got this story to do like okay yeah yeah I just got to do this other thing. Okay. I will just I will be right back. I gotta go do this. I gotta go write this book. Ill just You know? It was always and that is the complaint you know is that it was always there was always something else until it came to a breaking point and then it was like they are not going to be around. Like they really are tired of you.  I want to make sure I understand you say you know you it sounds like you have had a um a few different points with your family and with your husband where you have realized you need to make adjustments but you said the hardest moment was in 2016. What what happened then?  Um what happened then was the thing that was always kind of hanging over me that my best friend Sandy had told me you need to be careful. You cannot keep putting your husband at the bottom of the list of things that are important. You need to write that list of things that matter. Is he in the top is he number one? Number two? You cant you gotta be careful. That moment arrived. When he said sabes que I am out. I think it was my ego it was my bossing people around it was my telling everybody what to do. You know it was my inability to slow down and just like coo be with people. And um and actually in his case to just look at him give him time respect you know I learned about the five love languages. You know he needs time. I dont. You know I need other things. German wrote a nine page letter by hand to my therapist so that my therapist could understand what was going on. Um cause he was like I do not even want to I am Im done like doing the therapy thing but he wrote this letter and and he said but you should read it. And I was so angry I was so angry. I was like you know I was like okay you want to leave? We want to separate? Okay fine. You know as soon as the daughter goes off to school you know you will move out or I will move out. Anger anger anger. And then I was actually coming back from uh I do not know what trip I was and I read the letter and it was Germans heart. And suddenly I was able to see me from his perspective. Like his narrative was very different than my narrative which is what my therapist was saying. She was like there are multiple narratives. You have to be able to come on you know this. You have a narrative he has a narrative. And I was able to understand and then see his heart and it broke my heart to see somebody who I loved feeling unloved. And so I just said well shit. No no no no no no. I love you. I do. I love you. I love you. I love there are things that I cant stand about you but I love you. And I am going to forgive all of the things that have built up in a marriage but they do and I am letting them go. And I started to do deep meditation meditation all the time forgiveness letting go the anger letting go. Um and again the therapy um and coming to terms very clearly making choices about love. I am choosing you know and then I would be with my therapist. But what about when he! And then he and then he said! And then he! And she is like Maria what are you going to do? And of course you know one of the when you start doing a little bit of meditation it is like well do you want to be right? Or do you want to be happy? You want to be right or do you want to be happy? Do you want to keep on fighting that battle? Okay. Okay.  Do you still have that letter Maria?  Oh yes.  Where is it?  Um it is at the bottom of a drawer underneath some clothing that is in a kind of uh another little box. Um but I have thought I should probably put it someplace that is a little bit safer.  There is so much that you are saying um that I am relating to in marriage. Uh and I think uh particularly for for someone for whom work is really important and essential to you. to uh to be in a marriage to a man when a man is telling you he wants you to do something differently that can like rub up against the sort of like feminist reaction.  Oof! Hoo!  I do not know about you. That is how I uh experience it.  You are exactly right. I was like how no you cannot. And the thing is is that I I guess what I am trying to say is at a certain point and it is very delicate is that as women we also have to be able to separate our position from our gender. And we just have to be able to hear it as a human being. Like this is a human being saying this to another human being. You are seeing it as a man who is your husband who is your partner who is telling you what to do. As opposed to is there a piece of advice that I really need to hear here? Is there something that he is seeing? And you know I am a very good listener but sometimes us listeners do not do so well when we have to listen to our families. Thats Maria Hinojosa. Her new book is called Once I Was You A Memoir of Love and Hate in a Torn America. Her show Latino USA is a podcast and on public radio stations across the country and she co-hosts a political podcast called In the Thick. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im usually based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Afi Yellow-Duke and Anabel Bacon produced this episode. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. And thanks to Shera Myers in Hunts Point Washington who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Shera and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Maria is working from her Manhattan home right now along with her husband and her two kids who both recently moved back home. She says shes spending a lot of quality time with them even though its come with a different set of tradeoffs.  It is not great for your sex life.  But other than that... Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.