 Do you think it is okay to shoplift? Alice I think it is a like a grayscale sort of you know like where it is somewhere in the middle um. I mean I need to eat. And I do not have enough money to pay for all the food and our bills. So But the other stuff it is not really a need it is just um maybe it is a little selfish like I I want it so... I take it? This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot .and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Alice doesnt remember the first thing she ever stole. Thats not her real name. She says started shoplifting when she was around 15. Alice To be honest it was probably something pocket-sized like a lipstick or something.  And then I sort of built up to it I would steal clothes and stuff from Walmart and that kind of thing.  When did that start? Alice Um after I realized after I realized how easy it was. That sounded kinda terrible butI do not know it was like a year or so I was probably sixteen and my family hit a really rough patch and just could not really afford new clothes so I would snag stuff from Walmart.  And when you say you realized how easy it was what do you mean? Alice Um in particular at Walmart the one I am near they do not have a lot of cameras and um once I learned that barcodes do not set off the alarms it is just a matter of finding an aisle that is empty with no cameras and shoving it in my purse and then acting normal which was probably the hardest part to figure out.  What would happen if you got caught? Alice It depends on A Where you are caught how much you are caught with um whether or not it is your first time and I uh I am a white female so I mean I feel like I would get off a lot easier than some other people would.  How does that feel to say out loud? Alice It is kind of disgusting to me but I mean it is how the world is so sort of use it to my advantage. Alice has been using this advantage for more than ten years now. We first talked last winter and she freely admitted to me that she is stealing...and that shes breaking the law. But she says shes developed her own guidelines for whats okay. Alice I mean I do have rules that I follow. I do not ever lift from small mom and pop kind of stores and um I do not lift from thrift stores even though that is insanely easy because they never have cameras mostly because somebody else is more likely to get hurt because of it. When you lift from somewhere like Walmart they already have it built into their insurance where they have like you know loss insurance and so they have already budgeted for a certain amount of stealing I guess. And I it just it lessens the impact.  So youit feels like it is like a victimless crime. Alice Um I would say it feels more like maybe a paper cut as opposed to like stabbing someone. Alice didnt want to say exactly where she lives but described it as a rural community of about 500 people. Alice It is very small and full of meth houses.  Hm. Alice It is full of other nice people but um just your normal tiny little I do not know rural town.  And you said your family hit a rough patch when you were in high school? Alice My Dad got injured and he was um he is a farm hand and he was the only breadwinner my mom did not work at the time so while he was out on disability my mom had to go and start doingit was kind of like home healthcare but she is not registered so it was all under-the-table and so they were trying to live off of that and it was not going well.  So did itdid it feel like before your dad got injured that your family had enough money? Alice We did notI would never really say that we had enough money but before that we didntwe were not on food stamps I know that.   What was the plan for what was going to happen for you after high school? What did you hope would happen? Alice Um well I got a scholarship to a private college and so I was gonna go to college and get a degree in business administration. And then I was going to open a store. That was my plan.   Why did not that happen? Alice Oh because I was dumb. I left the college to be with my boyfriend at the time. And I wound up going to a community college and I got my two-year degree and then just started working and never went back.  What is your two-year degree in? Alice In business administration.  Has that been helpful? For getting higher paying jobs? Alice Well I am a waitress so no. Um I d-do not know I mean I put it on my resume but I have never really noticed that people take an interest in it. Alice has worked in restaurants for a while now. She met her now-husband when they were both working at McDonalds. She was 23...and got pregnant. She kept working overnight shifts for the extra dollar an hour until just before the baby came. But money was still tight. Alice When we first got together we got into trouble with the credit cards because my husband has a little bit of a well he has a gambling problem. So he um once we finally got one of the credit cards paid down he actually shot it back up and spent about fourteen hundred dollars on an online poker game.  Did you know he was gambling? When he was running up that Alice I knew he had um I knew he had an issue with addiction. He is actually a recovering drug addict and he just um he has a very addictive personality is what he calls it. Uh he has not done any hard drugs in a while but he um yeah he is always struggled with addiction and just I do not know common sense.  Common sense you said? Alice Yeah.  You said that with a laugh do Alice Yeah.  I mean ah does it make you angry and also laugh or Alice Um yes I mean I married him so obviously I am not too upset about it. But there are times when I kinda just want to throttle him. Which is normal I guess for any relationship. Alice and her husband now work at a family-owned restaurant where she waits tables and hes a cook. But its seasonal work that ends when it gets cold. When I talked to her last winter neither of them were working. Alice The restaurant shuts down completely. So.  What do you do for money during the winter?  Uh we go on unemployment. But I personally last year I went and I did quite a bit of lifting and then what is called boosting where you sell the stuff that you lifted and that really helped that pretty much paid for Christmas and our car payment and all that so.  What kinds of stuff do you sell? Alice Um being a young female it is easy for me to steal makeup so I will sell high-end makeup people really like like the Naked palettes from Urban Decay and you will sell it for you know ten to fifteen dollars off and I mean you did not pay for it in the first place so that is still like forty bucks in your pocket.  And when you say it paid for Christmas last year about how much money did you make by selling stuff you would stolen? Alice I think...I know over a three month period I made about twelve hundred dollars so like I do not know 300 bucks a month? And I am not even really boosting anymore because I am just trying to be more cautious. The other part of is um we are down to one vehicle so anywhere I go my husband is usually with me and that makes it much harder. And I do not he does not actually know that I lift.  He does not know. Alice Um well I  say that but I think it is more that he is never brought it up. I mean you cannot live with someone and have someone bring home a whole bunch of new stuff and you know how much money's in the bank account so it cannot be coming from there. And I mean I am putting food on the table so he is not really complaining.  Why have not you told him? Alice Because I do not want him to tell me to stop. If I bring it up it might um come to a head and he will he is going to make me choose and I mean I I would choose my family if he made me choose but I do not want to have to.  Why do not you want to stop? Alice I do not want to be on food stamps or uh government assistance and this is my way of feeding my family when money gets tight.  Why do not you want to enroll in food stamps if you qualify? Alice Uh because even though it was ten eleven ten years ago that my mom and dad went on food stamps they only got off it about three years ago and that was after my dad got a pretty big raise. So I mean it justwatching them struggle and it it just I do not know I just it kind of left a bad taste in my mouth and I do not want to go there if I do not have to. I mean I am on unemployment right now. So it is not like I am against government assistance and I know that food stamps is there for people who need it because we pay our taxes and that is how it works but I am just not I do not want to get tangled up in it. Coming up Alice talks about finding a community of other shoplifters online. Alice It just sort of opened up a whole new world of possibilities you know other people are getting away with this stuff so you know if I keep working at it maybe I can pull off thousand-dollar hauls.  Have you ever done a thousand-dollar haul? Alice I think my best was 2300. But that was an entire day and two malls.  The Death Sex  Money team is hitting the road again. On October 4th we are going to do a live show in Los Angeles. Along with my guests Niecy Nash and Alia Shawkat were going to tackle some of the 20s life advice questions weve been asking you to send in. How do you keep feeling inspired as you get older? When should I keep receipts? How should I organize them? How do I stop worrying about things I cannot control? Is it normal to feel this way? Is it a normal thing for a 23 year old to not know? I hear your thirties are better. If you will be near southern California on October 4 come out and join us! Tickets are on sale now at werkitfestival.com and thats werk spelled w-e-r-k. I also have some news for you about Lawrence Bartley the Sing Sing inmate whose episode we recently re-aired for you. We have learned that Lawrence was denied parole. Hell be eligible to reapply next year. Lawrences wife Ronnine told me she and Lawrence have appreciated hearing from listeners. Weve passed on your messages for him that you sent to us including one from a listener named Ken. Hes a librarian and wrote in to volunteer to be Lawrences personal librarian. I thought he might appreciate a guide Ken wrote since Lawrence went into prison before there was an internet and has never been online. Ronnine says Ken and Lawrence are now in touch weekly. On the next episodewe revisit our conversation with Ellen Burstyn. I talked to her three years ago nowbut her self-care tips are as relevant as ever  I have what I called should-less days. Today is a day where theres nothing I should do. So I only do what I want to do. And if its nap in the afternoon or watch TV and eat ice cream I get to do it.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Alice I honestly thought it was a very rare thing. But the more I am on Tumblr the more I realize that people do it all the time. We first learned about Alice through Tumblr. Theres an active community of shoplifters there who regularly post pictures of what they call their hauls. Alice says when she discovered this Tumblr community she was hooked. Alice I was pretty excited actually I was um I spent I do not know like days just pouring over the different blogs and um marveling at some of the hauls that people would pull off they were just massive and I was at the time I was still lifting you know two or three teen- things at once and people were coming home with uh thousands of dollars worth of stuff and I was just kind of blown away.  And you said excited? Alice Yes. I think it was almost validating just knowing that I was not the only one out there doing it. It felt like I had people I could talk to about it because it is such a huge part of my life and to have people that I could just talk about it like it was normal...that felt great.  I have to say when I was looking at at your Tumblr and then clicking through and looking at other people's Tumblrs there is something about it that I find really sad? Like disturbing? Did did thatbecause it is sort of it is like um celebrating something that is just just kind of on its face it is you know you are taught not to steal as a kid. Alice Yeah.  And that it is wrong.  Did you feel any of that? Kind ofthose mixed feelings? Alice Um because I had been lifting for a while before I found the Tumblr I um I do not think I felt that way but I definitely know what you are talking about because they have other segments of Tumblr that are glorifying drugs or you know hurting yourself or um having anorexia and that kind of stuff really turns my stomach. So that I definitely know the feeling that you are talking about.  But for you you do not feel that when you are looking at the lifting blogs. Alice No.  But and you felt inspired. Alice Yes.   When you think about your online persona and what you what you brag about like you do notyou do not talk much about going to the grocery store and shoplifting food. Is it is there sort of a performance element to to those blogs? Alice Definitely yeah. I mean the point of posting on a blog is for people to like it and reblog it I mean nobody really wants to see my grocery haul of three blocks of cheese and an avocado.  Uh huh. Do you steal things when your daughter is with you? Alice To be honest I used to uh when she was really little and it was kind of awesome because her diaper bag was so big I could just fill it up and then cover all the food with diapers. And no one is going to go digging through my diaper bag. And you also look a lot more innocent when you have a child and I realize this sounds terrible I am sorry. But after she really started being aware of what I was doing I stopped and I do not do it anymore.  So it was when you thought she might figure out what you were doing be able to Alice Yeah.  watch you. Alice Mhm.  Why? Like wh-tell me about that line like what what was why did you decide that that you did not want her to know what you were doing? Alice  Um... well that is a funny question. Because I was going to say I do not want her to grow up thinking it is okay but obviously I think it is okay. Um I guess I do not want her doing something that is obviously dangerous. And I mean if she did start lifting I think we could have an open conversation about it but I do not ever see her like being a tag team. I do not really want that for her.   Do you feel umdo you feel like you are going to be able to give your daughter a better life than the one that you grew up in? Alice That is the goal. I... yes? But I mean I try not to think too much about the future so I am just worried about keeping her butt warm and her tummy full right now. I really do want to have a better life for her and I think um I think we are going to be able to do it. Just because my husband and I are both hard workers so. ...  So the last time we talked it was late last year. How did it go getting through the winter? Alice It was rough. This is Alice just this month. I called her back to check in. Alice And that is actually what prompted me to tell my husband that I started lifter that I had um been shoplifting.  Really? Alice Um yeah. We got to a point where it was coming down to do we pay rent buy groceries or pay the gas bill. And finally just out of frustration I told him I can get us an extra 100 if you give me a week and I told him what I did and he was like Oh...oh! OK! and he was just completely fine with it. And then after it was out in the open with her husband Alice got caught. She says she got cocky. Alice We were planning on going on a short trip for our honeymoon and I wanted to get a like just something cute to wear. So I went into Nordstrom Rack and um I- I- thinking back now there were a number of times that like I was clearly being watched I was clearlythey were suspicious. But I you know put some clothes in my purse and I left and then they pretty much chased me down it was like this large hulking guy. And I had actually gone into another store and he walked up to me and said uh Maam I need that dress you put in your purse. And I was like like I froze. Alice didnt steal enough for them to call the police. But she says she is banned now from all Nordstrom stores and they fined her a fine she says she didnt pay. After that happened she got more cautious. But is back to stealing things to sell them. Shes trying to save up 3000 to pay for a move to Florida this November. Her husband got a full-time cooking job there at a hotel with benefits. Shes expecting to find work there too. Alice Since I am a waitress and a lot of Florida is just like is service based industries I can find a job pretty much anywhere.  And when you think about what you hope your life looks like in Florida what do you picture? How do you hope it works? Alice Ooh. Well eventually I would like to just be a stay at home mom. Really honestly. But even if we could just both get 40 hour a week jobs with paid time off and benefits like just the most boring average job you can think of.   Do you hope you dont have to shoplift or do you see it as if you need to do it youll do what you need to do? Alice Well itsits thats how Ive always felt about it is just pretty much do what you need to do but I would like to not have to. But yeah. But once we get to Florida it wouldit would be nice not toto be able to start fresh and not to have to patch these holes in our income by shoplifting. Thats a woman were calling Alice. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks also to Destry Sibley for her help on this episode and to Tasbeeh Herwees who wrote about shoplifting blogs for Good Magazine and introduced us to some people in that community. Theres a link to her piece at deathsexmoney.org. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And come see us October 4th in Los Angeles. Tickets at WerkItfestival - thats w-e-r-k - .com. And theres one more thing Alice wanted to make clear Alice I am not trying to promote this. Like I am not saying oh it is super easy everybody go out and steal from your local Walmart and smash capitalism that is that is not what I am about. I just see it as a a means to an end. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.