Emma I realized while I was laying in bed trying to sleep how much fear I actually have. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lotand need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. I often hear from guests after interviews. But this time was a little different.  I was awake most of the night and what little I slept I dreamt of this. This is hard to ask but I am asking. Please dont use my tape. The day before I would talked to her for about an hour and a half. This all started a few months earlier when she reached out to me in an email after listening to one of our episodes.  Im responding to your episode on cheating. As a sex worker I play a role a cheating on a weekly basis. She told memost of her clients are married.  Sometimes I think about the wives. I think about how they would feel if they knew where their husband was and what he was doing with me. Am I facilitating cheating? I guess so. Can I sleep at night? Mostly. In this first email she was fairly unapologetic about the benefits of work her clients leave with their sexual needs fulfilled. She leaves with money. Its sex work. And its illegal. We emailed back and forth and she said she wanted to talk with me about what she does for a living as long as her identity would be concealed. That is why the sound of her voice has been manipulated and we are not using her real name.  This is Anna.  Hi.  So I am calling you Emma?  Yes. Thank you.  Where did the name Emma come from?  I like simple names and I think Im somewhat traditional. This was the first of several conversations between Emma and me over the last few months. Talking about about her work hasnt always been easy for Emma. At times she wanted to scrap the episode like in that morning after our first interview. But ultimately she chose to share her story. And a remindershes a sex workerso this episode is more sexually explicit than usual. Emma got into sex work after a divorce left her broke and she had kids to raise.  I had a lot of savings. And that basically all got used up. Emma had a job...but she wasnt bringing in enough. Then she met a woman...who told her about a way to earn a lot more money.  She first told me she did sensual massage I had no idea what she was talking aboutand she told meshe really opened up to me and shared her story with me which was very similar. Had been married for 20 years was going through a divorce her husband wasnt ableactually had completely lost his income and they had three kids. And she kind of realized wow okay you know this might help and she let me know how much money she made the first year and it just this was was literally at a time where within a month I was not going to have any money.  How much did she tell you she had made?  Oh I think she made...She made somewhere between 150 and 200000 her first year working.  And thats doing sensual massage? What does that mean?  Um well its not full service. Its notit doesnt involve intercourse.  No intercourse.  Yeah. And its massage thats very sensual.  Does that include oral sex?  It can...I think anybody can do whatever they want. If you were to go and Google sensual massage it probablyit might not say oral sex but it definitely happens. And it also definitely doesnt happen. It really just depends on the person.   How long did you have to think about it to decide that this was something you were willing to do?  Not very long. Im prettyIm very proactive. Im justyou know I can makeI just knew I had to do it. I had to do something. And it was a solution to my dilemma. Um this woman who was really wonderful she talked to me a lot about it and she invited me to come in and watch a session. And then this person that I watched offered to be a client and let me just try a session. And so you know I kind of just kept doingjust kept slowly getting in there and seeing how it felt and making sure that I could do it. And yeah I could. Now Emma has a regular stable of clients. She doesnt have to see anyone she doesnt know. Theyre mostly men. And they meet her at a place she rents out for work.  Yeah its in an area where there are just a lot of people coming and going and not really paying attention to each other. It feels really safe.  So what are your boundaries how do you describe that to a client?  Well I say you know theres no full service. Thats pretty easy.  And people know what that means?  Yes.  Ok.  I try and protect myself fromand you can hear even with the words I use what its like for me. For you know some of my own personal my private areas I really would prefer that they just stayed for me. And so touching and so forth. And that can be difficult though. Thats a hard boundary sometimes to keep.  So you like to give and not be touched.  I like to give I like to touch yeah. And not toI mean I love receiving massage. But you know Im talking about sexuallyI dont really like to be sexually touched by other people other than my partner.  Thats a reallyumI imagine that can get really potentially uncomfortable when youre thinking about Am I consenting to whats happening right now?  This is hard for me to say because I dont want to be speaking for all sex workers so its hard for me to admit this part of it. But for me personally that part of it I feel a little bit like Im violating myself. Because I am giving permission I always give permission. There isIm never forced to do anything that I dont want to do. I make the choice myself and there are times when I choose to let things happen to my body that I feel like Im violating myself. And thats hard. Thats the hard part. Thats a really hard part.  And when its mixed with money? Im assuming that if youre going further than what you anticipated does that usually lead to more money?  No not directly not in that Oh now Im going to get more money today. Its more part of the relationship.  Was your gauge for what felt not comfortable was it if you would get that creeping shame feeling afterward?  I only feel shame when I talk to other people. I actually had this woman tell meI started charging immediately what she charged and she said Oh well are you doing this this and this?And I said No Im not doing that that and that. I dont want to do that that and that. That doesnt sound safe or thats not what I want to do. And she said Well theyre never going to come back unless you do those things and theyre coming to you now because youre new but youre not going to be able to sustain yourself unless you do those things. So I did those things for a little while and ick!  Whats like awhats an examplewhat are we talking about?  You know like oral sex. Allowing myself to be touched intimately penetration I guess with fingers that sort of thing. But oral is a big one. I think theres probably a big separation between who does that and who doesnt. And I came to realize I dont have to do that Im actually worthI can ask for what I want and I can give what I want no matter what. And the people who accept that thats who Im gonna work with.  How much does it cost?  I dont know if Im comfortable sharing that. Ill tell you this. Okay? I amI dont make anything like that woman that I told you about who I met in the beginning. I just do enough to get by. And then I have other work that I do. That does notyou know its like piddly money.  I wanna talk about guilt which is how you opened your email to me.  Yeah yeah.  So I wanna start first by talking aboutyou know youre very aware that your clients are in relationships. And in most cases their partners dont know that they are there with you. How do you feel about that?  Sad really sad. I talk to my clients about you know this may sound awful but sometimes they will open up to me and Ill coach them on Well you know what do youwhat would you like your relationship to be like? And so many of my clients are coming to me and for one reason or another theyre in a relationship where theyre not getting physical intimacy. They dont get hugged. Nobody hugs them. Nobody touches them. Nobody looks at them and says Youre amazing. And I get to do that. I get to give that to those people. And I love that.  Are you still doing it for the money?  Yeah yeah I wouldnt do it for any other reason. I mean we all do our work for money. So thats just the way it is. But if I didnt have to do itif it wasnt the best pay by far just so above and beyond anything else that I can make in the time that I spend doing it I wouldnt be doing this.  Youre in a relationship.  Yeah.  It is a man?  Yeah.  So hes known the entire time that youre doing this work. Whats been hard in your relationship?  I think the hardest thing for us is that there are things that Im doing as part of my work that are not authentic to me and that hurt me. And so I bring that homeI come home sometimes and Im vulnerable and weak. And Im normally really strong. And needy. And also a little bit withdrawn I have walls up you know protective walls and so that can affect our relationship it can take me time to let that down. I might have some physical aversionsit can take me a little while to want to be physically intimate.  Has he asked you to stop?  No. No he would never ask me to stop. But the next morning...Emma left us this voicemail.  This morning my partner held me while I cried and confessed all my fears. This morning he asked me to cancel all my appointments this week. Hes worried Im getting too fragile that its getting to be too much. Coming upEmma tells me what she decided to do next. Thank you for all your stories about death and money including some about inheritance...and whether you even deserve it. Like for Claire in Austin who got some money after her grandmothers death. Claire My grandmother was widowed a few years ago by a man who was not my mom's father but who left his money to my grandmother. And so taht was her money and now it is our money which has left us all feeling a little bit strange. But Claire needed a new car...she got a nice one. Claire If you look at my tax return it is probably not the car that you would expect I would be buying. Not that it is anything crazy outlandish but it is something that makes me feel a little bit uncomfortable and like something that I should not have. Keep sending in your stories about death and money for an upcoming episode. Record a voice memo on your smartphone...and send it in to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. You can also just send a note thereagain the email is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode Dr. Jonathan Clarka Navy veteran and former flight surgeon for NASA. Dr. Jonathan Clark Ive been exposed to a lot of death in my career both in medicine and in the military. A lot of death a lot of death. ...including the death of his wife Laurel Clark. She was one of the seven astronauts who died in the Columbia Shuttle disaster.  By the next morning the house was literally full of people. And everybody is like grieving. It was just this massive cathartic you know you just shed tears like heartbeats just constantly pouring pouring pouring out tears. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After we recorded our first interview Emma had a tough night. She was nervous about what shed shared...and haunted about what shed left out. She sent us a long email...then called and read it over a voicemail too.  This is what I wish I shared. I am afraid. I am afraid because what I do is illegal and because I have no voice. I cant reach out for support. I am afraid of being caught by law enforcement. Why did I minimize that with you? I am afraid of that every day. I am afraid of having to defend myself. Of being put in jail. Of losing my children and my ability to support my family. My home and my freedom. I am afraid of being physically hurt or killed. I am afraid of running into someone I know or the family of someone I know and being found out turned in stalked againhaving my family impacted losing everything that matters to me. I am afraid of my clients finding out about the part thats fake that I dont enjoy it all that sometimes I am grimacing sneaking peeks at the clock. I am afraid that someday I will forget to hold my tongue and shout stop! When she left this voicemail Emma was about a week away from a planned break. After her boyfriends request to stop early and cancel her remaining appointments...she did. I talked with her on the phone too. We agreed wed talk later in the summer after she had some time to think about our conversation. That was a few months ago. When she called me in August she said she wanted to share the interview if her identity was protected. She also told me she was scheduling new appointments with clients...and we scheduled a follow-up interview.  Im calling you Emma remember?  Yeah. Its hard to keep track of all the different names sometimes.  Can we just go back to after the first time we talked and did a long interview. What happened afterwards for you?  Well I did not sleep that night. At all. And I finally got up at what was it like 3 or 4 in the morning I got out of bed. And I got on my computer and I started writing. And I wrote you that letter. And I would been working consistently for about six months almost every day seeing a client. And um...  Like seven days a week?  Like you know five to six at least one person. It is just every day. It is just something I know that is going to happen every day. That I am going to do every day. And so it was just a long time. I had never gone that long without taking a break and so I think it was already kind of it was wearing on me. And then just after talking to you I just realized how much it was wearing on me how much I needed to get away from it and I just felt sick.  How did it feel to cancel those appointments?  It was really hard. Really really hard. And I I wanted to. And yet I am thinking about my rent and I am thinking about I already know I am going to take some time off. I am thinking about just the money that I lose just in one week. This is actually a big week because this was going to be my last week. So this week was going to paywould pay for my rent and probably my utilities for a month and it is a big deal to just walk away from that.  So that is like thousands of dollars?  You know like a couple thousand dollars. And it is just me. Taking care of my kids.  How much time total did you take off this summer?  Probably two and a half months.  How did it feel?  It was great. It was really good. I did a lot of writing and a lot of reading. I have started to do a lot of research on just the sex work industry and the history of it. But it felt really good every day to just not wake up with that just that knowledge that I was going to go have an appointment.  Did you miss any of it?  No. Not at all no. Sure the money. The income. The inco- I missed the income. The safety net. The knowledge that as I am putting money out when I am buying my food that there is money coming in to replace that. I mean Ievery time I get paid I am immediately thinking This is going to pay for this. And this is going to pay for that. And when I am not bringing in that income you know like this summer I do not feel so good. It is hardit is harder to spend the money. It is harderbecause any time I spend something I have that little sense of insecurity and a little bit of a fear. Like am I going to be able to replace this?  How did you know the time had come that you needed to schedule new appointments and go back to work?  Well I came back. I did have a kind of schedule planned in my head of when it would happen. And what happened was just I kind of went almost to the end of what I had because I took that extra week and a half off. So it was fine because there is no way I am dipping into my real savings that I have you know over the last few years. I am notI will not dip into that.  Is that the how I am going to stop doing sex work savings?  Um no. I think it is the emergency savings. It is if something happens where I have to stop. If I end up you know if I get injured and I have toand I have medical bills I have to pay. Or if something happens to somebody in my family.  Iyou know I just want toI think for someone who has never done sex work and to hear that for you it is a financial imperative and then to also know that you have money saved...  Yeah.  It might be hard to understand why you are continuing to do the work that you  Because the money I saved would last for maybe five months. And then what do I do? Then I am in the exact same place and I have noth- and I have no cushion. Then what am I going to do? I am going to end up on the street. I do not haveI do not have an IRA. I do not have good health insurance. I do not have anything. And umso this is a job. The thing is that I think that what is really important and for people to understand about sex work is it is a job. Why does anybody work at Walmart? It would be great if we could all work specifically and only at something that we loved and were truly passionate about. And I think that if you are young and you do not have kids this is a great time to make that happen for yourself. But I did not do that. I did not makeI did not create that career when I was 21. I actually got pregnant when I was 21.  How did your first day back feel?  It was actually really easy. It is funny because I did not know who was going to be on the other side of the door when I opened it. So many people use kind of these generic names. John you know. Tom. Whatever. And I do notso sometimes I do not always remember just by that exact name and I did not bother to look and see exactly who it was I was going to be meeting.  I cannot believe you did not look up the nickname. Like my god! I would want to know who I am going to meet.  I knew was somebody who I would been seeing for a long time. So I knew it was somebody I was going to be real familiar with. I know that sounds strange does not it? It sounds really strange to me. Except that this is the thing is that you justit is so compartmentalized. It kind of does not matter who it is. I just go I get there and it is justI open the door. And I just go into this place. And I get my stuff out and I change my clothes and I put my makeup on and it is just I am this person. I am playing a role and I have my routine. And I know I am going to be seeing somebody safe. I know I am going to connect with them in a certain way you know that is going to be fine. I know what I am going to do. It does not really matter who it is.  Did you have any different boundaries after you went back?  Um no no. I wasI probably maybe a little bit less. My boundaries might have opened up a little bit.  Really?  Yeah just because towards the end there I was just so tired and protective that I kind of had I was just on a weekly basis just limiting taking Okay I am not going to do that. I am not going to do that. And you know like my clients said to me my first week back You need to go away more often. Because I was definitely fresher. I mean I do not have it is not like there is a lot of boundaries to play with because you know I am not an escort. I do not do full service and there is there is just a lot that I do not do. I am pretty I am pretty just vanilla normal. And um I was definitely more open and more just kind of in certain ways that I was not allowing people to touch me anymore that I you know was okay with.  That you are okay with now.  Yeah. I do not know how long that is gonna last.  Yeah.  Have you had any of those feelings of dread since going back?  Yeah. You know it is hard to share these things because I can see somebody listening and like why would you do this thing when you have dread? And even I think about other sex workers listening to this and that is kind of one of my fears another fear with this interview is to have sex workers listening to me and getting mad at me too for representing the downside the hard parts. But yeah. Honestly if I did not choose to do it if I was not doing it I would beI would just have happy days. Every day that I know that I am going to go see somebody I have some dread. It is usually before. Once I am kind of gettingonce I open that door and I go into my routine that goes away. But when I know it is happening and after that first session when I got back that went fine. And I actually came home feeling pretty good. And then my schedule was really filling up it was like okay I am going to see somebody every day this week. And this was Monday. And I had the first person. And by about probably within about five hours of coming home from my first session I started to feel kind of sick. And really like Every day? Every day? I mean that was fine but I have to do this every day? How am I going to do this every day? And now I am looking at another 4 or 5 months at least before I have a break. How am I going to do this every day?  How long do you think you will be a sex worker?  I do not know. You know maybe 'til my kids are out of the house. I do not know. It is hard it is hard working on more than one thing at a time you know because it takes time to build something up. So it is going to take longer.  Do you have a dollar amount that you want to have in the bank before you stop? Is there a goal set?  Well not really in the bank because like I said I need to be making the income.  Yeah.  I probably need to be able to make about 80000 a year. Maybe 90 before taxes in order to pay my basic expenses and maybe be able to save a little bit. So if I can get to that point or I see that I could if I was doing this other stuff full time then I will. I absolutely will do that.  So you mentioned taxes and I just want to make sure I understand your sex work income. Do you report that?  I do. I do report it. I do not you know I might fudge a little bit but I actually do.  And it is just like massage income?  Yeah exactly. Yeah obviously I am not reporting it as what I am doing. But I doit is important because it would leave me vulnerable if I did not. You know I have rent I have expenses. I obviously have to pay them. So I cannot have any red flags. And so I do.  How is your boyfriend feel now that you are back at work?  I think it is hard for him. I think he feels shame that he cannot support me. We do not talk about it a lot though because he also understands it is just what I have to do. And so we just do it.  And Emma I just want to kind of hear you in your own words say why did you decide to talk to me?  Well it all came up with the cheating thing. And then when you asked I think because I feel so alone. One of the things that is really hard is not being able to talk to anybody. And you know I am a mom. I am around other women and everybody talks about their challenges the things that are hard in their life and things that are going well and I just have this big secret that I cannot tell anybody. And I think people need to know because there is a lot of people like me. I am right there. And you just do not know. So that is why. Thats a sex worker were calling Emma. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Destry Sibley and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And remember subscribe to our newsletter at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. And definitely check out Reply All. And after more reflection...Emma did come up with a dollar amount that would make quitting sex work feel more comfortable.  You asked me how much money in the bank you know to stop. And I realized that does exist. If I had if I had enough money to go back to school like to get a masters I would really like to get a masters or a PhD in psychology or social work. And if I had enough money to do that and I had enough money to live for the amount of time it would take to do that I would definitely stop. So there is a number out there. I guess it just seems so big that it does not seem like it even matters that it exists. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.