 The last e-mail we got from you you said Ive had some fun this summer with a wink emoji. Whats that mean?  You know I was thinking about how the first time we talked and I cant even believe that I said what I said which is that I was looking forward to having lots of great sex because thats kind of embarrassing... But mission accomplished.  Mission Accomplished! Fantastic! This is Death Sex  Money The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... And need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. When I first talked to Vicki for our series all about dating this summer she told me she was looking for great sex and another grand romance. Shes 62 lives in the Bay Area and has been divorced for 14 years.  Theres a part of me thatswell youre getting older maybe you should lock some stuff down but um but I dont know. I waffle between wanting a one-on-one monogamous companion and also keeping things as they are in which I have more freedom. Because the thing is at the end of this summer Vicki is enjoying spending time with three different guys. Two she met onlineones younger and ones olderand things have heated up with a friend that shes known for years.  Just recently he asked me if you know do we want to turn this into something? And I was kind of taken aback because its like wait a minute what about my younger man and my older man! You know I mean I dont know!  Uh-huh.  Because theres a part of me thats goes well I want it all! And that seems greedy and selfish and horrible. And also wait that seems like a possibility. So I think a lot of people would say hey thats not a bad position to be in. You have some choices here! Dating is all about choiceswhether to commit how much time to spend on it and when youre better off alone. This summer we followed a group of eight listeners as they navigated all of this.  Timing can be really really rough  I dont know what Im doing wrong  Dating is like pretty low priority so if something has to go its gonna be that  Oh it gets complicated At the end of this summer a lot of them have figured out that what they want from dating is not always what they thought they wanted. Like Ceci whos surprised to find herself totally into a new boyfriend. Shes 37 and lives in Sacramento and at the beginning of the summer she was going through the motions of online dating and ignoring guys who opened with nice tits. Then halfway through the summer she met this new guy but at first she wasnt sure because he has two kids.  I just always thought that I would find someone who did not have any and we would start fresh and I dont know those fantasies you have when youre younger and youre naive and you dont know any better about what its like and where the feelings happen. So I said well I am gonna give this guy a chance and I am going to call him and I called him and it just it literally clicked from there. We talked for maybe five hours.   Wait what?  Which is that is a big thing because I hate being on the phone. I am not a phone person. I am like unless someone's dying why are you calling me?  The first time you talked on the phone you talked for five hours?  Yeah we talked from about six oclock until eleven and we did that for the next three days.  Did you feel like a teenager?  Yeah a little bit. A little giddy. Um and he is a talker  Well you both are apparently! Five hours!  I am fully aware that it is a little strange and weird um to the point where like he asked me are you know are you nervous about us meeting and I told him no I have already claimed you as my husband.  When did you say that?  Uh the first date. We had been talking for like I think three weeks by then and we were going to meet up and he was texting me and he was asking you know hey I am on my way are you nervous about this meeting? And I said not at all. I have already claimed you as my husband.  Wait you texted that back before he showed up?  Yeah.  So you were not nervous.  I I I was-- I was not nervous at all. I just I do not know I guess you know that thing that they say that I did not think was really real that I thought was kind of cliche where like when you know you just know. I just knew. But relationships dont always start with such certainty. When I first talked with Thomas whos 26 he wasnt looking for anything serious. So he was alarmed when he found himself falling for an old friend a few months ago.  It felt like a rocky way to start something to kind of fall into it by accident. But I think it is been going really well and I have been really enjoying my time with her and I think vice versa I hope.  I mean the the worry you had at the beginning of of dating this woman was that you were not ready because you were still fairly recently out of a divorce and the end of a marriage that was not was not an easy end. Um  Yeah.  how much have you talked about that in this relationship?  Um it has been a topic of conversation. Weve gone in detail but I just try not to dwell on it so much. I am trying to make sure that my identity the way that I see myself is not as like oh I am that divorced person who is trying to move on. Like I want I am trying to establish different a different identity for myself. Does that makes sense?  Totally makes sense. I had a period in my life when I like would jokingly refer to refer to myself as a divorcee because I thought it was like a way to try to reclaim what felt embarrassing and pathetic but it is interesting now to think of like oh I was I I did have a period where I really was and behaved like a divorcee and now that feels like in the past even though I am still a woman who has been divorced.  A hundred percent yeah like I am a different person because of it but I do not think that it is my defining feature. That doesnt mean Thomas is in a hurry to settle down again even though he is feeling some pressure. Not from the woman hes dating but from his family.  I mean just the other day I was speaking to my grandfather who is kind of frail lately and the only question he had for me was are you engaged yet? I had to make some joke about being engaged in lots of activities. But he didnt appreciate that. Dan the widower in Seattle is not postponing commitment. Hes in his early 40s and he and his new girlfriend are moving in togetherand talking about kids. When we first talked this summer Dan described his awkwardness trying to gauge consent in what feels like a new era in dating. But now hes discovered that isnt the hardest conversation hes had to have. Its talking about his wife Kristen who died just a year ago. Dan told me about a conversation he had with his girlfriendhe calls her Red and she worries hes still too deep in grief.  She pointed out that I am not done. And I-- I am never done. youre never done grieving but I had hoped that I had it in stride. That I was processing it on my own time. That it was-- I had walled it off and separated it from the rest of my life and not so much.  What did she notice that you had not quite noticed?  Um... we were talking about names for a baby girl and she had come up with some very good first names and I said well what about Kristen for a middle name? She said wait a minute. When you tell me that you want to name our first baby after your dead wife that is-- that is a big thing that is a big issue and I thought about it from her perspective and thought oh my gosh she is right. And that scared me because I do not want her to think that I will always be mourning Kris and preferring Kris over her. That is not what I want to do.  Are there times when it feels ok to tell Red your girlfriend like uh this is hitting me right now. I am thinking about Kris because-- because of this memory?  I honestly try not to but there is always that tug. It is uh-- it is kind of like timelines blurring together in your head. It is-- it is-- I am with Red and we are out doing things and I think oh Kristen and I used to do these things. All of a sudden I am reliving this moment with Kristen in my head and I have to hide everything that is going on so that Red doesnt see it because I do not want her to know that I am thinking about my late wife again. And I have to resolve the timelineOk I am here now. I am with Red. That was the past. This is the present. I have got to move forward. Coming up June the college student whos had a big summer of firsts tries something else new.  I went and got coffee with a guy and everything went well um and we ended up having sex afterwards  and after that I kind of realized that I dont really like casual hookups.  -- Weve been following this group of eight people as theyve been dating. But weve also heard from a lot more of youespecially from single womenand youve told us that its tough out there right now.  Ive been single in other periods of my life and I just dont remember it being so bleak.  Im about to be an empty-nester and Im just trying to figure out how can I get back into the dating scene.  I actually used to have group chat where wed exchange unsolicited dick pics that we got on a regular basis  The date was bad. Just bad.  I am not a pizza...I shouldnt have to be at your house in sixty minutes or less before you unmatch me on Tinder. Dating can be exhausting. And sometimes its good to take a break. So we want to hear from you about fun that doesnt require a plus one. Weve made a interactive Google spreadsheet where we can swap tips and celebrate the best parts of being on your own. Like when I was single in New York City I loved to go to double-features by myself. Id stop at Walgreens beforehand buy myself a bag of trailmix some chocolate and a big club soda and sneak all of that into the theater. Share what you do when youre enjoying not being in a relationship! Theres a link to that Google spreadsheet on our Facebook page and at our website deathsexmoney.org. On the next episode we revisit my conversation with Jane Fonda about many things including when she was making the decision to leave her third husband Ted Turner after he cheated on her.  I felt like Virginia Woolf only I had two angels in the house. One on one shoulder saying oh come on Fonda lighten up! The guys got two million acres of the most gorgeous land in the world and hes funny and he keeps you laughing. And on the other shoulder there was an angel with a very soft whisper saying Jane you can stay with him and die married but youll die not being whole. And so I opted for the whisper. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. The first time I talked with June whos 21 she had never had sex with a guy. But this summer she started seeing three different men at oncea primary partner and two other people and became sexually active with all of them. And then she decided to turn off her dating apps. But recently she went back on Tinder. And after matching with someone there tried something else new a one night stand. She sent me a voice memo about it.  It wasnt like a bad experience at all. I just think I dont want to do that again. And it just makes me really appreciate um the fact that I have multiple people in my life who I can have romantic relationships with but who also really care about me and like it just hits me sometimes um being polyamorous can be difficult but its also incredibly rewarding. So thats where Im at right now. Um I just started crying. I just wanted to kind of record this moment.  What what did not feel good after you would had sex on this first date with this new person?  The way that it turned out I guess?  It was not like a bad experience. Um they were like a great person and the sex was fine. It was just I emotionally did not feel great about it afterwards. I think um it was just the idea that like after the date was over I kind of felt like it was not nothing was going to happen again with this person and I had had sex with them but like we were not really going to see each other again and that and it made it seem like that was kind of their plan from the beginning.  Did you stay the night?  No they uh they kinda kicked me out which also not that you know I needed to stay the night I did not want to really. But um that did not feel great and actually  ended up spending the night with my primary partner afterwards and telling them about it um and they were really willing to listen to me.  Whyd you go back on Tinder?  I think that I was worried or am worried still I guess about once the school year comes um my primary partner being a lot busier with classes and the other people that I am seeing are working full time and I think I was just worried that it would get lonely. But um I think I am still gonna like keep going on dates and keep meeting new people but probably just not have the sexual aspect with it like I was doing before when I was not having sex where if we did end up going back to someone's you know apartment or house or whatever I would tell them that honestly um that I was not gonna have sex with them and it was always fine.  Youve decided you want to to re-institute that?  Yeah. And I had a feeling like I would want to keep that policy but I think it was also important for me to at least try the casual hookup thing and not feel like shame over it um I just think that it is not personally like right for me. Louis on the other hand would kill for a casual hookup. He lives in D.C and at the beginning of this summer he told me about his frustrations at getting constantly ghosted by guys he matches with on dating apps. As the summers winding down he told me that hasnt changed.  A few weeks ago um I started talking to this guy on OkCupid and we had actually gotten to the point where I felt comfortable enough asking him out for a cup of coffee and I did and of course he completely ghosted. So--  He just did not respond.  Yeah.  Ugh!  Yeah and that was about two weeks ago yeah.  How much time are you spending on dating apps right now?  Um. You know I am not-- I am not on them as frequently as I was before. Just because again it is been very demoralizing the whole process and I have been trying to keep myself busy with other tasks just not to think about it. And to be honest like during the week I do not really think about it much you know because I am busy with work and you know other things. It is really like nights and weekends when I would normally be hanging out with people and I am like oh shit another Saturday night at home by myself watching Hulu or Netflix or whatever.  What have you found-- like what is the thing that you do when you can feel yourself kind of slipping into like a kind of heavy mood about the things you cannot control in your dating life? What-- what do you do when you feel that come on?  Um take a walk with my dog. Yeah and um exercise. You know I have just kind of been focused more on me and um going to the gym a lot. Like swimming doing yoga and Pilates and different cardio stuffI am training for a half marathon in a couple of weeks. I mean-- I was kind of-- I was talking to my friend-- a good friend of mine the other day about this somewhat jokingly. I was telling her like maybe I will try to date women. Just as a fun social experiment  cause straight women seem to love me.  Is that a serious thing or no?  No probably not. I would not know what to do.   So things have changed a little bit since we last talked. Um I am currently very very single. This is Jessie who lives in Montana. The last time I talked with her she was very not single. She told me midsummer that she was dating two guys who were in open relationships but since then both of those have ended. One of the men decided he needed a break from non-monogamy altogether. And she broke up with the other guy but her decision had nothing to do with the fact that hes married.  You know we were just really different in a lot of ways and um we ultimately just met up and and had a drink and talked about some things and I I just said you know I just do not think it is working.  Uh-huh. Are you still going on first dates?  Um I have not been on one lately but I yes I am still I suppose in the process of potentially going on first dates. I do not feel bad about it. I do not feel great about it. It just is sort of the fact of where Im at right now.  Are you indicating on on dating apps that you are open to being part of open relationships and to non-monogamy?  Not currently. Um I am sort of maybe leaning toward a less complicated setup for the time being. Um my current conversations are all just one person um without additional partners at least to my knowledge and right now it is feeling sort of nice to not really have a lot of complicated relationships going on in my life.  Are you noticing the extra time you have?  A little bit yes.  Yeah it is interesting. I can hear in your voice a slightly different tone than our previous conversations. There is like a lightness that just -  I kind of feel that way. That is interesting that you can recognize that. It does feel a little maybe it is a clean slate feeling too of just not being in any relationship. I am not sure. Out of all the people I talked to this summer Miracle was the only one who started out not using dating apps. Shes in her mid twenties and lives in her hometown in Alabama. But a few months ago she tried Bumble for the first time and just recently a guy reached out to her Facebook.  Usually Im like uh creep. Not doing this. But we actually had a couple of mutual friends and so Im like okay. He seems harmless you know whatever so I accepted his friend request. And so weve actually been talking for like the past week. And were actually going to get together go on a date like within the next couple of days or so. But Ive also come to terms with the fact that I feel like I have a lot going on in my life Im happy with those things and I want somebody wholl come in and I guess makes me want to slow down some. One of the things Miracle has going on is applying to business schools for next year and a lot of the programs shes looking at arent local.  I think itll be good for me to get away for a little bit and be able to focus on myself more.  How long have you been back home?  I have been back home a little over two years now. Which I cannot believe but yeah.  When we first talked Miracle we talked about the friends you hang out with and you indicated that there was one person where there could be romantic potential. Do you remember that?  Yeah I do. Oh I do.  Did anything happen this summer there?  I mean we pretty much text every single day. And its always been in the back of my mind that its there. And I dont know I guess I cant write it off and say its not playing a role in kind of my decision-making about where I might end up in the next year or two. Not that that would be the only reason but and he knows that too.  He does.  Yes.  Have you ever kissed?  Yes.  Recently?  Yeah.  Miracle! You have been withholding! Miracle Oh yeah. And how many people know? Not many. Not many at all.  So its this open question...  Oh yeah definitely because you know you dont want to make any drastic  decisions you know because of a person when you both have goals that youre chasing. But also you dont just want to shut something off and then years down the road have your what-ifs which you know I think we will always have those. But if you can keep yourself from having that why not?  Miracle Im so interested to know whats going to happen for you in the fall.  Hey I am too Anna I am too. Thats Miracle. After we talked she sent us an email to say she did end up seeing that guy from Facebookshe took him to her church and they really hit it off. Thank you so much to all of the listeners who let us follow along this summer as theyve been dating. To go back and listen to the entire series go to deathsexmoney.orghotdates. And share your stories about the best parts of being singlewhat youre able to do when youre not planning around anyone else. Again the link to that Google spreadsheet were building together is at our website at deathsexmoney.org. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. I am based in Emeryville California at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Stephanie Joyce Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. And thanks to Hannis Brown for the special theme for this series. Im on Twitter annasale and you can find the show on Facebook Twitter and Instagram at death sex money. Even though theyve only been together a month Ceci and her new guy arent going on a lot of datestheyve already skipped ahead to the staying-in phase of their relationship.  He will come over and we play video games. He plays with on one television and I will play on my handheld system and we are good.  Side-by-side you are not even playing the same game together?  No we are playing two totally different games two. Totally different systems. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.