Hey this is Anna. This week we are sharing one of my very favorite episodes that we have made. It first came out in 2018 but it is one that I find useful to re-listen to because of how it makes me think about the choices I have made and the values behind them and how I am responding to needs in my community now. I think you will really enjoy it. In the meantime we are working on some really great episodes coming up this fall. You can keep up with what we are working on by subscribing to our weekly newsletter which also includes recommendations of what we are listening to and stories we are hearing from you. You can subscribe at deathsexmoney.org. And now here's Sister Josephine.  When did you first have the inkling that you might want to become a nun?  Uh it was not an inkling. It was like a like a - like a brick in the face. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. Sister Josephine Garrett was a vice president at Bank of America when she first started thinking about becoming a nun. And the idea would not go away.  I started to freak out. Like  like I cannot stop thinking about nuns. I do not know anything about nuns but I do not want to be a nun.  And when you say freaking out were you like telling friends of yours like Oh my God I would had this thought and is not this crazy?  No no. Uh freaking out meant I told no one like I put it in the vault and I went and got a therapist. That is what freaking out looks like for me. Like I was like I need to see a mental health professional because I think I might be going crazy. Sister Josephine talked with me from a convent in Dallas. At 38 she is one of just a few younger nuns in her community. Which is common across religious orders in the U.S. today. In fact in 2009 there were more American nuns over the age of 90...than under the age of 60.  I definitely did not feel like I fit the you know the sisterly stereotype.  What for you did a nun look like?  A nun was like someone who is never done bad things. A nun was someone who has no personality. A nun is someone who is boring. A nun is someone who is not living her best life. Sister Josephine grew up in Houston. Back then she went by Toni  Josephine is the religious name she is adopted. She was raised Baptist singing in the church choir serving as an usher.  And we were there a lot because Baptist people go to church a lot. Um so we were there on Wednesday Saturday Sunday. So it was like I mean it was a big center point in our lives that church.  Was it primarily a black church?  Yeah everybody was black. It was one of those places where we are like when a white person walked in we like politely tried to be casual.  Like everybody was black. She went to Baptist church until she left Houston for college at a small Catholic university in Dallas. But Sister Josephine did not really connect to Catholicism there and after she graduated she stopped going to church all together. She got a job as a teller at Bank of America. And quickly worked her way up the ranks to eventually manage a couple hundred employees.  I loved working like I wanted to grow in banking and I did that. I like I was excited about the idea of being like a career woman -  Uh huh.  You know that excited me um and it felt like great accomplishments to have.  When you were a vice president at a bank where where were you living? What did your life look like?  I was living in Dallas and uh had an apartment and so it was a lot of hours. I worked a lot. And so I was single and you know got a dog and hung out with friends and um I loved that show Criminal Minds. I would watch some Criminal Minds.  Uh-huh. And as you as you were promoted from a bank teller up to a vice president what did you spend your money on?   Cigarettes and -  Really?   - going out. Yeah. Cigarettes going out uh clothes. I mean I did all of that. That was me. When I stopped smoking I paid my car note with the cigarette money. Okay?  It was like -   Was it like - could you articulate that there was something that you felt like was not enough in your life or - or you were stuck?  I think at the time I was just taking it a step at a time but when I looked back and like found myself in that grind right of going to work chasing after the next promotion or the next you know wink from the boss or um whatever. It is just like constant chasing. Um little by little I was slipping into depression. Working more and more and then when I got out of work like how I was using my free time like yeah I am grateful for my friends and you know Criminal Minds but I do not know if God made man for the Netflix binge. Right?    Um and so it is like  and - and so I can look back now and see that I was desperate for more. So in her mid-20s Sister Josephine thought going back to her religious roots might help her find what she was missing.  I realized that I wanted to take more responsibility for my faith um and and grow in my faith. I started reading some more books found some people who had the same goals started going to study groups. But instead of going to a Baptist church she started attending a local Catholic one.  I loved the quiet um 'cuz you know Baptist church is turned up like the volume is turned up every you know things are turned up right?  Uh huh.  And so there was something about that quiet that was helpful to me. And then I loved because growing up when we would get out of church it would be like oh preacher really preached today or choir really sang. And church was good based on the programming or based on the pastor or based on how entertained I was. Um what I saw in the Catholic church is that church was always going to be good no matter those variables because of the real presence of Jesus Christ in the blessed sacrament like in the bread and wine that we receive.  Huh.  So it did not matter if the programming entertained me or pleased me or was satisfying to me it would always be satisfying because of God. That was very helpful to me because I know that all those other things will eventually fail um because they are temporal. Becoming a nun had not yet occurred to Sister Josephine but she decided to convert to Catholicism. She started taking Catholic education classes after work and on the weekends and going to confession.  It is so overwhelming at first because when you are an adult becoming Catholic that first confession is a general confession. And so you sit down and you try to reflect on all the sins that you can remember. So I had we had a lot to talk about me and Father.  Uh huh.  His name is Father Rudy. Father Rudy and I had a lot of talk about because it was my whole lifetime.  Like did you make a list beforehand in a journal like how do you prepare for a general confession?  I did that. You do not have to do that. But I did that you know I just did like a reflection and was writing things I could remember. So going in I think I was just kind of stunned you know and just like I am going to go in here and do this. So you know because it - it - it felt like a lot. But once I was finished talking I will never forget he said to me um you are the daughter of God. Um after he heard uh 20 was it 24 years of sin? He said you are the daughter of God and your heart will be restless until you rest in God and I thought he was a genius when he said that. I later learned that it was Saint Augustine who said that.     That Father did not come up with that. Um but that is all he said to me. That is all he said to me um.  And after you became a Catholic was it disappointing that that conversion was not enough? Like what was it like to realize that did not feel like enough?  I cannot and that is the thing I do not 'cuz like I converted and then I did what I could do at that time which was go to mass every Sunday. That is what I could do at that time and if I committed serious sins I went to confession. And so it was not like it it was not enough. It was like at that time it was what I could do. And then when it was time to do more I did more. Um and I think even your question Anna says a lot about what we struggle with you know. We hate to be on the journey you know and I think that is why people have problems with God. We want everything fixed now. And becoming Catholic was not gonna put a bow on my life and say the seal done check. It was a step in the journey. But the next step still took Sister Josephine by surprise. She was volunteering at a retreat for some Catholic kids one Saturday  The kids were on a break and praying and I started to thank God. I was like you know just thank you God for me choosing to giving me the graces to choose to be chaperoning youth on a Saturday you know instead of being with my friends or smoking my cigarettes. And then I thought it would be so cool to be a sister and like minister in the church. And my eyes popped open and I felt shocked by the thought like I had like a Who said that? kind of moment. Um and right then a sister walked by me like she just walked right in front of me.  A woman wearing a habit who was visibly a sister walked right in front of you as you had that thought?  Walked right in front of me mmhmm. Um and from that moment on I could not stop thinking about sisters. What do they do? What are they like? What is that like? It flooded into my mind and I was overwhelmed. Coming up after a few years of hashing it out in therapy  Sister Josephine becomes a nun. And so far she does not regret leaving behind the possibility of marriage or kids.  Probably in my mid-forties I am going to get hit with that. Right? Like a Mack truck but it has not hit me.    It has not hit me very hard. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. Today Sister Josephine Garrett lives in a convent along with six other nuns. It is attached to a hospital where some of them do their ministry.  One sister serves as a chaplain in the hospital two of the sisters serve as uh nurses in the hospital.  How old is the oldest person that you live with?  The oldest person I live with is in her early eighties.  What is that like living with someone in her early eighties?  I love I mean I love it. It was I did not think about it a lot before I entered the convent which is strange because I could see you know there were sisters who were older. Um but it is been one of the greatest gifts of the past seven years is sharing close space living space um with people who are in their 80s and 90s. Um because they have they have persevered right? So they are not talk. They have lived they have ministered. They do not know how to use their cell phones and computers and things like that okay and so  we have to step through that. Uh but I have enjoyed it. I have enjoyed it.  And then is there do you share um household duties? Is it like having a bunch of roommates?  I would not say it is like having a bunch of roommates it is um - because with a bunch of roommates you guys are kind of like you are able to like be passing ships in the night. Um so we share house duties but we also pray together and we have our meals together and we once a month take retreat together and so it is really um more of like a family life model in the sense of shared life than like a roommate type of thing.  How does it get scheduled like who is cooking dinner what night and who is doing the dishes and who is cleaning?  We have a calendar for all of that. It is a very it is - it is a remarkable creation.     But it keeps us from from being like on you know completely on top of each other and so it helps us. It is a spreadsheet. Thank God for the person who made Excel. Since moving into a convent seven years ago Sister Josephine has taken her first vows  a promise to live a life of poverty obedience and chastity.  For you as a woman in your early thirties at the time did you struggle with with letting go of the possibility of traditional marriage and and motherhood?  Not as significantly as I hear other women struggle with it. I felt like I did not feel like I was um losing that significant opportunity or needed to grieve that. Like I felt like God built me for this like built me for being a sister.  Did it feel like you had to give up on the idea of romantic love being a part of your life?  I did. Like I guess like yeah in the way that we we think about it yeah. That if that if anything was harder that was harder right? Like letting go of romantic love because I am like I do have a romantic heart and I am a romantic. So that was a bigger struggle. Um but it is like you sit it down like it is not give it up um for a different way of loving. Um and so I will tell people celibacy is not it is not like a closing off of my heart or like a closing off of myself. It is actually a bigger opening up. Um and so I do experience love in my life. Um I experience love from the sisters. I experience love in ministry and from family. Is it like sexual love the way we understand it and how we sometimes box romance into that? It is not that. Um it is appropriate for celibacy. Um and so it meets my intimacy needs um but I had to really learn that.  Was there something that was difficult to give up from your life living in your apartment with your dog with your car with your - ?  Oh my God. My time. To be the sole decider of how I dispensed my time was one of the most difficult things to give up and then my job which I did not see that coming you know? So eventually I did have to you know let go of having my own money and and work with the sisters on my needs and what money I would need to do certain things and I let go of my clothes I let go of my car. Um for some reason I thought those things would hurt more than the job but the day I left the job I was crying so hard that I had to pull my car over because I could not see.  Really.  Um and I was so shocked by that. Yeah I did not think that I would that it would be so hard to lose. But now I know that being a successful you know bank person that I had uh that had become such a huge part of my identity. Um and so it was like death um to - to walk away from that to become something else.  Did those moments of uh grief make you doubt your decision?  Those moments of grief put me in the chapel. Um I did not have doubt. I can count like I can count there have been two times where I was like I gotta go.  In the past seven years there have been two moments of like crisis where it is like I do not know if I can do it uh but with the job it did not make me think I have done the wrong thing. It made me go pray.  When - when was a time when you thought I have got to get out this actually is not right?  I mean to look into to think back to it now I smile because it was so petty. I was mad at the sisters because I sent an email and I did not feel like they responded to me fast enough. Okay  I was trying to get something done and there was a sister I was getting very close to and she was doing a class with me on the catechism and so we started class and I am feeling closer to her and so I am telling her I am so angry with the sisters and she did not take my side. Um and so we started to argue. And I had never argued with her before. Um and so she finally I said something very rude to her and she says you know Toni let us just start the class. Right and I said okay so then I looked down at the book we are studying and I start crying.  So I tell her I do not want to be here with you right now like I am upset and she said okay fine we do not have to have class. And so that day went on I thought I do not know that I can do this. I do not know if I can work things out with women I do not understand if I can work things out with people I did not choose you know if I can do that day to day relationship stuff with people so wildly different from me. Um -  Well I want to I mean Sister Josephine you do have a different personal history than most of the women that you are in community with now. You you are not only much younger there are not many African American women. Um there are parts of your life I imagine that many people that you live with have not experienced or understood. Um has that felt - has that felt lonely? Has that felt like you know what sometimes I get to be frustrated that - that I am different?  Yeah. I mean I am pretty I am one of the more vocal members of our community. So when I feel different or when I feel anything I am pretty I say it you know. Um but I was actually talking the other day with my mentor. I have a mentor sister and I was talking with her the other day because I was coming out of some conflicts that I would had with a couple of sisters and she and I were processing that. And as I was talking with her I was like you know what I have - actually in seven years I have never had a sister not meet me and say okay let us work on this. Uh let us do this. I have definitely had conflicts. I have definitely felt misunderstood. I have definitely been frustrated. I definitely feel like I am in company where I can express that and still be loved. Um so like my first mentor she watched Good Hair with me Chris Rock's movie?  Uh huh.  She watched that with me.  Um she understands my hair she understands my hair products. Um you know. So -  And your first mentor was she an older white woman?  She was a middle-aged Polish white woman. She was in her forties and she is from Poland and she was sitting there watching Good Hair with me.  I love that.    And when it ended - when it ended she looked at me and she was astounded. She was very disturbed by the whole - the whole situation and she looked at me and she said I just really want you to know that you are beautiful that your hair is beautiful that you are beautiful and I said thank you sister. I feel beautiful. I am okay.    So I mean I know I yeah I am I am aware of my difference but it does not feel like something that has to be held back here.  I am in California today. You are in Texas so I cannot see you. Can you describe for me what are you wearing today?  Our community we have options for our habit. Um so today I have on a black skirt and a black sweater and a white blouse and then I have my veil on which is also black and white.  And when you say veil is it like um sort of what I think of when I think of what a nun's veil might look like?  Yes that is exactly what it is.  Uh huh. What do you like about putting it on each day?  It is a great reminder for me you know about who who I would like to be and who and what I have committed myself to. Um I think in my time of wearing a veil one of the greatest gifts I have become aware of is that when this thing is on my head my life of ministry is not according to my own will. Um so when people look and see this veil they come and they demand of me um the fruits of being a woman who has taken vows as a religious sister. You know so they will come up in the grocery store and not even introduce themselves and say I need prayer for this specific situation. Right? So it just drops the small talk and we are right into the thick of their life and so - I do not always like that. Sometimes I want to do me. Right? That is the culture we live in. You do you girl.  Uh huh.  And sometimes I want to do me you know  but when I put this veil on I cannot do me. Um I have to do the ministry and the life that I have been called to.  Can you describe for me like where in public you have you have prayed with a stranger who just approached you?  Sure. The last time was probably three weeks ago. Um I went to Walmart and uh I was in the game aisle because I do - I do therapy with children and adolescents and I needed some new games.  Uh huh.  And I was walking up and down the game aisle kind of like almost like pacing trying to decide what I wanted to get and I can see now that the woman who was standing in the aisle was just watching me walk back and forth and then she finally said excuse me um and I said yes? And she said it is been a long time since I prayed and seeing you I need to pray right now. And I said okay is there anything you want to talk about before we pray? And she said no I just know that right now I need to pray. Uh so we prayed. That is Sister Josephine Garrett. She works as a therapist with young people who have gone through trauma and is studying to get her masters degree in counseling. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. I am based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. And thanks to Miguel Perez and Stephanie Joyce for his help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Instagram annasalepics that is p-i-c-s and the show is deathsexmoney where we have reposted a video update that I recorded with Sister Josephine during the pandemic. There is also a link to that in our show notes. We are also deathsexmoney on Twitter and Facebook. And you can email us anytime at deathsexmoneywnyc.org Sister Josephine told me there might have been one other reason that that stranger felt compelled to approach her in the games aisle at Walmart that day.  I had in my hands the game Last Word and Would You Rather right? So I am holding Would You Rather and Last Word and we are praying in Walmart.  Subtle. Subtle.  I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.