 He said to me this summer he was like you know youve always been like the loser like the guy that all the losers can flock to and youre a loser too and thats always been your schtick. And it wasnt a schtick a while ago. But its a schtick now. Youre doing pretty well and youre getting married to a really hot girl man like you cant keep claiming youre the loser. This isDeath Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. I had only lived in New York for a few weeks when I first saw Chris Gethard. It was at an improv show with a Halloween theme. At the door the crowd was warned our clothes might get dirty. And of course at the end of the show half of us were soaked in fake blood. There were lots of performers on stage that night but Chris Gethard stood out. He very funny. But mostly it was that it was intense. And kinda weird. And then I started seeing him everywhere. First on a commercial. Then on The Office. And then on Louie! But I also saw him on the subway. Chris Gethard didnt feel like a celebrity to me...he felt like a guy I knew  who got to hang out sometimes with famous people. Then a friend of mine from junior high in West Virginia got in touch with me and said her rap group was performing on this public access show in Manhattan hosted by Chris Gethard. So of course I went to the taping and had no idea what to expect. It was ridiculous...and really fun.  It does feel like a thing that clicks with people of a certain age who are feeling a certain way which is generally not that good. When theyre not feeling that good thats when they tend to find our show. The Chris Gethard Show is like a party where everyone there is an outcast everywhere else. No one on stage or in the audience is too cool. Thats what drew Hallie Bulleit to the show years ago.  The first one that I sawI mean I was completely hooked.  I dont think I missed many shows after that.  No. And that used to freak me out because Hallie is the frontwoman and songwriter for this band The Unlovables that I really loved. I had been listening to her music for like five or six years before she started coming to the show and I thought she was the coolest prettiest lady.  Chris saysI dont rememberbut he says he used to write me fan mail on MySpace.  Oh yeah. I sent her a couple MySpace letters about The Unlovables. They had mutual friends now some musicians that played in the show.  I was like you have to stop bringing that girl because it puts me in my head. I get too nervous. And then Hallie just reminded me there was one show that was like this we were raising money for the March of Dimes. People were able to bid on stuff. And they put 500 dollars and it meant I had to host the rest of the show naked. So I was covering my junk and apparently I just turned to my left at one point.  I was seated actually directly behind you.  So you were looking at my butt the whole time. And at one point I turned around and saw that it was Hallie. Who I knew from her band. And apparently I just looked at you and said  You were like Oh great.  Just made direct eye contact.  He was on stage. And we didnt know each other that well. For the first timeit was such a weird moment for me to realize like he knew who I was.  Likes you.  Cared what I thought about him. He was like a little embarrassed to have me like sitting like three feet directly behind his like bare booty.  It was a shameful show.  It was really funny. I do think we had a mutual admiration for each other. And one anothers work. But it made our conversation so awkward.  Painful.  It was so short. And lots of looking at the ground. And then like Okay bye.  And then what happened what were the things leading up to it? There was one week we went out dancing where like you bumped into a guy. And in totally standard fashion he got snippy with you and I like pretty much attacked him. Not physically but I was ready to fight him. It was a very clear-cut sign that  It was on my birthday.  I had some very protective feelings about Hallie that were bubbling and then there was a night. And it was early and I was like I dont want to go home. Then you were like I dont want to go home either. So we stayed out dancing. And then we made out on the dance floor at Union Pool. Nothing happened it didnt go too far I want to be up front. But we went in my car and we were making out a little bit more. And then a line that Im pretty proud of that Ive bragged about many times I said I was like well I could drop you off at home or we could open a real can of worms and you could come back to my place. And then weve been together ever since. You opened the can.  Pretty much from our second date I was like Oh Im gonna marry Hallie I guess. It was just pretty much a given. But when youre Chris Gethard coupling up with the pretty punk rocker takes some adjusting. And thats what caught my attention about these two. Theyre so sure about each other but their sense of themselves is totally in flux. Like things are not supposed to go Chris Gethards way. And in his telling -- its his fault. He titled his memoir A Bad Idea Im About To Do. And right now...hes doesnt know what to do. The public access show hes hosted for years got a big break...and then nothing came of it. So Chris and Hallie talked to me about their uncertainty around his career and money. And how they deal with it...while being honest about Chris struggles with anxiety and depression. Hallie is also in transition. She had been a punk frontwoman but shed made her career as a professional dancer -- performing in shows like Rent and Stomp. When she met Chris in her late 30s she was realizing she couldnt do it anymore.  I was so beat up. I would have ice packs attached to every party of my body. So both Hallie and Chris are recasting their storiesright as theyre getting married and trying to settling down. Hallie I want to ask you right when you started dating Chris Gethard part of what he talks about in his act and what he talks about in his show and what he talks about in his book is like all the ways he feels like hes damaged. And like what is it like when youre entering into a relationship where your potential partner has said these are all the red flags that you should be afraid of?  Well first of all I havent read his book.  She told me she had not read it and I asked her to never read it. What do I say?  You say dont read that bad book.  It was a bad book. It was a very bad book. You shouldnt read it.  He doesnt feel not together when Im with him so he sort of talks in his comedy about having had kind of like a really crazy summer the summer before we got together. and I sort of sensed that he was a little unhinged. And I remember there was a night that he we had been dancing all night it was a beautiful summer night and we walked home through Williamsburg and he lived in Greenpoint and I lived in Williamsburg and there was the point where we would like go our separate ways and I was like does he want to kiss me? Is that whats going on here? And I was like okay I cant kiss this guy he doesnt have his stuff together. He doesnt have his stuff together at all. And then like I dont know. It was just like months went by it was like a fever broke or something. And then it was the right time for us to connect.  I know when we started dating too I went out and I bought frames for my posters and then also do you remember  Cus they were still attached to the wall with that blue sticky stuff you used in college.  Thumbtacks. I just went to Bed Bath and Beyond and was like what is adult? What do adults do?  Some mother and daughter helped you from Long Island.  These very very old school New York ladies these mother and daughter were like you gotta pick that out you got good taste if you want that. If youre gonna get shams you need this type of sham. It was this sad pathetic transition point in my life. But it really was one. Where I was like okay I have not had my stuff together but youre giving me a chance. And I was like look at all these frames and all this bedding huh I really want to work hard for you.  It was cute. I could tell. He went out and bought new bedding like hes totally trying to like  I didnt want her to be in my house with my unframed posters and crappy bedding. Chris has also talked openly and quite seriously about his mental health struggles. That included years of suicidal thoughts...including a few close calls...followed by medication and a lot of work in therapy.  I very publicly own some of the like not-having-it-together mental health stuff. You talked about your depression and anxiety.  Depression and manic stuff all that stuff. I talk about that publicly. But weve had to have a couple conversations where its like alright your public persona talks about that. And that stuffs real and in you but we need to have a conversation more quietly about well we live in the same house now. So what are the actual red flags and the actual ways to deal with that? And that stuff is so scary and tricky that I think for us that has been something to keep our eye on. And something that weve had to have some difficult conversations about as grown-ups. Even though I do sort of rally so hard publicly and say like you got to get control of your own stuff. And I work so hard on my stuff. And I do. But when its in your own house its really different. Are there days where you just say to Hallie Im having a low day. Im not feeling great. And its not you its me. And this is whats going on?  Yeah I think its something thats become something Im really good at. Is just like being totally up front. Shes one of the few people Ive ever met who I can not only tell but who Im willing to let me see like that. Cus like when depression stuff hits for me at least just physically dont have it together. You have no energy. You look bad. Youre like crying all day so you look like a mess. Like you dont want to get out of bed so youre not showered and stuff. And you just dont look good. Its just not a good thing to have people see. But Hallies one of theright from the start I never cared if she saw me like that which I thought was a pretty huge thing for me. I think the weirder thing is that some time I have manic stuff too. And that stuff is very much like no nothings wrong Im fine Im fine everythings great. Everythings fine. And that weve run into where its like well how do you deal with that? Because if you tell me youre fine and youre not thats weirdwhen people talk about the depression stuff I think they know what depression means. But they dont know theres this other side of it sometimes thats much crazier and harder to deal with. Is it hard though Hallie in moments where you dont actually understand whats happening inside his head?  Yeah I mean definitely. Im telling you we havent had that many of those. Chris has just done a ton of work on himself and hes really articulate and like I dont know. I gethes a very emotional person and Im an emotional person too and so I dont wish for him to have depression. I dont wish for him to have sadness or mental health stuff. But its almostthere are many ways in which hes a richer and fuller person because hes dealt with this and hes learned to have to talk about his feelings. I mean its a notoriously hard thing to get men to do. And here I have this man whos really good at talking about what hes going through and what hes feeling and I mean I I dont want toit seems tacky to say I benefit from it but I think theres like many ways in whichand he is all of that has translated into his good feelings too. Hes really good at talking about his good feelings. You dont get that with every person. And they have been dealing with a lot. The audience for The Chris Gethard Show has always been small -- whether over the air on public access or on the Internet. But a couple of months ago the dream happened -- Comedy Central said they would pay for a pilot of the show.  And the taping of the pilot went great we were all like Oh we nailed it. And then Comedy Central passed and we were like speed bump lets show it around and since then 11 other networks have passed on it. Coming up -- Chris and Hallie on making plans for the future...when they have no idea where their careers are going. I heard from many of you after my interview with Chaz Ebert about the death of her husband Roger. Some were skeptical about the way she described an on-going conversation with him but Sara from Salt Lake City said Thank You Chaz for saying it!!! A listener named Susan added Ive also experienced communication with people who have died. At first I resisted believing it but once you know its true it creates a revolution in your life and all for the good. Alan Kahn sent in a story of relief beside a casket as he buried his brother last June. His brother was just 57 and an artist. It was a hard service because his brother died suddenly and unexpectedly of a heart attack... And then His son and my son did something very special. My brother had gotten into pouring white paint on objects just inundating them covering them completely and so they poured white paint on the otherwise fairly pristine wooden casket before it was lowered. It was somehow sacrilege but also somehow completely appropriate for this man. And somehow losing him in such a tragic way was made ironic or humorous or somehow just less sad. Keep sending in your stories of a memorial that left you changed. Email your story deathsexmoney  wnyc.org. You can also record a voice memo on your smartphone and send it directly to me. Again the email is deathsexmoney at wnyc.org. On the next episode if youve ever wondered what its like to be an 18 year-old man a star football player and a celebrity on campus Domonique Foxworth says its exactly how you think it is. There were some easy opportunities or layups as I called them back then. And those lazy opportunities Oh man layups. Are we going to get into a chance to get into conversation about the more mature Domonique Foxworth that has a better perception on masculinity than racking up numbers. Thats how i thought when I was 18. Forgive me. Now hes 31 years old retired from the NFL and a student at Harvard Business School. And hes clear about what football culture got wrong about money and sex. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Chris Gethard and Hallie Bulliet met working together on an absurdist comedy show that has never made much sense. But now that theyre looking ahead to marriage sometimes it  feels like it really doesnt make sense. A lot of that has to do with money.  I cant keep showing up to do a show thats guys hitting me with wiffle bats anymore. Like 2011 I was a pretty depressed guy dating someone who wasnt nice to me and I had a lot of stuff that I needed to get out creatively that I think only in the course of getting married that Ive started to stress about lifestyle stuff. Ive been putting a lot of pressure on myself this idea that I now need to be a provider of some sort. Which you scoff at but that really does stress me out. I always have in my head that my dad had two kids and owned a house when he was I think 27 years old. And Im 34 and Im just getting married now and Im like currently workshopping a joke about how I pooped my pants on a subway platform. Like thats professionally what Im up to right now. Is try to really tighten up a joke about pooping my pants in public. So like theres a lot of comparison issues with my dad. And then I dont know I think its just natural to feel like more responsible. Im like responsibleweve talked about having a kid sooner rather than later because I think were both were at an age where if were going to do it we want to do it. And um it is just that sort of thing where Ive lived this lifestyle thats all calculated on risks. Which is pretty fun but I legitimately dont know how Ill be making my rent money in November. I dont know. I dont know if Ill have any money coming in. Thats pretty fun when youre in your 20s and when all you have to worry about is yourself and where its like oh well if I need to sublet my room and find someplace not as nice to crash or whatever thats pretty fun. But now theres like actual consequences. Someone I have to come home to and look in the eye. And a small human Im dragging into it. Who doesnt have a choice in it you know? It stresses me out. That being said Ive talked about this a bunch and Ill talk about it with people and then Hallie will always tell me afterwards I havent asked for any of that.  I do get sensitive cus hell talk about it on stage. He doesnt mention me it doesnt have anything to do with me I just still do get sensitive about it because I feel like that stereotype about like Oh well that must be coming from the woman. She must be saying Oh you better line up some work. You better do something thats more dependable. It just couldnt be further from what I like would want for Chris.  Really its all internalized neuroses or some male instinct that does exist in some way. But whatever it is it all comes from inside me. I definitely did kind of put a lot of my eggs in this basket professionally. Cus I really did have so much confidence in what we were building. And it now looks like that is not going to be my job. At any point. The belief that it was going to be some point in that that it was worth taking that risk for mebut now that its a sure thing its like well what do I do? I dont know.  I kept waiting for him to freak out. It wouldve been so understandable. You know? Hed earned the right to totally flip out. And I kept waiting for it and it never really happened. You know it was just sort of on to the next thing.  Yeah personally Im on a peak and professionally Im in a valley. Thats rare. Those usually dont diverge as hardcore as they are right now. Is that how it feels that youre in a valley?  Professionally a little bit yeah.  It doesnt appear that way on the surface I dont think anyone else around you feels that way.  Yeah but what am I whats the next thing? What am I gonna do?   But there always is a next thing for you.  Until theres not. Like it feels like a splash of cold water on the face like a reality check like okay you got to at some point stop chasing your dreams and make one of them come true. And if you cant you need to own up to that and figure out what youre actually going to do with your life. Like those are real questions that I have to answer right now. You do not like that Im saying that.  I dont mind it at all.  Okay.  Im just listening and no I mean when the show got passed on it just got us brought back to like why do we really do this? It is just like our weird clubhouse where cool stuff happens there. And neato stuff comes out of it. The fact that were getting married I dont know. Its just like this huge thing that came out of it. Its like the show to me is just validated in its own way and for its own reasons. For me like our relationship is just a huge part of that somehow.  Yeah that is the thing like I got a wife out of it. When you met you were ending your career as a professional dancer which sounds like it was like a long goodbye of being beaten up and finally admitting that your body couldnt do it anymore.  Yeah. Where are you now in your career and what do you think you took from watching the way he worked?  You know there are days where its hard because Chris chose a career he didnt have to say goodbye to. So all of the work hes done all of these years its all still cumulative. Its really hard not to be like why did I pick something I was going to have to stop doing? You know if I was its like a rough thing to say but if I was like a banker that wouldnt be presented to me on a daily basis. My future as an artist is like I really have to start over in so many ways.  Hallie once said to me too like imagine if comedy was a thing where you could like on the job hurt yourself and then you werent able to be as funny as you used to be. That was a real eye-opening thing for me like how shes handling all this. And like you know shes like incredibly tough about it. And also relentlessly creative. And so I do feel like theres times where you get stressed by that or you look at I know I look at you and Im like you were in all the coolest shows in New Yorkany show that was cool in New York you were in it while it was at its coolest you wrote two of the best albums I own I feel like sometimes youll get upset with me because Ill be like youre gonna be fine youre the best. And youre like thank you but thats not really how thats not productive. Thats not going to lead to anything. And is it music and performing that youre interested in sort of exploring at this point?  Yeah good questions. Im doing a lot of choreography at that point and thats obviously like a natural extension and now Im at a point where Im trying to figure out okay so I did all thishad this brilliant career that I loved so much. And its a tough act to follow. Itshow do I find something that I love as much as I loved what I did. So I mean thats just the nicest thing about being around Chris is just to use that as a model. You have an idea and you just do it. And he consistently finds that if he has an idea and he does it and he does it well he can get some people pretty excited about it. Maybe not Comedy Central.  But 12 year-olds in Kansas. Thats Hallie Bulleit and Chris Gethard. And The Unlovables song Crazy About You. Hallie and Chris just got married at a summer camp in Upstate New York on August 30. Theyre honeymooning now. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Emily Botein James Ramsay Jessica Miller Henry Molofsky Chris Bannon Bill ONeill and Jim Briggs. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. If the you like this episode. Share this episode on Facebook  or write us a review on iTunes. You can also subscribe. Im on twitter annasale. Again send your stories of life-changing funerals to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Chris is on a beach with his bride in Hawaii now still deciding whether hes going to keep doing his public access show. He may agonize about a lot in public but for this there wont be any announcements. He says go to ChrisGethardShow.com for the next scheduled show on Wednesday September 24 at 11pm Eastern time  Turn it on. If were here then the show will continue. And if its gone then its just gone. Lets not be cheesey about it. Im Anna Sale. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.