 Mass protests across the country have public health officials concerned about the spread of the coronavirus but even before the protests several states had been seeing big jumps in the number of cases. The head of the CDC Dr. Robert Redfield registered his concern at a congressional hearing today. He shook his head as a congresswoman showed him photos of throngs of people at the Lake of the Ozarks and at the SpaceX launch.   We are very concerned that our public health message is not resonating. We continue to try to figure out how to penetrate the message with different groups. The pictures that the chairwoman showed me are great examples of serious problems.  The U.S. is still seeing roughly 20000 new cases a day and we are going to spend the next few minutes talking about where some of the emerging hotspots are. Joining me are Blake Farmer with WPLN in Nashville WBUR's Martha Bebinger in Boston and KPCC's Jackie Fortier in Los Angeles. Hey there.  Hello.  Hi.  Blake I am going to start with you. Southern states look like a real hotspot. What do you make of the numbers there?  Well yeah. It is not the effects of the protest yet but no denying the connection and the timing with reopening. It is been really more than a month that folks have been back in restaurants or in barber chairs and in their gyms. Figures tracked by NPR show the number of cases in North and South Carolina this week are up by about 60 compared to two weeks ago. In Tennessee where I am based we are up by 75 over two weeks ago. Georgia and Louisiana they are steadier but they were elevated already. They experienced some of the highest case counts and fatalities in the region at the height of recent weeks. Now I will warn you that it is really hard to compare even neighboring states because you know there are slight variations in testing and in reporting. But we are finding this sort of through line that states in the South that were quick to reopen feel this need to point out that hospitals are still far from overwhelmed. They also try to explain these big bursts of cases on some days. Like in Georgia one day it was because of a backlog of reporting cases from this particular commercial lab. In Tennessee this week a huge jump was blamed on mass testing at a prison that did yield hundreds of new cases.  And Jackie California is also seeing case numbers rise significantly - up nearly 40 compared to two weeks ago. What is going on there?  Over the last month California has loosened its stay-at-home order and more businesses have been allowed to open up including big metro areas like Los Angeles and San Francisco. In most of the state you can go get your hair cut. You can eat in a restaurant now. And you know people do not stay in the county that they live in. So more people are venturing out going back to work and that means more community transmission. Health officials in Marin County in the Bay Area reported a spike in cases among essential workers like folks who work in grocery stores even though they had not lifted restrictions as much as their neighboring counties. There is also a lot of confusion about really what the rules are. You know depending on which county you are in there is different rules for where you need to wear a mask for example.  And moving from coast to coast here Martha you are in Boston. The Northeast especially New York City has been the epicenter of the pandemic in the U.S. for weeks. What is going on there now?  Well most of the Northeast Sarah we are still seeing new cases. But the rate of increase is slowing. It is down 41 in New Jersey over the past two weeks and it is down 33 in New York and 13 in Massachusetts. But that does not mean that the coronavirus is under control in these states which between them have a quarter of all the COVID-19 deaths in the U.S. So New York is still seeing more than a thousand new cases a day. Massachusetts and New Jersey are averaging 500 to 700 new cases over the past week.  And Jackie I want to go back to you because when we look at the numbers across California LA County really stands out. Why?  LA County is huge. It is home to more than 10 million people. Health officials are routinely reporting about a thousand new cases every day. That is partially due to a backlog in testing results. There has been a big push to have testing available to everyone but that is only helpful if you get the results back within a couple days and that is not happening. Slow lab results also really hinder contact tracing.  And Jackie we know there are a lot of disparities with this virus. How are the infections affecting different types of communities in LA?  Yeah you are exactly right. Elderly folks particularly people who live in nursing homes have been hit very hard. About half of the people who have died from COVID-19 in LA County are nursing home residents. The health department was slow to test for the virus in nursing homes and now we are finding that about two-thirds of the health care workers who have died from the virus were nursing home staff. We know that people of color are being disproportionately affected. Latinos make up over half of the COVID-19 cases when they are only about 40 of the state's population. Black folks especially in Los Angeles County have been dying at a far higher rate than other people and so have Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders. Those ethnicities have higher rates of underlying health conditions like high blood pressure and diabetes and doctors have told me that that makes them more susceptible unfortunately to the virus.  And Blake I want to go back to you in Nashville. Are you seeing ethnic disparities similar to those in California playing out in the South?  Certainly. In Tennessee we have been looking at these heat maps of the new cases. And one of the hottest zones for cases - it is really been for weeks now - has been in the largely immigrant neighborhoods of a part of south Nashville. You know and there is really been a lot of concern that many of these folks are maybe essential workers who cannot work remotely or at least folks who maybe cannot afford not to work. And often public health officials point out that you know they may even carpool to the same employer and some of those job sites have had big outbreaks.  And still despite these increases that we are seeing states are finding some ways to bring down infection rates even among essential employees who are going to work every day. Martha what are states in the Northeast doing?  Well for example you still cannot sit down at a restaurant in New York City or anywhere in Massachusetts or New Jersey. It looks like that may be allowed in the coming weeks but only outdoors. So these states are all in very early stages of reopening after residents have been told to stay home for almost two months with everything but essential businesses closed. And then there is the masks. In Massachusetts some kind of face covering is required indoors and out if you cannot stay at least 6 feet from someone. In New York and New Jersey masks are required in public and when riding the bus or the train. And Sarah you do not see that in most states across the country.  Yeah. So what is your sense Martha of people's patience with these stay-at-home orders in New York and elsewhere? Are they working? Are people willing to continue or are they starting to chafe?  Oh we are way past the chafing moment. But a poll out last week found twice as many New York residents worried about opening too quickly as compared to too slowly and polls in New Jersey and Massachusetts have pretty much shown a majority support for phased openings. Now people in cities across the Northeast are making a different calculation with the pull to protest the death of George Floyd and others and it is not clear if we are going to see new cases tied to those demonstrations yet.  That is WBUR's Martha Bebinger KPCC's Jackie Fortier and WPLN's Blake Farmer. All three are part of NPR's partnership with their member stations and with Kaiser Health News. Thanks to all of you for joining us.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thanks.  