 When dancers spin or gymnast's flip they rely on a sixth sense. It is how they know precisely where their bodies and limbs are. Scientists have known about this sixth sense for more than a century but they did not realize how much we depend on it until they studied two young people with a rare genetic disorder. NPR's Jon Hamilton reports.  Touch taste hearing sight smell - those are the five senses you learned about in grade school. But Carsten Bonnemann of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke has been focusing on a sixth sense. It is called proprioception.  The most beautiful demonstration of proprioception in action is Simone Biles when she was doing her gymnastics routines and spinning and somersaulting through the air.  Proprioception is how Biles knows where her body is in space and where hands and feet are in relation to her body. Bonnemann says he is learned a lot about proprioception from a girl named Damiana.  She is a very bubbly and happy 9-year-old.  Damiana who turned 10 recently and lives in San Diego was born with a rare genetic disorder. It left her with a limited sense of touch and proprioception. Damiana's mom Diana Sawyer says doctors spent years trying to figure out why her daughter was different.  She was very late at doing everything. She did not start crawling for instance until she was a year and a half old. And that is you know late.  Damiana had some problems with her feet and hips and her spine is curved. But Sawyer says those things do not explain why her daughter has so much trouble with precise movements.  Buttoning - we do not really get things with buttons. She does not like wearing jeans for instance. She likes wearing those kind of stretchy pants.  Damiana's condition might have remained a mystery if Carsten Bonnemann had not seen her during a clinic in San Diego. He ordered a state-of-the-art genetic analysis which turned up a mutation in a gene called PIEZO2.  But I did not know what PIEZO2 was really.  Fortunately Bonnemann found a colleague who did.  Turns out he is in the same building just a floor down from us. So I sent him an email. Look I have this potential problem in PIEZO2. Are you interested? Can you help me?  And 30 seconds later I was up in his office.  That is Alex Chesler from the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health. Chesler has spent years studying PIEZO2 in mice but he says there is a limit to what you can learn from a mouse. So last year a team of researchers invited Damiana and a similar patient to the National Institutes of Health. It was a revelation. Chesler says trying to understand proprioception from mouse studies had been like trying to understand Beethoven by reading sheet music.  But when I talked to the patient it was like going to the symphony. Like I was asking questions and they were just describing things to me that a mouse - as much as we can do really amazing things with mouse research the ability to talk to a person was just absolutely extraordinary.  Chesler says the research could lead to a better understanding of sensory problems including some types of chronic pain. And he is learned a lot about how most people use their sixth sense by studying the things Damiana and the other patient cannot do.  They have never run. They have never jumped because those kind of actions really require precise control over your limbs in space.  Carsten Bonnemann says both patients have learned to compensate for their lack of body awareness mostly by watching their own limbs as they move. Bonnemann the older patient who is in college has even learned to walk pretty well as long as she can see what she is doing.  If you take away her vision she literally crumples to the ground. Same is true for reaching. If we cover her eyes she gets completely off target.  Of course gymnasts like Simone Biles also rely on vision during a routine but it is their sixth sense that makes a gold medal possible. The new research appears in The New England Journal of Medicine. Jon Hamilton NPR News. 