 Now we have a story about coping with a disease that is becoming more common in the U.S. When Greg O'Brien discovered he was going to be a grandfather he says he was both happy and worried. That is because the 67-year-old has early-onset Alzheimer's disease. NPR's Rebecca Herscher has this report.  For years Greg and I have been checking in on the phone every month or so. We mostly talk about his Alzheimer's symptoms - depression anxiety paranoia confusion and of course memory loss. It is been eight years since he was diagnosed. And beginning last fall we also talked a lot about his impending grandfatherhood. He had a lot of concerns. GREG O' They are just not going to want me to be alone with the baby because they are afraid. They are not going to let me pick the baby up when the baby's crying and hug the baby and pat the baby. By the way I have not talked to anyone about that before. You are the first person I have talked to but it is been on my mind.  Another problem - Alzheimer's has affected Greg's balance. His feet and legs get numb. O' They are not going to want me to put the baby on my shoulders OK? They are not going to want me to play babies in space.  What is babies in space? O' Well where you - I pick them up in my hands and I swirl them around over my head like a rocket ship. And I always say babies in space. And they all laugh and like I turn them down like they are going to land and then up like they are going to - you know I do it gently. But that as not going to happen. No one's going to allow me to do that.  And there was a deeper issue eating away at him. O' My granddaughter or grandson is not going to really get to know the real me and that bothers me. It is sad for me. It is almost like someone's going to have to reconstruct it. So it is kind of bittersweet. Does that make sense?  That was last October.  It is been really incredible watching him very like moving to watch him with her.  In November Greg's daughter Colleen gave birth to little Adeline. They live a plane ride away but that has not stopped granddaughter and grandfather from bonding.  Yeah. Thank God for FaceTime because we do that a lot. He sings a little song to her a lot. You want to say hi? Hi.  Hi. O' Oh God yeah she just lit my life up. And you know as she is childlike and I become more childlike we kind of connect. And so I make funny faces at her 'ecause I make funny faces at people. And she makes funny faces back at me. And I stick my tongue out and she sticks her tongue out. And I purse my lips and she purses her lips. And we are having a hell of a conversation. So it is you know she pees in her pants and I pee in my pants. So we are - we have kind of connected on that.  Greg is a writer by trade worked at newspapers on Cape Cod for most of his career. Since Adeline was born he is written extensively about her and to her. O' Here's some text messages I sent to my infant granddaughter Adeline. Here's the first one.  Adeline too bad you could not make it to the Cape on your tricycle last night. The Christmas tree on the deck turned into a snow monster and ate Conor and Mary Catherine - one gulp. I am here alone and need you - lots of snow lots of sap. Love Grandpa. Adeline my sweet little slubs the snow monster is now gone. And the Christmas tree on the deck is back. You saved the day you snow angel. I suspect Conor and Mary Catherine...  Greg O'Brien is publishing a revised memoir this summer. He is written a chapter titled Sweet Adeline. In it he writes of her birth - new life new hope something new to live for. Rebecca Herscher NPR News.  