 Almost 1600 Americans are known to have gotten sick from West Nile so far in 2012 but a lot of cases do not even get reported. So the CDC thinks the real number of infections for the year is closer to 133000. On Monday we asked you to send us your questions about West Nile. With me today from Boston is NPR health and science correspondent Richard Knox to answer some of them. And Richard to start  Where did West Nile virus come from and how did it get into the United States?  It was discovered in the West Nile district of Uganda 75 years ago. And it did not really cause a whole lot of problems. People thought it was just a mild fever. But in 1999 it somehow or other got into the United States. There were some quick cases in Queens in New York City. Do not really know why. Probably an infected mosquito stowed away on a plane or a cargo ship.  Another big question for this year is why is West Nile disease so bad this season?  Do not really know. According to the experts they think that it may have something to do with the mild winter last year which allowed some of the infected mosquitoes to winter over and to give the virus a kind of a head start in the spring. And also the famously hot summer that we have been having favors the breeding of this mosquito. So we have more of the virus around in the environment.  Now Richard health officials in Dallas and other areas have begun aerial spraying to kill mosquitoes hoping that will quell West Nile virus outbreaks. And that got a lot of our listeners concerned about the effect on people and on beneficial insects like bees butterflies and dragonflies. What is the risk?  Yeah people - a lot of people really have expressed concern about spraying. The risk according to the CDC and the EPA is really very small. There is a long track record with the kind of insecticides called pyrethrins or pyrethroids that are used to kill these particular kind of mosquitoes. They are used in tiny amounts. I mean for aerial spraying it is like a teaspoon to cover an acre which is about the size of a football field. And so anybody underneath is not likely to get a whole lot of exposure. Also much of the spray stays in the treetops where the mosquitoes are. The spraying is done at night when most beneficial insects - bees butterflies dragonflies - are not flying around but the mosquitoes are. And so they are supposed to be really minimal risk to most people or to good insects.  Richard we got a host of questions that people had about what happens if they get infected. One of which was how serious is West Nile disease? And can people suffer long-term effects? And I think to add to that can people be immune from future infection if they are infected?  Yeah all good questions. It can be very serious. And that is one reason why people are taking it so seriously. But I think it is important to remember that most people who get infected maybe four out of five do not even know that they were infected. They do not have any symptoms. About the remaining 20 percent they can have a pretty unpleasant illness like flu headaches muscle pain joint pain chills fever. And that can go on for days and even weeks but they recover. There is no treatment for it. Most people recover. The really serious problem comes to - one out of every 150 people get infected have brain involvement either infection of the brain itself or the tissues around the brain. That can be deadly. About 10 percent of the people who get West Nile encephalitis die from it. Many of the others can have lifelong effects paralysis muscle weakness and so on. Yes you can become immune from an infection. In fact it is thought that you will be immune for life or for a long time unless you have something wrong with your immune system after you have had an infection.  One question following that is since people become immune after infection why is not there a vaccine for West Nile virus?  There is if you are a horse. There are four vaccines that have been developed for horses. And horses are - along with humans are the other mammals that die from West Nile. So that is pretty widely used among horse owners. For a human vaccine there is been work on it and there is been some successful early trials of a human vaccine. But there is a big problem. In order to really test the effectiveness of a vaccine you need a fairly sizable group of human volunteers. Some of them get the test vaccine others get a placebo vaccine or you know a non-active thing. You do not know how to recruit large numbers of people who are going to get exposed to West Nile because from one year to the next you do not know how big an outbreak you are going to have. And you do not know where it is going to be. I mean nobody knew a year ago that Dallas was going to be heavily infected. So that is kind of hit a wall in terms of doing further human trials.  NPR health and science correspondent Richard Knox answering your questions about West Nile. Richard thank you.  Any time Audie. 