 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  I am Robert Siegel. And we start with the health-care debate that rages on even through the dog days of August. Moderate Democrats in the Senate epitomized by North Dakota's Kent Conrad who was on this program yesterday say that for a bill to pass in their chamber it cannot include a government-run public insurance plan.  The hard reality is there are not the votes in the United States Senate for public option never has been.  But liberal Democrats in the House say that for a health-care bill to win passage in their chamber it must have a public option. Some 60 members support a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius saying as much. And one of those members is Democratic congressman Raul Grijalva of Arizona who joins us now from Yuma. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much Robert.  And why is a public option so essential to health care that you would threaten to vote against a bill without one? Rep.  It is the toehold quite honestly. In this process most of us who are signatories on that letter we are single-payer proponents. That is not part of the agenda right now. And we felt that we had to have - and for health-care reform to effectively work you needed a public option - with Medicare as its provider network - that would be able to compete in the free marketplace with the private insurance companies and in that way begin to control cost and provide the consumer a better deal and to give businesses and individuals an option a choice. Without it we basically have the system we have now with some reductions of 80 billion in the long-term off of future profits for pharmaceuticals and no indication for private insurance - what they are going to contribute.  This is what was written in today's politico.com  The White House is clearly betting that liberals simply will not walk away from a health-reform bill that achieves most of what Democrats want such as expanded coverage affordability and limits on some insurance company practices. Is the White House right about that? Rep.  I think the White House is misreading the sentiment not just of the members of the Progressive Caucus but many members of Congress. And I can name a few that are not part of the caucus as adamant about the public insurance plan. We see this as one of the critical reform pieces - that many of us have run for office on the concept that we are going to control costs we are going to get the private insurance companies under control and we are going to provide a Medicare-like program for the American people.  And without such a program could you actually see voting against a health-care reform bill and not having a bill? Rep.  Having - replicating what we have now to the tune of an extra trillion dollars without a public option yes I could see myself opposing that.  How do you answer the political reasoning that the districts that you and other members of your Progressive Caucus represent are going to elect Democrats even if unemployment reaches 15 percent the market crashes and there is no health-care bill at all - but for the Democrats to be a majority party you have to elect candidates from Arkansas and rural North Carolina and places where there is real skepticism about a big government health-insurance plan? Rep.  Well I think that the premise being that some of us are in safe districts and therefore can have this opinion and in other districts you need to be careful. I think being careful is what is got us in the situation. I think we should have drawn the line in the sand earlier with the White House and our congressional leadership about what important the public option was not negotiate that away so early that now we find ourselves struggling to keep it in. And I think the American people are realizing that the cost of health care is beyond their control. And if there is a mechanism like a public option that will begin to control that cost they are going to support it. You know this crosses demographics. Health care costs us one out of every 5 of every American regardless of a safe district a blue district a red district. And I think that is what is going to resonate. And right now I am glad we are in this debate because it gives us an opportunity to make those clarifications. And I think early on underestimating our opposition we kept quiet.  Congressman Raul Grijalva of Arizona thank you very much for talking with us. Rep.  Thank you very much.  Over the past few weeks we' the AMA the American Hospital Association. And today Karen Ignagni joins us. She is president and CEO of America's Health Insurance Plans which represents some of the biggest health insurers in the country including Aetna WellPoint Cigna UnitedHealth Group and others. Welcome to the program. Ms.  Thank you very much.  I would like to start by reading to you what New York Times columnist Bob Herbert writes this morning.  Insurance companies are delighted with the way reform which he puts in quotes is unfolding. The government is planning to require most uninsured Americans to buy health coverage. And he writes that the goldmine that your members stand to get by way of that mandate will more than offset the cost of new regulations such as no lifetime limits on benefits. A fair assessment? Ms.  Well the individual mandate is key to making the whole system work. Massachusetts is a classic example. They tried twice. The second time they went with the mandate because of the deleterious experience the first time around of trying to do it without it.   The mandate the idea of all of those people paying in can pay for the larger risks that the insurers assume under the reforms we are hearing about without increasing anyone's rates. Ms.  It is not that the insurers are assuming the risk it is that the population then is co-dependent if you will. So right now we have a system where people are subsidizing folks who do not participate. We are talking about an individual market which has roughly 18 million people in it - may grow by another five to 10 depending upon how the bills are structured. So those - that is the universe that we are talking about here for these rules. Otherwise the rules exist of guarantee issue in the employer market the way they have worked for years.  Right. You are saying my premiums today - I am insured my premiums one reason they are as high as they are is that there are other people who do not have any insurance... Ms.  Yes I can...  And I am covering their bills. Ms.  I can give you the numbers.  Right. Ms.   One that for people who are uncompensated they enter through the doors of the emergency room the cost-shifting is 1000 per family Families USA just did a study. Two the cost-shifting because of the underfunding of Medicare and Medicaid that is 1500 per family. So to start we start with 2500 surcharge.  Are you confident that that family that is going to the emergency room for lack of health insurance actually can afford the policies that your members will offer? Ms.  Well this is a very good question which is why so many members of Congress on a bipartisan basis have committed to providing a helping hand to working families to help make sure they can afford coverage...  But... Ms.  ...in addition to the expanding of the safety net.  That would be a subsidy not just of the family that gets the helping hand but of your insurance company that would receive that money. Ms.  I - this is a subsidy for people who are not in the system today many individuals who have relatively low incomes to help them be able to afford coverage.  Your industry is opposed to a public option what we call a public option. But Medicare and Medicaid have already put the poorest and the sickest Americans on public insurance. Why not let the public insurance system in on the part of the health-insurance market that' healthy working Americans? Ms.  Well it is a reasonable question. Let me give you a reasonable answer. Right now Medicaid is paying 65 cents on the dollar. For Medicare it pays 85 cents on a dollar. The way the Medicare and Medicaid programs are sustained because they pay - underpay physicians in hospitals is those physicians and hospitals charge the private sector more.  But I am listening to this and I am thinking well if your members drove the same kind of hard bargain that Medicare and Medicaid drove then perhaps you could force down the costs that the hospitals and the doctors are charging. Ms.  But I think people have confused in this debate the issue of underpayment with cost-containment. And they are not the same thing.  Now your argument against the public option is that as federal programs exist today they shift costs. The alternative idea is a system of co-ops throughout the country. Presumably they would not have the force of the Department of Health and Human Services behind them they could not set laws that would cite reimbursements. Are you opposed to co-ops? Ms.  Well I do not think there is anything to see yet. The government has no ability to create entities that will negotiate with providers. So we are concerned that the same issues that not only we have identified but the hospital and the physicians have identified will exist in the co-op models.  Concerned in politic-speak is a negative word. I mean you are concerned about the subject the co-ops. Ms.  It is a straightforward word.  Well Karen Ignagni thanks very much for being straightforward with us. Ms.  Thank you very much.  Karen Ignagni who is president and CEO of America's Health Insurance Plans. 