 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. And today many doctors find themselves facing a difficult question. That' that the diabetes drug Avandia does increase the risk of heart attacks but that the drug should remain on the market. So it now falls to doctors to field anxious calls from their patients and to decide when do the benefits of taking Avandia outweigh the risks? I am joined now by one such doctor. His name is Daniel Einhorn. He is the president of the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists or AACE. He is also a clinical professor of medicine at the University of California San Diego. Dr. Einhorn thanks so much for being with us. Dr.  My pleasure.  Now what are you hearing first from your patients? Dr.  Well they may ask specifically should I continue the medication? And what I will say in that situation is if you feel the least bit of discomfort lucky for all of us in 2010 there are many alternatives. And so you need not suffer any concern about the medication even if the concern is remote and not firmly established there is no reason to take a medicine that you or your friends or family are worried about. We have lots of alternatives.  Well given the serious health questions that were raised as a physician who is always thinking about the well-being of your patients would you advise them to move off Avandia? Dr.  I have personally not requested patients to discontinue Avandia remembering that the events that are being described are very rare. If someone is on Avandia doing well there is no call to withdraw it at least not at this point. Remember that the FDA has not made a final ruling. If you are not on Avandia and need to be treated for diabetes there are many alternatives. And a doctor today would not likely choose to start Avandia given the serious health questions that were raised and not resolved. I do not believe there are going to be very many new prescriptions for Avandia written certainly not for new starts in people with diabetes.  So you will not be writing new prescriptions for Avandia but someone comes into your office and they say Dr. Einhorn I am not sure I understand this. I mean you are not writing new prescriptions and yet you are advising me to continue with a drug that you obviously are not completely comfortable with. Dr.  Every time you change a drug for example let us say we would now pick a drug that we think has a better safety profile. In this specific individual that drug may have issues that you are not having with Avandia. So if you know that a drug has been successful and well-tolerated there is a good reason to not automatically withdraw that drug unless there is a very strong safety signal because every change has its own risks.  I want you to reach back in your mind if you can before Avandia came under this investigation by the FDA. How was the drug viewed before the FDA started looking at its safety? How was it used in your practice and how did people view it? Dr.  The class of drugs which include Avandia they were viewed with a great enthusiasm. I had the privilege of being part of an NIH panel that really raised the question should everyone with Type II diabetes indeed should everyone with insulin resistance be given one of the drugs in this class? And I went through the evidence showing all the multiple studies that really showed what great benefits should inure from these drugs. I thank my lucky stars that I did not suggest therefore give everyone these drugs 'ecause now we see that we cannot always predict the benefits or ultimately the risks of every drug. And we need to follow them for as long a time as possible in as many people as possible and be very critical about our observations. And even a drug that seems safe and seems promising may let you down in the long run.  Dr. Einhorn thank you very much. Dr.  My pleasure Michele thank you.  That is Dr. Daniel Einhorn. He is president of the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists or the AACE and medical director of the Scripps Whittier Diabetes Institute. 