 Ordinary people may be one step closer to becoming superhuman. Exosuits are these wearable machines that can make a person faster and stronger. NPR's Merrit Kennedy reports on one new invention and where the technology might be heading.  If you hear the word exosuit superheroes might come to mind - like Tony Stark who invents an amazing exosuit and becomes Iron Man.    Engage heads up display.   Check.   Import all preferences from home interface.   Will do sir.  One newly designed suit does not have all the bells and whistles of Iron Man's. It looks kind of like bike shorts with some wires and small machines around the waist and cables down the legs. And when it is turned on a person expends less energy when they move.  So essentially we have kind of you know recreated an artificial muscle you know on the outside of the human body that is working in parallel with the underlying biological muscle.  That is Conor Walsh an engineering professor at Harvard. He describes what it is like to put the suit on.  You definitely notice that it is pulling across your joints so you feel kind of the small tugs from the cable. But after you know a fairly short while - say maybe like five minutes - you do not really notice it anymore.  He says you are just happily running along. And when the suit turns off...  You really quickly notice that your legs feel a little bit heavier and you feel a little bit more sluggish.  Other exosuits have made it easier to walk or run but this team says theirs is novel because it can assist people with both kinds of movements. It is been a design challenge because the strides of walking and running are fundamentally different motions so the machine has to be able to sense when a person changes their gait.  So the person does not have to tell the system to do anything. It just automatically switches between those two modes.  In the team's research published today in the journal Science they found that a person using their suit expended 9 less energy walking and 4 less energy running. Walsh says he thinks the suit could be helpful for a soldier carrying heavy weights over long distances or your average weekend warrior.  Helping healthy people move more efficiently - could be you know someone who is you know a recreational hiker who wants to have a little bit more endurance.  Other models could help people with medical issues to move more easily. And Walsh's lab is collaborating with a company to sell exosuits for stroke survivors. This latest tight fabric suit looks more comfortable than some of its predecessors made of large and bulky pieces of metal. And Walsh says the exosuit field is changing fast. In the future he says they may not be exosuits at all but rather technology implanted inside a person's body. Merrit Kennedy NPR News. 