 More than 600000 people in the U.S. have died from COVID-19 each leaving behind grieving friends grieving family. For some Americans it is hard to mourn when people in their communities - or even in their own families - do not believe in the science of the coronavirus. These dismissive attitudes add another level of pain and anger to their grief. Brett Sholtis at WITF in Harrisburg Pa. has the story.  Stephanie Rimel is going through some of her brother's old things including the cold medicines he used to treat his symptoms when he first got sick.  And these are ones that he did not quite finish. We really have not thrown anything away really.  Her brother Kyle Dixon died from COVID-19 in January. He was a state prison guard here in western Pennsylvania in a pretty rural conservative community. Kyle was just 27 years old.  Like I will never get to be at his wedding. I will never get nieces and nephews. Like I will never see him old. Like that was the last birthday in September we got to celebrate with him.  Stephanie says her brother was led astray by misinformation about the virus. He got it from other prison guards from friends on Facebook and some of his own relatives. Even after her brother had to be hospitalized some family members were on social media repeating conspiracy theories and bragging about not wearing masks.  So we are angry. So when people try to you know talk about ry to justify it or say it is not real or you know look for a reason - well he was this - it is really hard.  Now Stephanie and her younger sister Jennifer feel estranged from some of those family members.  I do not talk to them. I do not care to talk to them.  They are posting the same stuff - it is a hoax.  Jennifer says if only they had seen what he went through.  I wish they could have been there his last days and watched him suffer watch his heart still be able to beat his kidneys still producing urine because it was so strong his liver still working. It was his lungs that were gone - his lungs. And that was only due to COVID.  After he died Stephanie and Jennifer made sure that the death notice said that COVID is what killed Kyle but a lot of other families want COVID left off death notices. Mike Kuhn is a funeral director in Reading Pa. His three funeral homes have laid to rest hundreds of people who died from the virus.  I have heard people where they are just like I do not know why but I just do not want to have COVID listed on the death certificate and I do not want to hear that COVID had anything to do with my father's death. Like people have said that to me.  Kuhn says many families want to minimize COVID's role in the death.  You know I have had people say well you know my mother or my father was going to die probably in the next year or two anyway and they were in a nursing home and then they got COVID. And you know I do not really want to give a lot of credence to COVID.  In some cases this creates a situation that psychologists call a disenfranchising death. Mourners feel they do not have the right to fully grieve because of controversy over the cause of death. Ken Doka is senior vice president of the Hospice Foundation of America. He pioneered the concept of disenfranchising death and a related concept disenfranchised grief. He says this can occur when a person's death is tinged with a supposed moral failure and mourners fear judgment from others.  So for instance if I say my brother - which he did not - but if I say to you my brother died of lung cancer what is the first question you are going to ask? Was he a smoker? And somehow if he is a smoker he is responsible.  Doka saw this a lot during the HIVAIDS crisis of the 1980s.  One of the terms I got to hate was when people spoke about pediatric AIDS they often used the phrase these are innocent victims of this disease. Well you know to me anybody who had it was an innocent victim.  Kyle Dixon's sisters have also encountered something like this. They say when they tell people their brother died from e often asked whether he had pre-existing conditions or if he was overweight as if he was to blame for dying. It is as if to people in denial the virus is not deadly. If a person was overweight or old or had high blood pressure or diabetes it becomes their fault that they died. Holly Prigerson is a sociologist specializing in grief. She says those judgmental comments they come from cognitive dissonance.  And anything including death of a loved one from this disease like they just - they compartmentalize it. They are not going to process it. It gives them too much of a headache to try to reconcile.  Prigerson says fighting cognitive dissonance rarely works.  Do not waste your time trying to convince them of something that you are not going to convince them of.  For her peace of mind Prigerson had to cut ties with some of her own family after her mother died of COVID. Kyle's sister Stephanie says what has been helpful is joining a support group with other grieving people who agree on the facts about COVID. And in June they placed the headstone on Kyle's grave. It says beloved son brother and uncle and it has a very pointed message on it too.  Yeah it says  COVID-19 on it.  Her reasoning was simple.  We want to make sure that people know Kyle's story and that he passed away from the virus.  Stephanie says it really helps to know that long after she is gone the truth will be set in stone. For NPR News I am Brett Sholtis in Clearfield County Pa.  And that story comes from NPR's partnership with WITF and Kaiser Health News. For advice on coping with disenfranchised grief please check out the recent Life Kit episode at npr.orglifekit. 