 Right now two cities lead the nation in vaccinations - Seattle and San Francisco. Some 70 of eligible residents in both places are fully vaccinated against COVID-19. And that is good timing for the Bay Area as California is set to drop pandemic restrictions tomorrow. But as Lesley McClurg from member station KQED explains it is not quite time to pop the champagne.  A group of enthusiastic college students with clipboards and matching T-shirts tries to engage passing San Francisco locals.  Hello. We have free COVID-19 vaccinations available for everyone 12 and over.  Most people in the working-class neighborhood shrug off the students.  Have you got your COVID vaccine yet?  But every once in a while they snag someone like John Young.  I just got my shot. I got the first one.  He is held off until now because...  I hate shots. I hate needles.  Other folks like Samuel Padilla-Macias have just been too busy.  .  He says he does not have time because he works both at a restaurant and a construction site. Today he happens to have a long lunch break so he signed up. This intersection is part of San Francisco's secret sauce driving up vaccination rates.  The corner - we call it the magic corner .  Berta Hernandez works for the Department of Public Health.  Our presence here is really important and it has a lot of value. And they knock doors walk the streets put up flyers on the businesses. They have been doing that from the beginning.  Hernandez says grassroots efforts in neighborhoods like this are paired with mobile clinics that travel directly to people's houses. The city also has huge vaccination sites in event centers and parking lots.  So all of our high-volume sites were put into communities that were disproportionately impacted by COVID.  Dr. Naveena Bobba leads San Francisco's Department of Public Health. She says a mix of venues and working with faith and community leaders is making a difference. Yet she says public health officials cannot take all the credit.  You know San Franciscans are really health-savvy and technologically-savvy. So there is definitely a percentage of the population that were ready for vaccine and got vaccinated.  Regional attitudes may also be at play.  The Bay Area tends to be much more socially engaged where they think about the common good a little bit more.  Julie Parsonnet is an epidemiologist at Stanford University.  There are parts of the country where independence and freethinking are more important than community thought and community participation.  Parsonnet says leftover fear from early on is also a motivation. Parts of the Bay Area were hit hard.  I think a lot of us know somebody who got sick and a lot of us know people who died. And I think there is nothing like that to help push us forward.  Many of the same variables are at play in Seattle the other city with the nation's highest vaccine rates. The demographics public health departments and health care systems are all similar. And it is probably not a coincidence that both places had among the earliest COVID cases last year. Those lessons and losses are why Seattle's mayor Jenny Durkan is proud now.  For the first time since February 29 of last year I feel like there really is hope on the horizon and light at the end of the tunnel. But we cannot let our guard down either.  She points to the delicate global situation.  We have seen how dangerous COVID is. You know the U.K. now is talking about going backwards not forwards again because of the rise of the variant there.  She also stresses the situation in China and India. The virus and its variants can spread on buses trains and planes meaning the global vaccination rate is much more important than any one city's numbers. For NPR News I am Lesley McClurg in San Francisco.  