 And finally this hour where we visit the world of interspecies sports. Usually when it is human versus beast we expect the beast to win but scientists say that Homo sapiens might top the animal kingdom in one event - long-distance running. A bizarre foot race held in Great Britain last week put that theory to the test. NPR's Adam Cole was at the starting line.  Five four three two one.   Fifteen minutes later a second set of competitors takes-off after them.   Welcome to the 36th Man v. Horse Marathon. It all started back in 1980 to settle an argument between a local pub owner and an opinionated customer. About 50 horses and their riders will chase the runners up and down the Welsh hills across streams and past hundreds of bewildered sheep. Twenty-two miles down the trail a group of children are waiting at the finish line. Who do you want to win? Horses or people?  People.  People? Me too. How about you who do you think's going to win?  Horses.  Horses really? Very practical. The outcome seems obvious. Horses are bigger stronger much faster in a sprint. They have been bred for centuries to help us humans get places quicker. But scientists say that humans still have a chance.  We undervalue just how extraordinary we are as endurance athletes.  Dan Lieberman studies human evolution at Harvard University. His research suggests that before our ancient ancestors had weapons they hunted animals by chasing them until the prey collapsed from exhaustion. That would explain why our bodies seem to be built for running.  We have a series of adaptations that are literally from our heads to our toes.  Inner ears that keep us balanced through all that jostling. Springy tendons and stubby toes that make us more efficient. And then there is our huge muscular bottoms.  The upper portion is massively enlarged.  And that helps stabilize our trunk. But perhaps our greatest strength is the way we keep our cool. We traded in fur for a naked body covered in sweat glands and so we can cool-off while we run. Horses on the other hand need to pant to really cool down and that becomes a problem when they are moving at top speeds.  The guts the huge viscera slams into the diaphragm with every step and prevents the animal from panting while galloping.  It makes sense then that the years when humans have won the Man v. Horse Marathon - and it has happened twice - it is been hot out. This year a cool rain is falling - bad news for humanity. For a moment things look hopeful though. The first racer to reach the finish is a human 30-year-old civil servant Hugh Aggleton. Here he comes.   This is Aggleton's third Man v. Horse Marathon.  When you are overtaken by horses you can - you feel the ground sort of start to shake as this galloping horse come up behind.  That did not happen this year. He managed to stay ahead of the cavalry. But not far enough ahead. Remember the runners had a 15-minute head start so when Geoff Allen rode his brown steed Leo across the finish just five minutes after Aggleton a horse was declared this year's champion.   Still Aggleton and dozens of other runners managed to beat most of the horses.  I might make that a sort of tagline - faster than 46 out of 50 horses.  And that means if he lived long ago he probably would have been able to chase-down dinner. Adam Cole NPR News. 