 One of the enduring mysteries of biology is why so much of the DNA in our chromosomes appears to be simply junk. In fact about half consists of repetitive bits of DNA that cut and paste themselves randomly in our genome for no obvious reason. A new study finds that these snippets may actually play a vital role in the development of embryos. NPR's Richard Harris reports.  Some biologists think of these weird bits of DNA as parasites since they essentially hop around our chromosomes and infect them sometimes disrupting genes and leaving illnesses in their wake. But Miguel Ramalho-Santos a biologist at UC San Francisco does not like that narrative. There is so much of this stuff. Surely there is more to the story.  So it seemed like a waste of all this real estate in our genome and in our cells to have these elements and not have them be there for any particular purpose. So we just asked a very simple question. Could they be doing something that is actually beneficial?  Ramalho-Santos' lab studies embryos so they wondered whether some of this so-called junk DNA played any role in triggering development. The scientists devised a way to shut down this abundant DNA inside the cells of a mouse embryo to see what would happen. Postdoctoral researcher Michelle Percharde was part of the team.  What we found was that instead of it being good for the cells - they are like oh thank you - the cells did very poorly.  In a series of experiments now being published in the journal Cell the scientists concluded that one common form of this junk DNA seems to be essential in the earliest steps when a fertilized egg starts to become an embryo.  So that is a very key role because as you can imagine if you cannot make a tiny little embryo if you cannot make embryonic stem cells which are the cells that give rise to the entire body you do not have any body.  This discovery hinged in part on designing new technology. But Ramalho-Santos says that is not all.  I think that the biggest advancement here was actually a mentality shift.  Junk DNA may clutter the genome and it is clear it can also cause harm. But scientists should also think more about its benefits. Nels Elde an evolutionary biologist at the University of Utah agrees up to a point.  I might be a little old-fashioned but I am still holding on to this notion of junk DNA. Think about it this way. If you come into my office and look at the desk you will look at it and say this thing is strewn with junk. And I might say to you actually that is a very customized filing system that you are looking at. In fact I think we are both right.  Elde believes that these repetitive bits of DNA exist primarily because they cut and paste themselves throughout the genome. They reproduce. In that sense they are parasites of a sort. And sometimes they cause disease but sometimes they can cause mutations that lead for example to new varieties of crops and new breeds of dogs.  You can make massive genetic jumps just in single events that can really change the course of an entire species.  From the point of view of an evolutionary biologist that is enough reason for them to exist. But it is increasingly clear that there is even more to the story of these jumping genes.  These things might be repurposed or co-opted to actually provide housekeeping or daily cell functions. And that is what we are starting to discover. That is what this paper begins to tackle as well.  Elde says this idea is starting to gain momentum as scientists figure out new ways to explore this fascinating realm of biology. Richard Harris NPR News.  