 This next story is about a mouse a movie and the quest to understand human consciousness. NPR's Jon Hamilton reports on a new project at the Allen Institute for Brain Science in Seattle.  The project is called the Allen Brain Observatory and it gives anyone with an Internet connection a close-up view of the mouse brain in action. Christof Koch the institute's chief scientific officer says he hopes the effort will help solve one of the great mysteries of human consciousness.  You look out at the world and there is a picture in your head. You see faces. You see your wife. You see something on TV. So how does that picture get into the head? That is the mystery of visual experience or any other experience.  There is no easy way to study the cells in a person's brain as it makes sense of visual information so the Institute has been gathering huge amounts of data on mice. They have a visual system that is very similar to the one found in people. The data come from mice that run on a wheel while images appear on a screen in front of them. It is a lot like watching TV on a treadmill at the gym. But Koch says these mice have been genetically altered in a way that allows a computer to monitor the activity of about 18000 neurons.  We can look at those neurons and from that decode what goes - literally what goes through the mind off the mouse while they are running past various visual stimulus images - for example photographic scenes or movies.    Oh.  Movies including Orson Welles' film noir classic Touch Of Evil.  It is black and white and it has nice contrasts. And it has a shot long without having many interruptions.  The shot follows a couple through the streets of a Mexican border town. As a mouse watches the action different cells light up depending on what is on the screen. For example Koch says certain brain cells fire when a mouse sees vertical lines.  There is one scene where the couple moves past a garage and there is a very strong edge - the edge of the - of the house of the building. And the cell in the mouse responds to that as well.  That is just one tiny part of the system that allows a mouse to create an internal map of its world. Other experiments show which brain cells fire when a mouse recognizes another animal like a butterfly. Koch says that by making all of this data publicly available scientists around the world can test their own ideas about the nature of perception and experience and even consciousness.  And we expect that they themselves will uncover things in our data that we never suspected because we did not look because we did not ask the right question because we do not necessarily know the right question to ask.  Koch says future versions of the observatory will explore other areas of the mouse brain including those involved in making decisions. Jon Hamilton NPR News. 