 From NPR News this ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block. President Obama' the people who already have insurance generally through their employer and who like what they have. According to the latest census report more than 175 million Americans currently have employment-based insurance. From Capital Public Radio Kelley Weiss reports now on one insured American who is nervous about all this talk of reform.  Dave Koenig is a tall guy with a buzz cut. He is 49 years old and a manager for a tech company Hitachi Data Systems. He lives in a pristine suburb of Sacramento with his wife and 8-year-old son. Mr.  Hot out very hot.  On a 100-degree day he is looking out over his pool. Mr.   peaches pears oranges apricots cherries plums.  There is a foosball table on the patio and a hammock in the shade. Mr.  It is kind of a quiet pretty expensive neighborhood. Guess we would probably be considered middle to upper class.  And his high-paying job does not just mean a nice house. He also gets pretty decent health benefits. It is private insurance through Blue Cross. He pays a monthly premium of about 300 for his family's coverage. Mr.  And my current insurance through my company is wonderful. I pay co-pays for doctors' visits. I pay a co-pay for prescriptions. Through the six or seven surgeries I have had in the last five years I have never paid a dime to a hospital an anesthesiologist blood work. I have not paid anything. It is been fully covered. So I am of course very happy with my insurance.  A sports injury one and a half years ago caused some of those many surgeries. Mr.  I was playing racquetball started to feel a pain in my upper leg  lower back. The pain got worse over a day or two or three so I went in to see my doctor.  We are having this test done. The MRI showed I had two ruptured discs in the lower part of my back. They referred me. I had the surgery done. I went through rehab and now I have no problems.  Things were not always that easy. In the early '90s he was laid off and went without insurance for several months. He says it was an uncertain time and he sympathizes with the millions of Americans who do not have coverage or at anytime could be dropped. Mr.  I mean you hear horror stories about people who have insurance and then all of a sudden get denied coverage somewhere down the line because they may have had a pre-existing condition.  And that is why Koenig is on board with parts of the big push to change the health-care system.  a government takeover. Mr.  I find that scary for me personally because right now I have got what I feel is great coverage from my company. Tomorrow it could all change. You know I do not know. I do not want to see massive overhaul. I can see reform taking place in areas. But do I want the system mass - you know overhauled? No. And I do not think the majority of the people in the country want it overhauled.  Koenig keeps going back to the fact that in his experience health insurance has been great. He points out a smiling woman in a family photo in front of Niagara Falls. Mr.  That is my younger sister there her three kids her husband my mom and dad and then all of our kids. Well the two oldest are not in here.  Five years ago his sister Jane collapsed while out for a jog. Mr.  Had the heart attack running into a court. And it is just -she got lucky that some neighborhood women were out for a walk and they walked by and saw her lying on the ground gasping for air.  Like him his sister has good employer-based health insurance. She gets it through her husband who is a vice president of a credit union. Mr.  She is 46 now. She was 41 when she had her heart attack 41 when she had her transplant so they ended up finding a genetic heart defect. She had full coverage so you know I guess we just did not even think about it at the time but thankful for it now.   that the insurance he and his sister are happy with will change under a complete overhaul whatever President Obama says. For NPR News I am Kelley Weiss in Sacramento. 