 We are going to dig into another frustrating medical bill now. Each month we dissect a bill to shed some light on the cost of health care in America. Dr. Elisabeth Rosenthal is the editor-in-chief of our partner Kaiser Health News and she joins us in the studio. Hey Elisabeth.  Hi. Great to be here.  So who sent in their bill this month?  This month we meet Wolfgang and Farren Balzer. When Wolfgang needed surgery the couple planned ahead. They did all their homework hoping to minimize their share of the medical expense.  Which makes sense - I mean they were just trying to be smart responsible consumers. Right?  Yeah. And they would heard about out-of-pocket expenses and they were scared. And especially - this was not an emergency so they did all the right things. And yet they were still shocked by the bill that came in the mail.  Right. And we sent a reporter Nicole Leonard to visit the family in Connecticut. Let us take a listen.   Wolfgang Balzer is lifting his 18-month-old son into the air. His wife Farren says just a few months ago before Wolfgang's hernia surgery she would have been worried about him.  I would not be happy with him doing that because I would have been going - babe you are going to hurt your hernia even worse.  After a successful surgery Wolfgang is back to lifting a toddler chasing a 4-year-old and playing host to a houseful of family visiting from Germany. You are having mac and cheese today.  . My daughter's favorite and it is a nice quick InstantPot meal.  .  Wolfgang knew for years that he would need the surgery one day but it was not an emergency. And the Balzers are planners so they waited for the perfect time. They planned it for the same year their second child was born so that they would meet their high deductible. But Wolfgang grew up in Germany so he was not used to this tactical way of making health care decisions.  To have to think about when and for what you go to the hospital that is a foreign concept to me.  Before the surgery they called the hospital their insurer and the surgeon to get cost estimates for the procedure. They figured out it would be about 1400 - not cheap but doable. The surgery went smoothly - no complications. And the hard part was over. Or so they thought.  When the bill came and we opened it I knew it immediately from the numbers that this is off. And I showed it to Farren.  And I think I went oh hell no we are not paying this.  Their bill was 50 higher than the quotes they got. Wolfgang picked up the phone to try and get some answers.  But how many times in total do you think you called Hartford Hospital?  I do not know. But I know that the more I called the less hopeful I got because I knew that I did not get anywhere with them.  Right.  And they just said a quote is a quote. You know? I am sorry that you had a bad estimate.  The hospital's position was that the estimates were a guess. Those amounts were never a guarantee. That left the Balzers feeling like billing estimates do not mean anything. So why try to plan? Why bother?  We plan things to death. And when plans do not go according to plan  it becomes very frustrating.  Wolfgang is resigned that this is how health care works in America and this is what his young family growing up in Connecticut will be up against.  Do you pick this fight every time trying to understand what you will owe and keep doing that? But it adds stress to something that should just be straightforward.  It may not have been straightforward but it was perfectly legal. Unlike other industries hospital estimates are under no legal obligation to be accurate.  All right. That was Nicole Leonard of WNPR in Hartford Conn. And we are back now with Elisabeth Rosenthal of Kaiser Health News. So Elisabeth let me just get this straight. Health providers are not legally required to honor the estimates they give you. Like consumers do not have a legal claim later to say you misled me you told me this was going to be cheaper.  Yeah. I think it is a real outrage. You know this was not a huge bill but it is a huge problem that we all face. You know we are told over and over again to be good consumers. And yet you try and get an estimate for a hospitalization an office visit. But they are often wildly off. And it may be tens of thousands of dollars off. And yet you are expected to pay.  And it is totally legal to make you pay for something that is wildly deviating from the estimate.  Well technically yes. It is kind of absurd though 'ecause think about it - you would not put up with this in any other sector.  No.  I mean if your contractor came in and gave you an estimate for a kitchen of 10000 and then without any notice you just got a bill for 20000 you would say forget it I am not paying it. In some sectors like mortgage lending there are laws saying that estimates of origination fees have to be accurate. But in health care it is a Wild West.  That is incredible to me. I mean it really speaks to how powerless people can feel when it comes to their health care.  That is the thing here the Balzers were perfect consumers. You know they checked with the surgeon the anesthesiologist. They did all of their homework and yet they were stuck in the end.  I imagine like there are a lot of people out there who would just assume - OK I am on the hook for this bill I am just going to pay it. But what happened to the Balzers?  Well I often tell people the first thing is do not just write the check. Ask questions. Now what happened with the Balzers is they submitted their bill to bill of the month. And when a reporter started calling the hospital said - oh sorry we did not communicate well with the patient. Now my reaction to that is - what? - communicate that the estimate is going to be 50 off in the hospital's favor.  Right.  That is really not a good answer.  How about for the majority of people though who will not have journalists pursuing investigating their cases? I mean should people just skip asking for quotes for medical procedures?  No. But I think you have to be really specific about what you are asking for. You want an all-in quote that includes all the services. You want to know - you know are you going to guarantee me that it is going to be within some range? And write down the estimates so you can fight the bill later.  That is Dr. Elisabeth Rosenthal from Kaiser Health News. Thanks.  Thank you.  And if you have a surprising medical bill you would like us to take a look at go to NPR's Shots blog and tell us all about it. 