 In the Ebola epidemic the death toll in West Africa has risen above 3000. That is according to the World Health Organization. Our coverage today begins in Sierra Leone. In that country the outbreak started in the East near a city called Kenema. That is one of the first treatment facilities was built. That is an incredibly dangerous place to work dozens of staff members have died from Ebola others have fled. NPR's Anders Kelto met a health worker in Kenema who is not at risk.  You have to do a lot of things just to get to the Ebola treatment center at Kenema Hospital. First you pass through these two orange plastic fences and wash your hands in chlorine water. Then a guy with a hand pump sprays down your boots. You walk across some rocks that allow rainwater to drain and eventually you get to the Ebola ward which is basically a big white tent. As I approach a young man steps out of the tent. He is thin and wearing a white t-shirt that says goodfella. He is completely soaked with sweat because he is just taken off  a plastic suit goggles and rubber gloves. A colleague hands him a bag of water which he immediately chugs.  It is really hot it is really hot it is very much difficult to walk in there because you do not have fresh air you it is really difficult.  His name is Dauda Fullah and he is 23. A couple months ago his dad got Ebola and died a few days later. Dauda helped bury him. That night Dauda came down with a fever and knew he had to act quickly.  I had to run fast to the hospital because I knew that I have had been with my dad who was suffering from this Ebola disease.  Dauda tested positive for Ebola and was admitted to this clinic. Then the rest of his family got sick and joined him here inside the tent.  My stepmother my younger brother my sister and my grandmother also.  One by one they all passed away just a few yards from his bed.  I am the only survivor person in my family.  Before he got sick Dauda had worked in a hospital lab. When he got better he asked if he could work here at Kenema's Ebola ward. He was hired to draw blood.  After you recovered and you were released you chose to come back here and to work in that same tent where your whole family passed away.  Yeah.  Why did you do that?  Well when I was sick had people going in sacrifice their lives to fight for mine you know. So I have to do the same. I have that humanitarian feeling for those admitted here now.  Helena McCarthy is a nurse here. She took care of Dauda when he was sick and now they work together. She says when he is in the ward he encourages the patients who are really struggling.  He is the best person to talk to the patients. Who make the patients understand and believe because some of them when they are in there they believe that they will not make it.  But when Dauda goes up to them and says look I have been through this and I survived just do what the doctor say and keep fighting they listen. And McCarthy says because Dauda has already had Ebola he is very unlikely to get it again. McCarthy has seen 37 of her colleagues here die from Ebola. So to her hiring survivors just makes sense.  It is a very good idea because they are more safer than us.  The CDC says it is unclear if Ebola survivors have long-term immunity to the disease. There are not any known cases of Ebola survivors getting re-infected. But CDC says there is just not enough data to be certain that does not happen. Nonetheless they and other health organizations are planning to train survivors to work in Ebola treatment centers and to provide home-based care. Dauda Fullah the young man who lost his family says working in this Ebola ward can be devastating.  It is very very hard really you know seeing you know people die really I do not want to talk about it really.  And he says he worries about more doctors and nurses here getting sick. They are like family to him now.  Every day I pray for my colleagues I pray for the nurses. Everybody I am still praying for them so that this Ebola thing the all mighty will just take it far away from the world.  Anders Kelto NPR News Kenema Sierra Leone. 