 Rats - they have a bad reputation. In reality rats are surprisingly eager to help others - well other rats anyway. Scientists have been studying what influences a rat's willingness to be a Good Samaritan and as NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports turns out that rats are similar to people when it comes to something known as the bystander effect.  Back in 1964 there was a terrible murder in New York. The New York Times reported that 38 witnesses saw or heard a woman named Kitty Genovese being attacked yet did nothing to stop it. It is now clear that this newspaper report was wrong in a lot of key ways. But the story nonetheless inspired decades of research into what came to be called the bystander effect.  An individual is less likely to help in the presence of others than if they are alone.  Peggy Mason is a neurobiologist at the University of Chicago. She says scientists learned about this effect by putting people into fake emergencies. They found that people would help others but they were less likely to help when there were passive bystanders around - actors who were playing a part.  With the addition of more and more bystanders the likelihood of helping goes progressively lower.  But those were studies in people and Mason does not study people. She studies rats. Not too long ago she was chatting with folks in her lab about the bystander effect.  And one of my students John Havlik says well let us try it in rats. And I said ah  no no no. It will not work.  Well he tried it anyway and the results were surprising. Here's how these experiments were set up. Imagine a single rat that is trapped in a clear acrylic tube a kind of trap that can only be opened from the outside. Normally if another rat comes upon this sad situation it will immediately work to free the trapped one. Mason believes the rats' urge to help comes from an emotional response because her lab has previously shown that it can be blocked with a drug.  If you give a benzodiazepine which is an anxiolytic - it is a chill pill - to a rat he no longer will help a trapped rat.  To test the bystander effect what the researchers did is take one or two drugged rats rats that simply would not help and looked to see if their presence would influence the behavior of another undrugged rat. Mason says what they found was amazing. When passive bystanders were around a rat would work to free a trapped rat once but that is it. After that it stopped lending a paw.  So it is essentially as though this rat says well you know what? I helped yesterday. No one cared not doing that again.  But if a rat was surrounded by other rats that were not drugged up then the researchers found the rats would rescue the unfortunate one in the trap even faster again and again. These results are described in the journal Science Advances. Mark Levine was not part of the research team. He studies the bystander effect at Lancaster University. He says it is interesting to see how motivated the rats are to be of assistance.  And that is pretty much the same as humans. That is what our research shows that actually despite what people think humans are incredibly helpful in real-life situations.  In fact his research shows that in real urgent moments caught on surveillance cameras 9 times out of 10 one or more bystanders actually will take action. He says in people and now in rats the bystander effect shows up when there is some kind of artificial intervention that suppresses helping.  Because it is not a natural thing for us. Both humans and rats left to their own devices it seems help.  And he says there is even studies showing that in violent or dangerous emergencies the presence of others can actually make people more likely to intervene. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News.  