 As kids go back to school they are already bringing home COVID-19. Even a mild pediatric case can derail an entire family. Lesley McClurg from member station KQED reports on some who have recently weathered the turmoil.  A few weeks ago Stephanie Chenard's son Desmond lost his appetite and then he developed a fever. She grimaced when he tested positive for COVID-19.  When I told him I said sweetheart you have COVID. He just burst out into tears.  The family canceled a long-awaited summer trip to Lake Tahoe. Instead they quarantined at home in the Bay Area.  Notifying everyone that I had been in contact with.  She called her son's summer camp. They shut it down. She called the public pool. The hardest call was to a friend who had just had an organ transplant.  A moral failing it felt like. That might be a lot of me internalizing that but we have all been bathed in anxiety for the last year and a half.  Fortunately her son Desmond's case was mild. His fever broke the same day it started.  Desmond was only sick for eight hours but I have spent 45 hours on notifications alone.  And of course the family had to quarantine which meant juggling work and child care. Still Chenard and her husband did not catch the virus. They are both vaccinated. Some families are not so lucky.  My name is Jace Garcia and I am 11 years old.  Jace caught COVID playing soccer with a friend in Sacramento.  I have never felt anything like this.  The virus struck in the middle of the night. Jace woke up vomiting uncontrollably. Body aches racked his slim calves chest head.  Everything was feeling like something was just squeezing that part of the body towards the bone.  Jace's fever spiked at 104. He shivered under blankets. He could not even distract himself with video games.  Every time I would click down I would get like a tingling sensation in my hand. I want to go back to sleep. My hands are starting to hurt. I am getting a little dizzy.  The only advice doctors offered was try to stay hydrated.  You cannot really breathe. I cannot feel like I can get better.  Sure enough four days after my son got it I tested positive that morning.  That is Rico Garcia Jace's dad. He would been vaccinated.  It felt like a terrible head cold. My brain was foggy. I could not think straight. I started losing my voice.  Which made it impossible to work - he is a DJ. Then one morning at breakfast...  My first sip of coffee was amazing. My ninth or tenth sip tasted like hot water. I mean it was just the snap of a finger and my sense of taste and smell was gone. I went as far as to cut a lime open and bite into it. Tasted nothing.  Rico's son Jace is still fighting a lingering cough and congestion and he is missing the first 10 days of sixth grade. His mom also caught the virus. She is a teacher and is not back in class either. About 100000 kids are catching COVID each week but less than 2 of pediatric cases require hospitalization. As schools open and more students test positive parents and teachers are trying to weigh the risk. Last year was hard on kids.  Young people were experiencing more depression anxiety because of the level of isolation.  Saun-Toy Trotter is a psychotherapist at UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital in Oakland.  One element of their well-being is being with peers learning stretching struggling growing connecting.  Kids are excited for art class band practice plays. Jace Garcia is missing rehearsals for a show that is been on hold.  It was a musical he is waited a few years to be a part of. Fingers crossed they will still find a way to have him involved.  Jace is hoping he can catch a few performances. For NPR News I am Lesley McClurg in San Francisco.  