 We are going to hear how Mexico is addressing the coronavirus now. There the earliest cases were linked to international travelers including wealthy Mexicans who returned home from a ski trip to Vail Colo. so early in the epidemic many Mexicans believed COVID-19 was a disease of the rich. One governor even said the poor did not have to worry about getting infected. Five months and more than 42000 deaths later it is clear that is not the case. James Fredrick has this report from Mexico City.  .  Every morning Rosa Gallegos has to make a decision - stay home safe from catching the coronavirus or go out and sell little bags of nuts on the street so her family can afford to eat. Standing on a street corner with a mask over her nose and mouth this 61-year-old grandmother explains her situation.   I have one daughter who still depends on me. She has two young children and she was recently laid off from her job.  There is no unemployment insurance for Gallegos' daughter who lost her job at a clothing store.   That is why I go out and keep working - to help her to support her.  Before the coronavirus hit Gallegos could make as much as 25 a day selling nuts on the street. Today she is scraping by on just 3 to 5 a day. Millions of Mexicans are in the same desperate situation. The government has not explicitly acknowledged the outsized impact the virus is having on the poor. But it is now been quantified by demographer Hector Hernandez Bringas at Mexico's National Autonomous University.  .  Hernandez has been sifting through the data on thousands of death certificates of COVID victims to find out who were these people?  .  He saw that more than 70 of Mexicans who have died from COVID had only an elementary school-level education or less. Most Mexicans go to high school so this is a strong signal that the victims were poor and suffered all the social and health inequalities that come with that. Hernandez made another discovery.  .  He found that more than half of patients who succumbed to the virus died in open-access public hospitals facilities that treat people without health insurance. The data also showed that 9 of COVID deaths in Mexico have occurred outside of hospitals meaning thousands of Mexicans spent their last moments fighting this ferocious disease without medical care. Rosa Gallegos experienced this in her own family.   I know how terrible it is because I saw it with my nephew. He did not even last eight days.  The family was not able to get this previously healthy 29-year-old to a hospital and he died at home. Still Gallegos goes out to work every day.   I do not get any support from anyone.  Mexico's president Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador often uses the phrase primero los pobres  - the poor come first - as a guiding principle of his administration. But he is given virtually no aid during the pandemic even as his own government projects 10 million Mexicans could fall into extreme poverty because of lockdowns. The utter lack of response is really worrying says Rolando Cordera Campos an economist at the National Autonomous University.  .  There is no reason people should be going hungry in Mexico he says. To keep people fed he estimates the government must immediately allocate 3 billion in emergency funds. But President Lopez Obrador has repeatedly downplayed the crisis and refuses to launch any new relief programs. Rosa Gallegos shrugs off the president's stubbornness.  .  She says all politicians are the same. They promise to help and never follow through. She is mostly resigned to her situation.   I hope the virus does not find me that I do not catch it. But if it does if I can get treatment I guess I will be going to another place right?  For NPR News I am James Fredrick in Mexico City.  