 In the history of commercial air travel airlines have never had a stretch as bad as the last few months. Early in the pandemic Delta was losing 100 million each day. Now it is losing about 27 million a day an improvement but still not sustainable for any company. Ed Bastian is the CEO of Delta Air Lines a company that I should note provides funding support for NPR. Bastian joined us from Atlanta and I started by asking whether an extended pandemic could put Delta out of business.  No. It is not going to put Delta out of business. We are making good progress at continuing to reduce that cash burn. Our goal is to get our cash burn down to zero by the end of the year. We still have work to do but we are making good headway. But the bottom line is we have got to restore confidence amongst our consumer base in air travel.  Can you summarize what it takes to get from losing 27 million a day to breaking even?  To reduce the cash burn to break even requires customers to continue to - the demand to continue to pick up. We are flying today somewhere about 25 of the schedule that we did last summer. It will depend on the direction the virus takes the direction that - both on therapeutics as well as vaccines the ability for people to feel confident and the continued taking great care and safety of our customers over the journey. You know we have implemented so many changes in our protocols our safety protocols. Our customer surveys tell us that this is the best travel experience on Delta they have ever seen.  And so in addition to the health concerns is it partly a business consideration that by leaving middle seats open by only booking 60 full you will get more people to fly your airline than other airlines that are trying to save money by filling up the plane for example?  We believe that taking good care of safety of our customers as well as our people is more important than the profits that we forego by filling up every seat on a plane. We could do that if we chose to. But we feel that we would rather take care and put safety at the top of the priority list. And when we get close to that 60 load factor that we have referenced that'ill be our trigger to add more planes and more flights into the schedule because we have a lot of planes that we can add rather than trying to put more people into the existing plane. It is a decision we are taking about putting people over profits. Absolutely.  Getting fast coronavirus test results is key especially for flight attendants who are interacting with hundreds of travelers on a regular basis. Are you able to get real-time information on when someone tests positive for COVID-19? Or are your employees seeing wait times for results that could leave them exposing other people to the disease?  Well we announced a month ago - and this is something that would been in the works for several months with both the Mayo Clinic as well as Quest Diagnostics - a plan to test all of our employees all 90000 to get a solid baseline as to where every employee is not just for the active virus but also the antibody the serology test as well to see if they have been exposed. And once we get through that baseline we are going to put in follow-up testing as a matter of protocol for all of our people.  So just to get specific if I board a Delta flight what can you tell me about how long it will have been since everyone working on that flight has had a COVID-19 test? Can you say within the last 48 hours within the last week within the last month? What is it?  No as you can appreciate the demand for testing has far exceeded the supply base that was available. So two months ago when we set the protocol up and we made the commitment testing - the demand was not that high in our country. And now it is through the ceiling. And as a result of that the time it takes to get the results back for our people has extended up to a week which is unacceptable. We now have it down to somewhere between two to four days. The good news is that our flight attendants our pilots our ground workers our airport workers some are positive absolutely but at much lower rates than any national average that I have seen. And those are for people that live in the airport environment.  Delta got more than 5 billion from the CARES Act which Congress passed back in March. And at that point people widely expected the U.S. to handle the pandemic more successfully as many European countries did. What about a second entirely new aid package from the federal government? Is that something that you would anticipate needing if the pandemic keeps going as it has been?  I know there is conversation going on right now. I do not know the likelihood of that. I do not know the appetite. What we really need is instead of more government support we need demand back. We need a medical cure. We need a vaccine. We need therapeutics. And I think that is probably where any government focus ought to go.  The CARES Act came with a requirement that airlines would not implement voluntary furloughs or layoffs until October 1. Do you anticipate that there will be furloughs and layoffs starting in October?  I think in the industry there absolutely will be furloughs. You know there is some - been some very large notices provided by the major carriers to their workers. I know both American and United did. At Delta we have issued approximately 2500 notices to our pilots. Hopefully we will be able to get through that. We are working with the pilots union to find an alternative. But you know we are down now. You know we are still only flying maybe 25 of our schedule. And at some point in time we have to address the hard questions that we cannot keep all of the employees within the industry employed without seeing demand start to pick up.  Do you think some of these changes are permanent? Will it ever be back to 100?  I think it will get back to 100 speaking for Delta. But I think it is going to take some time. I think the leisure travel will come back sooner than business travel. I think business travel will be impacted. You know video conferencing that is been a forced adaptation as I think - will be seen as a substitute. But the reality is people need to be together to conduct business. You can work through a video conference for a period of time but I do not think it is going to replace the need for humans to be together to transact business build relationships and collaborate and innovate together.  Ed Bastian CEO of Delta Air Lines thank you for speaking with us today.  Thank you Ari good to be with you.  