 Substance abuse is a factor in 80 percent of cases where a child is removed from the home and there are signs that the opioid epidemic is sending more children into the foster care system. To get their children back parents usually have to beat the odds and complete rehab. Jenny Gold reports on a program in Sacramento Calif. that is trying to keep families together.  At 10 a.m. every Wednesday morning a line of parents pushing strollers files into a conference room at the Sacramento County court complex. They sit at rows of narrow plastic tables shushing their babies and gazing up at a man in a black robe. A blonde woman holding a cooing baby approaches the podium.  Good morning.  Good morning. Who do you have with you there?  My daughter Cailynn.  Hi Cailynn.  Hearing Officer Jim Teal is checking in with Emma Cailynn's 20-year-old mom. We are not using her last name because her case is active with Child Protective Services. Emma started doing drugs at just 16. At first it was meth then heroin. And then she got pregnant. When Cailynn was born she tested positive for heroin. The hospital called CPS and they took Cailynn into custody.  And I regret every moment of it. It is hard but I have just got to keep my head up and keep moving forward.  Like Emma many parents here entered the system after having babies born addicted. Others were reported by friends or family. All risk losing custody of their children because of drug abuse. To keep their kids the parents need treatment. Most people in Sacramento would have a three-month wait but parents in this Early Intervention Family Drug Court get to start immediately.  So Emma it says here you are 63 days compliant.  Yes I am.  And 63 days in the program so you have been good.  Yes very good.  You have been doing what you are told. Congratulations.   This is not an actual court. It is a program that helps families before they enter the court and foster care system. If they cannot get sober they are sent next door to a formal family drug court where their children are taken away and given attorneys of their own. Emma credits her success so far to her social worker.  It is been great. I got my daughter back in my custody with him. He is an amazing CPS worker.  She is talking about Matt Takamoto. He is been a social worker for nearly 20 years and he is been working with this program since it first started six years ago.  In the past there is been a lot more distrust of Child Protective Services that we - all we want to do is remove the kids. And that is the last thing we want to do. It is more paperwork to remove a kid than it is to keep the kid they are at.  He says the program is an important change in the county's approach to addiction.  It just seems from my perception that in the olden days that we would be quicker to send them to court maybe more blaming you know the addict versus you know giving them the tools they need.  Each parent is paired with a social worker like Matt and a recovery specialist. The six-month program is rigorous. In addition to monthly sessions at the court they have almost daily group meetings random testings and parenting classes. Those addicted to opioids have access to methadone treatment. And once or twice a week they get a home visit from their social worker. Takamoto drives over to the residential rehab facility where Emma is living with her baby.  Here we are. This is where my clients go for residential help.  We are not allowed to go into the center so we observe from the parking lot. In the back is a grassy yard with a small jungle gym where several moms are watching their children play. Emma holds Cailynn in her lap. Takamoto seems happy with her progress but he says the hardest part of his job is realizing that not all parents are going to make it through the program. In fact just a third end up graduating.  If you know these parents are not successful it - ultimately it is the kids that pay the price.  Nationally just a small fraction of families who could use family drug courts have access to them. Sherri Heller says that is a shame because they are an example of a government program that actually works. Heller runs Sacramento's health department.  People can overcome addiction if the motivation is strong enough and this is the most effective motivation I have ever seen.  She says the evidence speaks for itself. The children in this program are three times less likely to be taken away from their families.  The rush that comes with getting high is pretty spectacular. And it is very hard physically once the addiction happens to overcome. But if there is one thing that matters to people more than the thrill of getting high it is the thrill of doing the right thing for your children of keeping your family intact.  Back in the Early Intervention Family Drug Court parents share tender moments with their children. They bounce them on their laps kiss their tiny hands and hold them close when they fuss. Emma clearly wants to be a good mom.  And how do you see your future six months from now? What do you think it is going to look like?  Very good. Hopefully I am going to my daughter with me at all times. It is awesome. Have a good life just clean. Do not have to have drugs no more.  Sacramento County also has a stake in her success. It saves about 21000 a year for every kid that does not have to go into the court and foster system. That adds up to about 7 million in savings every year. For NPR News and Kaiser Health News I am Jenny Gold in Sacramento. 