 Millions of Americans are being exposed to a tremendous rise in wildfire smoke. Rural communities in Northern California are some of the worst-hit in the country. That is according to a new investigation from our California Newsroom Collaboration. From member station KQED here's Farida Jhabvala Romero.  At Tim Pedrozo's  farm two dozen cows walk on acres of pasture and munch happily on grass. But last year his farm a hundred miles north of Sacramento was inundated with smoke. Pedrozo says that led to a big outbreak of painful pink-eye infections. One cow lost her eye.  All of those the group of heifers - every single one of them had it.  Scientists say that because smoke irritates the eyes it can make animals or people more susceptible to infections like pink eye. Pedrozo also worries about what the smoke is doing to his body. He points out that wildfires have burned homes and businesses nearby.  If you smell smoke it is probably not so good. But when you smell rubber and plastic  real strong chemicals i just think that is what you know we really really need to avoid.  In recent years Glenn County where Pedrozo's was farm is located suffered 85 days of smoke on average per year. That is up from 56 days a decade ago. This area is one of the smokiest places in the country. That is according to an analysis of federal satellite images. The California Newsroom partnered with Stanford University's Environmental Change and Human Outcomes Lab. Allison Saldana  is the journalist who crunched the numbers.  Places far across the country are also now witnessing an increase in the number of smog days that they are exposed to.  Places like Columbus Ohio Philadelphia and Washington D.C.  Boston was recording two weeks of smog you know less than a decade ago and now we are looking at close to a month.  So yes where are we in the hospital?  So that was the cafeteria...  In a small hospital in Willows near Pedrozo's farm Dr. Jared Garrison shows me around.  I am taking you down to where the clinic is.  He is the county health officer and says the smoke is especially dangerous for people who have lung and heart conditions.  It is associated with sudden cardiac death so people just kind of dying all of a sudden. There is data that shows this linked with cancer.  Garrison says that poor air quality has hastened the death of some of his patients with lung disease. Here in California the smoke is sending more people to the hospital. Our investigation found 30000 more hospitalizations for lung and heart conditions in 2018 than just two years before.   Everybody was on the road coming home...  On hazy days Vietnam veteran Larry George is stuck inside his two-bedroom house watching TV.  You get feeling like you are not allowed to go out. You know you do not have the freedom you had.  George has a chronic lung problem. Even walking a few steps to his pickup truck is difficult.  You know it is like you have been running. That is kind of the way you get to feeling. You get to where  - like that.  So he is thinking of moving to Illinois to escape the bad air quality. He would live with his stepdaughter. The mega fires causing this smoke are becoming more frequent due to the warming climate. And if they continue more Americans might also see their lives changed because of the dangerous air. For NPR news I am Farida Jhabvala Romero in Willows Calif. 