 The Drug Enforcement Administration issued a public safety alert today about a wave of deadly counterfeit pain pills being sold on the black market in the U.S. Fake OxyContin Percocet and other knockoff pills are increasingly contaminated with lethal quantities of fentanyl. NPR addiction correspondent Brian Mann joins us to talk about this. And Brian tell us what the DEA is saying about the danger.  Yeah they are really worried Ari. This is the first time in six years the DEA has raised a red flag like this. They say it is now incredibly deadly when people buy these fake pills. I spoke about this today with the DEA's Anne Edgecomb.  The really alarming part is the percentage of pills that have a lethal dose. We have found that 2 in 5 pills has a lethal dose.  And the DEA says young people who might be experimenting with these pills they are the most vulnerable because they have not built up any tolerance to these opioids.  Where are these fake pills coming from?  Well drug cartels in Mexico are the major suppliers of the black market in the U.S. I spoke last year about this with the DEA's Matthew Donahue who is a top official trying to slow the trafficking. And he said you know these tablets look completely authentic. They are hard to tell apart from pharmacy-issued pills but the dosage of fentanyl is completely unpredictable.  So it is not like they are you know really you know measuring each dosage the milligrams of fentanyl that goes in each pill. And that is what a concern is for us when high school kids or anybody on the streets wants to self-medicate. And they think they are buying a pill that is coming from a pharmaceutical company where most likely it is coming from the jungles in Mexico.  And according to the DEA Ari they have seized more than 9 million of these counterfeit pills already this year. That is more than they seized in the last two years combined.  But despite all those seizures these pills are still widely available?  Yeah and the DEA is really straightforward about this. They are trying of course to stop the flow of these fake pills when possible. But this is a quote from DEA. They say they are easy to purchase and widely available. And the number of these knockoffs that contain that fentanyl has risen more than 400 over the last couple of years. One complication is that more and more of these pills are being sold over the internet and on e-commerce sites which means they are easy to order on any smartphone. One note Ari - this public safety alert does not raise concerns about legitimate medications sold through licensed pharmacies so officials say those medications are safe if taken according to a prescription.  Put this into context for us with the wider overdose crisis.  Well it continues to really spiral dangerously. Ninety-three thousand people died from overdoses last year - a painful new record. And the numbers just keep rising. We are on track to top 100000 fatal overdoses this year. Fentanyl is a big part of that but federal officials are also really worried about a spike in methamphetamine use. The DEA said today they are also seeing methamphetamines mixed into these fake pills especially ones designed to look like the stimulant Adderall.  Does the Biden administration have any solutions here ways to counter this?  Yeah the White House is urging Congress to allocate more than 10 billion for drug treatment and health care programs to help people struggling with addiction. But efforts to stop these drug cartels from operating inside Mexico have largely unraveled over the last couple of years. And that makes it almost impossible to stop these fake pills from coming into the U.S. So what the DEA is basically saying today Ari is pretty much a simple message of buyer beware. And unfortunately for many people struggling with substance use disorder involving opioids and methamphetamines those kinds of warnings just have not been very effective.  That is NPR addiction correspondent Brian Mann. Thank you.  Thank you so much.  