 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Ari Shapiro. The worst Ebola outbreak in history has claimed the life of another top doctor. Doctor Sheik Umar Khan had been treating infected patients in Sierra Leone. He was praised as a national hero. Health ministry officials in the country confirmed his death today. And we begin this hour with a look at the toll the disease is taking on health workers. We will also ask how far scientists are from having an Ebola vaccine.  More than 670 people have been killed across West Africa this year mostly in Sierra Leone Guinea and Liberia. That is where an American doctor is fighting for his life. Kent Brantly is 33 years old and was trained in Fort Worth Texas. Lauren Silverman of member station KERA begins our coverage.  For the past few months Kent Brantly has been caring for Ebola patients in Liberia's capital Monrovia. Then on Wednesday he realized he had a fever one of the first signs of the disease. He immediately put himself into an isolation ward. From there his condition deteriorated.  He is still conversing and he is in isolation but he is seriously ill with a very grave prognosis.  Doctor David McCray has been a close friend since Brantly started his residency at Fort Worth's John Peter Smith Hospital in 2009. The two spoke Monday and McCray says Brantly was tired and quiet but remains in good spirits.  He is very firm in his resolve that he made the right decision that this was a calling that he accepted and that he is where he needs to be.  After completing his residency in Texas Brantly his wife and two kids headed to west Africa to work with the Christian aid group Samaritan's Purse. When the epidemic broke out he was asked to become director of an Ebola isolation ward in a Monrovia hospital. Brantly says he is certain he did not violate any guidelines and is not sure how he got infected. Brantly new providing healthcare in Liberia would be challenging and that was even before the Ebola epidemic but caring for people in need his friends say is always what he wanted to do.  He intentionally cares about other people more than he cares about himself. He is a great guy.  Kent Smith attended the same Fort Worth church as Brantly for years. Smith and worshipers gathered at the Southside Church of Christ earlier this week to pray for Brantly. Two other members of Brantly's medical team in Liberia also contracted Ebola. One died and the other American Nancy Writebol is still sick. There is no cure for Ebola and about 60 percent of patients die but doctors on the ground say good supportive care early does help.  Getting somebody who is sick like that back to a 21st-century hospital with all its supportive measures would be potentially life-saving.  Cedric Spak is an infectious disease specialist at Baylor Medical Center in Dallas. He is done medical work in rural Nigeria and says hospitals in developing countries often lack infection control measures and supportive care that are standard in the U.S. Melissa Strickland a spokesperson with Samaritan's Purse says they explored trying to evacuate Brantly and Writebol to a hospital in Europe or the U.S. but have not been able to do so.  There are organizations that will not transport Ebola patients because they do not have the kind of isolation protocols in place that would be necessary or just because of the fear of transporting an Ebola patient.  Brantly's family returned to the U.S. last week for a wedding. Brantly did not have any symptoms when he last saw his family and the CDC says people with Ebola are only contagious when they are showing symptoms. David McCray says his friend Brantly wants people to focus on the larger epidemic not just his illness. For NPR News I am Lauren Silverman in Dallas. 