 There is been a surge of new cases in the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. More than 120 people have fallen ill in just three days. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention director Tom Frieden told NPR today it will take many months to stop the outbreak.  This is the biggest the most complex and the most difficult outbreak of Ebola that we have had to deal with.  Governments in West Africa say they have to take tough measures. Sierra Leone has declared a state of emergency and is sending in troops to quarantine the worst-hit communities. The government says it will also conduct house-to-house searches for the sick. Liberia is also considering quarantine and has ordered some schools closed. NPR global health correspondent Jason Beaubien is recently back from Sierra Leone and joins us now. And Jason give us an idea of why this has been so hard to control.  In part it is been so hard because it is in a very remote part of West Africa. And they simply do not have the resources there to deal with an Ebola outbreak. There is never been in an Ebola outbreak there before so people do not have experience with it. These are some of the poorest countries in the world. Up where I was in sort of the northeastern corner of Sierra Leone that butts up into Guinea and Liberia they only have four ambulances for a district that covers - in terms of miles it is not that large but it takes about four or five hours to cover the entire district. And they simply do not have the resources there to go out and find every Ebola patient pick up the bodies. They are simply overwhelmed.  Now as we said Sierra Leone has declared a state of emergency and is sending soldiers to quarantine certain areas including where you just were. How do you think that is going to be received and will it be effective?  I think this is just going to ramp up the overall fear that is there. They are sort of was a quarantine already when I was there. They would already set up sort of zones where to go from one area to another you had to go through a police roadblock. They took your temperature. They make you wash your hands with a chlorine solution. Basically if you had a fever they were not going to let you go through there. So they were already screening to try to keep Ebola patients inside that area. So I do not know how much more they can do unless they are going to stop everyone from going in and out. So I think it is just going to really terrify people even more. People are already very afraid. You know they simply do not know whether the person next to them might have it or not. And bringing in troops I think is going to end up ramping up the fear factor around this.  Finally Jason your thoughts on covering this story. I mean you spent time in Sierra Leone. Are you concerned? And how did you try and stay safe?  You know Ebola is really a frightening disease in part because it is incurable. It tends to kill most of the people who get it. And even me knowing how it is transmitted - I have studied up on it. I have reported on it - not on the ground before but from a distance. It is really -  - it gets to you. This one really does get to you. You know I did everything I could to stay safe. I stayed away from people did not shake hands. You know I heard one morning that one of the doctors from Doctor Without Borders had cut himself shaving so he was not being allowed to go to work that day so I stopped shaving. I only ate the overcooked food at the hotel. I did everything I could. And yet still when I got back here - I have just been counting off the days to get through the 21-day incubation period for Ebola. I know it is a two-to-21-day incubation period. And you know I have got a calendar and I am just mentally checking it off. And you know currently I am on day 12. And I should not rationally be worried about that but it really does affect you that way. And it sort of just hangs over you. So you have to imagine what people who are there and seeing their neighbors die and seeing ambulances go by with people in what look like spacesuits driving - how it is affecting them.  That is global health correspondent Jason Beaubien. Jason thank you.  You are welcome. 