 Rural health providers are raising alarms about a new vaccine mandate that will start as soon as next month. The Biden administration wants every person working in a health care setting from hospitals to dialysis centers to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19. But in rural areas where vaccination rates are low and hiring is already difficult they are worried there could be staffing shortages. NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith has more.  Adam Willmann was born in Goodall Witcher Hospital in Clifton Texas. Now he is its CEO and he is worried his rural hospital may have to stop delivering babies.  This mandate goes through - there are key personnel. OB is a very critical point for us.  Some of the experienced nurses in the obstetrics department are not vaccinated and Willmann says they do not intend to be.  They are also near retirement age. And a few of them have already voiced that I will just retire. And then a couple other nurses said well I will just go work for my husband's construction company.  Willmann has been pushing hard to get all of his 250 employees to take one of the COVID vaccines and he is gotten to about 70 vaccinated - well above the rate in the surrounding community. But it is still not enough.  But we are kind of at that point where everybody that is willing to get it got it.  That stagnation of vaccination rates in medical facilities all over the country is what drove the Biden administration to go for a mandate. Chiquita Brooks-LaSure is the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.  We did not undertake this decision lightly.  Her agency is working on the details of a rule that will put the mandate in place. She knows some hospitals and nursing homes are worried it will cause staffing shortages. But she says health care workers who are not vaccinated cause their own staffing challenges when they get sick or have to quarantine. And there is the matter of safety.  And it is very clear from the data that staff who remain unvaccinated are affecting both the patients who are coming in to the facilities as well as their colleagues.  Brooks-LaSure says it may not end up being as bad as some people fear. She points to Maine where the governor already put in a mandate.  Even though there was a lot of noise around what these mandates mean the actual number of health care workers who quit is very limited.  In New Hampshire's rural Coos County North Country Health Care is out ahead of the forthcoming federal mandate.  Our D-Day is October 23. On October 23 one way or another our workforce will be 100 compliant with the vaccine.  Tom Mee is CEO of the hospital system with about a thousand employees. He says the decision was easy to make because it was the right thing to do but difficult to implement - complete with hate mail. But it is working. A month ago 78 of staff were vaccinated. Now it is 90.  When this is done we will be exiting a handful of employees from the system. That is inevitable.  Some may quit. Others will be forced to leave. He is had to lay people off for financial reasons before but never something like this.  It is a scene that you are going to see repeated throughout the United States. And I have been in health care for 34 years. I have never seen anything like this before.  He expects to be able to shift staff around and keep serving patients as usual. But in many areas there is not a deep bench of qualified people looking to get into health care especially right now says Alan Morgan CEO of the National Rural Health Association.  Even if it would impact only 2- to 5 of the hospital staff that is going to create a service disruption. Are we going to have to transfer existing patients? Are we going to have to put a halt on incoming patients?  He is urging the Biden administration to come up with a plan to help with expected staff shortages once the mandate goes into effect - something like surging in people from the U.S. Public Health Service or the National Guard or FEMA. He is been asking and so far has not gotten a reassuring response. Tamara Keith NPR News. 