 Informing this week's changes was an alarming internal slide deck from the CDC. These slides surfaced publicly last night indicating that the delta variant is as contagious and as easily spreadable as the chicken pox even by fully vaccinated people. The CDC slideshow summed up the fight against the coronavirus with these four words - the war has changed. And to help us understand this continually evolving situation Dr. Anthony Fauci joins us again. Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you. It is good to be with you.  Good to have you with us. So we now know that the CDC's decision to change its masking guidance was based largely on what was learned from an outbreak on Cape Cod. And before we get into that decision can you just first tell us a little more about why the data from that outbreak in Provincetown was so startling?  Well the reason that it is startling if you want to use that terminology is that we had a considerable number of individuals who were there who were vaccinated who got infected. And clearly they were transmitting the infection among themselves. So when you have a vaccinated person who gets infected previously prior to the delta variant a vaccinated person generally has a level of virus in their nasal pharynx considerably lower than an unvaccinated person. So that would make it unlikely that a vaccinated person who had a breakthrough infection would transmit the virus to someone else. The fact that you have a high level of virus in the nasal pharynx of an infected person who has a breakthrough namely was vaccinated but had a breakthrough infection and is now capable of transmitting that infection to an uninfected person that is the thing that is a bit alarming in the sense of triggering the change in the guidelines that the CDC...  Right.  ...Has put forth regarding vaccinated people and the wearing of masks in indoor settings geographically when you are in a high-risk area.  Right. But the thing is Dr. Fauci have not we known for some time now how transmissible the delta variant is? Like why did it take the outbreak in Provincetown for the CDC to take action and change its masking guidance?  What we did know was how transmissible the virus was among unvaccinated people. So it was very clear that when you compared the delta variant with for example the alpha variant it was clearly considerably more transmissible. The new data show that it is so transmissible that even a vaccinated person who has a breakthrough infection can now transmit it. That is the new data. There is a difference between knowing...  Right.  ...That it is transmissible in general versus it is also transmissible when you have a breakthrough infection of a vaccinated person.  OK. Well let us talk about the internal CDC slides that were first surfaced last night by The Washington Post. As we heard earlier these slides urge officials to quote acknowledge the war has changed. What do you understand that phrase to mean the war has changed?  Yeah. Again you know phrases like that mean different things to different people. I think the simplest way to get people to understand is that we are dealing with a different virus. The delta virus has characteristics that is different than the alpha variant and other variants we have dealt with. So when someone says the war has changed what it really means the virus has changed and we have got to keep up in our understanding and what our policies are related to the fact that we are dealing now with a more formidable virus. Having said that the solution to all of this is to get as many people vaccinated as we possibly can. I think the thing that gets lost in the recent messaging about delta and transmission and things like that is that vaccinated people are quite protected. There are some breakthrough infections no doubt about that that you expect. But the vaccines are very effective in protecting you and extremely effective in protecting you against severe disease.  Well I was just going to bring that up because I can see someone out there who is hearing about more breakthrough infections with high viral loads and thinking well what is the use of getting vaccinated...  Yeah.  ...If I can still get COVID and I can still infect others with COVID? So clarify your reassurance to those people out there who are vaccinated.  I would be happy to do that. There is a really really good reason to get vaccinated and that is to save yourself from getting a severe infection that would lead to hospitalization and deaths. There is one striking number that people who choose to remain unvaccinated should remember. In the United States if you look at all of the COVID deaths 99.5 of them occur among unvaccinated people and 0.5 occur among vaccinated people. So if ever there was a statistic that is striking to tell you the difference between a vaccinated and an unvaccinated person that is it.  Finally if we are going to take this war analogy further on what other fronts should this war be fought? I mean should we be considering postponing mass gatherings again? Should we be somewhat returning to where we were during the winter outbreaks with outdoor masking guidelines...  Right.  ...Stay-at-home directives? What do you think?  I do not think we are there yet at all and I hope we do not ever get there. I believe if we do the things that you and I have been speaking about now at the same time as getting more and more people vaccinated we can turn this around. You know it is one of those things that sometimes you have a problem in a situation in a public health arena where you do not have an effective intervention. That is very frustrating. Right now we have an intervention that could turn all of this around and that is what we have got to do.  Dr. Anthony Fauci director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases thank you very much for joining us again.  My pleasure. Thank you for having me. 