 And I am Robert Siegel. This week were examining risk and how we handle statistics and probability. And today we are at the doctor's office. Many of us get confused by claims of how much the risk of say a heart attack might be reduced by taking medicine for it. And doctors can get confused too. Karen Sepucha runs the Health Decision Sciences Center at Boston's Massachusetts General Hospital.  We did a survey of our primary care physicians a few years back and we asked them how confident are you in your ability to talk about numbers and probabilities of outcomes with your patients. And what we found surprised us a little bit. Only about 20 percent of the physicians said they were very comfortable using numbers and explaining probabilities to patients.  Doctors like Leigh Simmons typically use words instead of numbers.  As doctors we tend to often use words like very small risk very unlikely very rare very likely high risk.  Simmons is an internist. She is part of a group practice of internists who provide primary care at Mass General. Those words she says can be unclear to a patient.  People may hear a small risk and what they hear is very different from what I have got in my mind. Or what is a very small risk to me its a very big deal to you if it is happened to a family member.  Doctor Simmons is part of a program called Shared Decision-Making. It gives patients online written and visual information and one aim is to make risk understandable to bridge the gap between percent probabilities and words.  Most doctors would say if they know people have risk factors like diabetes and high blood pressure and they smoke our concern is extremely high. I am often surprised when I put that into say a calculator and I see that the number is only in fact 25 percent. In my mind I am conceptualizing something even higher than that but for most of us that is the threshold that is quite high - one in four.  One in four is a high number.  Yeah.  You know one can look at that and say hey the glass is three quarters empty. I mean its you know the odds are in my favor.  A lot of people will say that.  So Doctor Simmons and others who use shared decision-making tools are trying to develop better ways to tell patients about risk.  Have a seat.  OK.  So Joe I thought we might talk a little bit about your cholesterol.  Joe Bionco  of Charlestown Massachusetts is 60. And rather than just tell him how much at risk he is of a heart attack rather than give him a number Dr. Simmons makes it visual. She shows him a computer screen displaying a visual calculator developed by the Mayo Clinic. Imagine a hundred green dots arranged on a 10 x 10 grid each dot with a little smile symbol on it.  If we look at each of these dots as one person it will show us in the next 10 years how many of these people might be expected to have a heart attack. So we put in your age.  Once Joe Bionco's  information is entered some of those green dots will turn yellow and those smiles will turn upside down into frowns.  And then looking back at the most recent cholesterol numbers your good cholesterol is 34 and as we have talked about I would like to see that a little bit higher.  When Bionco's profile is submitted and the screen represents 100 men like him 12 dots turn yellow 88 remain green. Twelve percent of men like him will have a heart attack. He is seeing a graphic representation of that probability. And those unhappy yellow dots are literally marginal. And little more than one vertical row of them running up the right side greatly outnumbered by the still smiling green dots.  It looks like my chances are pretty slim. What is that? Ten 12 percent.  Twelve percent.  Bionco had decided earlier not to take a statin medicine to lower the risk of a heart attack. And the 12 frowning yellow dots out of 100 do not change his mind.  Twelve percent is not bad. If it was 25 percent - but I do not - that does not look like threatening news to me.  Then Dr. Leigh Simmons enters another factor into the Mayo Clincs online computer. What if all 100 men fitting Joe Bionco's profile take a statin drug every day for the next 10 years? The number of yellow dots on the screen the percent who will have a heart attack changes for the better.  That number goes down to seven. So five people are saved from a heart attack by taking a medication. Some people look at that and say wow that is almost cutting the risk in half. Other people say well I do not know it is still 88 people who did not benefit either way and only five who had a benefit. How does that ring to you?  If the facts support it then I would take you know if it makes my decision valid by looking at the graph. Substantiates it.  After Bionco left her office Dr. Simmons told us how that graph has made her job easier.  In his case he has had a long-standing concern about taking medications. And he has found it helpful to look at things more in that graphic form. So to engage him in that way has been pretty useful for me and not holding out an absolute - you must take a medication - but that I am going to work with you to improve your overall health has been useful. So I am in agreement with him that holding off on a medication is a reasonable choice.  About you and this evening?  Well I have been having increased hip stiffness and pain.  We are still a Mass General but no longer primary care. We are now in the orthopedics department. Jim Westburg of Nashua New Hampshire has come to see surgeon Andy Freiberg. Dr. Freiberg is in charge of hips and knees.  I just want to rotate your hips. Tell me if anything hurts or is weird. I will not do it hard. Does that hurt to rotate it in?  A little right there.  Westburg is a very active 59. He hikes swims skis and rock climbs when he is not at work selling 3D printers. He wants a hip replacement and in the course of examining him Andy Freiberg cites some numbers.  Your risk of infection is probably under 1 percent. Probably close to half a percent.  That less than 1 percent risk does not deter Jim Westburg. Before his appointment he had received a shared decision-making packet booklet and a DVD all about hip replacement. He said that was helpful. He said he did some other research and just as important anecdotally people he knew who had the surgery and were thrilled with the outcome. I asked how important it had been to hear numbers - percent probabilities attached to say the risk of infection.  I think they are fairly important because I actually have an engineering degree. I have a technical background. So I - maybe I am a little bias but numbers do mean something to me and the risk we talked about of a half to 1 percent does not really concern me that much.  If he would said 15-20 percent risk of infection?  That would be a concern.  That would be a serious concern.  Yeah.  Can words suffice in that context? Is it OK to say the risk is really very low or it is very rare or do you need to hear a number attached to it?  I like to hear a number attached to it. It do personally think the numbers are important. I mean how somebody says well it is a moderate risk. Well what does moderate mean? With numbers its much clearer.  That is Jim Westburg of Nashua New Hampshire. And so Audie we have heard about communicating the probability of a successful operation or an illness by words with images or using numbers. And Mr. Westburg says numbers are much clearer than words. Here is one measure of that that I came across that I want to try out on you if you do not mind. It is about how common side effects are for certain drugs. The FDA urges drug companies to give numerical values for risk not and I am quoting from their website here not vague terms such as rare or infrequent. But a few years ago the European Union matched a scale of terms for side effects - very common common uncommon rare and very rare with numerical definitions for each of those five levels of frequencies. So what - here's the question to you - what percent of cases do you think qualified for the top level a very common side effect?  Well when you think about like ads for drugs and everything you always hear so many side effects. I do not know. So maybe I will say 73 percent.  Well the E.U. defined a side effect as very common if it occurred in than more than 10 percent of cases.  Oh wow. That is all?  That is all. And what if a drug label said according to those E.U. definitions that a particular side effect was very rare - the least frequent probability they defined - what percent of cases do you think?  Well very rare - that is one I want to hear. You know one percent or less.  Actually in this case a very rare side effect according to that European Union scale is something that occurs in fewer than 100th of 1 percent of cases.  Oh so I am willing to take on more risk it sounds like.  I have asked several colleagues and friends over the past several weeks what these words suggest to them in the way of numbers and the answers are all over the map. Tomorrow in fact we will hear more about numbers and prescription drugs. 