 Lastly in All Tech for the first official week of summer thoughts about getting away from it all. It is vacation season a time when some people try to take a break from our online-all-the-time culture.  Putting down the smartphone avoiding emails staying off social media. Some people do that like tech writer Mat Honan. It is his job to be connected. So when he goes camping...   I love to go out to the Sierras. And you can be in some really beautiful places very quickly that are very far from any cell phone tower.  Honan says with the advent of wearable tech and ever more widely available Internet connections disconnecting will soon be an important learned skill.  The information is going to be there - like it is coming. And it is going to be coming at us in ways where we cannot avoid it. And so we have got to have the discipline to take those devices off - to turn them off. And it is going to have to be done with intention because otherwise there is going to be no escaping it.  So a week a day - Mat Honan of Wired Magazine says take a break. Just unplug. Then there is Paul Bier a software company executive.   I have a 15-year-old daughter who is finishing up her sophomore year...  In high school. And Bier says his daughter knew he thought she spent too much time on Facebook.  So she offered to stop using Facebook for a while if I would pay her.  Two-hundred dollars six months off social media.  I thought she was joking. I said you could not live without Facebook.  But she did it with ease. And she was baffled when the Internet and TV went crazy with her story.  It warmed my heart to hear her talk about how useless 99 percent of the chatter in social media traffic is.  She turned down all interviews by the way.  There are other stories like this. A teacher who waived an exam for students who would give up their phones. Another writer who stayed off all things Internet for a year. He said he learned it was not the Internet that was causing his problems. It was him.  So we want to hear your story. Tell us about your attempt at digital detox - a week a day. Tell us what you did and tell us how it went.  You do have to use the Internet to let us know on Twitter or Facebook. You can find us npratc. And our blog is npr.orgalltech. 