 Gatorade is going organic with some new drinks. For some Americans organic symbolizes a healthier choice. But is it really better for you? NPR's Allison Aubrey reports.  Americans guzzle billions of dollars of Gatorade each year. And the brand has come to stand for more than just a drink.   Alabama back on top.  Think of all the football championship moments like this Rose Bowl game several years back when players doused their coach in an ice-cold Gatorade bath.   Oh boy.  Yeah they got him.  Some crimson Gatorade .  .  They did a good job.  Going forward these Gatorade baths just might be organic.  Yeah Gatorade announced its first organic product line called G Organic.  That is Beth Bloom an analyst with the market research firm Mintel. She says Gatorade currently commands more than 70 percent of the sports drink market. And by going organic and taking artificial ingredients and colors out she says Gatorade may be trying to appeal to the consumer demand for healthier natural products.  Yeah definitely health is a driver in the purchase of organic products. We are seeing that about half of consumers who purchase organic products do so because they think that they are healthier.  But is this new line of organic Gatorade any better for you? I put the question to Haemi Choi. She is a sports medicine doctor at Loyola University Medical Center.  I guess in the sense that it is more natural but I do not think it is healthier per se. It is pretty similar.  Take for instance the sugar content. With the new organic line Choi says it looks like Gatorade has made a switch.  They are also using organic cane sugar instead of the sugar dextrose blends that were in the original Gatorade.  But Choi says nutritionally this makes little difference. The two sugars have about the same calories and the same effect on the body. Choi says her concern is this. Unless you are exercising vigorously for an hour or longer and sweating a lot you do not need any kind of sports drinks organic or not. You do not need electrolyte replacement or all the added sugar if you are just out for a casual jog or bike ride. Besides Choi says for most people there is a better option.  I say drink water .  Lots of dietitians agree. Lisa Cimperman is a spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. She says the new organic label may lead consumers to think organic Gatorade is healthier for them.  I think it is a marketing ploy to apply this organic health halo to this product.  And that halo will likely cost you more - about an extra 50 cents per bottle. Allison Aubrey NPR News. 