 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. The Obama administration announced late today that it is delaying a key part of the Affordable Care Act. Businesses will now have another year to prove that they are providing health insurance or that their employees otherwise have health insurance from some other source. Companies had complained that the reporting requirements to prove this were too complicated and too burdensome. NPR's Julie Rovner joins me now to explain. Hi Julie.  Hey Robert.  I understand that people had been expecting some parts of Obamacare to be delayed but I gather this one comes as a surprise. What had businesses been expecting to happen this coming January?  Well starting next January 1st most individuals will be required to have health insurance. And along with that employers with 50 or more workers are required to provide health insurance to their workers or else pay - also pay fines. That part the part for employers is now being delayed by a year.  OK. The individual mandate will still take effect...  That is right.  ...come January 1st. But what accounts for the delay in the employers' mandate?  Well it turns out there was a problem. In order to make that work employers were going to have to provide an enormous amount of information mainly to the IRS also to these insurance exchanges and to insurers. A lot of detailed information about who they cover what level of coverage is provided how much it all costs in order to basically determine whether they are providing adequate insurance or not in order to determine what the penalty should be. The regulations to determine how that is going to work how that information is going to be exchanged those had not all been put out yet. And employers were growing increasingly agitated that they did not know what they had to do and when they had to do it.  You mean the law was there but the rules and regulations to implement the law were not really worked out.  Exactly. And so they were upset they were going to have to do all of these things and were not sure exactly how to do them. They were getting increasingly frustrated. And I think the administration finally decided that it just was not fair to say that you have to do these things even though we have not exactly told you how. And so they have decided to delay the - basically the reporting requirements for a year. But since they are delaying the reporting requirements they then cannot have the penalties go into effect either because they cannot assess the penalties without the reporting.  Well do all of these companies who have been complaining about these burdensome requirements as they saw them are they pleased with this delay of a year?  Yes indeed. At least the groups who have reacted so far seemed very pleased very relieved. The head of one group that I spoke to said it was a little pre-Fourth of July fireworks and I think he meant that in a very good way.  And are there other shoes that might yet drop? Are there other provisions of the law that might be delayed in taking effect before we reach January?  Well we know that the administration is behind on other things so other things could happen. But I do not know that we are expecting anything really of this level. But it is July. Other things could happen.  OK. Thanks Julie.  Thank you Robert.  That is NPR health policy correspondent Julie Rovner. 