 We would like to turn our attention back to the health care debate in this country and focus on one system that is getting some renewed attention in this country and that is a single-payer system. On Wednesday Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders the former presidential candidate introduced his Medicare-for-all bill. Sixteen Democrats co-sponsored the bill. And what was particularly noteworthy is that these Democrats included Kamala Harris Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker all being mentioned as possible future presidential contenders. Now with a Republican White House and Congress this particular idea would seem to have little possibility of passing in the near term. But the high-wattage support signals a major shift in the health care debate as well as an attempt to start a conversation in the U.S. about implementing a health care system that would cover most Americans. Recent polls suggest that a growing number of Americans do support a single-payer system which is the dominant model in other developed countries. We wanted to hear experiences from one such country so we called Dr. Danielle Martin. She is no relation to me as far as I know. She is a family physician and the vice president of medical affairs and health systems solutions at the Women's College Hospital in Toronto. And she was kind enough to join us now via Skype. Dr. Martin thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thanks for having me.  So the single-payer health care system means different things to different people. I mean places like the U.K. and New Zealand and Sweden all have systems that are described as single-payer. Could you just define what that means? And specifically what does it mean in Canada?  What I think many Americans often do not realize about the Canadian system is that it is not a government-delivered system. So people often talk about some kind of government-run health care or socialized medicine. We do not actually have that in Canada. What we have is a system where the insurance is paid for through a public plan. The services are paid for through general taxation. But the services are not delivered by government employees. As a family doctor I am not an employee of the government. I deliver my services in a very similar-looking model to American physicians. But instead of billing a private insurance company or billing my patients directly I simply bill the government plan.  A lot of Americans who live in certain parts of the country will be familiar with you know Canadians who come to the U.S. for their health care. And they attribute that to long wait times or perhaps an inability to get in to see the doctor that you want to see because of you know the long wait times. So is that true?  As you have identified I think it is critical for people to know that when Canadians are seriously sick when the issue is urgent they do not wait. So this myth that people are sort of dying in the streets waiting for care is just that. It is a myth. And part of the reason that we know that is because our health outcomes are good. So when compared to the U.S. on outcomes for a whole variety of different diagnoses including life expectancy including infant mortality all of these things actually Canadians - the Canadian system delivers as good or better care you know on average across the population than we see in the U.S. But you are absolutely right that when people have a non-urgent issue in Canada sometimes they they wait. Sometimes they wait in my opinion too long. And that is something that we are really grappling with here is trying to figure out how we are going to deal with that.  Before we let you go I do have to ask about the question of taxation. I mean you said earlier that the notion that this is a government takeover of health care is false that doctors are not you know government employees you know by and large unless they specifically work for the government which I assume that some do. But what about the question of taxation? I mean Americans are led to believe that the taxation burden in Canada is much higher particularly on individuals and that is largely due to the need to support the system. Is that true?  When we compare country to country I think it is important that we do a complete arithmetic. And that in addition to considering taxation rates we need to consider what Canadians are getting for their tax dollars and what they are not having to pay for in terms of the private insurance market. I mean here's the reality. If you look internationally the United States pays more per capita for health care than any other country in the world. You are closing in now on 20 percent of your GDP in terms of what you spend. So there is a lot of money being spent publicly and privately on health care services in the U.S. It seems to me that that ought to be more than enough to pay for health care for everybody. I mean we in Canada spend 10 percent of our GDP on health care services and we cover virtually every single resident of our land - on our land. And so that is I think the more important question is not how much do you pay via taxes but how much do you pay via taxes plus out-of-pocket plus for private insurance? And who is in who is left out? And who is at risk of not having coverage when they need it most? And the last thing you need when you are sick is to be worried on top of your illness about how you are going to pay for your care.  That is Dr. Danielle Martin. As I said we do not believe that we are related. She is a physician and the vice president of medical affairs and health systems solutions at the Women's College Hospital in Toronto. She was kind enough to join us via Skype. Dr. Martin thank you so much for speaking with us today.  Thanks for having me. 