 Being pregnant can be stressful. There is all the stuff you are not supposed to eat the medications you should avoid figuring out whether to do genetic tests and all kinds of conflicting advice. And now some women and their partners have to consider the risks of Zika especially in Florida where local mosquitoes have transmitted the virus. Elizabeth Etkin-Kramer is hearing more and more questions about Zika from her patients. She is an OB-GYN whose office is in Miami Beach which is one of the affected areas. And she is with us now. Hi there.  Hi how are you?  Good. So when you meet with a pregnant patient or someone who is thinking about getting pregnant what do you tell them about Zika? I mean how do you talk about this threat now?  The first thing I make sure to do in a patient who is trying to get pregnant or who already is pregnant is you have got to assess their risk. We always want to make sure to know if they have traveled or live in or work in areas where local Zika is being transmitted. And once you have established that risk then you can test and see if they have been affected.  And so once someone has been diagnosed as being affected then what happens next? I mean is there like a regular schedule of testing that happens?  Sure. The woman can choose to do additional tests such as an amniocentesis to see if a fetus is infected or she can follow the fetus with sequential serial ultrasounds to check for birth defects that can affect a fetus.  I mean one of the frustrating things about Zika must be that you know this fetal brain damage might not be visible until far into a pregnancy.  Correct and that is one of the scarier thoughts that we do not know the success rate of picking up all the potential complications of Zika virus to a fetus. Microcephaly is just one of them. We are finding more calcifications in fetal brain or an effect on vision or perhaps hearing. But we have no idea. This is completely new to us.  So you have never dealt with something like this.  Correct this is a game changer in the United States.  You know say something does not appear until 20 weeks into pregnancy. That is what could happen right?  Even later and then what does the patient do? Options are limited.  Explain why.  Well they can choose to continue a pregnancy or they can choose termination.  But Florida law prohibits termination after 24 weeks is not that correct?  Uh-huh correct...  So if something is not determined until after that that would not be an option for the woman.  No unless they choose to go elsewhere.  As an OB-GYN in the middle of this do you feel like people are coming to you scared and you are in a position to try to kind of talk them down?  Absolutely. But when you are dealing with - there is an emotional component that you cannot - no matter what you say it is frightening. I saw a patient today who is seven weeks pregnant. And her husband said to me should we move? Should we go away? I said do you have the resources? And he said yes. And I said well if you want to decrease your chances of getting infected with a mosquito carrying Zika then sure. But the majority of my patients do not have that option.  Right and so for people who you know do not have that option...  Right.  ...The best advice you can give is stay away from mosquitoes.  Well prevention - avoiding mosquito bites wearing long sleeves insect repellent keeping in air conditioning keeping windows closed - all those things can decrease transmission of the virus.  Beyond the advice to wear insect repellent and avoid mosquitoes how do you counsel people about sexual transmission?  It is ironic that patients are trying to get pregnant or are already pregnant and we are telling them to use condoms. But that is exactly what we are telling them to do.  So for someone who is thinking of having a child do you say wait until winter?  You know that is something that is very easy to say to a young patient to a 20-year-old. But how do you say that to a 40-year-old who is dealing with decreasing ovarian reserve and who wanted to get pregnant yesterday - because every minute for them counts.  Dr. Elizabeth Etkin-Kramer is an OB-GYN in Miami Beach. Thanks so much for your time today.  Thank you. 