 In Liberia more than 1500 people have died of Ebola but dozens have survived. Health care workers say over and over again if you get medical help early enough you stand a better chance of recovery. The virus first hit Liberia in March in Lofa County in the far north when a traveler crossed the border from neighboring Guinea. NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton has been speaking to Ebola survivors in northern Liberia.  A few brick buildings stand to the right of a cluster of large tents and the high-risk isolation unit that make up Doctors Without Borders Ebola Center in the northern town of Foya. While health workers busy themselves caring for the patients on one side with all of the stress hard work death and sorrow that entails there is an oasis of joy and relief on the other side. That is where Ebola survivors congregate. These former patients who have recovered from the virus lift the collective spirits of the unit. 39-year-old former teacher Harrison Sakilla cannot stop smiling.  I have to smile. I am the first survivor for the case management center here from Ebola. I am very fine even though I have lost seven person.  Seven members of your own family?  Yes. My father my mother my sister my niece my big brother and my niece's daughter. But right now I am alive. I am very very very happy. You see me smiling. Nothing but smiling because of happiness that I am alive.  Harrison Sakilla and other survivors gather together in their own little center beyond the pop up tents. Several are helping Doctors Without Borders looking after orphaned children and performing other tasks. That is the case of 21-year-old Bendu Borlay. With a sleeping infant tied to her back she tells NPR the person she loved most - her big sister who raised her as a child after their mother died has now died of Ebola. Borlay says as a survivor that is hard to live with.   She was the sister who gave me courage and even in the Ebola Treatment Center she was still there for me as a mother. She was encouraging me to eat well take my drugs drink a lot of water but I learned that she was not doing what she was encouraging me to do. So when I heard that she died I felt very bad because now I am a survivor and out of the Ebola Center. I do not have anybody else to look up to as a mother.  But Borlay says she is finding a way to give back for her own survival looking after Mamaya Kane the 15-month-old baby girl strapped to her back. Borlay never met the infant's mother who died of the virus she says. And she adds that the baby's grandmother was being cared for in the isolation unit.   That is the reason I am still at the Ebola treatment center volunteering to take care of this baby. The grandmother tested positive but the baby tested negative. So Doctors Without Borders were looking for somebody to volunteer to take care of the baby.  An hour and a half's drive away in Barkedu a dusty village that has been badly hit by the Ebola outbreak two 18-year-old friends Alieu Manor and Musa Bayor still look slightly overwhelmed and timid. They too are survivors recently discharged from the Foya Ebola unit. Alieu Manor shares something in common with Bendu Borlay. Manor also took care of a baby after recovering from the virus a three-month-old infant whose mother died of Ebola.  . I said give me the child. I will care for the child. So that was how they handed the child over to me.  Do you feel that you love that little boy?  . Yes. I thought I would have stayed there for the child but I have to leave the baby there because my parents were worried. They needed me back home. I feel so attached to the child. That is why I smiled when you asked me the question.  And he smiles again shyly saying he is following up on baby Elijah's progress. With moist eyes Musa Bayor stands listening to his friend. Bayor is quietly emotional as he shares his own story of survival and slow psychological recovery from Ebola. After his older brother who was his main benefactor became sick and died of the virus.  . I never thought I was going to survive. I thought I was actually going to die.  What was running through your mind?  . I was thinking of coming back home to Barkedu so I put a lot of strength in myself to take my medicine and drink a lot of water because I actually wanted to come back home to Barkedu.  These Liberian survivors are still grieving mourning the loss of family members to Ebola. But each says he or she has lived through a nightmare and is now determined to live life to the full. Ofeibea Quist-Arcton NPR News. 