 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. The rampage by a 20-year-old man last week in Isla Vista California has once again sparked a public conversation about mental health. Elliot Rodger killed six college students and then himself. The attack raises questions about when doctors should share information about a patient with his or her family. The privacy law known as HIPAA was created to help protect that information but it also presents a dilemma. Families of people with serious mental illnesses say they need information to care for their loved ones and they need it even when the patient does not want it shared. Jenny Gold has been speaking with a different family to better understand the issues.  Mark started to notice a change in his son just before his high school graduation. The family lives in Northern California where Mark is an ordained minister.  When my son Scott was 18-years-old - a little bit before but - there was a certain kind of deep aggressiveness that was starting to emerge. We just thought well this was just frustration with life or circumstances. Things had not been going well in school.  But he kept getting worse. In the middle of an argument one day Scott threw a small table at his mother. The police were called and Scott was taken to a psychiatric hospital. Still in school he was considered a minor by the hospital. So Mark and his wife were invited to meet with Scott's doctors and set up a treatment plan.  And so we thought oh this is kind of the way it works. Well that was pretty much the last time we had that opportunity.  Scott did not get better. The next time he was hospitalized he was treated as an adult and everything was different. The doctor said that because of the privacy law ouldnot talk to the family unless Scott granted permission which he did not.  We were shut out of the conversation. And I think that was the first time we really started feeling hopeless. As long as we could feel that we were in a conversation with them we had a sense of hope. All of the sudden there was a wall that went up and that was gone.  Scott did not want to talk to us and we are not using the family's last name to protect his identity. He is 24 now and he is been hospitalized a dozen times with the diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder. What little information his parents get comes from their insurance company. He is still on their plan. They get the bills and he is been living at home. But they have not spoken to his doctors again. Mark still has scars on his head from a recent altercation with his son.  It is like why am I as the one who is a primary caregiver protector or provider - whatever - I watch this could grow up and yet I am out of the circle. I am not there. I cannot be there to be of help.  Have you ever asked one of his providers like why cannot you talk to me?  I do not know if I have actually really gotten close enough to a doctor to ask him that. E.  I hear this all the time from families who are very frustrated.  Dr. E. Fuller Torrey is a psychiatrist and founder of the Treatment Advocacy Center. He says the federal privacy law just was not written with mental illness in mind.  Well when someone has cancer you can make the assumption that their brain is working normally so that they can make a informed decision as to whether or not they want their loved ones to know exactly what the details of the cancer is. You cannot make that assumption about people with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder because about half of them do not.  He says sharing information can be crucial.  Mothers and fathers still continue to provide the primary care for many many of the people who are severely mentally ill.  Torrey supports a bill in Congress that would make it easier for families to access information for patients with severe mental illness but not all advocates think that is a good idea. Jennifer Mathis is with the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law.  In order for people to feel like they can say important things to a mental health provider they need to know that it is going to be kept confidential.  She says weakening privacy protections might make patients less willing to seek treatment. And there are exceptions in the law if the patient might be a danger to themselves or others.  It is not HIPAA itself. It is that providers for any number of reasons are not talking to family members.  Those reasons could be anything from not fully understanding the HIPAA law to a fear of being sued.  People often talk about providers quote unquote hiding behind HIPAA. And I think that is very much what happens.  So changing the law Mathis says would not fix the problem. That is of little comfort to Mark in California.  It has been a very arduous journey and it continues. It is had its moments of extreme anguish - a lot of tears shed a lot of prayers prayed a lot of just absolute puzzlement at life itself.  For now as a father and as a minister he is relying on faith. For NPR News I am Jenny Gold.  Jenny Gold is a reporter with our partner Kaiser Health News. 