 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. The tide may be turning in the fight against childhood obesity. That is according to a new report from the Centers For Disease Control and Prevention. As NPR's Allison Aubrey reports the study points to small declines in obesity among low-income preschoolers across 18 states.  At a time when one in three children in the U.S. is overweight or obese the suggestion that the epidemic has hit its peak and may be starting to decline even in a small way is momentous. Here's CDC director Tom Frieden.  This is the first report to show that many states are having decreasing rates of obesity in our youngest children. And we are really encouraged.  There have been hints of a downward trend in childhood obesity for a while now especially in cities such as New York and Philadelphia where there have been lots of programs to fight the epidemic head-on. But this new report suggests that the progress is much broader. In states from Georgia to Missouri and New Jersey to South Dakota obesity rates among young children are down by about one percentage point. And in 20 more states Frieden says there is been a flatlining. Rates are holding steady. This may not sound like much but after decades of increases Frieden says this is a big deal.  This is some progress. We are beginning to see a tipping point. We are beginning to see the scales tip in a more favorable more healthy direction.  So what explains this momentum? Well Frieden points to federal policies. For instance more access to fresh food for low-income women and children who receive nutrition assistance. And he says increases in breastfeeding rates among new moms which has also been tied to a decreased risk of obesity. Pediatrician Margaret Desler of Kaiser Permanente who treats low-income families in Richmond California says another factor that may contribute to this downward trend is the change in how pediatricians and patients approach the issue. She says 10 years ago it was hard to talk about weight.  It was an awkward embarrassing conversation to have. I think it was painful to be asked about weight.  But that has changed immensely. Whether it is TV shows like The Biggest Loser or the megaphone that first lady Michelle Obama has brought to the issue our culture talks about obesity a lot. Desler says the way Kaiser Pemanente manages obesity prevention has changed too. For instance she now she charts kids' BMIs or body mass index at every visit and talks about it with the kids and their families.  I will ask questions about nutrition and styles of eating and content of eating and it just opens up communication lines.  And gets families asking the right questions. Pediatrician Tom Robinson of Stanford University says from his point of view as part of the push towards transparency it is little things that can help families make healthier choices. For instance he points to calorie postings on menu boards.  These small changes can magnify into very large improvements in health.  Now no one is claiming a victory over childhood obesity. Experts say it is still a very serious epidemic. But certainly there is widespread optimism given the evidence that the tide has begun to turn. Allison Aubrey NPR News. 