  some strains of tuberculosis strep typhoid fever malaria and MRSA - which is a staph infection. Mutations of these have outpaced new drug development. For more on drug-resistant infections we are joined by Dr. Arjun Srinivasan. He works on this issue with the CDC. Dr. Srinivasan welcome to the program. DR.  Thank you so much for having me.  We heard in Rob Stein's piece that overprescribing antibiotics is one of the problems. What do you do about that? What do you tell doctors - or patients for that matter?  Well there is a lot that we can do about that fortunately. I think there is - obviously - a shared responsibility both from patients and from doctors. As patients we need to be informed consumers. We should never demand antibiotics when our doctors do not think we need them. And as medical providers we need to consider very carefully when we are writing a prescription for an antibiotic. We need to make sure that the patient actually needs the antibiotic. And if they do we need to make sure that we are up on the latest information so we are giving exactly the right drug for - at exactly the right dose for exactly the right time.  And when an infection becomes increasingly drug-resistant as we are seeing what else can doctors do besides cutting back on prescribing antibiotics?  Yeah that is a great point that you are raising because there is a lot that can be done. In addition to improving the way we prescribe antibiotics we need to improve the way we control infections particularly in hospitals and other health-care settings. We can do a lot to prevent the spread of these organisms. And what we commonly see is that one patient will develop an infection with an antibiotic-resistant organism but then that organism will get into the environment. It will get onto the hands of health-care workers and then it will be spread from one patient to another. So another very effective step is to ensure that we are following what we call good infection control in our health-care facilities. And that means starting with hand-washing making sure people wash their hands and use the alcohol-based hand sanitizer. It is encouraging people - requiring them to wear gowns and gloves when those things are required. And what is been shown time and time again is that if we are very aggressive about following these measures we can really reduce the spread of these organisms in health care.  Dr. Srinivasan do you agree with people who say that the practice of giving antibiotics to livestock - you know putting it in the food chain - is contributing to this?  Well I think that it is a complex problem - anti-microbial resistance and the relationship between you know human use and agricultural use. And I think that while we need to improve the way we use antibiotics in livestock we cannot say that that is the exclusive solution to our problem. We know that there is a great deal of overuse of antibiotics in people as well.  What about the role of drug companies in this? Are they doing enough to develop new drugs that would help with this problem?  Right. Well you know in talking with people who are familiar with drug companies I think what you often hear is that first and foremost this is a very complex issue. It is not simple to develop new antibiotics. Another thing that you hear from drug companies is of course that these are drugs for which there is not a substantial profit margin. And as drug companies they have shareholders to whom they are responsible and they have a duty to try and develop drugs that are going to make money for their shareholders.  Would you say that there is a role for government in convincing the drug companies through one form or another that it is worth their while to come up with these antibiotics?  I think there is a growing sense that all of us - it is a shared resource you know all of us need these antibiotics. We liken them to roads in many ways. And as such there needs to be a collaboration if you will between governments and between the drug companies to try to solve this problem. And I think there is a growing sense that the only way we are going to really develop the number of new drugs that we need is for government and industry - all of us - to work together.  Dr. Srinivasan thanks so much for talking with us today.  Thank you.  Dr. Arjun Srinivasan is a medical epidemiologist with the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta. 