 Breakthrough infections - this is a relatively new phrase that unfortunately is becoming more and more familiar. COVID vaccinations are saving lives. They are keeping people out of the hospital. But we know they do not offer complete protection against infection. The virus particularly the new delta variant can break through. It has happened to some of us at NPR including our science reporter Will Stone. And he joins us now to talk about what he wishes he had known. Hey Will.  Hi Mary Louise.  Hi. I am glad you are here. I am so glad you are feeling better.  Yes I am thankfully.  Yeah. Walk us through how this unfolded. Did you know how you might have gotten sick?  Not exactly but I had been traveling in the days before I got sick. And like a lot of us I loosened up on my COVID precautions after getting vaccinated in the spring. And in late July I flew from Seattle to the East Coast to see my family and I went to a wedding with other people who were vaccinated. But I also stayed at a hotel I ate indoors at restaurants I hung around the city went to the gym - so quite a few places where I could have caught the virus.  Sure. Now may I ask how sick did you get?  It was rough definitely right up there with the worst bouts of flu I have ever had. It started with overwhelming fatigue and a sore throat. Then I got a horrible headache. I spiked a 103-degree fever and I would wake up in the night just drenched in sweat. And I even lost my sense of smell and taste. So it was five really bad days. And even once that was over it still took several weeks to get all my energy back.  Yeah. And can you smell again? Can you taste again?  I can. I can.  Good. Good good good. So again just to emphasize you were fully vaccinated right? So you knew that you were unlikely to end up in the hospital but were you surprised that you still got that sick?  I was surprised especially that my breakthrough case is considered mild. Now some people have mild breakthrough cases and it really is just a runny nose. So what doctors consider mild that is really a wide range. And these breakthrough illnesses - we do not have exact numbers but they are happening more during this delta surge. One reassuring thing I learned afterwards is that if you do get a breakthrough you will probably be sick for fewer days and have fewer symptoms than if you were unvaccinated.  Will I got to ask did you get tested? Are you actually totally sure this was COVID?  I did but it was actually a bit confusing at first. My first two test results were negative. They were both rapid antigen tests so these are the fast over-the-counter tests that are very convenient except they are not as accurate. And even the nurse reminded me of this after I got my second negative result. She said do not hang your hat on this. Act like you have COVID. And she took another sample and sent it to the lab for a PCR test instead. And sure enough that came back positive.  Came back positive. Well so where does this leave you? How did this breakthrough infection change how you think about the pandemic as you are reporting on the pandemic?  I think we are in a moment where many of us including myself are having to reset our expectations. And that is tough because I know getting vaccinated - at one point it really did feel like the finish line and we had all earned it. So in my case clearly I wish I had been more careful. I would have taken the trip to see my family and to be at this wedding because I was vaccinated and so was everyone else but I would have worn a better mask like an N95 and I would have avoided many of the other things that raised my risk like spending so much time indoors in public places especially where other people were not wearing masks.  Will Stone thank you.  Thanks for having me.  That is NPR science reporter Will Stone sharing his story - one account of what you might expect if you or someone you are close to come down with breakthrough COVID. 