 Federal officials are signaling that COVID-19 booster shots for the general population could be coming as early as this fall. Now very few details so far on this - NPR health reporter Pien Huang is here to talk about what we do know. Hi Pien.  Hi Mary Louise.  So this all started coming out late last night I guess - that the White House plans to recommend booster shots meaning a third dose of a Pfizer or Moderna vaccine and that it could start this fall. How close are we?  There are a few steps to clear. The FDA would need to authorize a third shot of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines for general use and then the CDC would need to recommend it. Claire Hannan head of the Association of Immunization Managers says the plans are just not clear at the moment.  A little confused and waiting for more details - you know there is just so many uncertainties around how it is going to work and you know how exactly we are going to do it.  She says it would be different from the initial rollout hopefully a lot smoother.  Yeah.  There will be fewer mass vaccination sites more people getting shots from their local pharmacies workplaces doctors. In nursing homes it is not likely that the government will send CVS and Walgreens back to give them a third shot so it is not clear how this important group will be getting boosters. But the White House and the CDC have promised more information tomorrow so hopefully it will become clear soon.  Now where is the science on this - because the CDC as I am recalling just last week was saying more evidence for boosters is still needed?  Yeah the science at least what is been publicly shared is not so far conclusive. And the most compelling information comes from Israel where around 80 of adults are fully vaccinated mostly with the Pfizer vaccine. And they have been seeing a trend where protection against getting infected may wear off after a few months. But what it does not show is big increases in hospitalizations and deaths so vaccinated people are still mostly safe from getting severely ill. Still Dr. Eric Topol - he is a physician-researcher at Scripps Research - he says that in the U.S. breakthrough infections have started happening in health care workers vaccinated back in December and January. And while most were not hospitalized some have needed urgent treatment.  So it is not like a trivial thing to get sick. And then there is long ere's transmission from vaccinated people to others. So it is good to get us protected back to where we were.  That is one of the arguments for a booster shot right now.  And what are the arguments against? Why would not it be a good idea to get one?  Well they mainly fall into two categories. People question whether it will work to slow down the virus and also whether it is the best use of a limited resource. Dr. Celine Gounder an infectious disease doctor at NYU does not think that the evidence supports giving everybody boosters now. She says we should use the tools that we already have.  What is going to protect people better? Is it giving additional doses to people who have already been vaccinated or getting people who are not yet vaccinated vaccinated? It is actually the latter because that is going to reduce the amount of virus in the community which helps protect not just that person being vaccinated but it also protects you.  Gounder points out that other populations such as children under 12 may soon be eligible for vaccines. It might make sense to focus the vaccine supply there. And of course the rest of the world is in dire need of vaccines as well. The World Health Organization has criticized countries for giving booster shots when front-line health care workers and many poor countries still have not been vaccinated.  NPR's Pien Huang reporting there on whether we may be headed for booster shots this autumn. Thank you very much Pien.  Thanks for having me. 