 And for more on health co-ops we turn now to NPR's Joanne Silberner who has been reporting on them. Joanne Senator Conrad says co-ops would be better than a public option. Are they actually more efficient or is it simply that they are not run by the government and therefore can attract votes in the Senate?  Well the second part's definitely true it not being run by the government will attract more votes. As for the efficiency part of that question that really remains to be seen. I mean we' Group Health in Seattle and Health Partners in Minneapolis. Both of them are in about the mid price range in terms of cost. They are both in very tough markets where health care is very efficient in northwestern U.S. and in the Minnesota areas. So they are doing well in very efficient markets. It is reasonable to believe that others could do well. But these are old established and have a lot of experience. How it would work out you know as they get bigger and they get more of them. I can believe that people will feel that buy-in that Senator Conrad talks about but I would want to see the numbers.  He drew a distinction between the nonprofit Blues in the state of North Dakota at least they are nonprofit not everywhere and a co-op. How does a co-op work? What is different about a co-op?  Well what is different is the members vote for the board of directors. In the Blues they tend to be appointed. They are from the community but they are appointed. In the co-ops members can run. It is an election. People who have insurance get to vote. You know you yourself could run and you could find yourself on the board. And the board sets policy. The board hires the CEO and they can get rid of the CEO if they do not like the way the company is going.  What do you hear and what do you think of Senator Conrad's estimate? He cites actuaries for coming up with a number about 6 billion he says the cost of getting co-ops up and running all over the country.  Well if that is what he wants that is what would be needed in reserves. That is what the companies would have to have to get started. There is an awful lot involved in starting a health insurance plan. You have got to build a health IT system. Now there is going to be some help from the government on that. But you have got to build a computer billing system. You have got to line up doctors and hospitals willing to provide services. You are competing with other health insurers. And you have got to convince these doctors and hospitals to take the fees that you are willing to pay.  And your sense is on Capitol Hill the idea of a network of health co-ops a lot more popular than a government insurance company?  Hard to tell. In the Senate it may prove that way. I think the House is going to be a different situation. In the House you have got a lot of people who really do want to see that government plan.  And who are disappointed at the news that perhaps the Obama administration's willing to back off?  Yes.  NPR's Joanne Silberner. Thanks a lot Joanne.  Thank you. 