 A study published today suggests that fluoride consumed by pregnant women can affect the IQ of their children. Now no single study provides definitive answers but research on this controversial topic will no doubt stir more debate. NPR science correspondent Richard Harris reports.  Fluoride protects teeth from decay so public health officials celebrate what is been accomplished by putting it in many water supplies. But Christine Till a psychology professor at York University in Toronto also wondered about potential downsides.  It is important that decisions about safety need to be based on evidence.  And evidence is thin when it comes to pregnant women and their babies so Till and her colleagues analyzed data from a research project involving more than 500 women and babies living in six cities.  And it turned out that about half of the sample were cities like Toronto where they add fluoride to drinking water. And the other half like Montreal and Vancouver were cities that do not add fluoride to drinking water.  That gave her a sample with a whole spectrum of fluoride exposure. The scientists measured fluoride both by estimating water consumption and by measuring fluoride in urine samples. As the team reports now in the journal JAMA Pediatrics it appears that higher levels of fluoride lead to lower IQs in the children.  Only boys were affected when we looked at urinary fluoride. Both boys and girls were affected when we looked at maternal fluoride intake or water fluoride concentration.  The difference was typically a couple of IQ points. That is a small difference for any individual child.  We would feel an impact of this magnitude out at population level because you would have millions of more children falling in the range of intellectual disability or an IQ score less than 70 and that many fewer kids in the gifted range.  It is actually very similar to the effect size that is seen with childhood exposure to lead.  David Bellinger a professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School reviewed the paper before it was published and wrote a commentary about it. He says it is important not to read too much into a single study but this one certainly raises important issues. But it is not really about water fluoridation. The study found even in cities that had fluoridated water women got most of their fluoride from other sources presumably certain foods tea and toothpaste.  So I think it is a mistake to focus too much on the water fluoridation piece here.  People have such strong feelings about fluoride one way or the other he says.  You know in truth I do not think this paper is going to move the needle tremendously for a lot of people.  Scientists who advocate for fluoride will point to the weaknesses inherent in a population study like this.  And the people who - on the other side who think that fluoride is quite toxic are going to say see. We told you so.  The senior author Christine Till agrees that her paper is going to cause a stir.  I think people are going to be shocked but I think people should realize that science is constantly evolving.  A previous study in Mexico found a similar link she says so this is not the first to suggest one. Fluoride consumption during pregnancy has no known health benefits to the baby Till says. So she suggests a simple precautionary step as the science is explored further.  We recommend that women reduce their fluoride intake during pregnancy.  David Bellinger adds that could at least relieve anxiety as we wait for more information. Richard Harris NPR News.  