 Are we limited by who we think we are? Or do our ideas of ourselves push us to do things we never thought we could? NPR's Invisibilia the show about human behavior dives into these questions this week. Invisibilia producer Abby Wendle has a story about a woman's struggle to reconcile two very different versions of herself.  Tanya Marquardt looks like somebody who you really do not want to mess with. For years she had a shaved head lots of piercings and she stomped around in black chain smoking.  My modus operandi for many years was like do not - you do not get to come close. I never attacked anybody but that part of me that was there.  This suit of armor was a holdover from a rough childhood. Tanya's dad was an alcoholic who put his own spin on punishment. Tanya remembers that on some nights like after she would broken a plate he would give her time out in the corner but make her kneel there for hours.  Like - and he would make us pull our pant legs up so that our knees were exposed. And any time you would turn get your - you know he would yell at us or come towards us. So it is like terrifying for a child.  Tanya's mom and brother shared their memories of these times but Tanya's dad never responded to our calls. For years Tanya's childhood it just haunted her.  Get your...  And as an adult Tanya became self-destructive. She would go days without sleeping or eating get drunk go home with strangers until she felt like she was all filled up with darkness. Which is why she was so surprised when one day in her mid-30s she woke from a deep deep sleep and heard...   .  Giggling.   . Like what is that?  Tanya not much of a giggler. But this giggle it was her talking in her sleep. Now she is been a sleep talker her whole life. But recently she started recording herself using an app on her phone called Dream Talk Recorder.   Oh that is great.  These are some of the recordings she is captured.   And it was so beautiful. Oh wow. It was very sweet.  When Tanya first heard this voice...   .  ...She did not recognize it as her own. It sounded sweet like an affectionate child who enjoys tickle fights who did not share her dark past.   Thanks buddy. Hello. Oh my goodness. Oh bugger.  That is weird. Yes we did. Yes we did. Wow we did.  The more Tanya listened to these recordings the more she became convinced that when she recorded at night she was capturing the thoughts and feelings of an entirely different version of herself - her sleeping self a little girl who wakes up when 37-year-old Tanya falls asleep.  I mean do I think there is like an actual 4-year-old kid that lives at the space between dreaming and waking - maybe.  Tanya decided she really needed to meet this other self to figure out where all of this innocent joy is coming from and what its message could possibly be for her waking life.   Which brought us to Harvard professor and dream researcher Deirdre Barrett.  Hi come on in.  Hi.  Hi. Hello.  And a lesson in dream incubation.  Have you thought about what questions or advice you would like from the voice that calls itself X?  Well I guess...  So dream incubation is actually a pretty basic idea. Before you fall asleep focus your attention on one problem or question and tell yourself you want to dream about it. In Tanya's case...  I am ready to hear your message.  OK I am ready to hear your message. That is...  Does that seem like...  Yes. Yes. That sort of gets...  By doing this Deirdre Barrett has found that you actually up your chances of dreaming about what you want to dream about. So after the session Tanya heads back home hoping to encounter her other self in her dreams.  I am ready to hear your message. I am ready to hear your message. I am ready to hear your message.  Good night.  I meet a short man who is a dream character. He wants to dance. I dance with the dream man and then I see my sleeping self. She is smiling at me. She is giggling in the crowd.   .  .  I go to follow her and she disappears. She is tricky. She is a trickster. She likes to play hide and seek. Suddenly I am in the Adirondacks. It is in the middle of the forest. It is completely dark. That is when I saw X. Hey. Hi.  Hello.  What is your message for me?  Whatever you see I see. Wherever you go I am there.  What is the next step? What do we do now?  What do you want to do?  I did not know what to say so we just kind of stared out at the water. And she took me to the foyer. And then she pointed at the shoes and she pointed at these jackets and she said...  Shoes are shoes and jackets are jackets and you need both to have an adventure. Go.  And she like pushed me out the door with my shoes and my jacket on.  Tanya is reading here from her dream journal. And when she woke up she felt like - yeah.  It feels like a message for sure. It feels like she said something to me.  And recently while walking alone in the golden hour of twilight X's message...  Wherever you go I am there.  ...Clicked. And something inside of Tanya began to shift.  There is a place inside of me that I have personified as this little girl that is not wounded and has - can never be wounded. And it is like the idea of that of like getting more of that feeling in my life is an incredible relief. Like how incredible would that be? That would be amazing.  And I think that that is what is being offered to me actually.  Tanya's started to accept that offer. She has been calling her grandpa in Canada to catch up going for long bike rides alone just to feel the wind on her face little ways that she can see proof of X playing in broad daylight.   . I am happy.  Abby Wendle NPR News.  