 It is Banned Books Week. Time to assess which books make Americans most uncomfortable. Violence and curse words are two of the top three reasons books get banned in the U.S. The third reason - surprise - is sex which is how a sex-education book for children became one of the most banned books in America. Did you hear that parents? The story is about a sex-education book for kids 10 and older and it will last about three and a half minutes. You know what to do. Here is NPR's Rebecca Hersher.  In the world of book banning sex is a loose term. Last year the top banned book in America was the kids story Captain Underpants. It was banned for potty language and toilet humor. The sex-ed book It is Perfectly Normal which is meant for kids 10 and over is a little more explicit than that. Barbara Jones is the director of the Office for Intellectual Freedom at the American Library Association.  What we see in this book is illustrations of the sex act - women and men naked. And you see people with lumps here and lumps there. And whereas some people chuckle I think for some people it is alarming.  Full-color illustrations of lumpy naked people have helped make It is Perfectly Normal one of the most banned books in America. Since its initial publication in 1994 the book has been challenged or banned every year. Michael Emberley illustrated the book. The author is Robie Harris.  I was warned by several people not to do this book - that it would ruin my career. But I really did not care. To me it was not controversial. It is what every child has a right to know.  The book includes sections on puberty pregnancy and sexual orientation - all fact-checked by experts like pediatricians and biologists. Internet safety and sexting are new topics in this edition.  Here are some things you need to think about when you go on the Internet. There can be a lot of inappropriate weird confusing uncomfortable creepy scary or even dangerous websites that you can end up on when looking for information.  This edition also has new explanations of gender and sexual abuse. Past editions have included other cultural changes for example birth-control laws AIDS prevention and info for gay youth. A lot of parents do not want their kids learning about that kind of sensitive information without supervision. Carey Fritz of Culver City California has two kids in elementary school. I caught up with him as he was waiting to pick them up from school and asked him his impressions of the book. What do you think?  Well I was shocked. I did not read the cover.  He flips through the pages and stops at a full-color illustration of various birth-control methods and how to use them.  See if they saw this without me I would probably feel a little frustrated. I mean that would take time for me to have to explain.  What are you seeing there that is making you say that?  Well right here - at least what it is doing here - it is just talking about sexual activity which I do not think a 10-year-old needs to worry about.  Over the years many parents who share this sentiment have asked for the book to be put in a restricted section of the library. It is not a ban. Parents just do not want their kids to come across it accidentally. Author Robie Harris does not think that is a good solution.  No child is going to go up to a library and say you know I am going through puberty. I am having these changes. I seem to have some pubic hairs. And maybe you could recommend something to me. So if a book is in a special section of a library maybe the kids who need it the most are not going to get it. 