 The Ebola outbreak in West Africa has hurt Liberia more than any other country and no town has been hit harder than Barkedu. It has a population of 8000 and it accounts for 20 percent of Ebola deaths in Liberia to date. The virus has killed entire families children women and men. And as NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton reports Ebola has disrupted life there in immeasurable ways.  Barkedu is a dusty small Muslim farming town in the North facing the full force of the Ebola outbreak in Liberia. The weekly district market has been shut down by the authorities so that people do not gather in large numbers and possibly spread Ebola. And it is the lean season between harvests so farmers are hurting says the town Chief Musa Sesay. And he is worrying about food.  Right now there is no food. So for this moment we are suffering.  The Ebola virus first crossed into Liberia via the North with a traveler crossing the border from neighboring Guinea in March. It rolled into Barkedu in July says the town chief with a sick man from their own community who was living in the capital Monrovia. Everyone gathered around to welcome him home and support the family. Sesay says it did not register that he was suffering from Ebola but that first case devastated Barkedu's close-knit community - about a 150 Ebola deaths and counting. Mohammed Marmid Dulleh a leader from the local Ebola task force was our guide around Barkedu.  So when he came he pass away in this community and receive community burial - he was buried through the normal community way. He received people to bathe him to wrap him up and escort him into the cemetery.  And that is how Ebola can spread from direct contact with bodily fluids during traditional funeral and burial rituals common in Liberia and throughout West Africa. As more and more people got sick in Barkedu reality dawned says Dulleh.  People started sensing what was going on. Is it relative to Ebola? And the death rate was increasing. It became alarming.  That is when Barkedu revved up with the help of the authorities. Suspected Ebola patients were transferred to the Doctors Without Borders Ebola health care center in Foya a two-and-a-half-hour drive away on rutted roads and he Dulleh..  Since then we have been moving around sanitizing our community creating awareness education and some people came back as survivor. They are alive.  Twenty-seven survivors to date in Barkedu where NPR visited over the weekend including 18-year-old Alieu P. Manor. He was working in Monrovia got sick and traveled back home where his aunt immediately shipped him off to the Ebola care unit with four others including his brothers. Manor says he went through dark moments in isolation. ALIEU P.  I was very sad. I had no appetite to eat and while at the Ebola center one of my other brothers that was there died and then I got scared. But they encouraged me to be strong and not to worry about my dead brother and I continued being strong and now I survive.  Down the road with no school children have a lot of time on their hands. Excited shrieks ring out as giddy small boys play soccer in the dust. And shy little girls with braided hair break into smiles as they complete at nafo a Liberian version of pattycake with intricate foot shuffling. But Ebola has changed the lives of some Barkedu children says Dulleh of the task force.  The death rate has also created some widows some widowers some orphans and some other vulnerability in our community that deserves some psychosocial counseling and some care for identification and assisting in a direction.  Mamuedi Kanneh stands pointing to one small mud-brick Barkedu house. This home is closed up with a small wooden table blocking the entrance. Kanneh's family has suddenly expanded as she is taken in orphans some of them children of a niece who died of Ebola.   The people living in this house were killed by the virus. So this home is totally vacant. I too am a victim of Ebola. Today I am caring for many orphaned children my relatives. I worry about them all the time. I feel sick at times with this new burden thinking about the future of these children.  Today there is another funeral in Barkedu says our guide Mohammed Marmid Dulleh. It is not clear whether the elderly lady died of the virus but these days every death in Barkedu is treated as an Ebola death.  All death that take place is being done by people who are trained from our community and buried by the Ebola task force.  The team that is going to be dealing with the burial are now dressing up. In their spacesuits - white spacesuits. You can hear them making sure that their gloves are well covered. Now they are masking tapes - the scotch is going around the gloves - three sets of gloves. A plastic visor is the final item that goes on. And now in full protective suits like astronauts they are walking down the path with a large black zipper body bag to the home of the dead woman. The burial team has got to the house and they are now disinfecting - first of all the door and then the room that the corpse - the dead body is in. And now it is being picked up on the gurney.  .  Townswomen in brightly colored scarves stand outside a neighboring house weeping gently and chanting from the Quran as the burial team carries the body bag down towards the makeshift graveyard. Earth is being shoveled onto the grave and on to the protective gear that the burial team has taken off. They are undressing right there in front of the grave. One more grave in Barkedu here in Lofa County. Ofeibea Quist-Arcton NPR News Barkedu Liberia. 