 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Kelly McEvers. Commercial sperm banks have been around since the early 1970s. And today women who can afford to use them. But now banks are not the only source for women hoping to get pregnant. More and more websites are popping up where men who are willing to donate their sperm for free can meet women who are hoping to get pregnant. It is too soon to know exactly how many people are going online to do this but here is what we do know - thousands of people have logged on. NPR's Rebecca Hersher has the story. And a quick warning to parents - this story might be too explicit for small children.  A few months ago on a sperm donation website called Voy a woman named Jennifer posted a public message - I am looking for a donor close to where I live it began I am willing to drive to you it continued but I prefer artificial insemination. We will discuss natural insemination. Natural insemination - sex with the sole aim of getting pregnant. I met Jennifer at a cafe near her home outside Sacramento. She asked I not use her last name to protect her medical privacy. She says she got a lot of replies that message - one caught her interest. They emailed and exchange pictures.  We talk on the computer we talk on Skype so it is not like he is not real.  So can I ask what he looks like?  He is white. And he says that he is 6'3 and he has green eyes and like dirty blonde hair. .  Jennifer is just 18 and she feels like she is being forced to make a tough decision. Two years ago she found out she has an ovarian disorder that her doctors tell her will make her infertile by the time she is in her mid-20s. If she wants a baby it has to be now. A sperm bank is too expensive so with her mother's approval Jennifer did what more and more women are doing - she turned to the Internet - to one of many informal unregulated websites that offer free sperm. But the donor Jennifer met online wanted her to have sex with him. Jennifer has never had a serious boyfriend. She was nervous.  At first I was just like can I talk you out of doing this? And he says well I guess yeah but are you really not open to it? And so I was just thinking you know maybe since he is helping me out maybe I will just let him have it you know? I do not know how to explain it. It is just kind of like one moment of awkwardness and then can come out with a lifetime of happiness so.  A lifetime of happiness. A baby - that is Jennifer's motivation. But what do men get out of donating sperm online?  Well I am Stephen Bohrs 27 - started talking about being a sperm donor back in August of 2012. And I have met with 16 different women.  And how many of those have resulted in children?  Seven.  Seven.  Seven in the last two years.  Pretty much every time Bohrs donates his sperm he does it by having sex.  I am a guy. I am not going to lie the sex is nice. But it is not about the sex. I am there to help them achieve their dreams. And I take it very seriously.  And what do you get from it other than the satisfaction of helping them?  I do not see why I should look for anything more. I have met a lot of people along the way that are into it for different things - some men are in it strictly to have sex with women some men are in it to brag to their friends - oh I got another one pregnant. You know I have heard a lot of horror stories. People like that should not be involved in the process.  One of the websites Bohrs uses to meet women is called The Known Donor registry. It is one of the most established websites in the U.S. right now for sperm donation. And Bethany Gardner it is cofounder says while most donors are trustworthy like it or not some men are in it just for the sex.  Women want to have a baby - it may or may not involve sex - perverts are going to flock. I mean it just by its nature has a giant target on it.  And although about a third of women who use her site check a box saying they are open to having sex with the donor - Gardner thinks very few women actually go through with it.  It is the minority by far. Most women use artificial insemination. You would think everyone - it is like a big orgy - like everyone is just having sex. But that is not  that is not at all the case.  Sociologists who study this stress there is no way to know how many women actually get pregnant via natural insemination. There just is not data. But cost is likely a big factor driving women online for sperm. Traditional sperm banks can be extremely expensive - 500 or more for just one vial of sperm. Insurance rarely covers it and according to sociologist Rene Ameling that is just the beginning.  Not only are they paying for the cost of sperm - they pay for donor profiles they pay for shipping and then if they choose to have a physician help with the insemination they have a doctor's office visits and so it can easily run into the thousands of dollars in order to try to attempt a pregnancy through a traditional sperm bank.  But sperm banks offer something casual donation does not - safety. Free sperm are not frozen or tested for disease.  So women are risk for sexually transmitted diseases children are at risk for genetic diseases and then everyone is at risk for legal complications.  And there are legal complications. There have been recent custody battles and child support suits over children conceived with donated sperm. As for Jennifer she decided not to go through with natural insemination. She says looking back it would have been a mistake to get pregnant with that guy she met on a sperm donation forum. Instead she is decided not to rush into having a child just yet. She is applying to college. She wants to be an elementary school teacher. Rebecca Hersher NPR News. 