 The things you need to live a healthy life - good food a safe place to live reliable transportation - all of those things cost money. For many people living on disability benefits money is tight. And a recent NPR poll on Rural Health finds that a large majority of people with disabilities struggle with financial insecurity. NPR's Selena Simmons-Duffin reports from upstate New York.  Carol Burgos is worried her neighbors think she is bringing the neighborhood down. We are driving through her mobile home park. It is in a woodsy part of Columbia County just off a two-lane highway.  So you can go down there.  So it is a left here right?  Make a left.  Burgos is in her early 50s. She has red hair and sparkly black-rimmed glasses. She uses a cane to get around. The mobile homes here have neat yards American flags. Some neighbors are out holding yard sales knickknacks spread out on folding tables. Some are doing yard work. Burgos is a renter and her lawn is unruly and overgrown.  I mean these little old ladies - how bad do I feel when these little old ladies are mowing their lawn and I cannot because I am in so much pain?  Burgos physically cannot mow her lawn. She has osteoarthritis and degenerative disc disease and other health issues. She was deemed disabled in 1997 and lives off of Social Security Disability Insurance with health coverage through Medicare.   We pull over on the side of a gravel road just outside the park looking out on a wide green open field and trees. And we talk. Sometimes she grabs her knee.  Ow.  Do you get like shooting pains?  I am in constant pain .  Is it like a constant...  It is every kind of pain yeah. It is all kinds of different pains.  So she cannot mow the lawn and she also cannot afford to pay somebody to do it.  I do not want another bill. I do not want to be in more debt.  Do you have a sense for how much in debt you are right now?  Over 30000.  That is a lot of debt especially with so little coming in.  Less than 1500 a month. The rent is 950 and that does not include fuel cooking gas electric water usage.  What about food?  I get food stamps and then I go to a food pantry if I can make it there.  With her aching knees and bad back it is hard for her to drive and it is hard to afford gas. Everything's so spread out. So imagine if a 1000 expense comes up. What happens?  I freak out. I wind up going in a debt - another debt.  In our poll with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 49 of rural Americans could not afford that. The number was much higher for people with disabilities - 70. More than half of them said their families had had problems paying for medical or dental bills in the last few years. Burgos says she does not want to rely on disability benefits. She used to work. She helped develop mentally challenged people with life skills. But she has not worked for 10 years.  I want to work. Screw the money. Give me medical coverage so that - full medical - so that I can be an able body that is willing to work. Why are you keeping me stuck?  Burgos feels stuck in poverty and physically stuck because it is so hard for her to get around. Transportation has a huge impact on health for people living in rural parts of the country says Dr. Kirsten Biggins-Domingo. She works on the health of vulnerable populations at the University of California San Francisco.  If you go to less populated areas rural areas access to a car that functions well the costs for gas - that becomes such an essential element both to drive to seek medical care as well as to drive to access the other resources that are necessary to pursue good health.  Without that transportation or access to other basics like healthy food or good housing people can get into a vicious cycle.  Poor health contributes to financial instability and to poverty. And poverty itself we know contributes to poor health.  For people with disabilities it is easy to get stuck in that cycle of poverty and poor health.  Their poverty levels are over two times higher compared to those without disabilities.  That is Bill Erickson of the Yang-Tan Institute on Employment and Disability at Cornell University. Let us say like Carol Burgos you are disabled and you are living in a rural area and you want to work. Now you have got to find a job you can do.  Since the Great Recession rural counties really have not seen as much employment growth as urban counties. And also just the types of jobs that are available too in those sorts of communities may be requiring people to be able to you know move things physically or whatever. And you know the limitations the individuals with disabilities may have may be preventing them from being able to do those particular types of jobs or employers cannot provide the accommodations that may be necessary.  This is why Carol Burgos feels so stuck. She would need to find a job be healthy enough to do it work not too many hours. Right now that is not happening. She does have good things in her life. She has her faith. She is born-again Christian. Her beat-up car works. She can visit her mother's nursing home and get around. She has a very sweet little dog.  Come on stinky butt . Come on. Come on.  And even though she uses a walker for long distances and fears she will end up in a wheelchair for now she is still well enough to get up and down the stairs to her front door. Selena Simmons-Duffin NPR News Columbia County N.Y.  