 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Madeleine Brand. People get all sorts of treatment and surgery right now that does not necessarily work but private insurance or Medicare still pays for it. Whether that should be the case is a key question as Congress considers a health care overhaul. Two studies published today in The New England Journal of Medicine illustrate the difficulty in answering that question. The studies evaluate a popular procedure for fractured vertebrae. NPR's Joanne Silberner explains.  Radiologist David Kallmes of the Mayo Clinic was one of the first people to do this procedure in the U.S. 15 years ago. It seemed like a miracle. By shoring up broken vertebrae with cement he was able to offer pain relief to people with one or two cracked vertebrae from osteoporosis. The procedure was easy and it caught on like wildfire. But after a while he and others decided it needed to be rigorously tested. Dr.  This procedure is done in 75000 people a year. Over 10 years it is up you know three-fourths of a million patients are going to get this procedure we should know for sure that it works.  In Kallmes' study 68 people got the procedure. Dr.  And what that entails is giving them sedation by vein putting Novocain under their skin and on their bone and then introducing a medium-size needle and injecting this medical cement.  The 63 people in the placebo group had the same procedure without cement. The patients rated their pain before and after. Dr.  I was not completely shocked when I saw the data but I frankly was surprised that the results in both groups were so similar.  Both groups had less pain after the procedure. A second study from Australia of 78 people who got both the sham no-cement procedure and the one with cement also showed no significant advantage. The head of the North American Spine Society says the broken vertebrae studies show that both the placebo and cement procedures work. But to James Weinstein an orthopedic surgeon who directs the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice The New England Journal of Medicine information said only one thing Dr.  What it said to me is that essentially this is a treatment with no effect and probably should not be done anymore.  Weinstein is a proponent of comparative effectiveness of comparing various treatments to see what works best. Questions have been raised about many procedures in the area of back pain. There is surgery for slipped discs. With that one long after such surgeries had become common practice it was determined that the surgery has only a slight advantage over rest and rehabilitation. And spinal fusion remains controversial. Dr.  We do need to today have these kinds of studies done before we implement these strategies in clinical practice. And where we cannot do them because of funding or support or for whatever reason maybe we ought to think twice about introducing them into the common marketplace.  President Obama has set aside 1 billion to do comparative effectiveness studies. A good idea but it is going to take some discipline to make use of the results says Sean Tunis director of the nonprofit Center for Medical Technology Policy. He says insurers will have a hard time disallowing procedures that the medical community thinks work. Dr.  And what you have gotten into is what everybody you know is uncomfortable with which is that either a payer or some bureaucrat is saying no you cannot have this intervention that your doctor is proposing.  Basically rationing.  pay for new procedures before comparative effectiveness studies are done but only if the outcomes of each one are put into a database for long-term analysis. As for David Kallmes he is going to continue to do injections for cracked vertebrae so he can see if it is the Novocain or something else that is responsible for the improvement. Joanne Silberner NPR News.  And you can follow the latest health news and what is going on in the health care overhaul debate on our health blog. It is at the new npr.org. 