 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  With the academic year getting under way it is crunch time for school sports.   Hut.  Dr. Lisa Bakhos is the lead author of the article. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  And Dr. Bakhos we were listening to sound from the TV show Friday Night Lights which is all about high school football players.  high schools kids and also kids ages 8 to 13. What did you find in terms of concussions for those groups?  What we found that was most striking was that over a 10-year period the number of emergency room visits for children who suffer concussion in the younger age group almost doubled and in the older age group almost went up by 200 percent even though participation in sport has actually been decreasing over the last 10 years.  Now the younger group - the 8- to 13-year-olds...  Mm-hmm.  ...with concussions - most of them 75 percent of them who got their concussion through sports it was individual sports. It was bicycling skateboarding things like that - not so much with team sports.  Exactly.  But by the time you get to the older group it is about half and half.  Exactly. This was not too surprising to us as most younger children are much more involved in things like bicycling playground activities. But we felt that that was also an important point to make because there may be some prevention strategies that we should be doing more of for those individual sports as well. You know better fits of helmets and different things like that.  Did you come to any conclusions about why these numbers of concussions are going up so steeply?  Overall the number of children who are overweight are quite alarmingly on the rise in this country. So an 8-year-old may be the size of what a 10-year-old was 10 years ago. So you are looking at much greater injuries when you have a smaller child banging into a larger child.  What do you think the lessons are Dr. Bakhos for coaches - and for parents and children too - on the notion of when you return to play or the idea that you should you know tough it out suck it up and get back out on the field?  More importantly once the decision is made that a child does have concussion parents and coaches and children themselves really have to listen to the recommendations and follow them - and not just blow them off and say oh I am going to go to my state championship tomorrow anyway.  Dr. Bakhos thanks for talking to us.  Thank you so much.  Lisa Bakhos is a pediatric emergency doctor at the Jersey Shore University Medical Center in Neptune New Jersey. She was talking about the study she co-authored which found a significant increase in reported cases of concussions in child athletes. 