 Today across the U.S. hundreds of children will have a mental breakdown and be rushed to an emergency room.  UNIDENTIFIED 911  911. This call is being recorded. What is your emergency?  Hi. My 13-year-old is saying she is going to kill herself. UNIDENTIFIED 911  Can you still see her madam?  Yes. UNIDENTIFIED 911  OK. So stay on the line we will dispatch.  In this case a mom shakes with anxiety as she stands in her kitchen with her eyes fixed on her daughter who has begged her to call 911. Like many children during the pandemic Melinda has been struggling for several months. And as requests for mental health care overwhelm what is available it is creating bottlenecks like the one Melinda is about to enter.  UNIDENTIFIED 911  You should be .  OK. UNIDENTIFIED 911  And what is her name?  Melinda.  Martha Bebinger at station WBUR in Boston takes the story from here. And one note we are using only Melinda and her mom's first name for their privacy.  The EMTs arrive to take Melinda to a hospital emergency room.  UNIDENTIFIED 911  OK. They just pulled up. So...  OK. UNIDENTIFIED 911  I am just going to stay on until they enter and then I will hang up. OK?  OK. OK that is...  Emergency rooms are not typically places you check in for the night. If you break an arm it gets set and you leave. If you have a heart attack you will soon be transferred upstairs for a hospital bed. But if your brain is not well and you end up in an ER there is a good chance the emergency will then become getting stuck there.  Hi. My name's Melinda. I have been here 12 days.  I meet Melinda after almost two weeks of what is called emergency room boarding. She spent the first 10 days on a gurney in a hospital lecture hall with a dozen other kids all separated by curtains because the hospital ER is full. They wait in various states of distress because all of the child psychiatric beds in Massachusetts and some neighboring states are also full. At one point Melinda tries to escape is restrained injected with sedatives and moved to a small windowless room.  There are cameras in my room so I am being watched. I am not allowed any sharps. Kind of like prison. It feels like I am desperate for help.  Melinda and her mother agreed to record audio diaries while they wait.  My name is Pam. I am Melinda's mom. You know we occasionally hear screaming monitors beeping. Even as the parent it is very scary. And it is a desperate feeling.  Pam says Melinda spiraled downward last summer. She has therapists but the visits have been virtual and she has not made good connections between crises. This is Melinda's fourth trip to an emergency room since late November.  And each time it is the same routine. We go to the ER. We stay for a few days. She goes to a facility. She stays there for seven to 10 days and comes home. She is out of control. She feels out of control in her own skin.  Each psychiatric facility suggests a different diagnosis and adjusts Melinda's medication. There is no mental health treatment in the ER.  This is Melinda. This is Day 13 in the ER. I just really want to get out of here. And I feel kind of helpless. I miss my pets and my bed and real food.  Hi. This is Pam. I just visited with her and she was very manic. Found out that the other night she had a panic attack had an episode with staff where they had to administer a sedative.  This is Melinda. Today is 14 days at the ER. I am not really sleeping well. Sleep is really tough here. I keep waking up in the middle of the night.  Pam works two jobs but comes to the hospital daily bringing Melinda clothes books or treats.  Some days I sit and cry before I get out of the car so I do not cry in front of her.  It is hard to know how many children are in psychiatric crisis and being held in an emergency room but demand is rising. New data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show recent ER visits for suspected suicide attempts up 50 for teen girls.  This is Day 15. She is much worse. She is at times unrecognizable to me. She is currently on a list for six seven hospitals and not a single one has had an opening in two weeks.  Later that day Pam learns that two girls who arrived after Melinda and might have been better behaved have been transferred to psych units ahead of Melinda. Pam has told her daughter it might be hard to place.  She is having behaviors because she has a mental illness which they are supposed to help her with but yet they are saying no to her because she is having behaviors.  This is Melinda. It is Day 16 in the ER. Life is really I guess hard because things that should be easy for everyone that are just hard for me. When I ask for help sometimes I picture going to the hospital. Other times I wish someone would just understand me.  Melinda says the pandemic was isolating and she had more time to worry about being depressed.  This is Pam Melinda's mom. And today was Day 17. But we finally got the call that she has a placement and hopefully whatever help she gets this time sticks.  After the ER Melinda spent two weeks in a hospital psychiatric program. Now she is back home with three therapists helping her use what she is learned. This week Massachusetts has about 200 children boarding in local ERs waiting for help. Advocates say these kids are the most visible signs of a mental health system that is buckling at every level under pandemic stress. For NPR News I am Martha Bebinger in Boston.  And this story comes from NPR's partnership with WBUR and Kaiser Health News. If you or someone you know may be considering suicide contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. 