 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  As NPR's Martin Kaste reports critics of the industry say the FDA is responding too slowly.  The problem says the FDA's Marci Kiester is that the widget did not share enough information.  If they are presenting efficacy claims then there should be a balanced presentation of risks that is reasonably comparable to those benefits.  Novartis would not give an interview but it has taken down the share widget for now. The company still wants to promote its drugs through social media. In an email Novartis tells NPR quote we will continue to have active discussions with regulatory authorities on the appropriate ways to use online and social channels.  Pharmaceutical and health marketers have been chomping at the digital bit so to speak.  Jeff Chester runs the Center for Digital Democracy an organization that is been trying to stiffen the FDA's spine on this issue. He says the agency has a lot of catching up to do when it comes to drug companies' use of the social media.  Marketers are deliberately creating campaigns and use what they call digital-buzz techniques B-U-Z-Z.  Other companies are creating buzz on YouTube.   Oh dear not again? What have I done to send him into submission? Tight pants? The accident?  This droll little cartoon is a promotion for the erectile dysfunction drug Levitra. But you would have to follow another link before that becomes apparent. This too is a form of social marketing says Jeff Chester because the company is counting on you to forward the funny video. He says that is the whole idea.  The key to viral peer-to-peer marketing is to in fact send a message to your friends that I like this drug. It is not Novartis sending you this widget. I am sending you this information. I have endorsed it.  Drug companies see things a little differently. Yes they say there are risks. But they also like to talk about how social media can empower patients or e- patients as they are sometimes called. At an FDA hearing last year Jeff Francer of the trade group PhRMA asked regulators to facilitate drugmakers' responsible use of social media.  Taking advantage of the same technologies that the FDA and the White House use including blogs video search and social networking sites such as Twitter.  Martin Kaste NPR News. 