 Now the story of a fatal genetic disease a tenacious scientist and a family that never lost hope. Conner Curran was 4 when he was diagnosed with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. His muscles were already beginning to waste away. A doctor offered Conner's parents some advice.  Take your son home. Love him. Take him on trips while he is walking. Give him a good life and enjoy him because there is really not many options right now.  Today Conner is 9 and not just walking but running. The reason - an experimental gene therapy. Here's NPR's Jon Hamilton.  Conner's parents Jessica and Christopher Curran refused to accept that doctor's grim prognosis. But by the time Conner got to first grade Jessica could see that her son was struggling.  He pulled himself up the stairs. He would make it past four stairs and he could not do the rest. He could not last a full day in school. The teacher would say we let him take a little nap in the classroom. I am thinking what?  The Currans knew that scientists were working on a treatment.  I would say about a year after Conner's diagnosis we did hear the words gene therapy.  Gene therapy seemed like the answer. After all children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy lack a functional version of a gene called dystrophin which helps muscles stay healthy.  The concept is very simple. You are missing a gene so you are putting it back.  That is Jude Samulski from the University of North Carolina. He is spent his career working to make gene therapy a reality. It all began in 1984 when Samulski was a graduate student at the University of Florida. He was part of a team that cloned a virus called AAV. AAV is unusual because it infects people without making them sick. Samulski saw the virus as a safe way to transport healthy genes to ailing muscle cells.  It is a molecular FedEx truck. It carries a genetic payload and it is delivering it to its target.  But delivering a gene is harder than delivering a package. And the dystrophin gene was especially challenging. For one thing it has too much genetic information to cram inside a virus so tiny you need an electron microscope just to see it. Samulski says progress came one small step at a time.  This was very challenging. It was the Mount Everest of the gene therapy community. And each one of these steps was like setting up base camp.  Then in 1999 Samulski's base camp got hit by an avalanche. A teenager named Jesse Gelsinger died in a gene therapy experiment. The experiment did not involve muscular dystrophy or the AAV virus but Samulski says those details did not matter.  It stopped everything.  Gene therapy trials were postponed or abandoned. Investors disappeared. So did research funding. But Samulski says one group never wavered - the Muscular Dystrophy Association.  If the MDA did not step in the field was going to dry up and die.  The MDA had funded the discovery of the dystrophin gene and the group was determined to turn that discovery into a cure. So when Samulski approached the group about a grant they made him an offer.  Jude we love the work. We love the research. But we are tired of funding academics that just publish a paper. We need something to turn into a drug.  They wanted Samulski to start a company. The chairman of the MDA's board was Dr. Rodney Howell of the University of Miami. He says the group knew that Samulski did not have much business experience.  But on the other hand he knew a tremendous lot about viruses and how they work and how they might really be effectively brought into the clinical practice.  So in 2001 Samulski and a small team created Asklepios BioPharmaceutical or AskBio. He asked a lawyer named Sheila Mikhail to run it.  I remember Jude saying we probably will not get funding because gene therapy is an unproven technology and there are a lot of naysayers. But it has the potential to change the world.  Today AskBio occupies a gleaming new headquarters in Research Triangle N.C. Samulski walks me through one of the labs.  And so you see the media going around and around. That is human cells that are growing inside of a flask.  Then he takes me to a less familiar device.   It uses sound waves to break open cells and expose the viruses inside. The company did not have this sort of tech early on. Even so Samulski and his team were able to create an abridged version of the dystrophin gene one small enough to fit inside their viral FedEx truck. Then they started making deliveries - first in test tubes then mice then golden retrievers with the same genetic mutation Conner has.  Typically they cannot stand on their hind legs 'ecause they lose their quadriceps. And they usually do not get past one year of age.  But dogs who got the gene therapy did much better. And one day Conner's parents saw a video of those dogs.  They were able to run and jump. We saw this with our own eyes and we just thought oh gosh if one day Conner could get a chance to get something like this. It just gave us so much hope.  Samulski's company lacked the resources to bring its gene therapy to the thousands of boys with Duchenne. So in 2016 AskBio sold its treatment to the drug company Pfizer. And by early 2018 Pfizer was ready to start clinical trials. Samulski says so was Conner Curran.  He and his brave parents volunteered to be the first to get treated with the gene therapy.  As the day approached though Jessica had doubts.  I looked at my husband and I said Chris are we doing the right thing for Conner? And he said we need to be in this together Jess and let us think about the alternative. And the alternative is death.  To Conner the treatment with what he calls muscle juice was no big deal.  They put a needle in my arm for two hours.  In the weeks that followed Conner and Samulski got to know each other. The scientist played the piano for his young patient and showed him his garden.  We talked about science and viruses and snacks.  Jessica says the gene therapy worked very quickly.  Within three weeks he was running up the stairs.  And Conner says he kept improving.  I can run faster. I stand better and I can walk to Goldberg's. That is a bagel shop. It is more than two miles. And I could not do that before.  Conner's body will never replace the muscle cells he lost and it is not clear how long his new genes will last. But the treatment seems to work. It is now been tested on nine boys and Pfizer is planning a much larger study for later this year. The therapy still has flaws though. Several boys including Conner became ill temporarily after receiving the virus. Two ended up in the hospital. So Samulski's been working on a fix.  AAV 2 3b 5...  The scientist stands at a whiteboard in a meeting room filled with AskBio researchers and half-empty pizza boxes.  We go to solve this. In my mind this is the most important thing that we can do this year.  As usual Samulski has an idea.  We want to build a stop sign in here.  Right.  A molecular stop sign that will prevent toxic reactions to the virus. Samulski tells his team to go build one. Then he ends the meeting.  OK. Finish your pizza. Stop being lazy.   Since then Samulski's team has delivered the stop sign. Now they are testing it in animals. Jon Hamilton NPR News. 