 The Delta variant of the coronavirus now makes up about 10 of new cases in the U.S. The variant which was first identified in India is more contagious and possibly more dangerous and it is helping to drive up cases and hospitalizations in southwest Missouri where vaccination rates are low. Steve Edwards is the president and CEO of CoxHealth a health care system in southwest Missouri. And he joins us now. Welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you Ari. Glad to be on the show.  What are you seeing in your hospitals right now?  We have seen our census grow by fivefold in the last month.  Fivefold.  Yeah dramatic increase much more dramatic than when we saw the first you know big push in last fall and winter - so dramatic increase in patients. They are younger and they are sicker and they are coming in later and there is less we can do for them if they come in later.  And can you tell how much of this is attributable to the Delta variant?  You know we are not certain because we are not able to do genomic sequencing of our patients in house. But in our local health department Greene County Health Department their sequencing shows 90 of all new cases are the Delta variant. So we assume that is the same likely scenario.  What is your hospital doing to prepare for these growing numbers?  The bigger challenge we have is in the fall we had as many as 280 traveling nurses supporting our nursing staff and we do not have travelers now and travelers are even harder to come by. Plus the challenge that we have - a lot of pent-up demand a lot of patients who have grown more acute. So our hospital's actually more full than it was in the peak of the winter.  You know these stories are familiar from a time when vaccines were not available. How does it feel to be going through this when the coronavirus is at this point a preventable disease in the U.S.?  I mean there is a cultural shift in our staff right now. There was this great sense of teamwork and working together in the winter and fall and now because of the - they know that everyone - every single case we have in the hospital is not vaccinated they - our staff's exasperated exasperated by the politics. They are exasperated by Facebook. They are exasperated by the misinformation. They are exasperated by lies. They are frustrated because they know that while we are taking care of all these patients we have other patients that also need care and they could not be prevented with a vaccine where these could.  About 38 of people in Missouri are fully vaccinated relative to 45 nationwide. What is holding back vaccinations in the state?  I think when we look at the data on hesitancy it is red versus blue. It is rural versus urban. We have challenges with evangelical faith that have greater hesitancy and that really describes southwest Missouri. It is a rural conservative area with a strong evangelical faith element and that tends to be what is driving low vaccination rates.  Have you had any conversations with sick patients who chose not to get the vaccine? Like what do they say when they are coming to you in dire straits?  Most of them have regret they did not take it seriously. Yeah some of them still come across like this is not real. They do not believe us. They do not believe they have COVID. And so that is even more mystifying to us. But generally it is a great sense of regret.  There are other parts of the country with similarly low vaccination rates. Given what you are seeing in southwest Missouri what is your forecast for other areas where people just have not gotten vaccinated in large numbers?  You know the Delta variant is coming. We had the benefit of living in the Midwest while we saw the first waves hit the coast which gave us more time. I think we are going to be a harbinger for the rest of the country. It is happening here. There is no reason to believe the pattern of this disease will change and that it will not grow in other areas. This Delta variant came from nowhere. You know five weeks ago I think we were less than 10 now we are 90 - probably 90 up. So I anticipate that the greater part of the South the greater part of the Midwest and those areas with low vaccination rates are going to see a wave of patients similar to what they saw last fall and last winter.  That is Steve Edwards president and CEO of the CoxHealth hospital system in Missouri. Thank you for talking with us.  Thank you Ari. Appreciate the call. 