 We are going to hear now from Dr. Leslie Walker who specializes in adolescent medicine at Seattle Children's Hospital. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  And Dr. Walker is this something that you see now in your practice more and more young girls 7 or 8 years old who are developing breasts?  Yes. Over the last - probably 10 years I have noticed more and more parents coming in concerned that their daughters were developing too early.  Developing too early. And does that also correlate with girls who are getting their periods younger and younger? Because the study that we are talking about that was published today did not look at menstrual age.  Yeah and I do not think that menstrual age has changed as significantly as early breast development has. In the older studies and even in practice I do not see people as concerned about that and it does not seem that it has changed dramatically. But the breast development the things people see definitely has.  If you have a young girl in your office who is developing breasts at such an early age what do you tell her? What is that conversation like?  Really trying to help her feel and understand that her body is okay it is still normal she is developing as a young girl should develop - because a lot of these girls are teased. They feel very self-conscious. Some of them we see because they have already developed eating disorders because they do not want to see the changes that they are seeing.  So in other words they would try to withhold food thinking maybe they could forestall puberty that way?  Yes.  You said they are developing as a young girl should develop which really caught my ear because I am listening to this thinking is that really what we are saying here that a 7- or 8-year-old should be developing that way at that early an age?  Well they have been. It is just I think -the shift is that there are more of them that people are studying and realizing some of the things that we used to say probably do not hold true. But for that girl the only thing she wants to know is am I normal is this okay? And once this has started once the development has started you are not going to give her drugs to change that you know unless you find that there is something else going on. So the most important thing is for this girl to begin to feel good about her body to feel good about the changes that are happening and know that you know they are okay - and she is not somehow unusual or weird.  Would the conversation with the girl's parents be different do you think? And what would you be telling them about possible social considerations things they need to be thinking about?  If they have not already talked with their daughter about advances from older men advances from even teenage young boys that is something that they need to talk to their child about because the people around in the environment will react to what they see and they do not necessarily think oh here is an 8-year-old girl. They say oh look there is a girl you know and I want to approach her. She has breasts she is old enough. They need to talk to them about the teasing at school. Sometimes you even need to talk to the school about you know how to better manage the girls that they have that are developing early.  What would you tell the school?  Well in the past I have actually gone to the school and talked to the kids about puberty - talked to them in second grade to the level that they could understand. And after doing that a lot of the teasing really subsided when the boys realize that they have puberty to go through and the girls and this was the beginning of it. And so I think bringing it out helping kids understand that this is normal and not something to tease - and that is something that they are all going to go through eventually as well - seemed to really help.  Dr. Walker what advice do you give parents who might be trying to forestall the onset of puberty in their daughters? We hear a lot of talk about hormones in food in drinking water. I mean do you give advice if a parent says look should I be giving my daughter organic milk hormone-free meat no meat at all? What do you tell them?  I tell them to get back to what is the most healthy - living a healthy lifestyle for their child and making sure that there is a value on activity and moving making sure there is value on eating as healthy as possible. And in general I would recommend if they are able to have organic foods or foods that do not have hormones and chemicals in them it is probably worth a try. We do not know for sure if that is a cause but we do not know that it is not and it is a measure that a concerned parent can take to try to have their child develop at the time that they are supposed to.  Dr. Leslie Walker is chief of adolescent medicine at Seattle Children's Hospital. Dr. Walker thanks very much.  Thank you. 