 The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has announced the first case of Ebola diagnosed within the United States. The man traveled from Liberia and fell ill in Dallas. He is now in strict isolation at a hospital in that city. As a precaution health officials are tracking down people who came in contact with him. Joining us is NPR science correspondent Richard Harris. And Richard first of all what more do we know about the man who is sick?  We do not know a whole lot Robert but we do know that he was returning to Texas after having visited Liberia. He arrived here on September 20 in Texas. He was feeling fine then. On the 24 he got ill and started feeling symptoms. And symptoms of Ebola could be a sudden fever or fatigue or headaches or all of the above. He went to get medical treatment on the 26 of September and was not admitted to the hospital at that time. But he ultimately was admitted on Sunday to the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas.  What is the risk that this man might have spread Ebola to other people here in the United States?  Well it is important to say that Ebola does not spread easily. It does not travel through the air but people can get it through direct contact with bodily fluids. And it is also important to notice that it does not spread until a person is actually showing symptoms. So since this man was healthy when he was traveling it is highly unlikely anyone got exposed to Ebola during his travels. People at the greatest risk here and anywhere in the world are healthcare workers who may and in particular here those who may have treated him when he showed up in the hospital but before they realized that he had Ebola and before they had all of their protective systems in place.  So how long will health officials monitor those people?  Well most people exposed to Ebola will get sick in about a week. It can happen in as quickly as two days or up to three weeks. So what health officials will do just as a precaution will follow all of his contacts while he was sick for 21 days. At that point if they are not sick they are considered no longer to be at risk. And so that is wrapped up.  Richard worst-case could this case trigger an epidemic of Ebola in the U.S.?  Officials say absolutely not. In fact Tom Frieden who is the head of the CDC says quote there is no doubt in my mind we will stop at here. He says it is possible it might spread to one or two other people but basically the health systems in this country are set up very particularly to be aware of this sort of stuff and to nip it in the bud. So that seems to be a very low risk of happening.  Now other people have been treated for Ebola in U.S. hospitals since the current outbreak. They came here. We knew they had Ebola. What is the difference here?  Yeah that is the difference. They were diagnosed in West Africa. And so we knew before they got on a plane that they were sick. And so they were brought in very special equipment. They were maintained in strict medical isolation in flight and in ambulance at the hospital. They were put in the hospital. And so there was a very elaborate infection control for those people. Here this man was out and about so you know for a number of days after he was feeling sick so we do not know. You know normally people who are sick with Ebola are not well enough to go strolling or to the grocery store or anything. So that kind of risk is low but he could have exposed people in his household or doctors and nurses who had seen him.  What is the prognosis for him for the patient?  Well in West Africa more than half of patients with Ebola die. Here with good medical treatment you can do considerably better than that. There is no proven drug to treat Ebola but if you get fluids oxygen you know treatment for other infections and so on. And it can really help reduce your risk of death. But it is still a very dangerous disease is and this person is going to have a battle.  Most of the Ebola cases in Africa have occurred in Guinea Sierra Leone Liberia but there have been I believe 20 cases in Nigeria. How does the situation in the U.S. compare with say that smaller outbreak in Nigeria?  Yeah that is a good analogy. And in Nigeria there were 20 days there were 8 deaths. Almost all of them five of them were healthcare workers. And through very careful contact tracing they were able to bring that under control so it was much more difficult circumstances. It should be considerably easier here.  Thank you Richard. It is NPR's Richard Harris on the first Ebola patient diagnosed in the U.S. 