 Medical tests can now reveal a person's risk for Alzheimer's disease but taking those tests can be unsettling. NPR's Jon Hamilton saw that firsthand at a research center in Phoenix where he spoke to people before and after they got their test results. The participants are identified by their first names only in order to protect their privacy.  In a waiting room at the Banner Alzheimer's Institute a woman named Rubie is about to learn whether she has a gene that puts her at risk for Alzheimer's.  Well I am a little apprehensive about it and I hope I do not have it. But if I do I want to be able to plan for my future.  The gene is called APOE E4 and it is the most powerful known genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's in later life. APOE E4 does not cause the disease but people who inherit even a single copy of the gene are at higher risk and having two copies one from each parent amplifies that risk. Some studies have found that more than half of these people will develop Alzheimer's by age 85. Rubie is 74 and knows what the disease can do.  My mother had Alzheimer's in the last stage of her life and I have got friends and family that have Alzheimer's.  So Rubie volunteered for the Generation Program which is testing an experimental drug meant to prevent or delay Alzheimer's. To qualify you need to be between 60 and 75 and have two copies of the APOE E4 gene. Jessica Langbaum a researcher at Banner says finding out your genetic status takes courage.  People are remarkably brave in stepping forward and raising their hands to participate in a study. But this is a big life decision for people to learn this information.  So Langbaum says volunteers get a lot of education beforehand.  There are family considerations there are emotional considerations and there are insurance implications or considerations that people should think about before learning this information.  Participants also talked to a genetics counselor at the University of Pennsylvania when they get their results.  We have really designed this study to also learn how to tell people this information about their genetic susceptibility.  When Ruby talks to her counselor she learns that she has a single copy of the APOE E4 gene. And she is OK with that.  I am very glad to know.  What?  Very glad to know. It takes the mystery out of it.  For David a retired businessman the process is a bit more fraught. Before getting his results he thinks he is prepared.  I think I am a big boy. I think I can handle it. If the testing comes out to where I am running a higher risk I think I am going to put a lot more emphasis on enjoying the time that I have.  But after learning his genetic status he is concerned.  I just texted my son. I said are you home? We need to talk.  David like Rubie learned that he has one copy of the APOE E4 gene. That is no big deal for him but as he talked with the genetics counselor he realized how the result might affect his adult children.  My wife's grandmother and father both had Alzheimer's and so the chances of her having an APOE E4 gene is very very high.  And that means David's children might be carrying two copies of the gene. He feels like his kids need to know his genetic status. But he is reluctant to tell his wife.  She lived through that nightmare of her grandmother and her father passing away from Alzheimer's and I think if she knew I even had that slight elevated risk it could be very distressful to her.  So David finds himself in a quandary.  Fifty-five years of marriage - you have got to share stuff but maybe some things are best not shared.  Susan who is 67 and runs her own business has no qualms about sharing the test results with her husband and they do not have kids. But Susan's parents both died with Alzheimer's so she is afraid she will learn that she has two copies of the APOE E4 gene.  When you are maybe 40 or 50 you do not want to face that fact. But you know once you are - once you have already hit 60 you go you know maybe I should know.  Even so Susan does not expect the test result to have an immediate impact.  I have yet to retire though. I am not - you know...  Yeah you said you are still working so.  Yes. Yes I am even...  If you found that you were very high-risk do you think you would retire?  I do not think so.  A bit later Susan learns that she is carrying a single copy of the APOE E4 gene and to her that is great news.  I was pretty much prepared for the worst you know. So I mean in a lot of ways I feel like I won the lottery.  And now she is sounding pretty certain about retiring.  Oh I will move ahead with it.  Susan still hopes to work part time perhaps at the Humane Society. Jon Hamilton NPR News Phoenix.  