 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. A regular old sweet potato might not seem like anything to get excited about. We are talking about the orange-colored ones the ones you find most often at the store. Well in parts of Africa people are eating them for the first time and public health experts are in fact getting excited about it because those orange sweet potatoes are like living vitamin A supplements. NPR's Dan Charles reports.  There was a time when people assumed that hungry people mainly just needed more food more calories more protein. Then more than 20 years ago nutritionists working in Africa and Asia found that just giving malnourished children a vitamin A capsule every six months had a dramatic effect. In some studies the death rate among those children dropped by a quarter.  This number really astounded the nutrition community.  That is Howarth Bouis an economist at the International Food Policy Research Institute in Washington.  Then they started looking at iron and zinc and iodine deficiencies.  And they kept discovering that these so-called micronutrients make a huge difference in people's health. The poor often do not get enough of them because they only have enough money to get the most cheap and basic foods like rice or corn. Those crops deliver calories but not all the vitamins and minerals you need. So public health officials in many poor countries started passing out nutritional supplements - vitamin A capsules for instance. The problem is getting those capsules to hundreds of millions of people is expensive. So  Let us see if we can put more of these micronutrients into the basic staple foods that people are eating already he said. Let us breed varieties of corn or rice that are naturally higher in iron or vitamin A.  And then once that seed that variety is in the food system it is available year after year after year.  Sounds convincing but this was a tough sell 20 years ago?  It is a very tough sell.  A lot of public health experts worried that it would be a waste of scarce money. Crop breeders were not sure it was even possible. And some people thought if these crops looked different people would not eat them. Two decades later the advocates of this strategy which they call biofortification have overcome a lot of these objections. They have come up with varieties of some crops that have more micronutrients mostly through traditional breeding although there is also the genetically engineered golden rice which provides more vitamin A. But their first real success in the field is the orange sweet potato. And here's one of the people who made it a success.  My name is Maria Isabel Andrade and I work for the International Potato Center and I am based in Mozambique.  Andrade is a sweet potato breeder. She arrived in Mozambique 17 years ago right around the time that people were starting to talk about creating more nutritious crops. In Mozambique and also other African countries like Uganda subsistence farmers grow a lot of sweet potatoes. They have been doing it for centuries ever since the Portuguese brought the first sweet potatoes here from Latin America. But for whatever reason those sweet potatoes are white or yellow. And as it happens white or yellow sweet potatoes do not give you any vitamin A. The orange flesh of the North American sweet potato though does. Andrade and her fellow sweet potato breeders looked at each other and said hey we do not have to spend years creating a high-vitamin A crop it already exists.  And we realized that orange-fleshed sweet potato that is eaten in the U.S. could really provide a lot of vitamin A for the people in Africa.  Andrade helped find varieties that would grow well in Mozambique and worked to get them widely distributed. When I met her recently in Mozambique's capital Maputo she drove up in a bright orange Toyota Land Cruiser with pictures of sweet potatoes painted on it. She is working with the government on a big marketing campaign.   There are radio spots and personal visits to countless villages.  And we still doing all this theater in the village singing about orange-flesh sweet potato how good it tastes how you feed it to your children and showing recipes so that they get used to it.  I see evidence of her success at urban markets. Also hours away from any city along the side of the road piles of sweet potatoes for sale many have one small end cut off just to show that they are orange inside.    This potato is healthier says Jaume Otavio Martin one of the sellers. It is got more vitamins.    These are the sweet potatoes that people want to eat now he continues. That is why I grow them. People pay more for them. About a third of all the sweet potatoes in Mozambique Maria Isabel Andrade says now are orange. And scientists new have evidence that they are improving people's lives. Children who are eating them do have more vitamin A in their blood enough to make them healthier. Advocates of biofortification now are trying to duplicate this success with other crops. Just this year they started distributing new varieties of beans and pearl millet that are high in iron to farmers in Rwanda and India. In Zambia they are releasing a new kind of corn that has deep orange kernels high in beta-carotene which the body uses to make vitamin A. But farming changes slowly in Africa and it will probably take at least a decade before anyone know whether these crops are doing as much good as the orange sweet potato. Dan Charles NPR News 