 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. The Ebola outbreak in West Africa has killed more than half of the more than 2600 people thought to have been infected. But a senior U.S. health official who is touring the region says from what he can see the actual number of infections and deaths is far higher. Doctor Tom Frieden is the director of the U.S. Centers For Disease Control and Prevention he spoke to us today from Monrovia the capital of Liberia where he is getting a firsthand look at the epidemic.  There are more cases here than have been reported. There are more cases than have been diagnosed and there are patients that are just far far far too many for the treatment services. And what that means is that Ebola is spreading widely in communities. This is absolutely unprecedented.  How is it evident that there are more Ebola cases than have been reported?  We are tracking how the reporting is done. We are tracking how the laboratory testing is done. We are tracking how the health ministry is dealing with their data and realizing that the numbers are far larger than have been reported not because they are trying to hide anything but because they are really overwhelmed by these numbers. No one expected this.  I know that you visited the JFK Hospital in Monrovia today one thing that we have heard is that people who should be going to the hospital for other reasons women in labor for example are staying away because they - they are fearful. They are afraid that if they go to the hospital they will contract Ebola. First of all is that a justified fear?  Well first off the fact is what you have heard is correct. The occupancy of the hospital is only about 10 percent. So there are definitely urgent health needs going unmet whether that is malaria or pneumonia or conditions that can be fatal. So the fears have at times been justified because there has been spread among patients in healthcare facilities. So one of our urgent tasks is not just to get the Ebola treatment up but also to get the treatment restarted throughout the country for patients without Ebola.  Our team there has reported on the quarantine on the neighborhood in Monrovia - West Point I gather there is also a quarantine in a rural County on the Liberian border with Sierra Leone and Guinea. Did you learn anything in meetings today about the situation there and is that quarantine still in effect?  The situation in Foya which is the rural area that is part of what is really a three country common border area which has been the epicenter and probably the place where this started has been very intense. That remains an area where there is a lot of transmission the needs are enormous. And the two main things that are going to turn this around are improving healthcare infection control and improving burial practices. And healthcare infection control can only be improved when there are enough beds for patients with Ebola. And right now there are far far too few.  And you said burial practices. I gather that the safest burial practice is cremation and there is been some progress on that front?  Yes you know cremation was not part of the burial culture here but remarkably and I think not unexpectedly in just a week after seeing too many dead bodies to be carefully buried the community and families have increasingly accepted cremation as an acceptable form of burial. But the challenges are enormous. The government and even the non-government organizations are not able to keep up with requests for removal of dead bodies from the community. It is a horrific situation.  Is it evident to you when you go to Monrovia that this is a city that is suffering from an Ebola outbreak or do you have to go look for it and be on an official trip to see that?  Some of the signs of change are everywhere you go. People have - you people wash your hands with a bleach solution before you go but probe a little deeper and you will recognize that the economy is having severe problems. That shipments flights have been canceled tourism is down business is down. People are afraid and that there is hardly any were here who does not know someone who does not have a family member who is been touched by a death by Ebola and these deaths are so horrific and Liberia has been so much over the past 15 or 20 years. That really it is really almost re-traumatizing to the people here.  Doctor Frieden thank you very much for talking with us today.  Thank you.  That is Doctor Tom Frieden who is the director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. He is in Monrovia the Liberian capital at the start of a three country tour looking into the Ebola outbreak. 