 As President Biden laid out his plan to combat this latest surge of the coronavirus he asked doctors to help.   Tonight I am asking each of you to reach out to your unvaccinated patients over the next two weeks and make a personal appeal to them to get the shot.  Well before Biden's speech a group of doctors in Massachusetts had started doing just that.  I walked in the room and I saw that they had these - some other patients' charts open. And I was like why are you looking at other people? We have got ICU patients here. And they went oh we are calling our unvaccinated patients. I was floored.  That is Dr. Lakshman Swamy critical care physician at Cambridge Health Alliance. His residents are using their downtime to identify which of their primary care patients are unvaccinated. Then they call them to talk about getting the vaccine.  Dr. Preston Williams a first-year internal medicine resident helped come up with the idea. He says that because some people are foregoing regular doctor visits right now these calls are even more important.  We wanted to make those contact points just to check in with people and find out how they were doing and see if they had any other issues going on as well and just to see like how is COVID been and then also to have the discussion about the vaccine.  Dr. Williams thinks it is important to listen to people's reasons for not wanting the vaccine.  One common thing that I have heard from a lot of patients is that they did not know they could get the vaccine because they had diabetes or asthma or heart failure. And I had the pleasure and opportunity to tell them no this is why we think you should get the vaccine because people with a lot of these chronic conditions actually do worse.  Dr. Swamy says a lack of good information has been a theme among many of his patients.  We take care of people who are disenfranchised people who do not have stable housing people who do not speak English. So in many cases they do not have such great access to valid information.  And the conversations says Dr. Williams have been mostly productive.  I would say the majority of the patients that I have talked to who were not vaccinated indicated to me on the phone that they now planned to get vaccinated.  Dr. Lily Gage one of the residents making calls says it comes down to the power of the doctor-patient relationship.  I do know by and large most of these patients and I have relationships with them. And so I can be a trusted source I hope anyway in this sea of sources that we are all inundated by.  In this instance this group of young doctors are one source their patients can trust and rely on.  