 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. Truckers are more likely than average Americans to be overweight and that can lead to health problems among them sleep apnea which disrupts sleep causes fatigue and contributes to thousands of crashes a year. Well now regulators have announced plans to step up scrutiny of sleep apnea and other health issues in truckers and that has sparked a fitness craze or what passes for one among big-rig drivers. Frank Morris of member station KCUR has the story.  The Iron Skillet restaurant here on I-70 east of Kansas City offers pretty typical trucker fare. You can get a salad but the chicken-fried steak and eggs with gravy at the top of the menu sure looks more appealing. Outside in the parking lot it appears few truckers are going hungry. Mr.  I am not bad. I am 6'4 but I weigh 406 pounds.  Jerry Mumma stands tall in a dirty red polo shirt and overalls. Mr.  Do I need to lose weight? Oh yeah I need to lose weight. I need to get down to about 260 280 pounds.  Mumma's got company. Doctors writing federal transportation policy believe that up to 40 percent professional drivers are significantly overweight. Sitting in his truck Marty Ellis blames the job. Mr.  Oh yeah yeah. Since I went to work here I have gained 100 pounds because you are sedentary. This is your job is to sit behind this wheel.  And they sit for 10 or 11 hours a day weeks at a time many of them following the work. Ellis says it is hard to arrange a checkup harder still to park a 70-foot-long truck and trailer at the doctor's office. Mr.  Most of us do not go to the doctor. You know we just stay clear of them and we just keep going. A lot of owner-operators out here do not have insurance.  Truckers do have to get a medical exam every two years at least to qualify for their commercial driver's license. But many have been free to choose doctors who might overlook red flags like obesity which can trigger sleep apnea. That can lead to fatigue which a federal study shows to be a factor in 13 percent of truck crashes. The American Trucking Association says nearly a third of drivers is likely suffer from sleep apnea but the government has never required truckers to be tested for it. Ellis says they have always dealt with it on their own. Mr.  Before it really did not matter. I mean as long as you could get in and go drive down the road it did not matter. And now the regulations are starting to say well if you do not do this you may not drive anymore. It is something you really really have to think about. Dr.  Our job is really to remove those high-risk operators off the roads. It is safer for them and it is safer for the American public who travel.  Dr. Maggie Gunnels serves on a panel that is rewriting health regulations for truckers. It published proposed rule changes months ago. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration will begin to formalize them soon. It will start by establishing a registered pool of approved health screeners.  systematic screening for sleep apnea. Ms.  I would say it is time to invest in your health. Hopefully many of them have started and there are some great programs out there already for truckers. Mr.  We actually encourage the guys just to walk around your truck twice every day.  Greg McDermand works for a company that sells mobile sleep apnea treatment machines to truckers. The fitness industry is adapting too.   In this exercise video Bob Perry works out with heavy chains and a big tire stuff truckers may have on hand. Mr.  It is just now reached the tipping point. Every day we are seeing an increase of drivers coming in and saying listen I need to lose weight.  Perry is the president of Roadside Medical Clinics a company opening clinics at truck stops. Meantime an organization called the St. Christopher Fund is taking health screening on the road. Mr.  Hi welcome to the MRV. MRV stands for Medical Resource Vehicle.  Jon Osborn roams the country in this camper loaded with medical diagnostic equipment. A former trucker Osborn has lost 100 pounds in the last few years. And he is just unpacking something to help him keep it off. Mr.  Truck drivers have limited room in their trucks. So what we are doing is we are now opening up the alloy folding bike and here she is.  It is just a little red bike the kind you might expect to see an elderly person riding. It may be kind of stretch to imagine in the macho cap-and-cowboy boot culture of trucking but it is a step in the direction that more and more truckers will be taking as they try to improve their health before the government steps in. For NPR News I am Frank Morris in Kansas City. 