 The protection provided by at least one of the COVID-19 vaccines appears to have begun to fade. That is according to the Israeli Ministry of Health. But some public health officials are cautioning that it is too soon to know for sure. Joining us to explain what this means is NPR health correspondent Rob Stein. Hi Rob.  Hey there Ari.  What exactly is the Israeli Ministry of Health saying?  The ministry has not released a lot of information but a brief statement about the Pfizer vaccine says that over the past month there is been a quote marked decline in the efficacy of the vaccine in preventing infection and symptomatic illness. The ministry says that is dropped to just 64. It was estimated to be in the 90s. So in other words the Israeli health ministry says the chances that fully vaccinated people could still catch the virus and develop mild or moderate symptoms has increased significantly.  That sounds really concerning. So what is the reaction been?  You know Ari it is been mixed. I reached Dr. Anthony Fauci about this late this afternoon and he said he found the Israeli statement kind of you know puzzling in several ways. For example it would be very unusual for a vaccine to provide the same level of protection against both asymptomatic and symptomatic infection. And so he says he is reserving judgment until he has a chance to see more details.  It is something we would certainly want to pay attention to but I am not so sure we can make any major conclusions based on the information we have right now.  Dr. Fauci says it could be that the Israelis are just testing a lot more people so they are finding a lot more who got infected even though they were vaccinated. But he said he is trying to get more information from Israel as soon as possible to try to figure out what is really going on here.  If this is true why would it be happening?  You know there are a lot of factors that could be playing a role. Israel rolled out the vaccine a lot quicker than other countries so there is a chance that they are starting to see some of the protection begin to fade. And the health ministry notes that this happened at about the same time that the Delta variant really took off in that country. You know that is the variant that was first spotted in India that is super contagious. And while the vaccines appear to still work very well against all the variants including the Delta variant lab studies suggest that it may not quite be as effective against the Delta variant. I talked about this with Dr. Paul Offit. He is a vaccine expert at the University of Pennsylvania.  I think you are seeing two things going on in Israel. You are seeing the effect of the Delta variant in terms of its inability of immunization to protect against mild disease caused by the Delta variant. And you are also probably seeing some fading of immunity over time.  And that would leave some even fully vaccinated people more vulnerable.  So how worried should Americans who have gotten the vaccine be in the United States?  Well you know Ari if it is true it definitely would be a concern. You know this would suggest that the Pfizer vaccine and probably the very similar Moderna vaccine just does not provide the same level of protection as they did against the original strains of the virus. I talked about this with Saad Omer. He is a vaccine researcher at Yale.  With the original virus you know you would think - you know you could think of it as a forcefield. Now it is not that kind of a situation.  You know but doctors Offit Omer and Fauci they all stressed that the key thing is that the vaccine still remained highly effective at preventing people from getting so sick that they end up in a hospital or even die which you know that is what matters most. The Israelis say that is still holding at about 93. Here's Dr. Offit again.  The good news is protection against severe critical disease the kind of disease that causes you to go to the hospital or die is still excellent even against the Delta variant. So the vaccine still is doing its job at keeping you out of the hospital and keeping you out of the morgue.  But all the experts note that the Delta variant is taking over in this country too. And you know it already accounts for at least one quarter of all infections and is already the dominant variant in some parts of the country. And there are still lots of people in this country who are not vaccinated so they are vulnerable. And you know the more the virus spreads the more who will end up getting sick and dying.  That is NPR health correspondent Rob Stein. Thank you.  You bet Ari.  