 Just yesterday alone tens of thousands of new cases of COVID-19 cases were diagnosed and more than 1500 people died from the disease. It is all being driven by the highly infectious delta variant of the disease and it represents a radical turn from where the country was just two months ago.  And this explosion of COVID cases has left local state and federal leaders including President Biden trying to figure out how to stop it. Well this afternoon he is going to lay out what is been billed as a six-pronged approach to stopping the spread of this disease here in the U.S. We are going to talk about that plan and what it should include with Dr. Leana Wen. She was Baltimore city health commissioner and she is a public health professor at George Washington University. Welcome.  Thank you. Great to join you Ailsa.  Great to have you. OK. As we have said we are learning some things about this plan. There is a vaccine mandate for all federal workers and one of the biggest parts of this plan is a new rule that would require private sector businesses with at least 100 employees to make sure that their staff members get vaccinated. The administration is also going to require health care workers in facilities that get Medicare and Medicaid funding to be vaccinated. Let me ask you is all of this enough to make a real substantive dent in cases?  I hope so. I mean we know that vaccines are our best and only way out of the pandemic and also that had we gotten many more people vaccinated earlier we would not be where we are now. I mean we are only at 54 of the entire country fully vaccinated. And this is the reason why we have seen the scourge of the delta variant wreaking havoc here. I think it is - what the Biden administration is announcing is a lot. I mean it will be good in particular to direct employers to either mandate vaccines or testing or at least larger employers to do them. And I think it gives the employers cover who might have wanted to take this step but now they can blame it on the federal government and say hey this is what the federal government is asking us to do. But I actually wish that President Biden would go even further and use the full extent of his federal authority and in particular around interstate travel - planes and trains. That is in his power to mandate vaccines for all eligible people to board a plane or a train. And I think it also sets the tone. If you want the privilege to travel you need to get vaccinated.  Well in addition to vaccinations I want to talk about testing. Because one thing that we know is that the administration is going to be taking steps to increase access to testing. Can you just explain real quick for us Dr. Wen how could that noticeably help at this point during the pandemic?  Testing in itself is not a preventive measure. Because if you test positive you have already got COVID. However if it is implemented throughout and used for routine surveillance meaning that everyone for example going to work is tested once a week or every student going to school is tested once or ideally twice a week then that is a way to identify individuals who have the infection before they actually enter that space. And testing can be and is an important layer of protection. And I think this is the key here that all of these things layer on top of one another. Think about it as it is cold outside. You want to wear multiple layers of clothing. If you remove one layer you have to replace it with another. And so in schools for example if we are removing the layer of distancing because we have to get all the kids back full-time then you need other layers...  Right.  ...Including testing and indoor masking and vaccinations for those who are eligible.  But the tests  available are rapid antigen tests I understand. They are reliable but they are not quite as reliable as the PCR test. Is that correct?  That is correct although I am OK with that because I would much rather that we get a large number of people tested with an imperfect test rather than fewer number of people tested with a great test. I mean...  Right.  ...If you get not that many people tested you get 0 as opposed to if you have a test that is 80 you are still getting 80 of those who are infected. So regular testing even with the cheaper more readily available rapid antigen test would be a huge game-changer.  OK. Well we are talking about some pretty aggressive steps - you know pushing people to get vaccinated get tested wear masks. But let me ask you after all of the politics that we have seen during this entire pandemic - varied politics across the country - do you think that this new plan can be successfully implemented?  I think it can be. But I also think that President Biden needs to be much more aggressive in how he delivers this plan. As I read the plan and what I understand of it now it still reads like we have been there before. I mean nothing here - the six prongs - we have all seen it before. Testing vaccination school safety - I mean they are important. But altogether they still sound like half measures. I want the president to come out and say that we have reached the end of the line here. We cannot do this anymore. This is killing 1500 Americans a day which is half a million Americans every year. I mean we cannot sustain this. Our economy is suffering. We are all suffering. We cannot do this unless we do something really dramatic. We need to put a hard reset here. And that is why I think the federal government really needs to use the entire power of its authority to mandate vaccines.  But is not that authority limited inherently? I mean does the president need substantial buy-in from governors other local leaders local health departments to really pull off a plan like this?  Yes but he also - the federal government can also give locals cover. There are many localities that actually want to do these things but they need to be able to point to the federal government and say hey this is something the federal government is asking me to do. And I actually think here proof of vaccination is going to be really important. Israel the EU - they have something more than a paper card that can easily be forged. We need to have that here in the U.S. too.  Dr. Leana Wen was Baltimore city health commissioner and is an emergency room physician. Thank you very much for joining us today.  Thank you. 