 In November voters in four states will decide whether to raise their tobacco taxes. North Dakota is considering increasing its tax by 1.76 per pack of cigarettes. In California the proposal is 2 a pack. But do those taxes actually help people quit smoking? For member station KQED in San Francisco reporter April Dembosky went to find out.   Thank you for calling the New York State Smokers' Quitline.  New York has the highest cigarette tax in the country 4.35 per pack. Each time it went up calls to the State Quitline spiked.   Quitting smoking can also save a lot of money in the long run.  In New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg raised the tax even more.  Oh I was so angry with him. I could hardly afford it.  Elizabeth Lane was paying 12 a pack.  I had to beg borrow and steal to get money to buy cigarettes.  At first Lane managed to cut down from seven packs a week to four. But sometimes she still did not have money to buy toilet paper.  I asked my daughter you got 50? What for? I need cigarettes.  Finally the price tag her doctor's warnings her daughter's guilt trips - it all came together. She quit. Studies show that for every 10-percent increase in the price of cigarettes smoking goes down 4 percent.  Part of that is people quitting.  Stanton Glantz is a professor of medicine at UC San Francisco.  Part of that is people cutting down.  California already has the second-lowest smoking rate in the country after Utah. Glantz says most people here who do smoke do not smoke that much.  It may be - the price increase that'ill probably follow will be enough to just get these light and intermittent smokers to just say you know forget it.  Glantz's colleague Justin White is a behavioral economist. He says most smokers wish they could quit. But addiction is a powerful force.  There is this universal tendency towards immediate gratification that people have.  The craving for a cigarette right now easily overwhelms fears of heart disease or lung cancer in the future. But White says a cigarette tax that is high enough - at least a few dollars - can flip that.  Increasing taxes is a way to really bring that back into equilibrium - the cost in the future versus the benefits now.  But opponents of the tax say people should be free to make their own choices. Steven Greenhut is from the R Street Institute a libertarian think tank.  Personally I am opposed to every manner of taxing.  He does not like that some of these states would tax e-cigarettes too. He says studies show that e-cigarettes pose fewer health risks - though to what degree is actually unsettled. Either way Greenhut says it is premature to tax them.  Anything that makes it harder for people to try a safer alternative I think is harming public health.  In New York for Elizabeth Lane the nicotine patch was her ticket to quitting and feeling better.  I do not huff huff huff when I am walking.  She is saving money too.  Instead of being all on the receiving end all the time - you know give me give me give me - I can give now.  She says she can buy presents for her daughter and granddaughter. For NPR News I am April Dembosky in San Francisco.  That story is part of a reporting partnership of NPR KQED and Kaiser Health News. 