 Now staying here in Florida residents may be spared a direct hit from Dorian but forecasters say dangerous storm surges hurricane-force winds and power outages are still expected. For Floridians the memory of Hurricane Irma two years ago is still fresh in part because at least 84 people in the state died as a result of the storm. Twelve of those deaths occurred at a nursing home in Hollywood Fla. near Fort Lauderdale after the storm knocked out power to the facility's air conditioning system. On Tuesday four employees of the center were charged with aggravated manslaughter in connection with those deaths. That tragedy raises the question of whether the state is better prepared today especially in caring for vulnerable residents. A Miami Herald report found that hundreds of nursing homes do not meet new requirements put in place since Hurricane Irma. Miami Herald reporter Elizabeth Koh is with us now from Tallahassee to tell us more. Elizabeth thanks so much for joining us.  Thanks for inviting me.  So Elizabeth has the state taken steps since Hurricane Irma to ensure that facilities like nursing homes can continue to care for residents in the event of a major hurricane? Are they ready?  The biggest thing that the state did after Irma was to pass regulations last year shortly after the storm hit to say that nursing homes and assisted living facilities needed backup power specifically for their air conditioning which is where the Hollywood Hills nursing facility failed. The regulations call for additional fuel storage in addition to powerful generators that can keep those temperature facilities running. And that was supposed to go into implementation at the beginning of last year's hurricane season.  Last year's hurricane season - so did it? I mean are these facilities ready?  Hundreds of facilities needed more time. They cited delays with local governments that required additional permits backlogs and contractors difficulty getting the equipment installed. When we are talking about large nursing home facilities we are talking about some pretty powerful substantial generators that need concrete pads to sit on things like that. So the state gave them an extension until the end of the year.  So do you have a sense of whether the staff at these facilities and the families of the residents - do they feel prepared for the storm?  That is something that the state is trying to check. Unfortunately as we learned in Irma that is something that can be difficult to determine with full certainty. The Hollywood Hills nursing facility as we discussed is a facility that had a generator on the premises. It just did not power their air conditioning. It had an emergency plan like a lot of nursing home facilities have now. But that was a plan that was not very thoroughly vetted by county officials. So the question of how safe nursing home facilities actually are - that is something that we are seeing local officials do site checks and calls to see if they can establish generator statuses at various facilities and ensure the safety of residents. But if you are concerned about a family member who is at a facility it is worth calling and checking and asking how they are preparing for this storm.  Are there any other lessons that the states learned from the tragedy that occurred in Hollywood Hills? Is there any - are there any other steps that they are taking to give the public confidence that something like this will not happen again?  They have put out a new website - it is fl-generator.com - that gives the public an opportunity to look at what kind of generator status is on file with the state - whether they have a permanently installed generator whether it is a temporary generator on site off site. So that is a resource for the public. The state has also promised that they will do spot checks after the storm to make sure that facilities that have gotten generators have those generators up and running. We have been told that the state has stockpiled additional generators in case some of those generators fail so that they have backups. And we are told that the Department of Health is also helping with that too - the State Department of Health.  That was Miami Herald reporter Elizabeth Koh joining us from WFSU in Tallahassee Fla. Elizabeth thanks so much for joining us and thanks for your reporting.  Thank you very much. 