 Cleveland Clinic one of the most prestigious names in health care is taking a stand on food. It announced this week that McDonald's is leaving its food court. The golden arches will be taken down next month as NPR's Allison Aubrey reports.  Cleveland Clinic is a huge operation - 6 million patient and family visits a year. And it also has about 45000 employees everyone from nurses and doctors to janitors and accountants to the workers who push gurneys down the hospital hallways. And as part of an emphasis on wellness every one of these employees is being nudged to live a little healthier. Cleveland Clinic offers employees free gym memberships free access to Weight Watchers and increasingly more healthy options in its cafeteria. So when it came to renewing McDonald's lease Cleveland Clinic spokesperson Eileen Sheil says the decision was it had to go.  That was not what we wanted here.  Sheil says her organization wants to model the health care of the future by focusing on the prevention of diseases including obesity.  Cleaving Clinic wants to help patients and visitors and our employees really turn to healthier lifestyles and healthier choices.  Cleveland Clinic is not the only hospital to nudge fast food operators out. Sriram Madhusoodanan of the advocacy group Corporate Accountability International sees the decision as part of a broader trend.  It is the seventh hospital since 2009 to sever ties with McDonald's.  Madhusoodanan points to Vanderbilt Medical Center in Nashville Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis and Truman Medical Centers in Kansas City. Now it is not that McDonald's does not offer more fresh food than it used to - everything from fruit in Happy Meals to kale salads. But Madhusoodanan says its customers still go for the traditional menu.  McDonald's most profitable items remain burgers fries and soda.  So lots of sugar fat and salt. The move to push McDonald's out certainly does not sit well with everyone. In Cleveland commenters to a local news site have complained that shuttering McDonald's takes away one of the most affordable options in the Cleveland Clinic cafeteria. It is a sentiment that is shared by McDonald's customers all over the country people like Antonio Luna  who was eating at a McDonald's in suburban Maryland.  I try my best not to spend a lot of money so I come here for the dollar menus.  Cleveland Clinic says it is aware of the high priority on value. So as it looks to replace McDonald's the idea is to find a vendor who can serve up healthier food at good prices. Allison Aubrey NPR News. 