 Currently more than 100000 Americans are in the hospital with COVID-19 and that is not so far below the all-time hospitalization peak in January. NPR's Will Stone reports that has some states talking about rationing care.  After the winter Dr. Bruce Siegel thought hospitals had gone through the toughest days of the pandemic.  And instead we find ourselves back mired in disease and in death because we did not get enough people in America vaccinated.  Siegel is president of America's Essential Hospitals a group that represents hundreds of public hospitals across the U.S.  We are in a very dangerous place given the level of our surge right before our kids go back to school and right before we start spending a lot more time indoors.  More than 10 states have reported record hospital admissions during the surge. And the U.S. is averaging more than a thousand deaths from COVID a day.  We are right on the edge of entering into crisis standards of care. And I hope we do not get to that point but it could very easily happen.  That is a formal plan that directs hospitals how to ration medical care when resources are scarce. Kenneth Krell is an ICU doctor in eastern Idaho.  And it is worse than ever with at this point seemingly no end in sight.  Nurses overwhelmed ICU patients boarded in the emergency room doctors scouring the state for the last bed - Krell says it is like this all over Idaho.  So by no means are we at this point delivering a usual and customary standard of care.  Which is why Idaho's Republican governor Brad Little has said hospitals are on the brink of activating crisis standards. Krell says this is the worst-case scenario for COVID and non-COVID patients.  Who gets the most immediate care by their probability of survival and how we can save the most lives? There is a huge downside. We are going to create panic in the state.  Modeling shows hospitalizations may have peaked in parts of the Southeast like Texas and Florida. But in much of the country cases are still increasing.  I think it has really impacted and fragmented all of health care right now.  Dr. Aruna Arora is president of the Medical Association of the State of Alabama. Like so much of the country she says the biggest limitation is not physical beds or ventilators it is staff.  Everyone is short nurses. EMS response times are a lot slower. Patients are having to wait in the ERs for long periods of time.  The point of moving to crisis standards is partly to provide a formal road map and legal protection for clinicians. Dr. Eric Toner at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security says some states have not officially declared crisis standards but...  In the absence of that doctors nurses on their own are the only ones left to make you know these gut-wrenching decisions.  Toner says there are guidelines for when and how to triage patients when the health care system is overwhelmed. And the aim is to do everything you can to avoid actually going to crisis standards except Toner worries that is not happening.  We are not balancing patients enough between hospitals. We are not sharing resources as well as we should. So we have - despite you know over a dozen years of working on this problem what we are seeing is chaos.  In New Mexico things are bad too. There are waiting lists for ICU beds. And the state has warned like it did last winter about the possibility of rationing care. But Dr. Jason Mitchell with Presbyterian Healthcare Services says he thinks hospitals there are better prepared and can avoid it.  We really have had all of our hospitals in it together working together and the state partnering with us. So that is probably the thing that is gotten us through this more than anything.  The truth is they have had a lot of practice. Will Stone NPR News.  