 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  NPR's Brenda Wilson reports.  The director of the White House Office of AIDS Policy Jeffrey Crowley explains how they will get the infection rates down.  We need to intensify our prevention efforts in communities where HIV is most heavily concentrated. We need to expand targeted efforts to prevent HIV infection using a combination and that is the key word a combination of effective evidence-based approaches. And third we need to educate all Americans about the threat of HIV and how to prevent it.  Dr. Michael Saag the president of the HIV Medical Association is from Alabama and is impressed with the strategy. There was a need he says to recognize that the epidemic that started in large urban centers has changed.  People in our state are suffering with HIV especially black women in rural areas who are infected do not suspect that they are infected and show up late with advanced AIDS where treatments are less effective these individuals are just totally taken by surprise.  He says the most critical piece of the new strategy is its emphasis on getting people into treatment soon after they are diagnosed which should be seen as a form of prevention.  Once you put the person on treatment their amount of virus in their bloodstream goes to undetectable levels and there are estimates that say there is no further transmission of HIV from that person to someone else.  But by highlighting the need to improve treatment and reduce disparities Phill Wilson of the Black AIDS Institute says the administration is raising questions about the more-than-2000 people on a waiting list for assistance in paying for AIDS drugs and the ADAP program.  The president just announced a one-time infusion of 25 million in the ADAP program. That is good. But that is just a fraction of what the experts say are needed to eliminate the waiting list. We need 125 million if we are serious about getting people on treatment who are currently depending on the ADAP program.  The strategy itself seems to be foreseeing a time when people with HIV will either qualify for expanded Medicaid or government-funded health coverage. Brenda Wilson NPR News. 