 The CDC and the FDA both say if you are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 you do not need a booster shot to be protected from disease. That is true even for new variants of the virus turning up in the U.S. Despite that the pharmaceutical company Pfizer announced it would be seeking regulatory authorization for a third shot of its COVID-19 vaccine. And the company said it was developing a new vaccine specifically targeting the Delta variant. Joining us now is NPR science correspondent Joe Palca. Hi Joe.  Hi Ari.  Help us sort this out. What reason is Pfizer giving for asking the FDA to authorize a third shot?  Well for months now Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla has been saying he thinks a booster will be necessary and it may be at some point. But the thing is that since he is been saying that some scientists have been disagreeing and saying there is evidence that it might not be necessary. So it is an open question. But the COVID-19 vaccine is a big successful product for Pfizer and of course they would like to sell as many doses as they can so they may see the evidence tilting in favor of a booster where others might not.  So there is an economic consideration here. But scientists are studying boosters right?  Oh yeah. There is a good reason to think it may be necessary. And companies are doing their own trials. But there is another interesting study that is testing a mix-and-match strategy where you might get a booster of the Johnson  Johnson vaccine after initially getting the Pfizer vaccine. Kirsten Lyke at the University of Maryland Center for Vaccine Development and Global Health is one of the lead investigators of this study. And she says the advantage is that it is being paid for by the federal government's National Institutes of Health.  NIH can approach this in an unbiased manner with no you know dog in the race per se.  In other words there is no business incentive to see the results in a particular way.  Is there an advantage to this mix-and-match strategy?  Well it is not certain. But the interesting thing is that the Johnson  Johnson vaccine uses a different technology from the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. And there is some suggestion from other research and other vaccines that different kinds of vaccines can provoke a more potent immune response. So there is reason to think that mixing and matching may give you a better protection. Kirsten Lyke says the goal of her project is to answer two main questions about getting a booster.  Is it safe? And what is the immune response that is generated to these boosters?  Right.  Because if we are going to give a mass booster let us figure out which one is the most efficient to give.  Do you know whether a booster is necessary at this point?  Yeah I do not think anyone knows.  And it may turn out that some people need a booster sooner than other - for example people in nursing homes or frontline health care workers. And it is also possible that people with compromised immune systems might need something sooner than others. So - but this is the point Lyke makes - is that now is the time to find out what works so that if the time does come when we need a booster we will be ready to go with the best one that is available.  All right. So more information to come as scientists learn more. One other question - the CDC has updated its guidance on protecting K-12 students against COVID when they go back to school in the fall. What is the agency saying?  Well the first thing they are saying is they are acknowledging the importance of in-person learning. So they do think it is important for kids to get back in the classroom. The next thing they are saying is that everyone should get vaccinated. Now the vaccines are only approved for children older than 12 but it may be younger than that by the end of the year. They are also saying anyone older than 2 who is not vaccinated should wear a mask. They are saying they should maintain distancing of three feet where possible and anyone who is sick should stay home.  NPR science correspondent Joe Palca. Thank you.  You are very welcome. 