 Robert let us try a quick experiment here.  OK.  See if you can make this mouth sound. .  That is easy for you to say.  .  . Not very well.  E for effort Robert. Well it turns out that imitating sounds is something that humans are really good at. It is part of what makes us special. And NPR's Geoff Brumfiel reports that researchers now think a species of monkey might possess similar skills.  Learning to make sounds by listening to others is called vocal learning and there is just a few species that can do it - mostly birds and humans. Now do not get me wrong chimpanzees are smart. They can learn some sign language but they cannot learn to talk.  We did not think that mammals - and primates in particular - besides us actually had any type of vocal learning.  Asif Ghazanfar is at Princeton University. Now research he is published in the journal Science suggests there is at least one species of monkey that might be able to learn vocally the common marmoset. Marmosets are not your typical primate. They are tiny with big round eyes and long fluffy tails.  They are cute and they smell. They wash themselves in their own urine. I am not sure why they do that.  But Ghazanfar says once you get over the smell these little guys are interesting. Marmoset mommies always give birth to twins and they need help raising them so everyone gets involved.  The father sticks around and helps take care of the offspring. Moreover older siblings will help take care of younger siblings and group members that are unrelated to those infants will also help out.  Sound familiar? That is how humans do it. Ghazanfar thinks all the child care is what gives marmosets another special trait - they are super talkative.   They are chattering nonstop and that is also very different from our close relatives the chimpanzees.  To see if all that yammering was passed on from parents to babies Ghazanfar devised an experiment.  Almost every other day we simply took one of the infant marmosets and for a very brief time we separated it from its parents and then recorded its vocalizations.   The very young infants made low raspy sounds - not your typical marmoset chatter.  It kind of has this rough noisy characteristic to it.  But over time that changed.  When they reach about two months of age then they are going to produce these very kind of clear whistle-like calls.   They really are annoying unfortunately.  The amount of time it took to go from the low rough call to that high squeak depended on how much feedback the baby marmosets were getting from their parents. In other words the marmosets were learning through listening vocal learning. Erich Jarvis studies vocal learning in birds like parrots at Duke University. He says there is been a long-held view in science that when it comes to learning how to imitate sounds...  You have it and you do not have it. And humans and parrots are the haves and nonhuman primates are the have-nots.  This new work shows that is probably not the case. The marmosets are able to pick stuff up though Jarvis still is not convinced that this learning is as complex as what humans and birds can do.  There is something in between all right? Not necessarily black and white but a continuum.  Both researchers agree that studying marmosets could be useful for us humans. Because we are both social primates these little monkeys might be able to provide clues about human disorders that make learning language difficult. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News. 