 The divisions over vaccines are creating challenges for people trying to ensure workplace safety. Some employers are asking workers to show proof of vaccination. And some including the federal government are asking instead for employees to attest to their vaccination status. NPR consumer health correspondent Yuki Noguchi is here to explain. Hi Yuki.  Hi Ari.  Explain what attest means exactly and how it is different from showing proof.  Well attesting is basically self-reporting - saying you are vaccinated or you are not. You have probably seen apps or forums that ask you your vaccine status before you travel on a plane or drop a kid off at camp and that is basically what we are talking about. Yvette Lee is an adviser at the Society for Human Resource Management. She calls it an honor system. Except some employers will also likely ask workers to sign pledges saying they are telling the truth and that gives these policies teeth in case a worker is caught lying.  If an employee lies about their vaccination there are employers that are taking disciplinary actions.  And Ari just this week CNN fired three employees for lying on their attestation and coming to work unvaccinated.  How is attestation different from a mandate?  Well it is because a mandate is a requirement and attestation is just giving your word. So the employer can also ask to verify that you are telling the truth. But in this case verification can be hard. You know people lose those vaccination cards or could fake them and there is no national database out there tracking every person who is received vaccines. So that is why Lindsay Wiley who directs the Health Law and Policy Program at American University says relying on workers' word is kind of a quick and dirty alternative.  Attestation sidesteps the verification process unless the employer - which the federal government has so far indicated it is not going to do - collects additional information that it can use to crosscheck.  It seems like a lot hinges on the question of honesty here. Like how do we know if our coworkers or employees are lying? How well do honor systems like this actually work?  Well you can compare it to honor codes at colleges where students are asked to attest that they will not cheat or plagiarize. Christian Miller studies honesty as a philosophy professor at Wake Forest University. He says these honor codes can make a big difference.  Twenty-eight percent of college students at schools without an honor code reported helping another person on a test whereas only 9 did at schools with an honor code.  That is 28 versus 9. And Miller says this is why.  It matters to us. We care about being able to think of ourselves as honest people.  And he cites another study where students were given the opportunity to lie about how they did on a test. They could self-report their own scores and they were paid for each correct answer.  You would have gotten away with it so there was a real concrete monetary incentive to cheat.  And yet when students were reminded of the honor code Ari they did not lie.  All right. So research suggests that honor codes can reduce the amount of lying. When it comes to vaccination and protecting people in a workplace is reducing that risk enough to keep people safe?  Well this is about managing risk not eliminating them. So yes there is some risk of unvaccinated workers lying on their attestation and then coming to work anyway but those people also bear the risk from lying. They could end up losing their jobs. Now employers have risks too. If they say prove you are vaccinated or you are fired then they risk losing employees. And so that is the tradeoff. Kavita Patel is a physician at Mary's Center in Washington D.C. She sees people lie when they attest to things whether it is about smoking or if they have COVID symptoms so she would prefer a vaccine mandate at her workplace. But she also knows that that could alienate some of her staff.  We cannot afford to fire them. And we cannot afford to suspend them. That is just unfortunately the job market.  And that is frankly the dilemma for many employers.  NPR's Yuki Noguchi thank you.  Thank you. 