 This is ALL PR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. Over the last five years South Africa has transformed its approach to HIV. In grappling with the worst epidemic on the planet it has gone from a pariah of the AIDS world to a poster child for treatment. How? Well it is streamlining AIDS care cutting treatment costs and providing anti-AIDS drugs to almost 2 million people every day. The public program still faces challenges and HIV continues to spread. But now even some of its most vocal critics say South Africa is attacking the disease in new and innovative ways. NPR's Jason Beaubien has the story.  The head of infectious diseases at Johannesburg General Hospital Dr. Francois Venter has worked on AIDS since the early days of the epidemic.  Just anecdotally at my hospital 10 years ago there were people dying on the floor. You know just horrible - you would step over bodies which you were looking after.  But recently he says things on the HIV wards have gotten much better.  Now I talk to my junior doctors upstairs and they all whine about how overworked they are and how you know terrible things are and these patients are so sick. And I look around the wards and I think everybody's in a bed there is an occasional empty bed. You know you have had two deaths in the last two days - compared to when I was here it was one giant mortuary. It really has changed.  The government's HIV treatment program has been so successful that the average life expectancy in South Africa has increased by eight years since 2005. Thirty-seven-year-old Sibongile Tshabalala has been dealing with HIV for more than a decade and she agrees with Dr. Venter that there is been a fundamental shift around HIV in South Africa.  I was diagnosed 2000 - 31st October 2000.  When she tested positive 13 years ago Tshabalala says the disease was terrifying.  It was hard then. If you were sick by then you know that is the death sentence - now you are going to die if you are diagnosed with HIV. So it was very hard for us back then.  The South African president at the time Thabo Mbeki was publicly questioning whether HIV causes AIDS. Mbeki's government appeared in no rush to make anti-AIDS drugs available and his minister of health was touting garlic beet root and lemon peel as a remedy. When anti-retroviral drugs were finally made available in South Africa's public health care system they were hard to get and caused serious side effects. Now the government is using a new generation of anti-AIDS medications that Tshabalala says are far easier to take.   Tshabalala lives in a dusty arid settlement of simple concrete homes and sheet metal shacks on the far eastern edge of Johannesburg. Until recently she had to go to a hospital in Soweto - all the way on the western side of the city - for treatment.  I was waking up early in the morning - at about 5 oclock - to go there for the queues because the queues were too long. So I had to wake up early in the morning. By half past 5 I must leave the house so at about 7 oclock I will be at hospital.  Under a new government policy all routine HIV services including testing and drug treatment are offered at local health facilities. Nurses are now able to prescribe AIDS drugs and start patients on what will be lifelong treatment. Tshabalala can get her monthly prescriptions filled at a small clinic that is just a few minutes' walk from her home. For her South Africa has tamed what used to be viewed as an unstoppable killer.  Nowadays people - they have choice to live or not to live.  And the treatment program gave Tshabalala confidence that as an HIV-positive woman she could safely have children.  After I have been in treatment I had two children who are negative and healthy. You can look at them they are behind you.  If you have HIV now she says you can still have a normal life - like everybody else. And this is South Africa's success. In a country where 5.5 million people or almost 20 percent of all adults are infected with the virus the government has managed to normalize the disease. HIV treatment has become just another part of the public health care system. Earlier this year South Africa rolled out a new drug treatment regimen that some doctors hope could become the standard throughout Africa. The patient takes just on pill once a day. And the ministry of health managed to slash the cost of this treatment down to less than 120 per patient per year. Patients in the U.S. - or their insurance companies - still pay thousands of dollars a year for similar treatment. Lauren Jankelowitz the head of the Southern African HIV Clinicians Society says South Africa has entered a new phase of the AIDS epidemic.  We joke about this being sort of the middle age and what is kind of sexy about HIV and middle age. You know we are just kind of plodding along.  She points out that the biggest challenges now are kind of boring - around logistics and adherence. Health officials need to make sure the drug supply chain functions and that hundreds of thousands of people take their pills properly every day. The drug-treatment program still only reaches about half the people who need it but there are plans to expand it. The one place that South Africa is still really failing Jankelowitz says is in cutting new HIV infections.  We have not been very successful at prevention. I am not sure if anyone has anyone is - if prevention works. You know there is a whole - I do not know. You know we have tried a range of different things which have been unsuccessful.  Each year roughly 400000 more South Africans are infected with the virus. At the same time fewer people are dying from AIDS. Managing this ballooning HIV-positive population is one of the most crucial issues facing the nation and it appears South Africa has come up with an effective low-cost way to do it. Jason Beaubien NPR News. 