 Mr. Kenney welcome to the program.  Thank you very much. Glad to be here.  What are the most common heat-related symptoms?  The most common heat-related symptoms are those associated with both heat exhaustion and heatstroke and the early symptoms involve such things as goose bumps tingling sensation in the skin kind of a dull headache nausea. Those things really portend one of those two diseases either heat exhaustion which is really a disease of dehydration that causes cardiovascular strain or the more serious heat illness heatstroke.  Now is one of the danger signs in that case when people stop sweating if you are not sweating and you are in extreme heat should you be concerned?  Well eventually in heatstroke sweating stops in - somewhere around 50 percent of all cases. So we used to teach people in health class that the only people who are suffering heatstroke were those who stopped sweating. That is not true and it is also dangerous because you may have stopped sweating half an hour ago but if it is still hot and especially if it is still humid the sweat that you produce stays on the skin and there is no way of knowing that you have stopped sweating.  When a body starts to overheat what happens? What is the danger?  That could be agitation it could be confusion it could be lethargy. And that is because when human body temperature gets above 104 degrees the most vulnerable tissues to heat strain in the body are nerve cells. And because the brain is comprised almost entirely of nerve cells those are the most sensitive and vulnerable tissues.  What happens internally when you are exposed to extreme heat over an extended period of time?  So when our body temperature starts to increase the blood flow to the skin increases and that puts a strain on the heart and we are capable of producing large volumes of sweat which causes dehydration which puts further strain on the heart.  So it sounds like drinking lots of liquid is important a lot of water perhaps a little bit of iced tea?  We used to tell people to avoid caffeine because there was a notion out there that it is a diuretic and it is but it also provides lots and lots of fluid in excess of its diuretic effect.  Larry Kenney thanks so much.  You are very welcome.  That is Larry Kenney he is a professor at Penn State University. 