 There is something missing from the health care debate in Washington at least that is what Dr. Toby Cosgrove says. He runs the Cleveland Clinic. It is a medical center the president has visited and praised. Dr. Cosgrove says Congress needs to focus on encouraging people to take responsibility for their own health.  Healthy people need less medical care and that saves money in the long run. But how do you make healthy living - eating better and exercising - the law. Dr.  I do not think you can make it a law. I think what you do is you put incentives in place an incentive for example for a company to have exercise programs for their employees incentives for companies to have smoking cessation programs for their employees those sorts of things.  So you would give a company a tax break for example if they had a gym onsite. Dr.  Exactly exactly.  And that should be part of the debate in Congress. Dr.  Yeah I think the best thing that we can hope for is that we put incentives in place. And right now I think there is no incentive for a patient to stay healthy. They come in and they get treated. Then you know if you smoke there is no financial incentive for you not to smoke and everybody knows that that is going to raise the health care costs. So you would be better off incenting people not to smoke.  Dr. Cosgrove at the Cleveland Clinic you will not hire people who smoke cigarettes. You said if you could do it legally you would not hire obese people. You argue that these two groups of people smokers and those who are obese are an enormous burden on our health care system and it is a burden shouldered by taxpayers. How is that? Dr.  Well let us take smoking for example. You know we think that it is important that people have the proper incentives to not smoke and what we did is we stopped smoking on our campuses. Then we went on to give smoking cessation to all of our employees all 40000 of them for free. Then we offered smoking cessation to the entire county of Cuyahoga where the Cleveland Clinic is. And then finally we said you know we need to have an organization that models what we think is true healthy living and so we stopped hiring employees who smoked. The total effect on Cuyahoga County has been - we have gone in four years from a smoking rate of 28 percent to a smoking rate of 18 percent. I may have saved by that decision more lives than I did in 30 years as a heart surgeon.  And you have argued that you would not hire people who are obese. Is that fair? Dr.  No I think that that was a quote that was taken out of an hour-and-a-half interview. And what I said was that we are concerned about the obesity problem not about people who are obese. Right now annually the CDC just came out with the data that suggests...  The Centers for Disease Control. Dr.  Yes Centers for Disease Control said that 10 percent of the cost of the health care in the United States is related to obesity. When you have 3.8 million people in United States who weigh more than 300 pounds that is a big problem.  What is it that you do at the Cleveland Clinic that other hospitals are not doing? I mean how are you operating as you argue more efficiently than other medical centers? Dr.  Well first of all we employ the physicians and they are salaried. So they have no incentives to do more or to do less. The second thing we do is we are very stringent on measuring quality and we report the quality. We are very transparent about it. And that allows us to find where the problems are and fix the problems because there is nothing in the long term that is more cost-effective than quality.  Do you feel like your message is being heard in Washington? Dr.  Well I think it is being heard in Washington. I think that there is increasing understanding of the importance of bending our curve in terms of the health of the country. We have got to change the health of the country and its habits eating habits and living habits and I think that is starting to be heard.  Toby Cosgrove is the CEO of the Cleveland Clinic. He spoke with us from the medical center. Dr. Cosgrove thanks so much. Dr.  Thanks. My pleasure. 