 Two companies announced today that they are beginning widespread testing of potential coronavirus vaccines. One comes from a collaboration between the National Institutes of Health and the U.S. biotech company Moderna. The other is from a collaboration between the pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and the German biotech company BioNTech. Each trial needs 30000 volunteers. And here to tell us more is NPR science correspondent Joe Palca. Hey Joe.  Hello Ailsa.  All right so not one but two vaccines moving into this big new phase of testing. Can you just tell us how are these vaccines supposed to work?  Well they are actually - it is interesting. They are both what are called mRNA vaccines. It is a new approach to making a vaccine where you inject someone with a little snippet of RNA. And that prompts their cells to make a protein. And that protein stimulates their immune system which makes them able to fight off the coronavirus if they are exposed to it. I have to tell you though that there is no FDA-approved mRNA vaccine yet for anything so this is a completely new technology.  OK. Well I am wondering because these vaccines have been tested for months now so what is different about this latest phase of testing?  Well the earliest phase of testing is just to make sure that the vaccines do not cause any horrible side effects that patients would or people would find completely intolerable. And they have passed that hurdle. They have also been tested to see if they generate any kind of immune response at all but that is a laboratory test. Now the proof is can it actually prevent people from getting infected if they are exposed to the coronavirus? And that is the reason they need so many people because they have to give people a reasonable chance of getting exposed so they can tell whether the vaccine is doing better than a placebo because they will divide people in half. Some will get the vaccine. Some will get a placebo.  OK. Well we keep hearing you know usually it takes years to make a new vaccine but these vaccines obviously seem to be moving on a much faster timeline. How has that even been possible?  Well the manufacturers and the government officials working on this are all saying look we are doing things a little differently now. Instead of doing things one - serially one - first phase one then phase two then phase three and waiting till each one is done - we are sort of getting ready for everything altogether because we can shorten the time it takes to prepare if we take chances and say well we hope this works. And if it does you can move forward. But in announcing the start of the trial for the NIH and Moderna vaccine the head of the National Institutes of Health Francis Collins said in a teleconference this morning that that trial is part of Operation Warp Speed. And warp speed suggests something that is going really really fast. But...   Nothing is being done here to compromise the safety of this particular trial or others like it nor will we compromise on an ultimate conclusion about whether the vaccine is effective.  And what he means by that is some people have suggested if they are close to an answer but they are not really sure in October then the White House might insist that it be called effective and take credit for it as a political coup just before the election. But they are saying - the scientists are saying no we are not going to let that happen.  So how will we know if these vaccines truly do work?  Well it is going to take time. And as I said there'ill be two groups a vaccine group and a placebo group. And what will happen is even though the participants will not know what they are getting there will be a group of people who will keep their eye on the results. And they are called a data safety monitoring board. Their first job is to make sure the vaccine is not making people sicker. But they will also be looking out to see if they are seeing a difference between the number of people who get sick who get the vaccine - hopefully none - and the number of people who get sick who just get the placebo. So in a couple of months we might begin to get answers to that.  All right. That is NPR science correspondent Joe Palca. Thanks Joe.  You are welcome. 