 More than 180000 Minnesotans who did not have health coverage a year ago now do. That means the state has an insured rate of almost 95 percent. This all happened even though the state's health exchange website never worked very well - a website which by the way cost some 100 million. And now as the state is spending more money on it. Some people wonder whether it is worth it. Elizabeth Stawicki reports.  Even before the Affordable Care Act's major changes took effect 92 percent of Minnesota residents had health insurance. Of those remaining without coverage researchers estimated about two-thirds were already eligible for government programs. They just did not know it or how to sign up. Enter the healthcare law which gave most Americans a financial incentive to find coverage - sign up or pay a penalty - and accompanying ad campaigns like this one with Paul Bunyan to raise public awareness.   Oh no - woah woah. Oh ow ow.   Minnesota land of 10000 reasons...   To get health insurance.  At the same time Minnesota expanded Medicaid. The government also spent many millions of dollars paying so-called navigators to fan out to churches schools and other communities to provide one-on-one help. Minnesota's rate of insured jumped to more than 95 percent. But its insurance marketplace MNsure stumbled from the beginning. This has left some Minnesotans questioning whether the state needed an insurance website if the goal is solely to get more people covered. Dannette Coleman who works for a health insurer Medica says maybe not.  I think we still would have achieved that. In fact you could look at it to say if the exchanges worked better out of the gate would it be even higher?  Others agree like Steve Parente who teaches health finance at the University of Minnesota. He says at the very least Minnesota could have just gone with the federal exchange.  The one advantage of having it be federally controlled was that you know when it really became problem there was a lot of resources that went to it very quickly. And whether you like the changes or not it did turn around rather quickly.  Parente acknowledges it is easy to say that now knowing that while the federal exchange was able to write itself MNsure still has a lot of problems and may not be ready for the next open enrollment which begins mid-November. MNsure CEO Scott Leitz says the Affordable Care Act is bigger than a website. He agrees the many efforts brought down the state's uninsured rate including the work of counties and navigators to help people get into coverage. But he says those actions were intertwined with the publicity surrounding MNsure. And he says MNsure's presence played an important role on its own.  Actually having transparent information available led the competition among health insurers which was exactly what marketplaces and exchanges were intended to which was to create the competition. It very clearly did that in Minnesota.  A consultant Joel Ario who formerly headed the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Health Insurance Exchanges is not worried. He says with any new technology it takes time to work out the kinks.  I am as confident of this as I would be that when the first car did not work well it was not time to return to horses and buggies. It was time to improve the cars.  But for some Minnesotans the insurance enrollment process is still in the horses-and-buggies stage. The big question is how much time and money it will take to get MNsure road-ready. For NPR News I am Elizabeth Stawick in St. Paul. 