 A polio outbreak in Somalia is getting worse. The east African nation was declared polio-free in 2007 but the virus has come back. Somalia currently has the worse polio outbreak anywhere in the world. NPR's global health correspondent Jason Beaubien is following the story and he joins me now. And Jason tell us more about this current outbreak. Where is it centered?  It is centered around Mogadishu at the moment. But what is somewhat significant is that eight cases have turned up across the border in Kenya in a refugee camp. So it is clear that it is not just sitting still there in Mogadishu and it is being found outside of Mogadishu and in a broader and broader sort of radius by the week. So that is why there is great concern about this. It clearly is spreading and the fear amongst health officials is that it is going to get worse before it gets better.  Well we have been reporting over the last few months about a multi-billion dollar effort that is under way to try to eradicate polio. How much of a setback is the outbreak we are talking about in Somalia?  This is significant because up until now it appeared that we were just dealing with Nigeria Afghanistan Pakistan and the numbers were really quite low. Last year it was just 223 cases in the entire world. And this year in Afghanistan they are down to just three cases so far this year. So it really looked like things were going extremely well. And so now to have 73 cases pop up in the Horn of Africa is a really big deal and that is more than you are getting in any of those other countries combined this year. So it is a significant outbreak and it is a significant setback. And partly it is a setback because this means that those resources that were getting poured into Nigeria Afghanistan and Pakistan to try to just wipe out the virus now they need to get focused in Somalia and in the areas all around Somalia. You need to be boosting immunization in Uganda throughout Kenya probably in Yemen in Ethiopia. So it means that human resources and financial resources are going to get diverted from what looked like the last few cases on Earth to now this part of east Africa.  And what are health experts telling you about what is being done or what can be done to try to fight the new polio outbreak in Somalia?  So since this first turned up in May they have done five emergency immunization campaigns around Mogadishu and throughout that sort of zone of Somalia. And basically they go in and just to immunize all of the children. Even children who have been immunized before they do these boosters to give them even some more immunity. The problem however in Somalia is that it is got the second worst rate of immunization for polio in the world. And you have got a million kids in that general area - sort of spread between the Kenyan border and Mogadishu -who have never been vaccinated for polio. So there is this huge pool of children who potentially could get it. And if they get it then the virus replicates inside them they can spread even further. So there is an effort being run by the Somali government to go out and get these mass immunization campaigns done. The problem however is that there are parts of Somalia which the Somali government does not control and they cannot get in there and do these vaccinations.  We have also heard Jason in other countries about widespread resistance to immunization campaigns fears about what the vaccines might do and what they might contain. Is that the same situation in Somalia?  It is not as much of a problem in Somalia as it has been in some of the other countries. However right at the moment it is Ramadan and that was a bit of an issue at first because some of the campaigns were stopped because things were not supposed to be passing people's lips during the daylight when they wanted to do a vaccinations. And so they had to go out into some negotiating with some of the religious leaders and actually managed to get sort of an exception so that some of these campaigns could happen during Ramadan. In that sense things are going better in Somalia than they are in some other parts of the world.  That is NPR's global health correspondent Jason Beaubien talking with us from Johannesburg. We were talking about the outbreak of polio in Somalia. Jason thanks so much.  You are welcome. 