 If Marijuana laws were colors the U.S. map would resemble a tie-dye shirt. In some states it is illegal. In others it is legal only for medical purposes. In states including Colorado and Oregon knock yourself out as long as you are at least 21 years old. This November five states will be voting on whether to legalize recreational pot - California Maine Massachusetts Nevada and Arizona. Stina Sieg of KJZZ in Phoenix and Kristian Foden-Vencil of Oregon Public Broadcasting bring us this report on what legalization might mean for family life.  Recreational pot has been legal in Oregon now for a year. We are a bunch of hippies over here. But it was a long time coming. Voters approved medicinal pot 20 years ago.  If Oregonians are hippies think of Arizonans as cowboys. In general we are more red than blue but both states are known for their independent streaks.  So Arizonans will vote on recreational marijuana this fall just six years after they approved the drug for medicinal use.  And some voters are nervous. A group that includes two county attorneys even sued unsuccessfully to get the measure off the ballot. Then there is Debbie Moak who put her son in drug rehab when he was 20.  A lot of these kids who are going to be impacted the most by this - they will not be voting in this election. This is where we need to be the adult in the room and protect the kids.  Moak says pot led her kid to harder drugs and to dropping out of college and eventually becoming homeless.  It tears a family apart. Addiction becomes a disease of the family. And I have lived it in the trenches and I do not want to see this happen for any other family.  Moak who is 59 says she used to see it pretty much daily back when she ran a nonprofit aimed at keeping kids off drugs.  And coming at this from a completely different direction is 60-year-old Oregonian and food editor Martha Holmberg. She smoked a lot in high school and college then did not touch pot until she finished bringing up her kids.  I do not do it with people that I do not know well so - but if I am hanging out with girlfriends or we are going over to a friend's house I usually will bring weed and be like hey you know anybody want to get high?  Well some do and some do not.  And it all flows very comfortably in that sort of situation. It is not like the pot smokers have to go off to the corner.  For some people in Arizona that scene would be shocking.  But the introduction of medical marijuana here in 2010 made it a lot more palatable for others like Lisa Olson a mother of five who uses pot to deal with her multiple sclerosis.  Basically the way we ended up handling it was a lot like alcohol. So my kids certainly see me drink a glass of wine with most dinners. They know that that is not for them. That is for the adults.  And she thinks adults should be able to use pot recreationally too.  For someone like Olson who is always abstained from drugs that is quite a revelation.  And she is passed it on to her kids. Twenty-year-old Jake Olson says the just say no message he got from school was not necessarily true.  It is really funny because  you know most teenagers do not figure out things like that through their parents but I am the exception. I am that person who learned that maybe not all bad things are bad from my parents.  That same kind of acceptance is happening here in Oregon but it is gradual. Patrick Caldwell's 29 and brings cannabis-infused sodas to parties. He says he might share one at say a bachelor party but not a family picnic.  I want my nephews to be able to make their own informed decision about cannabis without being influenced by the fact that I so regularly use it.  So Caldwell does not want pot to be taken lightly.  That is right. He thinks people need to respect what they are getting into but he hopes that in a few years bringing pot to a family picnic will be no different than say bringing a six pack. For NPR News I am Kristian Foden-Vencil in Portland.  And I am Stina Sieg in Phoenix. 