 Greg and Mary Catherine O'Brien have lived in their house on Cape Cod for more than 30 years. It is their dream home where they raised three children. They always imagined growing old there until Greg was diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer's disease. Now they have made the difficult decision to sell the house which means they are beginning to sift through a lifetime of accumulated memories beginning with Greg's home office. Here is Greg. GREG O' It is Father's Day and the kids have given me a great present. They are helping me clean out a bunch of memories in my office. Keep that Patriot - that New England Patriot football. Do not get that lost. I have like four boxes of notes that I just saved not knowing where I would be today in the weeds of my memory. Is that a fishing rod holder? I cannot even catch a fish now. BRENDAN O' So here's... COLLEEN O' What? You were so... G. O' Notes in here about how the kids in the office when they were young snuck out. And Brendan writes many many years ago - he is a little kid - hi Dad. It is Brendan. Have a nice day. I love you a lot. I bet you are wondering how I did this - love you. Bye. He figured out how to get on my computer and print. What do you think Brendan? B. O' I cannot believe that we still have... G. O' We saved all the good memories so it is a cleansing process. B. O' It is important. But this is just the tip of the iceberg right here. G. O' Here's another one. I remember Colleen had her first rabbit Cuddles. And the rabbit died. And she writes this is the best I could do Cuddles. I have included a box full of along with this letter your favorite song on a CD and a tape of me. All this gets thrown out. I feel as though someone has ripped out my heart and stomped all over it. I love you Cuddles. I will miss you and the many nights and I will cry myself to sleep. I will visit you from time to time and I hope you visit me in my dreams. Do you got the keys Conor? Goodbye and I love you - Colleen. I do not know. It is pretty good memories. Those are nice shorts. I like them. CONOR O' Yeah. G. O' I think I saved all the good memories stuff. The other stuff you got to let go. CONOR O' No. You know what? G. O' What? CONOR O' There is some cool stuff that you showed me and Brendan. G. O' We made the decision over the weekend to sell the house. CONOR O' Ninety-nine percent of it is just stupid stuff you do not need but a lot of it like... G. O' It is a tough decision. And you know as a working journalist I never made tremendous amounts of money but I was always able to take care of my family. And... CONOR O' I almost got choked up. G. O' Now I am wondering how I take care of them in the future but... CONOR O' You wrote a letter to yourself about my last baseball game? G. O' Yeah. Yeah. I journaled. I do not know why but maybe God was telling me to put stuff down early on. The good thing is I know that I have these memories because they are here and I saved them. And I do not know why I did that. Well all of that stuff when I leave this planet you guys should go through that very carefully. It is going to tell you an awful lot about your lives that you might have forgotten. It is all there. All right. CONOR O' Sit here. I will... G. O' Oh all right. You want me to... CONOR O' No just... G. O' I can help you. CONOR O' No. G. O' All right. You know it is so cool just to - when you think you are - you have lost your memory and you know you have but you have all of these notes here in front of you. And you have your kids. And I could not think of a better Father's Day present - so pretty cool pretty cool. I am just going to relish in this for a while.  That is Greg O'Brien. He was diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer's disease in 2009. You can hear previous stories from this series Inside Alzheimer's at our website npr.org. 