 Kevin Lopez is on a waiting list to become the first person to get a hand transplant because of a birth defect. It is a complicated surgery and controversial. NPR health correspondent Rob Stein first introduced us to Lopez earlier this spring and today what being on that list has meant for him and his family.  This is a story about a young man waiting for an operation that will change his life but it is also the story of a sister's quest to make her little brother happy. Both stories begin in the Lopez family home in Chicago where Kevin Lopez grew up in a big close family.  Family is everything and we have always had that mentality especially - Jenny's like the most selfless person I know so...  Jenny is one of Kevin's four sisters.  Growing up we were always very protective of him because he was very shy and of course making sure he is OK.  Because Kevin was born missing all the fingers on his right hand. His arm and wrist are fine and he almost has a regular palm but just kind of nubs where his fingers should start. That may have been a big deal to his sisters but when he was really little not so much for Kevin. K.  As a kid kindergarten first grade and all that I was fine. I was not even self-conscious at school.  Then something changed. K.  It just hit me one day like - like I am different like...  It was Kevin's first day of sixth grade. K.  It was in the morning. I was getting ready. And I put on a white polo - a short sleeve white polo - and then I just looked at myself. I realized I was different. And I looked at the short sleeve and I was like - I was too self-conscious to wear it. So I took it off and I wore a long sleeve. And I never did that before that grade so I think it was at that point that it became more of a problem I guess.  It must have been hard. K.  A little yeah I would say so.  Kevin being so sad was hard for Jenny to see. Most of the time he was a stoic little guy. She thought it might help Kevin if he talked about his hand more. J.  So he had to do a school assignment and he had to write about something that makes him different.  So she asked him... J.  Well why do not you talk about your hand?  Kevin just burst into tears. J.  I remember he just crying and said I just do not want to be like this. I want you to help me. He was telling me help me. Help me in some way. And I was like well I do not know what to do right now. There is not anything we could do. So I just told him OK well I will help you. We will figure it out. So ever since that day I always felt this inclination and need to find a way to help him.  But Jenny had no idea how she could help her little brother so Kevin had to learn to live that way. And he did pretty well playing baseball by catching and throwing with his good left hand even working as a lifeguard at Lake Michigan shore during summers. But Jenny never stopped thinking about how she could help Kevin. Then one day... J.  I was at the gym.  She spotted an article in a magazine... J.  I want to say it was a Time magazine.  ...About a doctor who was doing hand transplants. J.  I was like oh my God. That is the guy. That is the guy who is going to help us. I just have to find him.  Jenny tracked down the surgeon at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. And after a lot of testing and counseling they put Kevin on the waiting list when he turned 18. J.  We thought oh they are going to call us at any time.  So Kevin put off starting college and his family decided Kevin should move closer to his surgeon and that one of his sisters should move with him. Jenny who is 10 years older stepped forward. J.  I said oh I will do it. I want to do this.  So she gave up a job she had for 10 years. She took her son out of elementary school and she broke off her engagement. Jenny remembers the rainy day her family loaded her big red sofa and the rest of her worldly belongings into the U-Haul. J.  All of our stuff got wet moving it into the truck so it was a very gloomy day just how we were feeling.  Jenny and Kevin drove all night and they got to Maryland the next day. J.  We are like OK we are here.  And then the waiting began. J.  My life changed dramatically and then I wondered if what I am doing is the right thing you know being alone and without your family or with any friends.  And doing it with no end in sight. Waiting for a hand is a lot more complicated than for a liver or a kidney. Those just have to match close enough so the body will not reject them. A hand has to look right too - the right size age skin tone. The first person who got a hand transplant ended up asking his surgeon to take it off. So doctors are super careful about finding a hand that matches well. They told Kevin... K.  They would always let me know if they found a hand and then tell me what do you think? Do you think it is a good match for you? Like do you want it?  Kevin has not had to answer that question very much so far. Part of the reason is he is Latino and Latinos do not donate organs as often as Caucasians so finding a hand for Kevin has been even harder. But one morning Kevin woke up looked at his phone... K.  I had  I had a few missed calls.  And text messages from Baltimore. K.  They told me that there was a possibility that we could have a donor.  Jenny was in Savannah. One of their sisters was having a bachelorette party. J.  And I went to go talk to my sister and I told her I have to leave. I have to drive back to Baltimore and she is like why? And I said Kevin got called and it may be it.  The excitement did not last long. The donor's family felt uncomfortable donating their loved one's hand. Part of Kevin was relieved but a big part was disappointed. K.  Oh wow it did not happen.  But another time everything looked good. The family said OK so the doctors texted a picture of the hand to Kevin. He took one look at it and thought to himself the skin's just not right. K.  This is not - this is not the best possible match for me so I am not going to go through with it.  It is not that Kevin's picky. He would even be OK with a woman's hand once doctors explained that his hormones would eventually make it look more like his other hand. K.  They said like over time it would - I mean it would not necessarily look like a female hand on me.  So Jenny and Kevin wait. They have been waiting now almost... K.  It will be three years.  Longer than any of Kevin's doctors' other patients. J.  Do you want a milkshake? K.  Yeah sure.  Kevin and Jenny are trying to get on with their lives. They often make breakfast together before Kevin heads off to a community college where he is taking classes. J.  Do you want the protein or you just want it like that?  And Jenny heads off to work. She recently got a big promotion but still this limbo is hard and sometimes Jenny lets her fears run wild. J.  Sometimes I will even play it out in my head well what if the surgery goes so bad and you know God forbid he passes away? Then it is my fault and I am going to lose my brother and I would just never forgive myself.  Hand transplants are really complicated and Kevin could end up worse off if he never learns how to use his new fingers or his body rejects the hand. And the anti-rejection drug he will have to take for the rest of his life is really dangerous. Kevin says he gets all this. K.  It is worth - it is worth anything. It is worth everything. It is just that is how bad I want it to happen. And it will give me that sense of happiness that I do not have without it that I could only get from having the hand.  So every time a Baltimore number pops up on their phones... J.  We are always like - we are on edge all the time. K.  Every time I see Baltimore I even hesitate to answer at first 'ecause my stomach sinks just - what is this? What is going to happen right now?  But so far the closest they have ever come has been in Jenny's dreams. J.  I dreamt that Kevin had the surgery but I could not see it. For some reason they were not letting me see Kevin. I was like so worried and I remember crying about it. It was just more waiting. It was - we were just waiting.  Rob Stein NPR News.  And we will continue to follow Kevin Lopez and his sister on their journey to get Kevin a hand transplant. 