 Thirty-four-hundred people are now under quarantine in South Korea because of the MERS outbreak. And the government is tracking their whereabouts using their smartphones to make sure that no one breaks quarantine. NPR's Elise Hu reports from Seoul on whether the public there finds that tactic creepy or comforting.  Chung-ahm is a Buddhist monk who lives in Jangduk village in southern South Korea.  .  .  We called him up since we could not visit him in person. That is because for the past week government quarantine orders mean no outsiders are allowed into Jungdak village and no villagers are allowed out.   Our freedom is restricted because we cannot go outside the village so that is a little frustrating.  The government cut off the 105-person village from the rest of South Korea after one villager caught MERS and interacted with her neighbors without knowing she was sick.   It was not a purposeful thing that happened to our village. Nobody did it on purpose.  Still the quarantine means monk Chung-ahm's only in-person visits are from healthcare workers conducting twice-daily temperature checks. And during this quarantine it is not just body temperature officials are watching. Healthcare workers carefully monitor the location of thousands of Koreans under quarantine through phone calls home visits and by tracking their mobile devices.   We request information from the telecom companies with the individual's consent.  Kwon Duk-cheol leads a MERS response headquarters for the Korean Health Ministry.   Even when we do not have consent we have the legal basis to request information under the information law and the contagious disease management law. We give telecom companies a specific time and they give us the exact location of the individual.  The vast majority of Koreans under quarantine orders are OK with being tracked this way. They have given the health ministry consent to monitor their mobile devices. Park Kyung-shin a law professor at Korea University explains.  People are currently being more cooperative because they are more anxious. They became more anxious because of the lack of transparency and lack of state leadership that has been shown so far.  At first Korean critics said the government did not do enough to combat the virus which fueled public anxiety. Now with a heavy-handed response strict quarantine measures and tracking complaints are muted.  So yes people are in a very contradictory situation.  The Health Ministry defends its moves - Kwon Duk-cheol.   While an individual's private information is important we are also trying to stop the virus from spreading for the common good the interest of the nation.  In Jangduk village a few villagers have complained about the police barricades the constant checking in and that they did not get advance notice they would be cut off from the rest of the country. But ask the monk and he is pretty Zen about the whole situation.   It is something that people should work together to endure. It is not necessary for people to get overly emotional about this.  Leave it to a monk to take strict quarantine orders in stride. Elise Hu NPR News Seoul. 