 If you have a severe allergy to nuts or bee stings you probably know what an EpiPen is. It is a plastic tube and needle that gives a dose of epinephrine when you press it against your thigh. It can be a lifesaver. Mylan the company that makes it is under increasing criticism for dramatically raising the price of EpiPens. The list price has gone up more than 500 percent in less than a decade to about 600 for two doses. NPR's Allison Kojak reports Mylan tried to defuse the controversy today by offering certain customers a discount.  Mylan's offer would give customers whose insurance does not fully pay for the EpiPen coupons worth up to 300. But that is not good enough for Democratic Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut.  This step is much more a PR fix than a real remedy. What is needed is robust real action to lower the prices for everyone not just a select few.  Blumenthal says the real problem is the company has a near monopoly on epinephrine injectors so there may be violations of federal antitrust laws. So Blumenthal and several other senators are asking the Federal Trade Commission to look into it and they are planning hearings on Capitol Hill.  At the end of the day there may need to be stronger legal protections against these types of price gouging and profiteering at the expense of people who need a lifesaving drug where a company has a stranglehold on the market.  Mylan did not respond to NPR's request for an interview today. The discount coupons may help some customers says Aaron Carroll a professor at the Indiana University School of Medicine. But he says in the end consumers pay for the high prices.  It may look better for me and my co-pay but they are still charging the insurance company a huge amount of money which of course gets passed right back to me in the form of higher premiums. So they are not you know selling it for cheaper.  Carroll says the public shaming of Mylan that is gone on this week could serve as a warning to other drug makers whose prices are excessive. Alison Kodjak NPR News Washington. 