 Some of the most twisted bits of rhetoric used by opponents of the health-  death panels forced euthanasia. The actual provision in the House bill has to do with end-of-life care. It would pay for doctors to offer Medicare patients counseling about end-of-life issues. The counseling would be voluntary not mandatory. We are going to hear now from a doctor who engages in end-of-life discussions with patients. Dr. David Casarett started the palliative care service at the VA hospital in Philadelphia. Dr. Casarett welcome to the program. Dr.  It is a pleasure to be here.  If you are talking to a patient for the first time about these end-of-life issues what would that conversation include? Dr.  Usually I try to begin these conversations by talking about patients' hopes and fears their goals more broadly. I think often these discussions come down eventually to treatment preferences the sorts of treatments that people want and do not want things like whether patients would want to be hospitalized and under what conditions they would want to be hospitalized whether they would want to spend time in an intensive care unit. But they really start out - at least the effective conversations start out by talking in more general terms about what is important to people what they would like their future to look like and what they are afraid of what they want to avoid.  Well when you hear talk about death panels pulling the plug on grandma things like that how do you react? Dr.  I am still mystified. I really cannot begin to figure out where this language is coming from. It bears really no resemblance to what is in the provision of the health-care reform bill. What is in the health-care reform bill is in general text that I think most Americans and certainly all of my patients would support. The text of the bill really talks about giving patients and families the information they need to make the right choices. It is about giving patients an idea of what their options are. And it is giving patients and families a chance to talk about these things. So patients families and physicians are all on the same page. Really these sorts of discussions are about autonomy. They are about freedom. They are about independence. They are about having a say in your own health care. They are about values that are about as American as anything else I can think of. And so to see this debate framing it in terms of some of the terms you mentioned before - death panels and euthanasia - is really both odd and frankly startling to me that it is gone that far.  Would your fear be that as this rhetoric continues and escalates that it will damage your practice in some way that people will have the wrong idea about what you are trying to do? Dr.  That is interesting. The one person who seems to be more concerned about this than anybody else is my grandmother. Many of her friends in her retirement community she lives in are worried by all of this discussion. They are worried and confused about what this will mean for them. And my grandmother is also worried about what all this hullabaloo as she calls it was going to mean for me as a palliative care doctor. I think in general patients trust their health-care providers they trust their physicians they trust their nurses. And I think at least on a local level this probably will not have any large effect. I do think on a national level in terms of legislation this may have a huge effect. End-of-life care discussions advanced care planning has now in the space of about a week become a political third rail that I think politicians in Washington will want to avoid. And I think that is going to be a real shame.  What do you make of this argument that doctors because they would be reimbursed for these discussions would have a financial incentive to pressure patients to have end-of-life conversations maybe to sign an end-of-life directive if part of the idea behind health-care overhaul is to save the government money? Is there an implicit agenda here in other words? Dr.  I do not think that is true at all. Frankly I cannot even see how people would think that is true. This is a mechanism by which physicians and others are paid to talk to patients about their options to give patients a chance to tell physicians the treatment that they want and do not want. This could be and arguably should be a chance for some patients to tell physicians that they want everything possible to be done. That is an entirely legitimate outcome of these conversations and that certainly would not save money at all. So this really is all about a chance for patients to have their say in the care that they get. And those patients may choose to back off on some treatment. They may choose to refuse some treatments or others or they may choose to get more treatment. And that really is up to each individual patient and family member.  Well Dr. Casarett thank you very much for talking with us. Dr.  You are most welcome. David Casarett teaches palliative care at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. He is also author of the upcoming book  Discovering Possibility and Opportunity Near the End of Life. 