 Confusion and concern follow the Trump administration's rewrite of coronavirus testing guidelines. Public health experts fear the changes will lead to less testing which the president has repeatedly requested. But the administration denies that. NPR's science correspondent Richard Harris has the story.  There was no press release or announcement but instead on Monday the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention quietly updated the website that provides guidance for coronavirus testing. The old guidelines said people who had been exposed to someone with coronavirus should get tested. The new guidelines leave that call to people's doctors and state and local public health officials. That led to widespread speculation that the guidance is intended to reduce testing. Today Admiral Brett Giroir from the White House Coronavirus Task Force told reporters that was not the intent.   We do not expect that the volume of tests will be reduced. And in fact we do believe with some upcoming program that the number of tests will go up significantly over the next couple of months.  Giroir acknowledged that the guidelines were reviewed and edited in Washington and not simply a CDC product. He said the intent is to shift testing so it is driven more by public health officials around the country and less by individuals who want to test because they are worried but not sick.   And in fact the goal is to make this more strategic and intelligent by putting more power and more authority in the hands of the public health officials. That is clearly the intent and I think it is explicit within the guidance.  But springing this as a surprise on public health officials as happened here is a poor way to accomplish that says Dr. Georges Benjamin at the American Public Health Association.  Nobody knows what they mean. And they did not share this as far as I know with anybody beforehand. And so I think my good friend is spinning it a little bit.  Benjamin agrees that there is a lot of room for improvement in who gets tested and under what circumstances. But he says this new directive does not help.  At the end of the day this undermines the credibility of the CDC because now you have got everybody pointing fingers at one another. And the truth of the matter is if you want to make sure that the right people get tested with the right tests at the right time then you need a national testing strategy that is been very thoughtful that is science-based that is in print and that everybody understands. And they have not done that yet.  Another big name Dr. Anthony Fauci is also unhappy with the new guidelines. The most prominent member of the Coronavirus Task Force was in surgery when the guidelines were finalized. And he told CNN he was worried that they send the wrong message. Richard Harris NPR News.  