 Here's a pretty simple proposition - people who are more fit on average live longer. It makes sense. Here is a more complex proposition courtesy of a Stanford researcher - people who think they are more fit on average live longer. For this claim on behalf of the power of positive thinking about exercise we are indebted to doctoral candidate Octavia Zahrt at the Stanford University Graduate School of Business. Thanks for joining us today.  Thank you for having me.  How did you actually study the salutary effects of thinking that you are fit as opposed to actually being fit?  Yeah well we looked at three nationally representative surveys where more than 60000 U.S. adults answered a lot of questions about their physical activity levels their health and their personal background. And in one of these surveys they even wore physical activity monitors to measure exactly how much they moved around. And so we were especially interested in one question where they told the interviewer how active they perceived themselves to be compared to other people. And then we used statistical models to see if there is a link between these perceptions and mortality even after accounting for participants' actual health status and actual physical activity. And we did find that there was a strong correlation between perceptions and mortality.  And the correlation that you found if I understand this is actually a double negative. That is there is the power of negative thinking. People who do not think that they are being very fit or being very active they are more likely to die sooner.  That is correct yes. So for any actual level of physical activity that you might be doing if you think that you are not getting a lot of physical activity compared to others you are actually more likely to die earlier than people who think that they are more active or about as active as other people.  In these cases we are always reminded of the wisdom that correlation does not equal causation correct?  That is absolutely correct. And it is a really important point. So this study is correlational. So we cannot say that these perceptions actually caused the differences in mortality. But in science we always say that any one study is not conclusive. So it is really necessary to see it in the context of other studies that have been done. So you know the broader literature points to a causal link between mindsets and health but this particular study does not do that on its own.  But do you think that would work for say two people who are equally inert equally inactive but one is convinced that he or she is you know absolutely - is absolutely engaged in exercise in his or her daily routines? That person might actually be healthier?  I think that is possible. So the research shows that for any given level of activity if you think you are getting more exercise you might be better off. And so that could be mediated by things like you know you have less stress and less anxiety about your activity level. And you might even get a sort of placebo effect benefit. But it is important to note that we did not investigate this question in completely sedentary people so we cannot say for sure. You know it is possible that you need to get a minimum level of activity to get any benefits. And also it is really important that - we do not want to advocate for people to stop exercising and replacing exercise with positive perceptions.   With thinking about exercising.  Right. So yeah exercise is definitely important but we are adding with our research that perceptions also seems to play an important role.  Octavia Zahrt is a doctoral candidate at the Stanford University Graduate School of Business. Thanks for talking with us today.  Thanks so much for having me.  I feel fitter just from talking to you.   Well I hope it is helpful.  