 Chronic pain affects more Americans than cancer heart disease and diabetes combined. And we have talked a lot about the opioid epidemic in the U.S. but there are many who say that what we actually have is a pain epidemic one that is not being treated effectively. In other words that the opioid problem is a byproduct. Naomi Gingold explains.  Today was a typical day for Britt Johnson. She woke up at 5 a.m. in so much pain that...  I could not stand to be in my bed anymore. I lay there trying to convince myself that you know I could breathe through it and that after 30 minutes of being absolutely miserable I decided to call it quits. And that is when I chose to take tramadol.  Tramadol. That is considered a safe low-level opiate medication. Johnson is 31. She is had intense pain and autoimmune arthritis since she was 7 and when her preventative meds are not doing their job she manages by going up on the opioids.  I have had people say to me well you are just high all the time or that oh yeah I guess it would be really nice just to eradicate your pain. I am neither high nor rid of pain.  That is not what they do for her.  It is just sort of like putting earmuffs on if you will to the pain. But it definitely does not treat it. It just takes it down a notch to where I can function.  Make food brush her teeth go to work most days. Johnson also meditates does yoga breath work spends time researching alternative treatments. Like many chronic pain patients she does not want to be on opioids. But when she goes to her pain specialists they offer her medication opioids and short-term numbing injections. She is the one to suggest alternatives. Johnson's pain doctors did not want to be interviewed for this story. Dr. Lonnie Zeltzer runs an integrative pain clinic at UCLA and was an author on a prominent national report on the research and treatment of pain. She says generally injections and pills are standard treatment but there are helpful alternatives things like biofeedback acupuncture cognitive behavioral therapy alternative physical therapies. A big problem she says though is even if doctors know of them...  They will find out the insurance will not cover it and so they are back to needing drugs.  Recently with the increased regulations and media coverage on opioids there is been a rising climate of fear. Doctors are sometimes afraid to prescribe them even when necessary. Johnson's had pharmacists accuse her of being an addict or tell her they cannot refill her medication. Dr. Zeltzer says focusing on opioids though is missing the underlying issues.  There is not enough attention paid to educate clinicians about appropriate treatment of chronic pain.  That can lead doctors to overly prescribe. She says the public often thinks bad pain requires opioids but opioids do not cure pain. They mitigate some of the distress. Certain kinds of pain they do nothing for can even make it worse. And by themselves they are not a long-term solution. But patients who are still hurting can think more is better and overdose. There is a lack of research on treating pain.  We do not know how to treat it as a country. We do not treat it effectively.  Zeltzer also echoes many specialists who say mostly it is not the chronic pain patients who are overdosing. But there is actually very little data on who is. Currently chronic pain patients are often bearing the brunt of new regulations while not being presented with other viable options. And even amongst that community there is a rift overtaking opioids. And Britt Johnson feels it internally.  I think at times I feel weak for taking it and that is a stigma that I place on myself.  But she says until our modern health care system restructures itself and values treating pain and the patient from a whole body perspective this problem with opioids is not going to go away. For NPR News I am Naomi Gingold. 