 When people tell you about their dogs you may hear about the traits of the particular breed you know - loyal protective maybe known for being good hunters. Well Fred Mogul of member station WNYC has always wondered if what he is heard about his dog is true. For years he is wanted to conduct an experiment to find out and this summer he finally did.  Looks like this is the place. Take a look Lily. What do you think? Lily and I have driven two hours west of Brooklyn to get here.  You are at Raspberry Ridge Sheep Farm. We are in beautiful Bangor Pa.  That is Carolyn Wilki.  I am the resident chief shepherd and chief dog trainer. We have 67 acres 100 sheep 100 ducks 1 camel 13 dogs and two cats.  And for a little while today there is one more dog - Lily my family's faithful mutt. I am here at Raspberry Ridge to give Lily a herding instinct test. I got her years ago at a place called Herding Dog Rescue and I have always wondered if she really has herding dog in her. Wilki is going to help me figure that out.  I am looking for sustained interest. I am looking to see if the dog barks.  Dog and sheep start out kind of as enemies. The dogs are the wolves the predators and the sheep are the prey.  We do not want the dog to have lamb sushi or take down a sheep but what we want them to do is take their predatory actions and control the livestock.  All right enough talk. Let us see what Lily can do.  So what I want you to do is start walking around on the outside of the pen and when I yell good you yell good also.  This is to praise Lily just for looking at the sheep. She is eyeballing and sniffing the sheep through the fence. Good.  Oh this is good though. This is good.  They start moving to the other side of the pen. Lily follows.  See how she is going back and forth like that? She is doing a little bit of what we call wearing which is a pendulum-like motion where they go from one side of the sheep to the other.  So far so good. Now it is time for the main test. We open the gate and enter the pen.  We are going to get her in here with a 20-foot line.  Which Wilki warns me I will need to tap dance around as it whips across the ground.  It is there just so we can catch her if things get too crazy that is all.  Wilki tells Lily and me to walk together toward the sheep.  A mental image - you are two wolves going out for lunch. That is your lunch so start chasing after them. Go to your left. Go to your left. Go to your left. Go running after the sheep.  OK. I am trying but I am not moving that fast. I have got sound equipment and a camera and I am dodging that 20-foot rope that is zipping back and forth in the grass. At least Lily's on top of things.  She is putting them together. She got two together. Where is the other one? Yeah go get him. Yes good. All right. She is keeping them together.  Lily's having the time of her life.  That is it. You did it.  At some point though Lily starts to hit overload. She sits on her haunches looks around and tries to figure out what just happened. We gather outside the pen. While Lily drinks from a water bucket Wilki writes up a report card. So if we were scoring her what do you think?  It is always guys that ask that question and honestly - this is a pass-fail. She is showing clearly much more than 50 percent of what she needs to do at this stage to do a herding.  In other words Lily's like a promising minor-league prospect. So now what?  The dog will tell you with further training whether it really likes it and wants to do this or not. But right now she is saying all systems go let us do it.  Well now that we figured something out about Lily's nature and her DNA we have just got to figure out the nurture part and whether there is going to be any more herding in Lily's future - tough to say. I mean how are you going to keep them down in the big city once they have been to the sheep farm? For NPR News I am Fred Mogul. 