 In many states there are not enough resources to treat everyone addicted to opioids. Things are especially bad in rural areas where the nearest methadone clinic or addiction doctor may be hours away. But in a small Maine town some primary care doctors are stepping in. As Susan Sharon of Maine Public Radio reports they have worked intensive outpatient drug treatment into their regular practice.  Bridgton Maine is the kind of place people like to go to get away. For a small town it has a lot to offer - lakeside cabins a ski resort and plenty of hiking trails. But about 10 years ago Bridgton began showing signs of something else - a serious drug problem.  I had a lot of young people calling the agency to come into treatment.  Catherine Bell is a drug and alcohol counselor and the CEO of Crooked River Counseling.  They were using needles. They were shooting heroin. And it was just like really bombarded.  Bell says she knew that if treatment was going to be successful patients would need methadone or Suboxone in addition to counseling. Both medications reduce withdrawal symptoms and cravings for opioids. But in this small town of 5000 residents there were no addiction doctors and the nearest methadone clinic was about an hour away. For a while it seemed hopeless and then Bell met Dr. Craig Smith. Smith is a family doctor at North Bridgton Family Practice. Over lunch one day Bell blurted out an idea.  I said I will tell you what. You prescribe. I will do the counseling for you.  Doctors can be trained and certified to prescribe Suboxone for up to a hundred patients each but many are reluctant to take on the treatment because of how they think it will affect their regular practice. Dr. Smith told Catherine Bell he would have to think about it.  In the month of August that year I had four or five patients that had overdosed and died. One was a 34-year-old mom - two kids. I had no idea. I would seen her like twice for a physical. I still feel guilty about that.  Smith did not want to turn his back on his patients so in 2009 with the support of his hospital and Bell's assistance he started prescribing Suboxone. At the time few doctors were doing it.  My initial feeling when I was thinking about getting training for this sort of program was you know I do not want those people in my office. I run a family practice. I see a lot of kids. You know I do not want them here.  Dr. Jennifer Smith works in the same family practice with her husband Craig and Catherine Bell. She says it took them two years to convince her that she should prescribe Suboxone. She finally realized it was not new patients who needed help. It was patients she was already treating including pregnant women. She just did not know they were using drugs. So now the practice combines medication with intensive outpatient counseling and group therapy.   At this women's support group mothers are allowed to bring their babies.  I just had a surgery. I did good though. I had a prescription for pain meds and did not get them Filled.  Good for you.  Good.  Good. Yeah.  The group meets at the clinic twice a month. The women say they like the convenience of having all of their medical care and counseling under one roof. It is easier to schedule appointments. There is better coordination of their treatment and patients know they can be upfront about their addiction. Smith says that is made her a better doctor and she can see that what she is doing is making a difference. J.  I mean you see people going back to school going back to work staying out of jail taking care of their kids getting DHS out of their life.  Not everyone who enters treatment is successful. Counseling is mandatory. So is drug screening. And those patients who cannot or will not comply are forced to drop out. There are now four doctors in the Bridgeton area who prescribe Suboxone but demand for treatment is not letting up. The federal government is considering a proposal to lift the 100-patient cap and if that happens they say they are prepared to take on more. For NPR News I am Susan Sharon. 