 A new kind of COVID-19 vaccine could be available as soon as this summer. And as NPR science correspondent Joe Palca reports the new vaccine has some advantages over what is currently available.  Vaccines work by showing people's immune systems something that looks like a virus but really is not. If the real virus ever turns up the immune system will be ready. In the case of the coronavirus that something is a bit of the virus called the spike protein. The vaccines available now inject the genetic instructions for the spike protein into our bodies and our own cells make the protein. The vaccine soon to be available from the biotech company Novavax is different. It contains the spike protein itself. No need to make it - it is made. Gregory Glenn is president of research and development for Novavax. At a recent webinar hosted by the International Society for Vaccines Glenn said a large study of the new vaccine is nearly complete.   And we anticipate filing for authorization in the U.K. U.S. and Europe in the third quarter.  The advantage of the type of vaccines Novavax makes is they have been around for a while. There are vaccines using the same approach on the market for hepatitis B and pertussis. What is more they do not require special refrigeration and they tend to work in people with weakened immune systems. Another advantage Glenn says is it is relatively easy to construct different versions of the vaccine in response to variants.   We have new constructs representing really pretty much every one of the variants that are out there.  Now to make the virus protein Novavax uses giant vats of cells grown in the lab. But there is another way to make the protein. Get plants in a greenhouse to do it. That is the approach being used by the Canadian biotech firm Medicago. The plants are relatives of the tobacco plant that are modified to contain the genetic instructions to make the viral protein. Medicago's vice president for scientific and medical affairs Nathalie Landry says plants do something very valuable as they produce the viral protein.  The plant will assemble the protein in a shape and form that is looking like the virus. So if you look at an image of it it looks like a virus but it cannot induce any disease. But when injected as a vaccine your body will raise a good immune response.  Early studies suggest the vaccine does just that and the company is confident enough it will have a successful vaccine that it is begun a large study that could involve as many as 30000 volunteers in 11 countries.  So we can get approval of the vaccine and start delivering doses to the Canadian government. So we are a latecomer but we are coming.  Another latecomer that is coming is the pharmaceutical giant Sanofi. They have a spike-protein-based vaccine that is also grown in cells in the lab. Late last year the company was getting ready to mount a large efficacy trial when early results showed the vaccine was not quite inducing the desired immune response.  Especially in elderly individuals in that study it was not as immunogenic as it should be.  Paul Goepfert at the University of Alabama Birmingham was one of the researchers involved in those early studies of the vaccine. He says the issue turned out to be an incorrect calculation of the dose of the vaccine being delivered.  So instead of giving 10 micrograms of a dose they were actually giving one microgram of a dose.  Sanofi has fixed the problem and repeated the early studies with good results. The company announced it is begun enrolling volunteers in a large efficacy trial. Goepfert says it will be a good thing if all these vaccines make it to consumers but that alone is not going to solve the problem of getting people vaccinated in this country.  Because the vaccines we have now are just beyond-our-wildest-dreams kind of effective - and I am living in a state now where it just frustrates me how slow our vaccine uptake is.  That state is Alabama. According to the latest numbers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention only Mississippi has a lower per capita vaccine uptake. Joe Palca NPR News. 