 Millions of Americans suffer from depression anxiety or other mental illnesses every year. But many never get help even if they have insurance. Recent health laws were supposed to fix that but they are not working. From member station KQED in San Francisco reporter April Dembosky brings us this story.  Natalie Dunnege's 12-year-old son Strazh hangs from the monkey bar staring at the ground. The other kids in the park are not interested in him and he is not interested in them.  I just like to play by myself.  Strazh has autism. His mom says today is a good day. But on most others Strazh has meltdowns. Something frustrates him and he cannot control his emotions.  I sometimes end up screaming and I end up yelling and screaming.  And like hitting and banging things throwing things.  Strazh's mom Natalie says she bears the brunt of these meltdowns.  He told me that I disgusted him tells me he hates me.  Dunnege puts all her spare money into therapy for Strazh. She says it helps a lot but Dunnege herself is struggling feeling depressed and overwhelmed. She said she needs her own therapist.  One of the things that I have really had to wrap my head around is that I cannot change him. I can only change how I handle the situation - and not that I would want to change who he is. He is a really good kid but it is a lot to handle especially as a single parent.  I first talked to Dunnege last year when she started looking for a therapist. She realized her co-pay for a mental health visit was upwards of 75 even though her co-pay for other medical appointments was less.  My income - I am like - just made lower-middle income just by the skin of my teeth. So I just kind of have to hold off until I am actually middle-class.  Co-pays for medical and mental health treatments are supposed to be the same. Almost all insurance companies in California are struggling with this. Twenty-four out of 25 including Dunnege's insurer Anthem Blue Cross were recently required to fix unequal cost-sharing policies by the state's Department of Managed Health Care. That is according to agency documents and staff. In a statement Anthem said it is working with the department to comply with the law and meet the mental health needs of its customers. Since last year Dunnege got a promotion at work and moved into a new apartment. Her health benefits got an upgrade too. She has Blue Shield now and her co-pay for mental health appointments is only 20.  Which I was really excited about.  But this time when she looked for therapists who took her insurance she struck out again.  I contacted like six or seven.  Three called her back.  One of them - they were completely booked and then the other two just did not accept the insurance anymore.  Zero hits out of seven - had to be a bad draw right? No. I did my own survey. I called all the psychologists that came up on the Blue Shield website for Natalie's plan in San Francisco. There were 100.  Please leave a message.   Please leave a message and I will...  Almost a quarter of them never called me back.  If you do not get a call back from me that means my practice is full.  Nearly half said they were not taking insurance anymore or were not accepting new patients.  Sorry about that.  I am sorry I am not...  Unfortunately...  I unfortunately do not have any openings at the moment.  So that left just a quarter of the therapists on the list who actually had appointments. And of those exactly eight had slots after work hours.  At the moment I only have daytime appointments available.  Eight out of 100.  Wishing you the best.  Sorry. Good luck with that.  Good luck with that.  OK. Good luck. Bye-bye.  For Natalie Dunnege after seven rejections she just gave up looking.  It is hard when you are feeling sad and you are like in this very - like you feel like you can barely keep things together. It just seemed like way too much at the time.  Mental health advocates say this is actually a strategy for insurance companies.  It is a way to control cost.  That is Stanford psychiatry professor Keith Humphreys. He is the guy who advised Congress when it was developing a law that was meant to fix this. But while insurers are required to keep a solid number of clinicians in their directories he says they still find ways to sidestep the rules.  The law does not say well you cannot put people on there who are dead or you cannot put people on there who are not taking new patients. And so what that translates into then is people have to wait longer for care which then cuts expenditures for the insurer and reduces access.  Blue Shield declined to do an interview but said in a statement that it is up to the therapist to update their availability online. Charles Bacchi of the trade group the California Association of Health Plans acknowledges that is a challenge in mental health care where the workforce is mainly self-employed solo practitioners.  When you have networks as large as ours and you have as many enrollees as we have here in California you are not going to be able to just have everything accurate every single second of every single day.  Meanwhile people like Natalie Dunnege are toughing it out on their own. For NPR News I am April Dembosky in San Francisco.  That story is part of a reporting partnership with KQED and Kaiser Health News. 