 Next we are going to look at a special court that handles only cases involving vaccines - claims that is. It is known as the vaccine court and it is essentially litigating cases of those who believe they have been harmed by a routine immunization. NPR's Anders Kelto has been looking into the court and joins us now. Welcome to the studio Anders.  Thanks Audie.  All right. So first many of our listeners might be surprised to hear that this even exists. How did the vaccine court come about?  Yeah so it started back in the 1980s. There were a number of lawsuits brought against drug companies from the parents of children who had had adverse reactions to something called the DPT vaccine. These were very bad reactions - seizures in some cases severe brain damage. And in at least two cases the parents won lawsuits against drug companies for millions and millions of dollars. As a result the drug companies said well this is unsustainable and this is not a lucrative business in the first place - we do not make a lot of money off of vaccines so we are going to stop making them. And that threat really scared people.  So this was created out of fear fear that there would be vaccine shortages.  Exactly. Doctors were scared. The government was scared. And they said look we need a steady supply of vaccines. This is important to public health so we have to figure out a solution here. And what they did was they created this no-fault compensation program that essentially shielded drug companies from lawsuits over vaccines. So if you are a parent your child has an adverse reaction you cannot sue the drug company directly. You must come through this separate court that was set up.  So how does this work? I understand you actually spoke with someone who went through this process.  Yeah her name is Lisa Smith. She lives in Cincinnati Ohio she works for a jewelry company. And her story starts about 10 years ago on a fall day.  It was a Saturday. I got up that day and went to my son's soccer game. It was a beautiful day.  And after the game she ran some errands including something she would been meaning to do for weeks - getting a flu shot. She did not really think anything of it until a few days later when she noticed her legs were a little sore. And that soreness got worse over the next couple weeks.  Almost like I would been exercising or doing a whole lot of things where you just feel weak. But throughout the day they got progressively weaker until that evening I could not get off the couch at all.  She had her neighbor call an ambulance and when the paramedics got there and put her on a stretcher she was in serious pain.  I would just scream. The doctors later told me the nerves were all enflamed and it was like having third-degree burns on my legs.  The paramedics asked if she had a flu shot. At the hospital the nurses asked the same thing.  I finally was like yeah - why does everybody keep asking me if I have had a flu shot? And they said oh this is - paralysis is a known side effect.  Lisa was diagnosed with something called Guillain-Barre syndrome or GBS. It is a condition where the immune system attacks the nerves. A few thousand people in the U.S. develop it each year. Most cases are not linked to the flu vaccine. A few days after Lisa Smith was diagnosed with GBS she got a visitor.  I was still in the hospital and my friend Jackie came to the hospital and said Lisa they know this happens. There is a form you fill out and there is a court that you file claims in.  So she found a lawyer and took her case to the vaccine court. To win a claim in the court you just have to show that you got a certain vaccine and developed a known side effect. GBS is now recognized as a known side effect so for Lisa Smith the entire process was pretty straightforward. A few months after she submitted her case she got a call from her lawyer.  The phone rang and it was - I knew their number. And she is like are you sitting down? I was like no. She is like well you might want to sit down because they just conceded your case. We do not have to go to trial and you will get a settlement.  She accepted the settlement offer but is not allowed to discuss it. Last year the court received 542 claims and it compensated 365 people many of them for the flu shot and GBS. Settlements range from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of dollars. Ten years after she first developed GBS Lisa Smith is still dealing with some complications from the condition. She says the settlement helped but for her it really was not about the money.  For me it was an acknowledgment that yes this happens. They know it happens. And that is - I want an honest discussion. Does this happen to everyone? No. But does it happen? Yes it does.  Like Lisa Smith many people have no idea that the vaccine court exists. Anna Kirkland is a professor of women's studies and political science at the University of Michigan. She is written a book about the court.  Everyone talks about how we really should advertise it more and more people should know about it.  But doing that creates a problem.  Critics once they see a compensation - you know you see this on websites and blogs and all kinds of sources - look the vaccines were compensated for this so this means that vaccines are dangerous and you should not vaccinate.  She says health officials have worried about this for years. If the court becomes too high profile and people keep hearing about payouts to vaccine victims the public might think vaccines are more dangerous than they are and vaccination rates might fall. Kirkland says a few years ago there was an attempt to promote the court more.  So they had this whole public relations firm prepare this advertising campaign and then Congress just did not fund it.  So the vaccine court keeps humming away quietly in the background hearing cases from people who are able to find it.  That is NPR's Anders Kelto. And Anders I have one more question about Congressional funding. Why has not Congress funded this?  Well it is difficult to say. I have spoken with a number of people about this and they all seem to mention what you heard at the end of the story this concern that if too many people know about this court then they are going to be scared that vaccines are more dangerous than they actually are. Vaccination rates might fall. But that is not to say that this is an elaborate conspiracy theory or anything like that. No one believes that they are trying to keep this court a secret. The court is mentioned on the CDC website. There is information about what to do if you have an adverse reaction and how to locate this court. And every single vaccine dose comes with information about possible side effects and information about what to do if you are harmed.  NPR's Anders Kelto. Anders thanks so much.  Thank you Audie. 