 Now to a Republican lawmaker who is been at the front of the fight to undo the Affordable Care Act. Georgia's Tom Price chairs the House Budget Committee. He is also a doctor. He is spent nearly 20 years in private practice. I asked him how he felt when he heard the court's decision today.  I was disappointed today 'ecause I think that as Justice Scalia said something along the lines of words no longer matter. The letter of the law clearly did not support this decision at the Supreme Court. I accept the decision. It is the Supreme Court of the United States and their decision is final. Now that does not mean it is the right decision.  This is the second time the Supreme Court has reaffirmed key provisions of the Affordable Care Act. What does today's ruling mean for your efforts to replace it?  It does not harm the effort to replace it at all because the bill regardless of what the Supreme Court says does not work. It does not work for families it does not work for patients it does not work for doctors it does not work for employers or employees. Accessibility is decreasing with the narrowing of networks. Affordability is decreasing. If you are a mom or dad out there and you make 40000 50000 60000 but your deductible under Obamacare is 6000 or even 10000 or 12000 then you do not even have health coverage. You are making financial decision not to obtain that care. And we are seeing that play out. My former physician colleagues will tell you every single day that people are making decisions not to get care which means that the quality of their care is decreasing and then choices clearly have been violated. So the American people understand that and that is why they continue to be opposed to this law by greater numbers than support it.  Although I would point out a recent Gallup poll says that Americans are essentially warming to the idea that more Americans are favorable towards the ACA and the longer that this is the law of the land millions more Americans have health insurance. Does it become more difficult for you to argue for stripping them of that benefit?  Well we would not. What we would do is replace it with a benefit that allows them to select the coverage that they want not be forced to buy the coverage that the government requires them to buy. The fact of the matter is what our plan is H.R.2300 Empowering Patients First Act would actually get more people covered than the president's plan but do it in a way that allows them to get the coverage that they want not that the government forces them to buy.  But Republicans as a whole have not been able to coalesce around one particular plan. Why not? What is the problem? Why are not you getting traction for your plan?  Well that is a great question. I think that most recently it is been the distraction of this Supreme Court case actually. Folks have been wanting to see what the court was going to say before they made a decision about how to move forward. In this instance the court deciding in favor of the government - in favor of Burwell - means that our efforts then can be redirected to those patient-centered positive solutions that are so necessary in our health care arena.  Where do you go now though? I mean this has got to be a blow to that effort. Do you start from scratch? Do you re-tool your bill? I mean even if your bill advances you still face a presidential veto. Do you need to wait till there is - till you can try to elect a Republican to sit in the White House until real change comes as far as you are concerned?  It is going to take a different president. That is always been the understanding there. None of us were living under the delusion that the president was going to sign a piece of legislation that would positively reform his signature legislation. I guess what this ruling does today now is transfers the debate to the presidential contest level and I think that the American people will engage in a significant way and I think what they will be telling their desired candidates is that they want patients and families and doctors to be in charge of health care not Washington D.C.  Tom Price he is the Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee giving us his response to today's Supreme Court ruling upholding key provisions of the Affordable Care Act. Thanks so much for talking with us Congressman.  Thank you. 