 It is summertime and people cope with the heat in part by breaking out their flip-flop sandals. And maybe that is not always a good idea. Podiatrist Rock Positano is director of the Non-surgical Foot and Ankle Service at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York City. And I asked him what aside from blisters and stubbed toes are the dangers associated with wearing flip-flops.  I have no objection when patients say hey Dr. Positano what is the best way to wear these types of shoes? And I always say look use your head. If you are hanging out by the swimming pool or hanging out on the beach they really cause no damage or no problem. When people develop problems is when they wear them in an unusual situation such as taking 5-mile hikes or standing on their feet for possibly five to 10 hours on a trip. That is when they unfortunately cause some of the problems that we have been seeing unfortunately here at the Hospital for Special Surgery.  What kind of problems have you been seeing?  And of course as Leonardo da Vinci taught us that the foot and ankle is the most important part of the body 'ecause it makes contact with the body first. And if the shock is not absorbed or the force is not absorbed appropriately from the ground it gets transmitted to other parts of the body. So what will happen it will start as a foot issue and then it will go to the lower leg the knee the hip and the back.  Is part of the problem here that people wear flip-flops that are worn out?  Well they are thin in the first place Michele which is an issue. But it is the stability factor. You want something that is up against the bottom part of your foot that is going to fill in those gaps so to speak so that that foot can function as an effective shock absorber okay? And what will happen with a flip-flop if it is very thin or it is very thick it tends to disrupt that natural relationship that the foot should have with the ground.  Now because the shoe is so open is there also a danger that all kinds of nasty bacteria can easily get into that shoe and very close to the foot?  And of course there is also stub injuries which means a person does not have that normal protection that they have when they wear a closed shoe. And people tend to develop fractures or bruises of the lesser toes as well because again there is no protection. This is things that we have seen here at our hospital.  One last quick question before I let you go. If you walk into a shoe store and you see dozens of flip-flops that you have to choose from are all flip-flops created equal? Are you better off with certain kinds more than others some that have thicker soles or soles that are actually more like athletic shoes or are they all just dangerous to some degree?  I mean people are living a lot longer lives these days and you need to be able to protect your feet from an earlier onset. Because clearly the problems you start now are only going to get progressively worse as a person ages.  Dr. Positano thank you very very much.  Thanks so much Michele have a wonderful day.  That was podiatrist Rock Positano. He is the director of the Nonsurgical Foot and Ankle Service at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York City. 