 Parkinson's is one of the hardest neurological diseases to treat. There is no cure and it is very difficult to diagnose particularly in its early stages. Part of the reason is that blood tests do not reveal whether you have it or not. Well that may be about to change in a shockingly easy way and it could start by placing a phone call and saying ahhh.  Hello. Welcome to the Parkinson's Voice Initiative. We record your voice for clinical research.  We play someone various prompts that tells them exactly what to do. In particular the primary thing that we are looking for is for them to just say ahhh for as long as they can.  That is Max Little head of the Parkinson's Voice Initiative. He has created an algorithm that could determine whether or not a person has Parkinson's just by the sound of their voice. Max Little is an applied mathematician. And a few years ago a researcher from Intel Corporation which pours millions of dollars into Parkinson's research approached him and here's what happened next.  They asked me can your algorithm separate out those who have Parkinson's from those who do not? And so we tried it out and we were able to separate healthy controls from Parkinson's disease patients to 86 percent accuracy and that is when we thought ah OK we have got something here.  How accurate is the algorithm now?  So we know that we can detect whether somebody has the disease or not to 99 percent accuracy.  Ninety-nine percent.  That is right. Yeah.  So tell me how does your algorithm work.  There are three sort of cluster of symptoms that we are looking at. The first group are to do with vocal fold tremors. So this is looking for a tremor in the way that your vowel sounds are produced for example. The second type of cluster of indicators that we are looking for are to do with breathiness and weakness. The third kind of indicator that we are looking for - and this is relatively new actually in the literature. It is a new indicator. And that has to do with the way in which your jaw or your lips your tongue will slightly fluctuate during speech. And that turns out to be a very important indicator as well but that is a very recent finding actually.  So Max you have decided to create a database of voices - people with and without Parkinson's - in order to presumably to improve the rate at which you can figure out whether a person has Parkinson's based on their voice. Let us listen to one of those voices. This is a person without Parkinson's and they are just saying ahhh.  Ahhh.  OK. Let us now hear somebody who has Parkinson's doing the same thing.  Ahhh.  Oh yeah. You can definitely hear that difference.  Right.  Explain what we are hearing here.  So this is really interesting. This person has quite obvious vocal fold tremor. It is the first of the three clusters of indicators that I pointed out. There is also an element of weakness certain out of breathness in their voice. That is also typical. So you can see two classical indicators of these symptoms occurring in this case.  Do you think there is any link between diagnosing Parkinson's through this voice technology and getting closer to curing it?  Well this of course is very exciting. There is some evidence admittedly weak that voice disturbances may well be one of the first or early indicators of the disease. Now if that is true that means that if we can actually get to the population and record a large number of voices we might have the opportunity to detect those people who could benefit from neuroprotective treatments. That is basically to look for cures. Because of course the problem with Parkinson's disease is that by the time it is being diagnosed the damage is irreparable. So if voice - and I say it is a big if because we do not know this for sure but it is a very tantalizing possibility - if voice is one the early indicators of the disease then we have a very cheap way of looking for those who are susceptible in the population then we can target neuroprotective treatment to them to see whether they respond or not.  That is Max Little. He is a post-doctoral research fellow at MIT and the head of the Parkinson's Voice Initiative. If you want to find out how you can add your voice to the project go to www.parkinsonsvoice.org. Max Little thanks.  You are welcome. 