 OK if there is one thing we have all felt during this pandemic - working from home going to school from home - it is the stress right?  I know I have been feeling it. And when I say feeling it I mean it - my neck my right shoulder my back. Mix in lousy ergonomics and it is not great.  Yeah same here. And apparently those are not the only body parts that are suffering from our increased time at home.  Every day we have been getting emergency calls or patients coming in saying I have broken a tooth my jaw hurts not knowing what was wrong.  That is New York-based prosthodontist Tammy Chen. Her line of dentistry specializes in issues with jaws and tooth repair.  In a piece in The New York Times last week Dr. Chen said her patients began experiencing all kinds of tooth damage as soon as lockdown started.  I have been seeing an uptick in broken teeth broken restorations increase in dental pain really because people are stressed out.  She says clenching your jaw grinding your teeth it is a natural response to the stresses we have been put under because of COVID lockdowns.  Think about a time when your boss was asking you to do something you did not want to do or you were really frustrated with a child and trying to not scream and yell at them an inherent response is to kind of grit your teeth together. So as a result to this anxiety we are just seeing so much more clenching and grinding. People just kind of gritting their teeth together trying to like grin and bear it and trying to get through this as best as they can.  One thing Dr. Chen recommends simple awareness checking in on yourself to make sure your mouth is not clenched up throughout the day.  Our teeth should not touch throughout the days. Our lips should be closed. With our lips closed there should be enough space where you can stick the tip of your tongue in between your back teeth without having to move your jaw.  Another bit of advice for your cracked teeth or potential TMJ is to think about other parts of your body. Dr. Chen says we need to remember to get out of our home offices or our home office bedrooms every now and then even just go on a walk to give your back a break because everything is interconnected.  It breaks up the day and it allows your spine and your body to decompress with movement. Now with us at home if we have a question we simply email a colleague. We tend to sit in one seat for way too long. And as a result everything just kind of slowly compresses upon itself.  Mmm hmm. So here's to the new normal and hopefully a less stressful one at that.  And one in which your teeth will last you well into your later years.  