 Governors have long complained that Medicaid could swamp their budgets but as NPR's Julie Rovner reports some of the statistics they have been using may exaggerate the situation.  It is nothing new for governors to claim that Medicaid is wrecking their budgets. Here's Kentucky Democratic Governor Paul Patton back in 2002.  Quite simply we have at present a crisis in Medicaid that is heading towards catastrophe.  And here's Tennessee Democratic Governor Phil Bredeson in 2005.  I simply do not have the money to keep the program going in its current form.  And not that much has changed. Scott Pattison is executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers. In a recent appearance on C-SPAN he explained what the loss of the additional Medicaid money from Washington might mean for strapped states in the coming year.  As a result they have to go to other areas like K- through-12 spending to get the money to cover their health care costs.  And all the time costs keep rising. Here's former Kentucky Governor Ernie Fletcher testifying before the Senate Finance Committee just last week.  Medicaid has grown to consume about 22 percent of state budgets.  Now that 22 percent number comes directly from the National Association of State Budget Officers. But some Medicaid advocates say those NASBO numbers actually overstate how much states spend on Medicaid.  What they are presenting is the total spending that the state does on all of its programs.  Ben Sommers teaches health policy and economics at the Harvard School of Public Health.   state funding bonds and then the - and federal spending as well.  And when it comes to Medicaid he says those federal revenues account for more than half of the program's funding even more in poorer states. So what happens to the picture of how much states spend on Medicaid if you subtract out the federal dollars?  Then that number drops to about 12 percent. And the implication here is that states are spending a lot of their money on Medicaid but they are spending a lot less than they would be because the federal government is taking up more than half of the tab.  In other words Medicaid stops being the biggest spending item in state budgets and falls to number two or three behind K-through-12 and higher education. Sommers and other advocates for the program say there is a reason some people want to make Medicaid look as expensive as possible and it has to do with politics.  So it becomes a potential punching bag for conservatives who are trying to argue that the federal government is overreaching the Obama administration's health reform is unsustainable and that the budget numbers just do not add up.  But NASBO official Stacey Mazer says the organization has perfectly reasonable non-political reasons for organizing its numbers the way it does. Among them are that no matter where the money comes from states are responsible for its being spent in a prudent way. But she says total spending also paints a more accurate picture of the Medicaid program over time.  And certainly the program is growing similar to health care overall at an annual rate of growth that exceeds state revenues or national economic growth which really leads to budget pressures at all levels of government.  Julie Rovner NPR News Washington.  It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 