 Sierra Leone has decreed that starting tomorrow residents of the entire country will be told to stay in their homes for three days. Teams of health workers and community volunteers will go door to door to educate people and identify those infected with the Ebola virus. The nongovernmental organization Doctors Without Borders has raised concerns. They say this plan might cause mistrust of health workers. But the head of Sierra Leone's Ebola Emergency Operation Center Stephen Gaojia dismissed those concerns. He described the next three days to me as a psycho-educational exercise.  This process is not a lockdown neither is it a shutdown - neither is it a root-out exercise.  But - you say it is not a lockdown or a shutdown but are not people in fact told to stay indoors with police and soldiers enforcing that instruction?  Of course the police and the military will be in readiness in the event of any lawlessness. But this is by no means an exercise by the police or the military or the  sector to root out people. That is by no means an exercise.  Yeah.  Yes go ahead.  Yes. So even if I am visited first thing in the morning on Friday I should still stay in through Sunday is what you are saying.  Well of course because the simple reason is that the families have to stay together to do some reflection engage in prayer and generate a kind of family discussion about Ebola.  So that is what Sierra Leone's government says it hopes will happen in the next three days - prayer reflection and discussion. I asked Stephen Gaojia what will happen if health care workers discover suspected Ebola victims in the homes they visit? And he said patients will be encouraged to call an ambulance to go to a treatment center. NPR reporter Anders Kelto is on the line now from the capital of Sierra Leone Freetown to talk about treatment options. And Stephen Gaojia talked about holding centers the government has created all over the country. He said patients can begin receiving therapy there while awaiting transfer to a treatment center. What do you know about these holding centers?  Well I am hearing something a little different here on the ground. These holding centers are very bare-bones. They are basically beds where people can go and sort of lie there and be sick just like they would at home. They do not have IDs. They do not have saline solution to keep people hydrated. They do not have medicine to treat diarrhea or to stop vomiting. So essentially it is no different than just lying at home in your own bed.  Anders tell us how people are preparing for these next three days in Sierra Leone when they are supposed to stay at home.  Yeah well we actually just got back to our hotel after sitting in gridlock traffic for over an hour. Everyone is rushing to the markets and the stores to stock up on foods to get ready for these three days when they are not going to be allowed to leave their houses. But in the sort of bustling heart of the city - we went down to a market an open-air market. That was absolutely jam-packed people everywhere. And I spoke with a woman named Miriam Kalom  who told me she was really upset that this lockdown was leading to pretty severe price inflation.   It is like a lot more expensive than usual.  Yes everything expensive today then double double double the price.  And she was also concerned that with all these people in the market where they are sweating and packed closely together that Ebola might actually be spread around there. And she was scared to go in and buy the food that she needed for the next few days. So to her it felt like this whole lockdown strategy might even be making the situation worse.  Her fears are obviously real. Are they in fact justified? Can one contract Ebola that way?  It is very unlikely that she would contract Ebola that way. But I think the lesson here is that this lockdown is creating even more confusion. People are told not to go into crowded areas not to have physical contact with other people. And yet here in this crowded market that is exactly what was happening.  Anders thank you.  Thanks Robert. 