 Just like with bullying schools struggle to help children cope with mental health problems. It helps if they already have a diagnosis. Many experts say there are danger signs even in children too young to go to school. A program in the Bronx is helping families recognize those warnings in infants and toddlers. WAMU's Kavitha Cardoza reports.  Rahil Briggs a child psychologist walks the pediatric corridors of a health care center in the South Bronx. It is one of the poorest urban areas in the country.   Crying babies do not face Briggs. She looks relaxed like she just finished a yoga class. Briggs says babies' brains are sticky.  That is why they can learn Spanish in six months and it takes us six years. But that is also why if they are exposed to community violence or domestic violence it really sticks.  Briggs watches both baby and parent. Does the baby look to the parent for comfort and does the parent respond? When babies feel secure it is far more likely their social and emotional development will be healthy and that is the basis of mental health.  If a baby feels safe a baby will explore. And if a baby explores a baby will learn.  What can interfere with that learning? Things like divorce neighborhood violence poverty. Briggs says half of all children with mental illness show symptoms before they are 14.  I do not want to wait until a child has missed five days of school because his anxiety is so bad that he cannot get on the school bus. That to me is a red flag. I want to see the pink flags. And what I mean by that is the first day that he starts to chew on his shirt a little bit when you say tomorrow is school.  The best place to spot these pink flags she believes is in a pediatrician's office. It is a place all new parents bring their babies regularly. It is also a place they trust and that is the whole point of the Healthy Steps initiative at the Montefiore Comprehensive Health Care Center.  Hey girls. Oh my goodness.  Nina Castalnuovo a pediatrician bumps into a stroller as she enters the room. It is a full house today. There is Katherine and her daughters. Emma Rose is 2 and the twins are 1 - Kimberly Rose and Emily Rose. We are not using their last names to protect their privacy.  Emma you look excited. You want to go next? I am going to listen. Let us find your heart. Do you hear it? Boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom.  Pediatricians typically spend just a few minutes with each patient. There is no way Castalnuovo has time for a lot more than a physical exam but today the mother is worried. Katherine says her daughter Emma has not gained any weight in the last year.  It is like the big deal of this appointment is like her weight. Like you have got to go in there. She is got to be at least 24 25. She is still 23 but...  I think she can also pick up a little bit that you are anxious about this you know?  So that is where the Healthy Steps program kicks in. Dr. Castalnuovo brings in Rahil Briggs. In other words instead of the pediatrician giving the family a referral to a child psychologist which they may never follow up on Briggs is right here close at hand. This is called a warm handoff and it is a key part of this program. Briggs says battles over feeding toilet training sleep may indicate an underlying struggle and if excessive might have psychological roots.  It is mostly in the social relationships and the parent-child relationships and not something medical.  Again those little pink flags. Briggs is reassuring. They work out a plan for Emma.  Number one we never want to force her to eat. Number two we do not want to get into that struggle with her into that back and forth right?  Briggs will follow up with the family over the next few months. She says it is all about empowering parents so they feel more confident. Briggs makes it very clear she is not diagnosing little tots as mentally ill. It is all about those little pink flags.  I know a lot of people feel like normal childhood suddenly gets a diagnosis now and that is not at all what we are trying to do. Everything starts somewhere. Diabetes starts somewhere. Obesity starts somewhere. And mental illness starts somewhere.  Briggs says she is trying to focus on that starting point because if we can predict it she says we can prevent it. For NPR News I am Kavitha Cardoza. 