 Now to a story that challenges some common advice about dieting. In recent years nutrition scientists have been rethinking fat. Many have concluded it is not the enemy we have been led to believe it is - not for our hearts not for our waistlines. NPR's Allison Aubrey tells us about a new study that adds to the evidence.  Lots of people including me once assumed that if you ate fatty foods - say avocados nuts full-fat dairy or oily salad dressings - that you would get fat.  We have been told for decades that if you do not want fat on your body do not put fat into your body. It is a very appealing notion. The problem is it is wrong.  That is David Ludwig of Harvard Medical School and Boston Children's Hospital. Back in 2012 he published a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association which was one nail in the coffin for the low-fat diet paradigm. His study showed that when people add in lots of healthy fats to their diets and take out refined carbohydrates - such as bagels and crackers which had become staples of low-fat eating - they did better including on measures of heart health.  We saw improvements in HDL-cholesterol and the possibility of lowered chronic inflammation.  And there was another advantage - the higher-fat lower-carb approach seemed to rev up people's metabolism. Ludwig found that those who stopped eating so much starch burned off about 150 more calories a day compared to people eating a high-carb lower-fat diet.  Too much refined carbohydrates - white bread white rice potato products - all those foods that have crept into our diets as we have followed the low-fat craze has undermined our metabolism and caused us to become hungrier and ironically burn off fewer calories.  What is thought to happen in the body is this - too many refined carbs send a signal to the body to release a lot of insulin. That extra insulin locks up calories inside fat cells where they cannot be used for energy.  So that is a recipe for both increased hunger but also feelings of fatigue and tiredness. It is a double-whammy for weight gain.  So this brings us to a new study published today. Researchers at Tulane University tracked what happened over a one-year-long period when overweight men and women - a diverse mix including African-Americans and Caucasians - followed a low-carb approach. Study leader Lydia Bazzano says once you swap out bready carbs what you are swapping in is more protein and more fat. So what kinds of meals were they eating?  Typically in the morning they were eating eggs. We had a lot of recipes with eggs in them.  And for lunch and dinner the low-carb dieters were directed to eat lots of vegetables - salads proteins including fish and meat prepared with generous portions of healthy fats.  Olive oils canola oils vegetable oils.  As well as small amounts of butter and other animal fat. In total fat made up a sizable portion of their overall calories in the range of 40 to 43 percent. Now Bazzano says many people might say this does not sound like a weight-loss diet with all the fat.  It is not the general perception.  Yet when she tracked how much weight the low-carb dieters lost over one year it averaged about 12 pounds. This compared to only about 4 pounds of weight loss for those following a low-fat diet even though the two groups were eating about the same number of calories.  It is more than double yes. So this was yes surprising.  And it offers more evidence that when it comes to right-sizing our waistlines it is refined carbs more so than fat that many Americans could cut back on. Allison Aubrey NPR News.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 