 It is not easy for scientists to figure out what people ate in millennia past especially when it comes to fruits and vegetables but archaeologists studying a prehistoric site in Sudan used an ingenious technique. NPR's Rae Ellen Bichell tells us about it.  Karen Hardy is an archaeologist at the Autonomous University of Barcelona. She started to think about dental plaque.  When you eat you get this kind of film of dental plaque over your teeth. And if you do not clean it off it mixes up with bits of food and it gets stuck in this area below the gum and it can calcify within about two weeks. And once it is calcified it is very hard.  So hard that it can last thousands of years. Hardy and her colleagues were studying skeletons from a burial site called Al Kiday in central Sudan. It was used between around 2000 and 9000 years ago - since before farming. Prehistoric folk were not known for their flossing habits and because of that dental plaque scraped from their molars turned out to be archaeological gold.  We got all sorts of different things.  Sand dirt evidence of carbon from breathing smoke from a fire...  ...Starch granules from carbohydrates...  ...Pollen...  ...Plant fibers micro fossils.  And to their surprise they found evidence that people were eating a plant called purple nutsedge or cyperus rotundus. It looks like grass with a network of roots like little potatoes. Ted Webster is a weed scientist with the USDA. He wrote his PhD on nutsedges and he ate one raw.  Not very tasty - tastes a lot like dirt.  But for a hunter-gatherer it was great - a starchy pack of energy that grew everywhere. And it contains lysine an amino acid we need to survive. Even when they became farmers people in the area were still eating it 7000 years later. But at some point it lost its charm. By the 1970s botanists branded purple nutsedge as the world's worst weed.  They listed it as being a problem in 92 countries and 52 different crops.  But a weed is just a plant growing in the wrong place at the wrong time. Hardy says it was not just the prehistoric Sudanese who valued it. Ancient Egyptians used it to make perfume. It was a staple for some aboriginal populations and it may even have prevented tooth decay. In one group of skeletons Hardy's group found fewer cavities than they expected for the time period. Turns out nutsedge produces antibacterial chemicals.  That is why this study was very exciting - because we identified a plant that had been forgot about that has all these wonderful qualities.  Hardy's team published their work on the healthy prehistoric snacks in the journal PLOS ONE. Rae Ellen Bichell NPR News. 