 It is a bad time to get sick in Oregon. That is the message from some doctors as hospitals that are filled with COVID patients bump patients with other medical conditions. Jefferson Public Radio's Erik Neumann has more.  Charlie Callagan sits outside on his deck in the smoky summer air in the small town of Merlin in southwest Oregon. Though he looks perfectly healthy 72-year-old Callagan has multiple myeloma basically a blood cancer of the bone marrow.  So it affects the immune system. It affects the bones. I had a PET scan that described my bones as looking kind of Swiss cheese-like.  Callagan is a retired national park ranger. Fifty years ago he served in Vietnam and this spring doctors found his cancer. They are assuming he got it from exposure to Agent Orange during the war.  There is maps online that show what were the hot spots in Vietnam for the spraying of Agent Orange. And it turns out the air base I was in was surrounded by it. They sprayed all over it.  A few weeks ago he was driving to Oregon Health and Science University in Portland to get a bone marrow transplant. On the way he got a call from his doctor.  They are like we were told this morning we have to cancel the surgeries we had planned.  Cancelled because the hospital was full. That is the story at many hospitals in Oregon where they have been flooded with COVID-19 patients. Dr. Mujahid Rizvi leads the oncology clinic handling Callagan's care. He says delays can have consequences.  With cancer treatment sometimes there is a window of opportunity where you can go in and potentially cure the patient. And if you wait too long the cancer can spread.  And it is not just cancer care. Dr. Kent Dauterman is a cardiologist in southern Oregon.  I have seen patients get ready to have their open heart surgery that day. I have seen patients have brain tumor or someone with lung cancer and their procedures are cancelled that day and they have to come back another day.  The day we talked Dauterman said at his local hospital 28 patients were waiting for open heart surgery and 24 needed pacemakers. He says during normal times there would not be any wait.  I do not want to be dramatic. It is just - there is plenty of other things killing Oregonians before this.  Right now the vast majority of patients in Oregon hospitals with COVID are unvaccinated. But even in non-pandemic times there is not a lot of extra room in Oregon's health care system. Becky Hultberg is the CEO of the state's hospital association.  If you look at the number of hospital beds per capita Oregon has 1.7 hospital beds per thousand population. That is the lowest in the country.  A new study on curtailing procedures looked back at how the VA hospitals did during the first pandemic wave. It found that the veterans health system was able to reduce elective treatments by 91 and it was effective in that ICU beds were freed up to care for COVID patients. But the study did not look at the consequences for the patients who had to wait. Dr. Brajesh Lal is the lead author.  We clearly even in hindsight made the right decision of curtailing elective surgery. But we as a society have not really emphatically asked the question at what price in the long term.  He says we will not know that without more long-term research. Back on his deck in Oregon Charlie Callagan says he does not consider his bone marrow transplant as urgent as what some people are facing right now.  There are so many other people that are being affected. People are dying waiting for a hospital bed and that just angers me. You know it is hard to stay quiet now.  He says it is hard to stay sympathetic for the COVID patients filling up hospitals when a simple vaccine could have prevented most of it. For NPR news I am Erik Neumann in Merlin Ore.  And this story comes from NPR's partnership with Jefferson Public Radio and Kaiser Health News.  