 Months after the devastating 2010 earthquake struck Haiti a cholera epidemic swept across the country and since claimed more than 9000 lives. Now the United Nations is signaling that it might have to concede that it was their own peacekeeping mission that introduced cholera to Haiti. Several investigations have linked the outbreak to sewage from a U.N. base but the U.N. until now has denied involvement. NPR's Jason Beaubien joins me to talk about this. And Jason for years people have been blaming the U.N. for this outbreak and they had denied it. Are they now finally saying yes the U.N. peacekeeping mission was to blame?  Not entirely no. A spokesman for U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon today at a press conference in - did his normal press briefing at the headquarters of the U.N. in New York and he said the U.N. needs to do much more regarding its own involvement in the initial outbreak. And the shift here is that in the past they have been completely unwilling to talk about what the U.N.'s involvement was in this initial outbreak despite the overwhelming evidence that this outbreak seems to have been caused by sewage that was coming out of this U.N. base and inadvertently sparked this massive outbreak. They have just been unwilling to come out and really talk about that part of what happened.  But how come? I mean if people have been looking at this evidence why have they been so unwilling to talk about their role in this?  So this was 2010. It was right after that massive earthquake which leveled much of the capital Port-au-Prince. It has also turned into a huge public health crisis in Haiti. You had people die from dehydration from vomiting and this acute diarrhea. It is just - it is an awful disease and they did not really want to be linked to saying we are the ones that did this. And they also were concerned about lawsuits that people might be claiming that they are financially responsible for their family members who died.  So why now?  It is interesting why now. I mean there is possibly some speculation that Ban Ki-Moon has been dealing with this for years and wants to finally put this behind him. Also they commissioned an independent panel to look at this and the panel came out from what we hear from some leaked reports and very strongly said the U.N. is basically shooting itself in the foot by continuing to make this their position and that it is not doing any good. Also the U.N.'s position has been that legally it is immune from these legal challenges anyway and the spokesman for Ban Ki-Moon today again said that that is their legal position that it has not changed. And so coming out and actually acknowledging it would not put them at risk for these types of damages that people are asking. The bigger question here and really why people are really watching this case is - the question is can the U.N. be held accountable for something like this? And that is what is really in the balance here in this particular case.  In the meantime what has happened with the cholera outbreak since? Where are we now in Haiti with this?  So the numbers have gone down but cholera is still there. It is still a problem. People are still dying from it from this outbreak which started back in 2010 so it is continuing continues to be a problem. You know I talked to some people that worked there some medical people and they - on this issue of the U.N. taking responsibility - they said it is about time. So cholera has been one more health problem added to Haiti's long list of woes.  That is NPR's Jason Beaubien. Jason thanks so much.  You are welcome. 