 So how do you keep going when everything around you seems bleak? Months into a pandemic that gets more worrying by the day it is a question that many of us are feeling if not asking. NPR's Malaka Gharib wondered how people who have endured great hardship got through their most difficult times and what advice they might have for the rest of us now.  Thirty-one-year-old Manyang Reath Kher is originally from Sudan. He is what was once called a Lost Boy a name given to children whose families were killed or went missing during Sudan's civil war. When Kher was 3 years old he was forced to flee his village with his uncle.  Along the way we crossed a river and my uncle was shot.  That uncle was the only family member he had and Kher would never see his parents for the remainder of his childhood. At the refugee camp he lived with other Lost Boys and he said he often missed his family. But when he was 6 years old things got even worse. Kher was bitten by a snake. He said it was like someone putting hot water on his hand.  But it just kept hot and hot and hot and hot and hot and hot.  Eventually aid workers took him to a U.N. hospital near the camp.  You think you are going to die because you hear about a lot of children dying in a camp.  This he says was his moment of deepest despair. And he kept wondering why did he have to suffer?  I did not kill anyone. I did not do anything to anyone. Why would it be me?  Still there were two things that kept him going.  I always thought that my parents going to come. You know I had to hope that my parent would come and come get me from the hospital. We are going to come and get you you know.  The second was a saying he often heard at the camps in Ethiopia.  The rain will stop eventually and you will see a sunlight.  And eventually he did. Kher now lives in Richmond Va. and owns a company called 734 coffee which benefits refugees. Others who have endured incredible hardship relied on different approaches. Mohamed Soltan is a 32-year-old Egyptian American human rights advocate. He spent most of his life in the Midwest but after college he moved to Egypt. In 2013 there was a military coup. And Soltan got caught up in the protests and started tweeting what he was seeing. Before he knew it he was thrown in jail beaten tortured and put into solitary confinement. Things got so bad he went on a hunger strike. One day after a long stretch of isolation a doctor came in to check on him.  He came into my cell and then he kicked out the state security people that usually are the ones that are like torturing. And he just asked me how I am doing. And it was like - it was not just him asking me how I am doing. It was him kicking out the guys that usually tortured me to give me like that safe space like him understanding him being empathetic. It is small acts of kindness that remind you that like it is not all gloomy. It is not all bad.  He says those small acts of kindness is what he held on to in his darkest moments. He calls them bursts of hope.  Because I can tell you right now like when you are in a very very very dark room you do not need a lot of light to illuminate that darkness.  Under lockdown in Fairfax Va. Soltan wants people to know that just like everyone else he too is grappling with the uncertainty of the pandemic. So just like he did at that cell in Egypt he searches for those bursts of hope to pick himself back up again. For Sifa Ndusha she found that hope in her children. Ndusha she is a refugee from the Democratic Republic of Congo. She is a rape survivor. And in 2008 she was living with her three children and four younger siblings at a refugee camp in Uganda. She was haunted by horrible images of war - people fighting people dying. She says she kept having seizures. Finally she went to the hospital. The doctor scanned her brain and told her she had PTSD. She knew she would not be able to provide for her family and that broke her.  I lost all hope. I cannot get any job at all. I am nothing. I cannot provide anything for my children because I am by myself.  While still recovering at the hospital her 12-year-old son came to her.  Mom you know that I only have you. I do not have a dad. I have never see my dad. So I only have you. You are my dad and my mom.  Then she just knew.  I cannot give up. I have to be there. I have to be there for them.  Today Ndusha is an anti-malaria advocate for a U.N. campaign called Nothing But Nets and living in Cincinnati Ohio. I ask her given everything that she is gone through what advice would you give to people struggling with the pandemic?  We should not find hope in our communities and families because we are all going through this together.  And she says we will come out of it together too. Malaka Gharib NPR News Washington. 