 On this Father's Day let us talk about that moment when men actually become fathers - when their children are born. It is a moment that can be terrifying and beautiful. But not that long ago fathers were not allowed in the birthing areas. Deena Prichep looks at the journey that men have made into the delivery room.  At a childbirth class in Portland Ore. Doula Wendy Scharp has a half-dozen pregnant women lean onto yoga balls. And the soon-to-be fathers are right behind them learning their jobs.  We are finding the top of the pelvis. Then we are going to turn our hands. And we are going to push in and up. Could you do that for 60 seconds?  Yeah. I got some time to get in the gym and like...  Yeah sometimes. Yeah. So...   Khaatim De Marco Smith and other prospective parents are learning about the stages of labor birthing positions and breathing techniques. So how did we get to this moment when in say the 1950s men would be pacing a smoke-filled waiting room instead of massaging their partner's sacrum? Professor Judy Leavitt looked at the history of fathers in childbirth in her book Make Room For Daddy. She says to understand how fathers made it into the birthing room you need to understand how birth itself has changed.  Traditional childbirth was really a female event. The woman would call her friends and relatives together to help her. And they would be all around the birthing bed. And there would be the midwife.  A male physician might come and go and fathers might be asked to boil water but mostly this was a room full of women. But in the 20th century childbirth like a lot of medical care in this country moved from the home to the hospital. And while there were some advantages especially when antibiotics and blood banks came on the scene Leavitt says it was also lonely.  The nurses are very busy and they are in and out. And the laboring women are laboring on their own and they do not like it.  And some fathers were not too happy about being stuck in the waiting rooms.  Sometimes the rooms were close enough to the labor or delivery room that they could actually hear women calling out screaming.  Leavitt says doctors did not want fathers in the delivery room any more than they would want them in the room during an appendectomy. But parents began to push back.  The women were helped a lot by two social movements that were very important in this country. One is the women's movement.  Which argued that women be able to choose for themselves who is around during labor and delivery.  And the other is the natural childbirth movement.  Which lessened the amount of drugs given to birthing women. And that Leavitt says in the pre-epidural days of sedatives and anesthetics made women more aware of who was in the room at all. Parents race and income affected the pace of change and so did the size and location of the hospital. But on the whole by the 1960s fathers are regularly in the room during labor. And by the '70s and '80s dads are there for the birth.  Having fun finding my sacrum?  Yes.  And now at classes like this one in Portland it is a given that couples will enroll together. For many men like Cole Cooney it is hard to even imagine that it is ever been otherwise.  I am certainly not a medical professional or anything like that but I know my wife lot better than any of the people at the hospital. And so being able to advocate for her is really important.  And whether that means helping with medical decisions or just massaging through a contraction the men in this room look like they are ready to be full childbirth partners and pretty soon fathers. For NPR News I am Deena Prichep in Portland Ore.  