 Our bodies change over our lifetimes. Those changes can be dramatic and unsettling after an illness. NPR's Rebecca Davis introduces us to a woman whose cancer diagnosis forced her to think differently about her body and how she could feel whole again.  It is just a few minutes before 1 oclock when the door to Lisa Doll's studio swings open.  Hey. What is up?  Hi .  And in walks her next appointment. It is a young woman and her boyfriend.  Hello how are you?  How are you guys doing?  Good nervous .  Nicole Hite  is 25. And she is nervous because she is about to do something she is never done before - get a tattoo. And it is going to be a big tattoo that will cover much of her chest. Artist Lisa Doll goes over the final drawing.  This is - be kind of the basic of the design. And what I will do is I will put it on and then...  Lisa takes the couple to a private room. It is an inviting space tastefully decorated. Nicole takes off her shirt and lies down on a reclining chair.  All right so we are just going to start in like a small little line. Do you feel that?  Do not really feel anything but your pressure from your hand.  Good.  You would not know it at first glance but Nicole Hite has had a double mastectomy. And if you look closer you will see the scars and the fact that her breasts are smooth. There is no nipples.  Do you feel that you have - that you are more sensitive or less sensitive due to the surgery?  Less sensitive. I have lost a lot of my nerve sensation.  OK.  Getting this tattoo Nicole says is the final chapter in a story that started three years ago. That is when Nicole noticed some worrying changes in her breast. Her doctor ordered a biopsy. And then late one afternoon she got a phone call from the radiologist telling her she had cancer in one breast - a very early stage but cancer nonetheless.  And he said I know this sucks but it is what it is. And obviously I was shocked. And I started crying because how the hell do you call me on the phone and tell me I have cancer? Like in the TV shows they call you in for an appointment and they break the news in person. And it all happened on the phone within five minutes.  The news was all the more shocking because Nicole was only 22 at the time. She had no family history of cancer. Yet the cancer had spread throughout the breast.  And so to them because it was so expansive in my mammary glands they needed to do a mastectomy.  Nicole started thinking long and hard about the idea of having a breast removed and then reconstructed. And the thing she kept worrying about was the idea that her breasts would be so different from each other. They would be asymmetrical.  It is weird. It is kind of - I do not know how to explain it. Society has set women up to live by certain beauty standards. And so in my head being a uni-boob  - having one boob scared me .  Nicole's solution - to have both breasts removed and both breasts reconstructed. She says that way her body would look and feel more natural to her except for her nipples. Those could not be salvaged.  I remember when I first saw my chest without the bandages after my mastectomy I cried. And I did not cry because I did not have boobs. I cried because I did not have nipples. It was heartbreaking because I at least wanted those. There is so much that goes into that - sexuality just looking normal.  Now Nicole could have chosen nipple reconstruction but she would heard the new nipples do not look very realistic. And then she noticed that some women were replacing their nipples with what is called a restorative tattoo. Artist Lisa Doll says this kind of tattoo makes use of a classic painting technique called trompe l'oeil which is French for optical illusion.  Meaning using light and shadow to create a 3-D image where there is no 3-D image - so a flat surface.  So that flat surface at least looks like a three-dimensional nipple. Now Doll says some cancer survivors take the tattooing even further and go for an elaborate design that covers scars and fills in the chest with something new and meaningful.  It is physically scrapbooking that moment in time. So cancer took something away from them put a mark on their body. But they are leaving that lasting mark.  And that is what Nicole Hite decided she wanted not the illusion of a nipple but a statement and big enough to mask the thing that was bothering her the most - her scars.  Because I would look down and be sad about my scars.  Nicole imagined a dramatic symbolic work. She pictured objects coming apart into the pieces of a puzzle and then coming back together again.  You always hear about people breaking down and shattering into pieces and then picking themselves back up. I feel like I had done that.  And she wanted a pocket watch tattooed over one breast because...  Time was a huge part of my recovery not just physically but emotionally and mentally.  Nicole took her design ideas to Lisa Doll. She sketched it out and Nicole was thrilled. But as the months passed Nicole noticed she was changing that she was not as sad as before that time just like that pocket watch indicated was working its magic. And the tattoo she was so convinced she wanted - well that is not the tattoo she is getting inked on her chest today.  .  You are almost done. We are finishing up her left breast.  It feels like a bee sting.   Lisa Doll has been working on Nicole for about three hours. And then finally she is finished.  OK. Go ahead and check it out.  Woohoo .  Nicole gets up and goes to a mirror. She is slim. Her long dark hair is held back by a headband. She stands up very straight and studies the fresh tattoo.  I love it. I absolutely love it.  Nicole thought she wanted a tattoo to cover her scars to cover the sadness she felt when she saw them. But the image she sees in the mirror reveals something else - that Nicole Hite has made peace with this body. So instead of a big expansive tattoo her smooth breasts are adorned with a weeding branch of cherry blossoms and pinks and reds.  It is elegant and delicate and it does not cover too much of my scar tissue. I do not think my scar is anything to be ashamed of - perfect.  Rebecca Davis NPR News.  Yay. Thank you so much.  No problem.  I am very happy with this.  I like it a lot.  