 By December 1 the U.S. death toll from coronavirus could reach 300000. That is the grim new projection from a prominent team of forecasters at the University of Washington. But the researchers also find that if most Americans start wearing masks tens of thousands of lives could be saved. We are joined now by NPR's global health correspondent Nurith Aizenman. Hi Nurith.  Hi Stacey.  So let us start with that terrible number. Three-hundred thousand Americans could potentially die by December. Could you give us some context there?  So as you noted this comes to us from researchers at the University of Washington specifically its Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. And they are projecting that between now and December 1 about 137000 more people will die of coronavirus. Add those deaths to the roughly 160000 who have already died and you get to that total of nearly 300000 dead. And that is about five times the number of people who die of flu each year. In fact if this projection pans out coronavirus will likely be the third-leading cause of death in the U.S. for 2020 only behind heart disease and cancer.  What is driving this prediction?  The quick answer - a bad current situation hitting up against even worse conditions come autumn. Right now we are already seeing high rates of transmission across many states. The good news is in some of the hardest-hit ones - Arizona Texas Florida - people have modified their behavior enough to start bending the curve. Unfortunately researchers also expect to see the flip side which is this pattern where as soon as things start to get better off both officials and regular people tend to ease up too quickly. And then come November the country will likely be hit by what the scientists say is a really severe effect from cold weather. Here's the lead researcher Chris Murray.  November is a month when we expect the increase of transmission due to seasonality will start to be stronger. We would see approximately a 50 increase in transmission everything else being the same.  And that is the impact for the northernmost states the colder regions where people will have to spend more time indoors the virus may thrive in colder air.  Is there anything that could change this scenario?  Well this forecast is already factoring in states moving to stay-at-home orders and shutdowns once cases skyrocket. They are also assuming 50 of schools will be doing online-only instruction. But the model does not assume widespread mask use and that is what could change things.  Yeah. We have heard obviously a lot about masks recently. What kind of difference are we talking about with masks?  OK. So right now the researchers say nationwide in the U.S. about 50 of people are wearing masks when they are out and about. So the researchers ran a simulation to see what happens if starting today that was upped to 95 of people wearing masks. And they find that about half of the deaths between now and December 1 would be prevented.  Is it realistic that that many Americans would start wearing masks?  Yeah that is the key. The researcher said it is an interesting analysis they have done that suggests that when officials mandate masks use goes up by 8 percentage points. And if those mandates include penalties it is a 15-point bump.  And quickly - I mean obviously this is a forecast from just one team. How does this fit in with other projections?  Well I spoke with Nicholas Reich at University of Massachusetts Amherst who set up a system for harmonizing many different forecasts. He says that long-term projections like this one can be really useful in terms of helping us determine you know if you take this precautionary step how much does it help? But Reich also says that when it comes to hard numbers for predicted deaths even four weeks out these forecasts do vary pretty widely.  Nurith Aizenman thank you.  You are welcome. 