  Let food by thy medicine. It is a directive that may seem naive in this age of powerful pharmaceuticals. But some doctors in New York are starting to take this age-old advice to heart again. NPR's Allison Aubrey reports that in New York City doctors are writing prescriptions for fruits and vegetables. You heard right - scripts for produce.  Katherine Szema is a pediatrician at the Lincoln Medical Center in the Bronx who spent many years inside her hospital's exam rooms treating kids with asthma diabetes and weight problems. And until recently the main thing she did was write prescriptions for drugs. DR.  I think before it was kind of like medication medication - you know take your medicine you will be fine.  But over the last year Szema has become part of an experiment to really switch things up. When I caught up with her she was at the farm market set up right outside the hospital. With her white doctor's coat on and a stethoscope around her neck she was meeting up with her patients.  It is a little unusual 'ecause you are used to giving out medications. So now we are actually giving out prescriptions for fruits and vegetables.  Fourteen-year-old Johanna Terron who is here today is one of Szema's patients. She is been fighting a weight problem and a serious asthma condition. She is one of about 110 kids enrolled in the New York program. Each week she comes to the hospital where they check her weight her blood sugar and blood pressure. And then she leaves the appointment with a prescription she can exchange for free produce. As she walks by bins of radishes lettuce and some greens Johanna says until a few months ago she would never tasted any of these things.  I am telling you the truth. In my life I never touched no vegetables - no nothing - because I do not like it.  It is not the kind of food she had at home.  I never ate - you know how they have pumpkin?  Uh-huh.  But then the things inside of it?  Like butternut squash...  Yeah that. I never ate that before. I never ate melon before.  Never had eaten melon.  Never no.  Johanna says she went to Burger King almost every day and ate a lot of junk.  Like chips candy like soda ice cream...  But over the last year Johanna has completely overhauled her diet. She is lost more than 20 pounds. She swapped greasy fries for peppery radishes and greens. And she says she thinks her taste buds are changing.  I do not know how to explain it but it tastes like - it tastes better.  And Dr. Szema says it is easier for Johanna to exercise now because her asthma is better.  She is healthier. She does not have to use her rescue pump as much and it does not limit her activity.  Now the idea of prescribing fruits and vegetables was not hatched in a pharmacy or by doctor. It is actually the vision of a chef named Michel Nischan. And the idea came to him years ago in the New York City subway as he commuted to and from the fancy restaurant in Manhattan where he worked.  So this is how far down I used to have to ride up the...  And you did that six days a week.  Yeah it was nutty - six days a week.  After spending two hours a day on the train in order to serve up 40 entrees to people who could afford to eat anything Nischan says he started to notice all these faces on the train - the people around him those who could not afford it.  It was a horrible feeling.  It started to feel like A Tale of Two Cities right here within one subway car the Wall Street banker sitting next to a mom dressed in a fast food uniform who works two part-time jobs.  Yeah I actually almost quit the restaurant business 'ecause I felt so guilty.  At about the same time one of Nischan's young sons was diagnosed with juvenile diabetes. And as he learned more about the disease especially Type 2 - how it could be controlled or even reversed with good nutrition and exercise - he knew he wanted to do something. So why not team up with doctors? If they could prescribe medicine to help people get better why not prescribe healthy food?  Would it make a difference?  Well fast forward 10 years and after lots of fundraising and browbeating to get this initiative going he is beginning to find out. There have been pilots in seven states and Lincoln is one of two hospitals in New York participating.   OK. OK. All right we are going to do this for real now. OK so...  On this day at the farm market there is a cooking demonstration going on.  OK so I do one jalapeno...  As physician Katherine Szema looks on she says just telling her patients to eat well is not enough. You have got to show them. You have got to open up access to the right food. Teach them - that is the appeal here.  You are coaching them to put what is healthy into their body.  Now Szema says the simple act of prescribing fruits and vegetables obviously does not change things overnight. It is just one step in a long process. But she says the program is proving to do more than just nudge patients like Johanna in the right direction.  The whole family is actually making changes too.  Nischan says his organization which is called Wholesome Wave now has two years of data showing many people in these programs do lose weight.  The first year 38.1 percent dropped BMI. The second year 37.9 percent dropped BMI. So it is working. I mean it is pretty nutty but we are excited about it.  And he says the prescription produce program could go nationwide.  We have interest from all over the country.  In an age when diet-related diseases such as Type 2 diabetes are costing our nation billions of dollars Nischan says this is the kind of prevention that can work. Allison Aubrey NPR News.  