 Marshall Griffin from St. Louis Public Radio reports.  Proposition C simply put forbids the federal government from requiring citizens to have health insurance or from penalizing them if they do not. It passed with 71 percent of the vote. The proposition opposing what Republicans call Obamacare was crafted by GOP State Senator Jane Cunningham from St. Louis County.  It is unprecedented in the United States of America for a government to say just because you live in this land and you breathe in this land you will buy a product any product with your own money against your will. That has never before happened in America.  Missouri lawmakers this year considered several bills addressing federal legislation in Washington including one that opposed cap and trade but the only national issue to make it onto the ballot was health care. Most of the 939000 primary voters opposed a key provision. They include Shannon Casmire of Jefferson City.  I do not believe that our federal government needs to mandate what all of us already have in the insurance field.  Liz Beasley of Jefferson City agrees.  I just feel like the health care issue is an important issue but there is some problems with that bill and there needs to be some revisions. And I think that it would hurt small businesses.  But some Missouri voters approve of the new federal health care law. Among them is John Ditto of Kansas City who voted no.  Well I thought it was a really quasi anti-Obama issue and I believe that it would be thrown out of court anyway because it would supersede the federal government and so it has no meaning.  And that is what opponents to Proposition C are counting on. There was little organized opposition to the referendum and a lawsuit to remove it from the ballot was dismissed without appeal. Richard Reuben is a law professor at the University of Missouri-Columbia. He believes Missouri's effort to opt out of the federal health care law will initially be struck down.  This should be a no-brainer for the courts. Under the supremacy clause of the Constitution a state statute that is in direct conflict with a federal statute is simply invalid.  But Reuben also says Proposition C's navigation through the federal court system can go either way.  Liberal judges conservative judges can certainly view things differently and both sides will have a lot invested in the progress of this case. So I would not be at all surprised to see it get to the U.S. Supreme Court. If it does I think all bets are off.  Marvin Overby a political science professor at the University of Missouri-Columbia disagrees.  That number may not appear very high but if you compare it to sort of recent primary elections in the state going back to 2008 or 2006 it is actually up a bit.  For NPR News I am Marshall Griffin in Jefferson City Missouri. 