 Trying to find healthful food at a state fair is no easy task. But if you are there all day hey you have got to eat. NPR's Sarah McCammon has been covering politicians at the Iowa State Fair and she set out to find nutritious options amid deep-fried Oreos and foot-long corndogs.  The Iowa State Fair has been littered with presidential hopefuls this week and one of the rites of passage is trying food on a stick.  I highly recommend.  That is Hillary Clinton sampling an Iowa pork chop. But aside from the politics we went searching for healthier options with Nikki Stahr. She is a dietitian with the Iowa-based Hy-Vee grocery chain.  You guys want to spin the wheel?  Stahr is running a booth promoting healthy eating and portion control at the Iowa State Fair and she has her work cut out for her.  Fruits.  Fruits all right.  And there is an old-fashioned hand-dipped ice cream stand and oven-baked hot chocolate chip cookie stand right across from her so she is got some competition for her message of healthy eating.  As a registered dietician we talk a lot about making choices.  As we step out into one of the fair's many rows of concession stands Stahr says it is all about balance.  There is no bad foods so if someone is looking for healthier options there certainly is a variety out here that you can do that from like you know grilled turkey tenderloins turkey sandwiches turkey wraps.  But I mean like I just saw a sign that says greater taters. It is like all fried potatoes.  Well we certainly want to keep fried foods and higher-fat foods in moderation.  Stahr admits she did have a corn dog at the fair...  We always have those confessions of a dietician.  ...But she says she will add to that some fresh watermelon or veggies. There is a stand where you can get salad on a stick made with carrots tomatoes and iceberg lettuce. Speaking of fresh produce there is the corn stand where you will find Iowa sweet corn covered in pork sausage cheese and mayonnaise.  Corn in a cup - just corn and butter?  I do not want no butter.  Just corn.  Tammy Newton lives near Des Moines and says she tries to eat healthy at the fair.  I work too hard to stay fit and healthy. I am a five-year cancer survivor this year.  Newton ordered plain old corn grilled no toppings. But there is a downside to that approach.  That is all I get for five bucks? Five bucks for that? Seriously.  Of course the fair is better known for food choices that take eating meat on a stick to the extreme like one of this year's new foods.  It is called the bacon brisket bomb.  Joni Bell runs the Rib Shack which developed this concoction made of ground brisket.  Then it is infused with a white pepper cheese fresh salsa jalapenos a little bit of onion and it is bacon wrapped and smoked for three hours. And its glazed with our sweet chili barbecue sauce. And it is all gluten-free.  So does that mean it is good for you?  Yes absolutely - eight ounces of pure meat.  And lots of people come for more traditional favorites.  Foot-long corn dog. Must have foot-long corn dog.  Susan Pascasio of Des Moines has been volunteering at the fair for years and she has a list of not-to-miss favorites. As for calorie counting...  No no. This is the time when you splurge because this is only 11 days out of the year. You have got to do it or you just might as well go home.  Sarah McCammon NPR News. 