 When a young African-American man dies in Philadelphia it is usually from a gunshot wound. Well now one of the city's major medical centers Temple University Hospital is teaching community members how to give first aid to gun violence victims. Taunya English from WHYY's The Pulse sent us this report.  It is 6 oclock. Kids are running around an elementary school cafeteria. Parents and neighbors are clustered at different first aid training stations. A nurse is showing people how to stop blood flow from a gunshot wound.  Pressure point's located on the inside of the arm.  In each group people take turns wrapping the bandages or elevating a fake bloody arm.  Then you take an old towel T-shirt then you just wrap it around as tight as you can until help arrives.  At one station 63-year-old Alice Kellam is learning where to place a tourniquet. Kellam has on a camouflage tracksuit and rhinestone hoop earrings and she spends much of the class laughing with her neighbors except when she talks about her husband who was murdered in 1990. She does not have a lot to say about that.  They took his sneaks in his hat. That was it.  Many people in this north Philadelphia neighborhood have a similar story and remember a moment when they felt helpless. Louise Smith - everyone calls her Miss Midge - is the lady who hands out water ice at the summer block party every year.  About a year ago we seen a shooting around here and it is a shame the two boys died right on the sidewalk. There just you know was not nobody there to help them.  A severely injured person can bleed to death in less than 10 minutes but it can take much longer for police to arrive and calm the situation. So the trainers teach the class how to move a victim away from danger and flying bullets. Registered nurse Maureen Quigg explained how to do a two-person lift and carry.  The knee closest to the victim is down. The other knee is up and that is what you stand up with - the power from your legs and not your back.  One two three look out.  See now that is hard.  Quigg reassures the smaller women in the group that they can help a 200-pound man.  If it is someone that you care about or in a situation where there is a lot of activity your adrenaline's going. You have all this extra energy. You have all this extra power.  Oscar your group comes here.  ER physician Tim Bryan directs the program which is called Fighting Chance. The former Navy medic says a shooting scene is chaotic and frightening but in just two hours of training people get the basics.  You have aha moment and people are like wow I can do this I can control the scene I can remember to call 911 and to tell the person to put direct pressure on even if I do not do anything else. And it does not make a difference.  At the end of the evening Bryan stages a mini drama to test the group.  You good? Everybody ready?  One person is the victim and there is a pretend shooter.  So remember hey you could ask somebody hey help me control the scene right? Who called 911?  The program started when a local resident came to the hospital complaining that he was sick and tired of hearing about young men dying before they reach the ER. He met with Scott Charles who works with gunshot victims and their families. Charles says it is past time for new gun control policies.  As we wait for those initiatives to be enacted and as we wait for laws to be changed many people are going to find themselves on the wrong end of a gun. We have to put the power in people's hands to address this issue.  About 250 people have taken the class since it began earlier this year. In this neighborhood overwhelmed by gun violence the goal is to teach these first aid skills to as many people as possible. The trainers say this is the next step in bystander education like CPR or making sure one of those defibrillators is nearby to jumpstart someone's heart. For NPR News I am Taunya English. 