 The spread of Ebola in West Africa has also had a major effect on wildlife in the area. The virus can infect gorillas and chimps and some researchers are now developing a vaccine to prevent Ebola's spread among the animals. I spoke to one of those researchers Peter Walsh of the University of Cambridge. And I asked him with all the human suffering caused by Ebola why he was working on a vaccine for the animals.  Well actually gorillas and chimpanzees are one of the major intermediate hosts for Ebola transmission from - we think bats is the reservoir to humans. Our best guess at this point is that both bats and gorillas and chimpanzees eat fruit. So what is probably happening is that bats are going to a fruiting then the gorilla comes along eat some of the fruit gets infected itself infects its family and infects the neighboring community of gorillas. And then there is a bunch of dead gorillas on the ground and the local villagers eat the meat and then they get infected and then you start one of these outbreaks.  So how bad is Ebola as a problem for apes in Africa?  These outbreaks started in the mid-'90s and have continued over the last 25 years. I have a friend in Republic of Congo named Magdalena Bermejo and she spent her life habituating this community of gorillas. In 2002 and 2003 it just killed 95 percent of them - killed all of her babies really. And that is repeatedly happened over the last 25 years to the point where we have lost maybe about a third of the gorillas and a lot of chimps. We do not have a quite as good a number on chimps but a lot.  So you have been working on a vaccine for apes. First can you explain - 'ecause this is kind of interesting - how do you convince a wild gorilla to sit for a vaccination? Or I imagine you cannot get them to do that.  That is the problem. They are hunted so they are afraid of people.  Right.  So the ones that we have habituated that are in the tourist program we can shoot with a dart but most of them we cannot. So we are sort of copying the way that rabies is controlled in the states and in Europe which is with an oral bait. And so what we are doing now is we are doing a vaccine trial. A colleague of mine named Matthias Schnell at Thomas Jefferson University has taken a little piece of Ebola and he has put it into that rabies vaccine. And lo and behold it protects against both rabies and Ebola.  So you are moving along with this research but we have heard that on September 15 new restrictions are coming for the use of chimpanzees for biomedical research. Can you talk about how that could affect your work?  It is going to be a catastrophe for us because the people in Africa will not let us use the vaccine in Africa unless it is been extensively tested in captive animals. And so if they shut down all these facilities then we are not going to have any place to do our trials and then eventually go to Africa.  And there is no way around that? There is no way you can get like an exception or something like that?  The problem is that these facilities are - were set up for human biomedical research to develop vaccines and drugs for humans. And if they are not allowed to do the human research anymore then there is nobody to pay for the maintenance of the animals. Just on a business basis they will have to shut the facilities down and we will not have any place to work.  We talked a bit about Ebola in humans and in apes but could you just sort of give us a sense here of what happens if Ebola goes unchecked in apes - the threat that it poses to both ape and human populations?  For apes it is a big threat. As I said it is already killed a third of the gorilla population. It is effectively 100 percent lethal. Once they get it they are going to die. And furthermore this is not just about Ebola. There is other diseases. Like when we go over there and we catch a cold on the plane and then we  then the gorilla gets it and the gorilla dies. And that is a major source of mortality in those tourism populations. They also get malaria. They get the ancestor of HIV-AIDS. They get anthrax. And what we are trying to do with these trials is not protect against Ebola but this oral vaccination developed a technology with which we can protect them. Because if we do not protect them on the scale of 30 to 50 years they are going to be out of there.  Peter Walsh is a researcher at the University of Cambridge. He is been working to create an oral vaccine to protect gorillas and chimpanzees from Ebola. Peter thanks for joining us.  Thanks a lot Arun. 