 Haiti is finally vaccinating residents against COVID-19. It is one of the last countries in the world to launch a mass immunization drive against the virus. But NPR's Jason Beaubien reports that if you ask Haitians what their most pressing problem is right now COVID-19 would not be at the top of their list.  The country's just suffered the assassination of its president. Gangs have taken control of significant portions of the capital. Kidnapping extortion and random gunfire are forcing thousands of people out of their homes. So when I told my driver I wanted to go downtown to meet Jean Bill Pape one of the country's top COVID experts my driver looked shocked. The gangs have made that area a no-go zone he said. But Dr. Pape told us how to take a side road that comes in the back of the compound.  And you can see right across these  - this one. So we are just separated by one wall .  Are those actually bullet holes in the front of that building there?  Yes that is correct - all the time. So this is clearly our clinic.  Dr. Pape at the Gheskio Hospital has been a doctor in Haiti for a long time. He is been on the leading edge of treating HIVAIDS patients for decades. His medical clinic in Port-au-Prince sees roughly 2000 patients a day. They treat everything from fevers to TB to broken bones to hypertension. And last year Pape was appointed by then-President Jovenel Moise to co-lead the country's efforts against COVID.  I work with him on four occasions at his home where he was assassinated.  Pape says the killing was a shock to the nation and sent a message that no Haitian is safe. Despite the political and social upheaval Haiti is dealing with right now plans for a mass COVID immunization program are still moving forward. The outbreak in Haiti is clearly not as bad as in some other parts of the world. But Pape says it is clear that many people have already been exposed to COVID.  The majority of my patients the poor people - they are getting infected. They have some symptoms but not enough to require hospitalization or even to require ventilation care.  Many do not even seek medical care at all. But Dr. Pape says things are changing. The arrival recently of new variants of the virus has led to more severe cases. And for the first time his staff has had to medevac patients out of Haiti for treatment. Also instead of sporadic infections they are seeing more clusters.  Now everybody - the family members the servants everybody - once one person gets infected the transmission goes to the entire household. So that is different.  Haiti had offers of the AstraZeneca COVID vaccine earlier this year but rejected them citing logistical issues and later concerns about side effects. After a surge in cases in June however health officials in Port-au-Prince agreed to accept a half a million doses of Moderna from the U.S.  It is a huge boost for us.  Recently the Pan American Health Organization warned that COVID variants could cause a devastating outbreak in Haiti. In addition to all the other issues hurricane season is now upon them.  Yes Haiti is having a lot of challenges lately.  That is Ciro Ugarte the head of health emergencies for PAHO. He says so far 3000 doses have been administered and the vaccine is expected to be widely available across the country soon including at private clinics. The issue now is convincing Haitians to take it. In a country that is in the middle of political social and economic turmoil a recent survey found only 20 of the population wants to get vaccinated.  This was done nationwide regardless of age regardless of sex. In fact women were more reluctant than men did not want to take the vaccine.  But Dr. Pape is confident more Haitians will get behind the vaccination campaign and it may help bring the traumatized country together. Pape says he hopes even gang members - the bandits as he calls them - will also get on board and come in to get immunized.  If my worst enemy comes to me my job is to take care of him. So our job is to vaccinate people make sure that they do not die of COVID.  Jason Beaubien NPR News Port-au-Prince.  