 We want to find out what today's ruling means for someone who is had difficulty with his health-care coverage. So we are turning to Shawn Pollock. He is 30 years old. He said he had excellent benefits until he was laid off from his job at a TV station in 2009. He could not afford insurance even under COBRA. And then he got viral meningitis and was hospitalized leading him to be labeled high risk when he applied for insurance. Shawn Pollock joins me now from Oshkosh Wisconsin. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  And Shawn I understand that now you do have health insurance. It is insurance for a high-risk pool of patients. Do you think that the Affordable Care Act now that it is been upheld by the Supreme Court will change things for you?  I really hope so. The insurance I have now is sufficient but it is just so expensive. And I have been denied insurance from several other companies. And so I went to the only route that I could which was this health insurance risk-sharing plan. It is been a bit of a lifesaver for me so that I can least have some sort of coverage right now.  And do you figure you can shop around once the law fully goes into effect assuming it does that you can shop around and find something that is more affordable?  I hope so. I think a lot of people thought everyone can shop around already. But the problem was that I felt like for me personally I was not even allowed in the marketplace. I was shopping around. I did apply for other providers. But I was completely denied based on what they considered to be a high-risk condition - which was me being ill one time but otherwise very healthy.  How much were you following this ruling today? Were you glued to a computer at 10 oclock trying to figure out what the court had done?  Absolutely. It was a bit confusing initially.  Yeah.   But I think once I read through everything I could breathe a bit of a sigh of relief.  Just a bit of a sigh of relief - so you were not jumping up and down.  Well I am still unsure how everything's going to shake out. You know if things are still up in the air or if Congress and the courts are still going to be involved and this is going to be politics as it has been then I do not know. Then I am left with the plan I currently have - which you know results to being nearly a quarter of my current take-home pay. And I will wait. I will wait I will do what I can. But I cannot go without insurance again. I tried that once and it was awful.  Republicans have said they will vote to repeal the law. In fact they have scheduled a vote on repeal for next month. What do you think about that?  It is scary to me. I understand their perspective you know allowing people to cross borders and compete. But in the end I feel like I still have not gotten to compete - or shop around in this marketplace. It is one of those things where I get where they are coming from but the reality is not what they are saying it is. And so I am left with the options I have - which is unaffordable health care.  Well Shawn Pollack it is good to talk to you. Thanks so much and best of luck.  Thank you.  That is Shawn Pollack in Oshkosh Wisconsin. He is a supporter of the health-care law and he struggled to obtain and afford health insurance. 