 Dr. Anthony Fauci is calling the Delta variant the greatest threat to the nation's prospects for winning the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. NPR health correspondent Rob Stein joins us now with more details. Hi Rob.  Hey Ailsa.  Hey. So this Delta variant I mean it is the strain that was first spotted in India - right? - before it took over in the United Kingdom and other countries. Why is Dr. Fauci issuing such a strong warning about it now in the U.S.?  You know Ailsa it is a combination of factors. No. 1 is it is incredibly contagious the most contagious mutant to emerge yet. And it is spreading fast in this country so fast now that it is doubling the proportion of infections it is causing every two weeks and already accounts for more than 20 of all new infections. Let us listen to a little bit of what Dr. Fauci said about this today at the White House COVID-19 briefing.   Similar to the situation in the U.K. the Delta variant is currently the greatest threat in the U.S. to our attempt to eliminate COVID-19.  You know according to some estimates the Delta is on such a fast trajectory that it is likely to become the dominant strain in the U.S. within weeks. In fact CDC Director Rochelle Walensky noted at the same briefing that the Delta already accounts for nearly half of all infections in some parts of the country you know like parts of the Midwest and West.  Wow. OK so it spreads really quickly. But does it make people sicker?  You know it looks like that could be the case. Dr. Fauci cited some new research that indicates people are significantly more likely to end up in the hospital if they catch this virus compared to if they caught the original strain. And he noted that young adults and children look like they are driving the spread of the virus at least in Britain that is.  OK. Well the question on everyone's minds is how well do our current vaccines work against the Delta variant?  Yeah. We are all wondering am I protected or not? And that is the good news. All the evidence so far indicates that they work very well if people are fully vaccinated. But you know remember there are lots of unvaccinated people still in this country. So Dr. Fauci says this new threat posed by the Delta variant makes it more urgent than ever that people roll up their sleeves especially you know given how close the country is to finally getting back to normal.   We have the tools so let us use them and crush the outbreak.  The fear Ailsa is that the Delta variant could spark yet another round of new outbreaks in the parts of the country where lots of people still are not vaccinated. In fact a new projection that just came out found that yet another national surge could start as soon as July if a virus as contagious as the Delta sweeps through unvaccinated parts of the country.  Well if the Delta variant does spread through certain parts of the U.S. unchecked could it lead to the emergence of even more dangerous variants?  You know absolutely. As we have been saying for a while now the more the virus spreads the greater the chances that even more dangerous mutants could evolve. If we let it run wild who knows what could emerge? And you know Dr. Walensky noted that there is no reason for one more person to get sick or die from the pandemic in this country at this point when the vaccines have essentially made COVID-19 a preventable disease.  That is NPR's Rob Stein. Thank you Rob.  You bet Ailsa. 