 A few weeks ago we asked people in one Maryland county - Howard County - how the big issues of health care play out in their communities. One of the people we heard from was the county health commissioner Dr. Peter Beilenson who runs a program for the uninsured. It is called Healthy Howard. It is small it is still new but it is lessons could be applied nationwide. As Dr. Beilenson described it to us it is a very inexpensive program heavy on preventive care. For people who make less than three times the poverty level it is 50 to 85 per person per month. Back in May the problem was how few people had signed up and now Dr. Beilenson joins us again for an update. Hi welcome back. Dr.  Thank you.  Why do not you remind us first of the target group you are trying to get signed up for this Healthy Howard program? Dr.  The target group is people who have incomes between 117 and 300 percent of poverty. I wish is  for a family of four that is about 25000 to 66000 per year. So it is predominantly the working class folks.  People who do not have health insurance and do not have such a low incomes that they would qualify for Medicaid say. Dr.  That is exactly correct.  Okay you had a few hundred people who had signed up. You had a target group of 10000. What is happened since May? Dr.  So what we found the last couple of months are good news and bad news. The good news is we have had our two best months for enrolling people. And we think that is because more of a critical mass of information is getting out to our target population the working class of Howard County that are uninsured. The disturbing trend has been that in each of the last couple of months about 10 percent of our people who are enrolled and are actively taking part in our program have been in danger of automatically being dis-enrolled because the debit cards they have given us had been overdrawn or their credit card had exceeded its credit limit.  Now we are talking about people who have - this is not just a passive sign-up you know sign on this piece of paper and you are in the program. They have actually done some pretty heavy documentation to get in. They have expressed some real interest in having access to health care through your plan. Dr.  Right. These are people who have clearly prioritized their health care. They have had to supply documentation. They have had to come to an orientation. They have signed agreements and they have given us their credit or debit cards for monthly payments. So these are people who are truly making health care a priority.  What they get we should remind folks was six or seven primary care physician visits a year hospital fees forgiven specialist care is given on a pro bono basis. You have a deal on prescriptions as well. This is very cheap. And you - what you are saying is your population is bumping up against dire financial straights even at the 50 to 85 per person per month cost. Dr.  That is right. They are bumping up against the financial ceiling with even this very modest amount of outlay required each month. And it is concerning because even the most subsidized of the current health care reform plans that are coming out of Congress for people in our income range they will be expected to pay at least two times and upwards of four or five times more than we are charging with an individual mandate coming down from Washington.  Are you surprised to learn just how strapped people are in those income levels? Dr.  We were. We were very surprised. I guess it could - you know you could criticize us for being in an ivory tower and being public health professionals who sort of tried to put together this good new system of medical-home model and wellness and prevention focus and thinking that for 50 to 85 per person per month it would be you know pretty easy for folks to do who are making 25000 to 65000 a year. But it clearly is an issue and I think it is something that has to be looked at in Washington because all the talk of universal health coverage presupposes that there are people who are going to be able to afford the individual mandate.  Well Dr. Beilenson thanks very much for giving us that update on Health Howard. Dr.  Thank you.  That is Dr. Peter Beilenson who is the health commissioner of Howard County Maryland. 