 Redesigning the health care system is so complicated it is generated legislation numbering more than a thousand pages. But lawmakers do have some models around the country they can examine for guidance. In a moment we will hear about a public option in Arizona. First to the state that mandates that everyone buy insurance Massachusetts is three years in to its experiment with universal health care. NPR's Tovia Smith checks in.  In many ways advocates like to say the Massachusetts model was a success the very moment it became law. MIT Economics Professor John Gruber says it was both the moral victory and a political one.  If Massachusetts' plan had not existed a lot of  hearing it just cannot technically be done just will not work. We have defused that argument. It can be done. It can work.  Under Massachusetts law residents must prove they are insured on their tax return or face a 1000 fine. Robert Blendon who does polls for the Harvard School of Public Health says very few residents have baulked at what is the nations first real test of an individual mandate. Mr.  There were fears that we were going to have another Boston Tea Party here. But most people have just gone along and have cooperated.  Today all but two and a half percent of Massachusetts residents are insured. That is about a third of what it used to be and it is the lowest rate in the nation. Just over half of the newly insured enrolled in plans that are heavily or totally subsidized by the state and a little less than half signed up for a health plan from work. Boston University School of Public Health Professor Allen Segar.  The Massachusetts law has succeeded in its main aim which was putting a plastic insurance card in hundreds of thousands of people's pockets. We have done that.  But beyond that says Segar Massachusetts' success is a lot more complicated.   Many were hoping universal coverage would mean fewer patients using the emergency room for routine care and that would mean savings. But health care for all has not guaranteed enough doctors for all and E.R.s like this one at Mass General are still full of patients who could not get in to a doctor. Dr. Alistair Khan is the hospital's chief of emergency medicine. Dr.  These are patients who say you know I have a cough I feel weak I have been having these headaches doctor. And so yeah they have gone off the work. So it is a problem.  Another problem with Massachusetts health care for all is that it is still not quite affordable for all. The state give subsidies to the poorest residents but there are many like 41-year-old Melinda Penta who make a bit too much to qualify for health but too little to really afford coverage. Ms.  We are the middle class that cannot get anything from the government. We are struggling. It is really hard on the family.  Penta says she actually tries to avoid or delay going to the doctor because on top of the increasing premiums are the high deductible and co-pays. Ms.  And that is not good because I do have multiple sclerosis. So it is something that I could end up in a wheelchair if I do not go to the doctors but I say to my husband I will hold off. So that is pretty sad.  In many ways the real test of Massachusetts health reform will be controlling costs. Lawmakers had deliberately ignored the issue in order to get the law passed but rising cost are now threatening to bleed the program dry. So while universal health care has lifted the threat of financial ruin from most individuals that dark cloud is now hanging over the state and some hospitals. Mr.  We will be looking at loses of about 160 million that is unsustainable going forward.  Tom Traylor is with the Boston Medical Center. He says the state is unfairly taking away money that used to help hospitals like his make up for Medicaid short falls and using it to pay for health insurance subsidies instead. Mr.  Basically this does become a  issue that we have increased coverage for many which is a good thing of course. On the other hand we have left the safety net hospitals in a position where they will not survive to provide the services it does today.  The state is now facing a lawsuit from the hospital and growing public concern as lawmakers tackle the issue of cost. As one analyst put it the honeymoon is over. Inevitably controlling cost will be tougher than extending coverage. That was about what everyone had to gain. Now it is about what some are going to have to give. Tovia Smith NPR News Boston. 