 Dog owners often say one of the best things about dogs is their unconditional love. A new study suggests there is another benefit too. Dog owners walk a lot more than people who do not have dogs. The question is is it enough to count as exercise? NPR's Allison Aubrey reports.  30 a.m. Evan Reynolds  gets a wake-up call from Fenster  his 2-year-old rescue dog.  He came up on the bed this morning and said I am here now...   ...Because he needed to go out.  And so Reynolds got up got dressed and headed straight to the park. It is a daily routine he cannot escape.  How you doing there buddy? OK that is a good hound.  How many minutes do you think you have walked this morning already?  Coming up on an hour. We have had little stops along the way like we are doing now.  Now I know what some of you may be thinking. Dog walkers often look like they are just out for a leisurely stroll. And there is been debate about whether this really gives people the exercise they need to help cut the risk of disease. Previous studies have used pedometers to estimate how many steps dog walkers get from their daily routine. But Daniel Mills a researcher at the University of Lincoln in the U.K. decided to do something more to measure the intensity of exercise.  What we did is we actually used a much more sophisticated activity monitor in order to assess the effects.  Mills and a group of colleagues recruited volunteers - some who had dogs some who did not. All of them were in their 60s and older and they agreed to wear an activPAL monitor for three weeks. The device measures speed distance and other factors that help scientists calculate the intensity of exercise.  People wore it 24 hours a day which gave us a real insight into the total amount of activity.  Mills says what they found surprised him. Dog owners walked more an average of 22 minutes more per day compared to those who did not have dogs. And it turns out they were not just dawdling.  Not only did we see an increase in exercise but also it was at a moderate pace.  By moderate he means brisk. The dog owners were at times walking at a pace of 3 miles per hour getting their heart rates up.  This is a great study.  That is Robert Sallis a family physician with Kaiser Permanente in California. He was not involved in the research but commented on the findings.  Well you know it is amazing. The national physical activity guidelines call for 150 minutes a week of moderate-intensity exercise and that is what they got in this study.  Sallis says adopting a dog can help put an end to the excuses people have for not exercising.  If you look at a lot of the studies that have been done on pet ownership dogs in particular that people who own pets seem to live longer than those who do not own them.  And he says the walking is likely part of the reason why.  Walking every day reduces your risk of virtually every chronic disease starting with diabetes to heart disease to cancer to stroke.  And he says the health benefits of dog ownership are likely explained by other factors too.  Perhaps the companionship lower rates of depression stress. I think that having a pet I think as you grow older is a great idea.  If you are up for the responsibilities. The one emotionally fraught side of course is dealing with the loss of a pet. Evan Reynolds says the death of his first dog several years ago was really hard.  My routine was off. I put on some weight all this stuff.  Until he brought home Fenster. Now Reynolds says he is back to walking and feeling good. Allison Aubrey NPR News.  