 While about 1800 people made it inside to President Obama's health care town hall others made their presence felt outside. New Hampshire Public Radio's Josh Rogers spent time with the crowd of protesters.  There was no shortage of critics lining the driveway to Portsmouth High School.   No to government health care. Mr.  If I want socialism I will go back to pre-World War II Germany. Hitler wanted socialism. I do not like Hitler.  Dave Kow came to the event from Standish Maine. He and his friends have been yelling across the driveway at Obama supporters for two hours and they showed no sign of fatigue.   I fought in Vietnam for America.  God bless you.  And I am fighting right here for America because I am not stupid.  Good for you. God bless you.  Several yards away Tony Trappary was shaking his fist. Heavily muscled with a shaved head Trappary sported a sleeveless T-shirt that said Obama sucks. Mr.  Where do you start? You know the whole bailout the auto bailout he just wants to spend spend spend spend. Take from the rich give to the poor you know and all these uneducated people across from us just have no proof none whatsoever.  Margaret Downing says she is lived here for years and says the president's supporters must have been hired to show up because she did not recognize them. Ms.  It took him - took Obama long enough to decide what kind of dog he was going to get rather than the bill. And it troubles me that you are going to have to go to counseling to basically try and understand how you are going to kill yourself.  It is hard to find a protester who believed the president could somehow redeem the debate over health care. Mr.  I am scared to death of having the government run anything.   Bruce Liken drove in from Maine and says the president's proposal was more about taxation and less about health care. But as someone who gets his insurance under Medicaid he acknowledged his protest was not without irony. For NPR News I am Josh Rogers in Concord New Hampshire. 