 Drew Calver has had a week. He is the high school teacher who after a heart attack was rushed to St. David's hospital near his home in Austin Texas. Later he got a bill for more than a hundred thousand dollars.  This is called balance billing. It is when an insurer and a medical provider - St. David's in this case - cannot agree on a bottom-line price for care. The balance gets passed on to the patient.  In Drew Calver's case that six-figure bill came with no warning. He and his wife say they do not even keep a credit card balance ever. With that huge bill they were facing bankruptcy.  NPR and Kaiser Health News reported this story on Monday and since then there have been developments. Ashley Lopez from member station KUT in Austin has more.  Shortly after this story aired Drew Calver heard back from the hospital that had been sending him those six-figure bills. Calver now qualified for its financial assistance discount which means instead of owing almost 109000 Calver was getting a bill for...  Seven-hundred-eighty-two dollars and 29 cents.  That is right. The bill went from more than a hundred thousand to less than a thousand overnight. Then on Thursday the bill shrank some more. St. David's informed Calver that he really only had to pony up 332 to settle his bill.  As soon as I saw that email I just said hey when is the soonest I can pay that off so that it is completely over you know? So it is a big relief.  Calver says he is been contacted by people from around the country who are in similar situations. He says he is relieved his situation is settled but he still cannot quite believe it.  I am still a little bit in shock that - because we were going through it for so long that in just a few days it' Calver credits the media attention but he says it should not be like this. Part of the reason he was stuck with this bill is that he unknowingly went to a hospital that was out of his insurance network. It was the closest hospital though and he was having a heart attack. Calver says someone in his situation should be able to go to any hospital and be covered. In the meantime though he says he is relieved this bill is off his back and he can go back to focusing on his health. For NPR News I am Ashley Lopez in Austin.  That story is part of Bill of the Month part of NPR's reporting partnership with Kaiser Health News. 