 Born This Way is not exactly like other TV reality shows though it comes from a man who helped invent the genre. Jonathan Murray is one of the creators of The Real World that show about a group of young people from different backgrounds. Born This Way is similar except for one thing - all the cast members have Down syndrome. NPR's Neda Ulaby reports.  Since The Real World reality shows have had certain types - so does Born This Way. There is the ladies' man.   I love ladies. Hi ladies.  The musician.   I am a rap artist honey.  The party girl.   I party way too much.  The drama queen.   I know I get offensive and I know I am kind of crazy.  And the sweetheart.  I am Rachel. I am 32 and I live with my mom and dad.  Rachel Osterbach wears her red hair in a 1960s-style flip. She was recruited for Born This Way at a drama class for people with Down syndrome. When she was picked she cried. R.  I actually cried from happiness. That is true - because I always wanted to be on TV. I always wanted to be.  Why - why did you want to be on TV? R.  Why? Because I like to be like the regular people on TV.  Osterbach and her parents Laurie and Gary are in the Born This Way production offices in Van Nuys Calif. The company also makes Project Runway and Keeping Up With The Kardashians. That concerned Rachel's dad.  We knew they were experienced but then again when you are experienced in shows like the Kardashians that does not necessarily make you feel like your daughter is going to come off great.  But Rachel Osterbach does come off great - so does the rest of the cast.  R.  We are seven friends each unique.  Born This Way has been an unexpected hit for its network AE with a more than 80 percent rise in viewership over its first season. Season 2 starts next week. Other reality stars could learn much from this cast about handling conflict. There is lots of hugging and forgiving.  R.  If you have a problem you tell me OK? But do not get up and walk away OK?  And when alcohol appears it is sipped during sweet family dinners.  G.  More wine? R.  No.   The creator of Born This Way Jonathan Murray says what is compelling is the drama of young people everywhere with extra challenges. Making this show he says demanded a delicateness uncommon to the genre.  In reality TV you do not get to play the small moments as much as I would like to. It has to be big and loud and someone needs to flip a table at the end of act one.  In Born This Way Rachel Osterbach's parents have to deal with their daughter getting turned down by potential boyfriends twice.  R.  We could be close friends if you want.  That'ill work. R.  Want to be close friends? How about a hug? G.  That was the toughest part - to watch it on TV and know that you know there is now approximately 1 million people also watching your daughter get rejected and then...  Twice.  It was hard on Rachel Osterbach too. R.  I do not like being rejected on film. Well at first I did not want that in there because I hate being let down.  But it was OK you said right? R.  It was OK but I do not like being rejected so I wish it was not on film because I want no one to know that I get let down a lot.  In a way says disability advocate David Perry this is progress. He is not generally the biggest fan of reality shows but he likes how Born This Way holds people with Down syndrome to the same standard as other reality stars.  I like seeing struggle. I like seeing young adults with Down syndrome struggling with questions that young adults struggle with.  Perry's son has Down syndrome. Too often he says they appear on TV as innocent children.  Or it can be kind of angelic. There is a whole tradition of people with Down syndrome being angels on Earth being specially chosen by God living without sin.  Perry says this show features complex characters. Right now he adds they are among the less than 1 percent of TV characters with disabilities. They are also among the first generation of people with Down syndrome who have benefited from broad social changes such as mainstreaming and the Americans With Disabilities Act says Rachel Osterbach's parents Laurie and Gary. G.  Everything started to change late '70s early '80s. She is been in early intervention since she was a month old. You know if she had been born probably five years before that none of that would have existed. So people paved the path for us before we were there.  And they have continued it by showing their family to a wide audience. L.  I did not think we are going to get it get the acceptance like we did. And that is what I hoped by doing this besides them seeing just how sweet Rachel is. R.  Thank you mom.  Born This Way was just nominated for three Emmys including best reality show in its category. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 