 This is ALL PR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. There is some disturbing news today about a disease we do not hear about much anymore - gonorrhea. Federal health officials say the sexually transmitted infection is getting dangerously close to being drug-resistant and therefore untreatable. So as NPR's Rob Stein reports they unveiled a plan to try to buy more time.  Gonorrhea has been plaguing humanity for centuries but ever since penicillin came along a dose of antibiotics would usually take care of it. Jonathan Zenilman studies infectious diseases at Johns Hopkins. DR.  Gonorrhea used to be susceptible to penicillin ampicillin tetracycline and doxycycline - very commonly used drugs.  But one by one each of those antibiotics - and almost every new one that has come along since - eventually stopped working. Zenilman says one reason is that the bacterium that causes gonorrhea can mutate quickly to defend itself.  If this was a person this person would be incredibly creative. The bug has an incredible ability to adapt and just develop new mechanisms of resisting the impact of these drugs.  Another reason is that antibiotics are used way too much when they are not really needed giving gonorrhea - and other nasty germs - too many chances to learn how to survive.  A lot of this is occurring not because of treatment for gonorrhea but overuse for other infections such as urinary tract infections upper respiratory tract infections and so forth.  It got to the point recently where doctors only had two antibiotics left that could still cure gonorrhea. And today federal officials announced that one of their worst fears had come true. One of those last two had started losing its power too. DR.  We are sounding the alarm.  That is Gail Bolan at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  We are basically down to one drug you know as the most effective treatment for gonorrhea.  And Bolan says it gets worse. The one last drug is in the same family of antibiotics. That means it is only a matter of time before it goes too.  The big worry is that we potentially could have untreatable gonorrhea in the United States.  That is already happening in other countries. Totally untreatable gonorrhea is popping up in Asia and Europe. So the CDC decided to take a big step. Today the federal agency declared that doctors should immediately stop using the latest antibiotic that is failing.  We feel we need to a take a critical step to preserve the last remaining drug we know is effective to treat gonorrhea.  It is critical because about 700000 Americans get gonorrhea every year. And gonorrhea can cause serious complications if untreated - unrelenting pain infertility and even life-threatening ectopic pregnancies. William Smith heads an advocacy group that fights sexually transmitted diseases.  I think it should be a real clarion call to every American that we have got a looming public health crisis on our hands and potentially hundreds of thousands of cases of untreatable gonorrhea in this country every year.  Officials know implementing the new federal guidelines will not be easy. For one thing the remaining drug is an injection not a pill. And they want doctors to give it along with at least one other antibiotic and test patients to make sure they are cured. But they know all of this will only help for a while. They cannot stop the clock from ticking for the one drug left. Here's Gail Bolan from the CDC again.  We think it is only a matter of time based on the history of this organism until resistance does develop.  So scientists are searching for new combinations of antibiotics that might work. And officials are pushing for new weapons that might stay one step ahead of gonorrhea and the growing list of antibiotic-resistant infections. Rob Stein NPR News. 