 This week I paid a visit to the home of General Michael Hayden former director of the CIA and the National Security Agency. I asked him to tell me about the day coming up on three years ago when his world turned upside down.  So I was right there - about 10 feet.  You are pointing toward the dining room behind us. Yeah.  That is exactly correct. I was doing something and then I fell and I could not get up. Jeanine was downstairs was doing exercises. But gee I could not call her you know?  Jeanine is Jeanine Hayden his wife of 53 years. And the moment he is describing is the Tuesday before Thanksgiving 2018 when he suffered a massive stroke. It is left him with a condition called aphasia which makes communication difficult. Aphasia can affect a person's ability both to express and to understand speech. I wanted to know what that has been like for a retired four-star general accustomed to commanding a room when he walks in. Well he agreed to talk. And this week in the front hall of his home in D.C.'s Northern Virginia suburbs General Hayden greeted me in his wheelchair. Then he and Mrs. Hayden sat beside each other on a cream-colored sofa in their living room and talked about what is harder now.  Well it is very very different. For example this - my...  Right side.  My right side is OK.  No your left side is OK actually.  No my left side is OK. But my right side not a - not too good. And of course this does not work at all.  Your right arm.  Yes.  You are right-handed?  Well now I am.   Left-handed yeah.  Yeah.  As you can hear General Hayden sometimes says right when he means left. That is the aphasia. So is his struggle to read a book or other printed material.  Today I was in the kitchen and I wanted to read the morning paper. I cannot do that. I just cannot do it.  Here's the thing though - aphasia does not affect intelligence. General Hayden can think as well as he ever did. He just cannot say what he thinks. Here's another thing - he is doing therapy. He attends an aphasia support group over Zoom on Saturday mornings. He is fighting and he is getting better.  I worked hard and I got the DMV to say OK you can do that now. So I - I am trying to say I walk though what I want to say is I drive. I drive.  You drive yeah.  Yeah for three weeks now so be careful.   Congratulations. That is another thing that is fully intact - his sense of humor. You cannot help though but be struck if you listen back to what General Hayden sounded like just a few years ago like here the last time I interviewed him live on NPR. He had criticized then-President Trump and Trump had responded by threatening to revoke his security clearance. This is three months before the stroke.   If you view yourself to be the fact witness just telling things as you believe them to be it gets increasingly difficult in the face of a White House that says so many things that are unrelated to objective reality.  Well let me just get you on the record here. If this is as some have suggested an attempt by the president to silence his critics will you be silenced?  Oh of course not.  Aphasia has not silenced him either. But for a man who was so quick on his feet it has become much much harder to get the words out. I imagine - and I want to ask this sensitively - that when you cannot speak so well people who do not know you do not know who you are...  Yeah.  ... do not know what you can do that they think you are dumb and they treat you like that.  Well...  Has that happened?  Not yet.  Good.  But Jeanine said OK you have to get a thing every time when you go to - on the car - in our car. And she has a thing saying I am sorry read this please.  So it is a card you can show someone.  Yes. Maybe I can do it so it is not a problem but maybe I cannot. For example the cops are you know - oh the cops - here. Read this please.  Do you have it? What does it say?  Here you go.  So it says please read this. I have aphasia from a stroke. Aphasia means I have trouble understanding you reading writing and speaking. It is a medical condition. I am intelligent but need some help with language. This can be frustrating for me. And on the back it says to help me I may confuse yesno answers. Give me a minute to respond shout - shut off loud noises so I can concentrate ask me if I understand give me eye contact when speaking. Call my caregiver for information. And that is - an emergency contact is on the front of the card.  And it is a little laminated card...  Yeah.  Yeah.  ...That someday you may have to use.  Oh yeah.  General Hayden wants to raise awareness about aphasia. He hosted an event this summer through the Hayden Center - that is the national security forum he founded - big panel of speakers headlined Understanding Aphasia. The former CIA director says he is thinking about how to advocate for others who have had a stroke who maybe feel isolated who were not as he considers himself lucky.  Very much so because I - Jeanine was with me. The kids were with me and so on. You know every once in a while I - I am sad OK? But mainly no I want to do more.  More - he wants to get back to more public speaking. And the Haydens want to take a cruise a river cruise in Europe. In the meantime he is still working on his recovery on coaxing the words out.  Mike has trouble with numbers. That is one of the effects of aphasia for him. That does not affect everybody that way but it does affect a lot of people that way. And so he often has to give his birth date when he is going to see a doctor or something and he will go...  January February March.  He will do one two three.  One two three four five six seven eight nine 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 - 17 - 1945.  And when he does that he manages to get out the 1945. And I often say to people are not you glad he does not have to count for that number?  .  By the way that is only recently.  Yeah.  OK - because I could not do it.  I can see the pride in your eyes.  Yeah yeah.  You had to fight to get there and you did it.  What else could not you do that I told you you had to do before you came home from the hospital?  Yeah what is her name.  You could not say your wife's name.  No.  So I told him he could not come home  from the hospital until he could say my name. Now I did not really mean that but he did. He managed to do it.  Yeah.  He did manage it. And I would not bet against that cruise happening either.   Michael and Jeanine Hayden speaking to us at their home in northern Virginia two years and nine months after his stroke.   Well thank you.  OK.  This has been a pleasure.  Oh that is very nice...  Thank you for taking the time.  ...So thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you both.  