 If you have ever played Pac-Man back in the day or you are hooked on Madden Football - like I am - well you know videogames can be fun addictive guilt-inducing. Imagine all the more productive things you could and should be doing. Well guilt no more. Scientists believe they have found a game that can actually help cure diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. It is called Foldit and the game is not unlike Tetris when you move different shaped blocks into place so they fit neatly. But what players here are actually moving are computerized versions of proteins giving researchers new combinations to try in real life as they seek to cure illness. We have brought in one of the creators of Foldit University of Washington professor Zoran Popovic. And professor welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  So tell us what this game is really doing. Prof.  This game is basically enticing huge number of people around the world to solve one of the deep scientific problems in biochemistry that pretty much has to do with the way the life functions. So what Foldit is trying to do is trying to merge computers and people together to solve a very hard scientific problem that neither computers nor people alone can solve by themselves.  Okay so what your players are actually doing is they are folding proteins on the computer. And what does that actually accomplish? Prof.  They are predicting the actual structure that proteins can take in real life. And because structure is fundamental to how proteins interact and function and do things in real-life cells whoever knows the structure of these proteins will know the secret of life.  And so you are not just looking for biochemists out there or even computer scientists. I mean you are just looking for people who have a lot of time to get addicted to something like this? Prof.  That is exactly right. I mean it is actually still not clear what kind of people are very good at this. I flew a huge number of them to Seattle to just - we call them protein savants. And even when I observe them directly as they are trying to solve problems you know they see stuff that I just do not see at all. One of the early outcomes of this was that we realized that regular people playing all over the world are way better than biochemists at this.  We actually installed Foldit on the computer we have here in the studio and I wanted to just give it a try so we know what this sounds like.   Some attention-grabbing music.   So I am on a very basic level. And kind of tell me what I am looking at. I have sort of a - something that looks like a narrow folded piece of paper with some red and some tan. And then there is a smaller blue string sticking off it. Prof.  So basically what you are seeing is just two amino acids connected together. The tape-y thing the things that looks like a short piece of tape...  Prof.  ...is the exact bone.  Oh something just happened. Prof.  Right. So if you - all you are learning there is that you need to separate the amino acids so that they are not colliding. Once that happens you have solved that level.   I think I just solved a level.  Prof.  Yeah that is you. That is the victory music.  Congratulations. But I am nowhere close to doing anything that would help you cure disease. I guess this is just teaching me the very basics. Prof.  Well this is the problem right? We have to design these levels to basically teach people how to get from complete novice to an expert able to contribute to science. Since we get more than 300 400 people every day we actually observe how they do in levels and modify levels on a daily basis such that after people finish all the levels they have all the information necessary to actually start going to the challenge levels - which are very big proteins that are actively being solved by our best protein folders.  Before I let you go professor I just want to ask you about the players. You have met some of them you have flown them in. I know you even had a 13-year-old from Virginia whose online handle is Cheese? Prof.  Yeah that is right. What is interesting is that Cheese and his family instead of watching TV after dinner you know they together try to solve and compete on Foldit. So it is sort of a completely new pastime and it is just very rewarding as a scientist who is worked on this for several years to find that this is finding a place into living rooms. And it is actually inspiring young kids towards science.  Professor thanks for joining us. Prof.  Sure.  University of Washington professor Zoran Popovic one of the creators of the game Foldit. 