 An earthquake ravaged areas of Haiti. Government workers are starting to use heavy equipment to demolish collapsed buildings where it is clear no more survivors will be found.   Tens of thousands of homes in the southern part of the Caribbean nation were damaged or destroyed in Saturday's 7.2-magnitude quake. The death toll is at least 1400 now and is expected to rise. NPR's Jason Beaubien is just outside Les Cayes one of the hardest-hit cities in the country. Hi Jason.  Hey Ailsa.  So what is the situation like in the part of Haiti where you are right now?  You know as you move through Les Cayes there seem to be three situations. You know some places homes and businesses just look absolutely fine. Then you have got buildings that are damaged where people are clearing rubble and trying to move debris out of their yards. And then you have got houses that are just totally collapsed altogether and are now just heaps of cinder blocks and splintered wooden beams. One of the places that falls into that third category is the Hotel Le Manguier where the owner a local politician - he died in the quake. And I was talking with Felix Arold Mathieu a municipal engineer who was overseeing the demolition of the front part of that hotel.  .  He is saying parts of the city have lots and lots of problems. They do not have drinking water. Sewer lines are destroyed. Many buildings have cracks in them. He is saying they may look safe but actually they are not. And he says the reconstruction is going to be a huge task.  I mean I also cannot imagine how worried people must be about homes that are still standing and whether they will stay standing.  Yeah absolutely. I mean there have been some powerful aftershocks. And many people that I was talking to today are saying that they are sleeping outside since Saturday. You see tents on some people's roofs others in people's yards. In some places there were mattresses on top of piles of rubble where people had clearly been sleeping out in their yards. And then there are people who have left their homes entirely. We came across this encampment of buildings. Calling them buildings is really an exaggeration. And it was on the edge of town in an outdoor market and people were constructing these tiny shacks. I met this woman Destin Marie Suzette and she was there with seven of her family members.  .  She says that she prefers to stay out here at the market and she feels safer than being inside a building where walls might collapse in on her and her family. You know it looks like there were about a couple hundred people who would already moved into this camp and they were making shelters out of just the flimsiest of materials like plastic that would be used to wrap industrial material and bed sheets and bits of canvas. But it was not proper tarps at all. And most of these looked like they could just blow away in the wind.  I mean winds are coming right? Tropical depression Grace is bearing down on that part of Haiti right now. Is not that the case?  Absolutely. The winds are actually already here. We are already getting sort of the first bands of rain coming in with this storm so we are expecting even more trouble for people here as this storm comes right over the part of Haiti that is been hardest hit by this quake.  And Jason what about aid? Are you seeing aid moving into the area and actually getting distributed now?  You know in all honesty no we are not seeing that yet. Maybe it is a little too early to be expecting that but we are not seeing aid being delivered. And locals are not seeing it either. And we heard from a lot of people today we need help. And they are saying that so far they are not getting it.  That is NPR's Jason Beaubien speaking to us from Les Cayes one of the hardest-hit cities in Haiti. Thank you Jason.  You are welcome Ailsa. 