 Yesterday we reported on South Africa's successful efforts to get hundreds of thousands of people with HIV onto life-saving drug treatment. But as a nation it still has one of the highest infection rates in the world and the virus continues to spread there. According to a U.N. AIDS office report roughly 400000 South Africans are infected with HIV each year.  prostitutes. NPR's Jason Beaubien has that story.   This is the neighborhood of Hillbrow in the center of Johannesburg. It is one of the most densely populated neighborhoods in the city. It is an area known for crime for poverty and for prostitution. Right where I am standing there is probably half a dozen women standing on the corner across from me. There is garbage in the streets. Many of the buildings around here have been hijacked as they say - they have been taken over by squatters. At this time of night almost all of the buildings are shuttered. And in some areas the only people on the street are women sitting in front of fires waiting for clients to pull up.  I am from Zimbabwe.  You are from Zimbabwe.  Yes.  A woman who gives her name as Brenda is standing with a gaggle of other women in the shadow of a concrete awning. Prostitution is illegal in South Africa and she only wants to give her first name. Brenda says she came to Johannesburg from Zimbabwe 18 years ago.  I was working in a restaurant and my shop was closed. Now I do not have money to pay my rent and my food and everything to help my parents. That is why I am here.  A local clinic just a few blocks from here is attempting to provide health care including HIV treatment for Brenda and other sex workers. The philosophy of the clinic is that to stop the spread of HIV you cannot ignore some members of the community. Migrant prostitutes may be one of the most marginalized groups in the city but they have vast sexual networks through which HIV can spread rapidly. Brenda says she recently went to the clinic for help with a sexually transmitted infection after she would had a bad experience at a hospital.  Before I went to a general hospital. They give me some  tablets and  the infection which I had. When I went there they gave me good treatment and I was fine. I really appreciate that.  She says the nurses at the clinic in her words understands us. She says they are welcoming to women from the street and do not look down on migrants. The sex worker clinic is housed on the second floor of a local government health clinic but it is run by the Reproductive Health and HIV Institute at the University of Witwatersrand.  This is a specialized clinic for sex workers.  Nurse Maria Sibanyoni runs the project.  In short what you can say is that this is a sex work friendly clinic.  The clinic has office hours in the mornings then in the afternoons the staff go out in a mobile van and offer health care to prostitutes on street corners in brothels and at truck stops. Sibanyoni says the biggest health issues facing her patients are sexually transmitted diseases including AIDS and most of her patients are HIV positive.  We have got a database of sex workers. We have got about 2123 sex workers which are in our database about 68 percent of them are HIV positive.  An earlier study in the South African port city of Durban found even higher rates of HIV in prostitutes. Among women who describe themselves as sex workers in Durbin 79 percent tested positive. Sibanyoni says it is hard for many of these women and it is mostly women to get health care elsewhere. The majority of them are migrants from other parts of Africa and they are often discriminated against or belittled at other health clinics.  You know because people have got their own beliefs about sex workers.  The clinic treats gonorrhea herpes syphilis and other sexually transmitted diseases. Research has shown that HIV transmission is higher when a person is infected with other STDs. Also HIV positive sex workers can get onto anti-AIDS drugs at the clinic. This too makes them less likely to pass HIV onto their partners. And the staff distribute condoms and try to stress the importance of safe sex.  So by providing these services we are trying to you know control the spread of HIV.  While some other health providers do not want to deal with the chaotic lives of sex workers Sibanyoni says these women are an important element in any HIV control strategy. Jason Beaubien NPR News. 