 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block. Troops coming home from war are prescribed drugs at a staggering rate. Hundreds of thousands of veterans are on opiates for pain and yesterday we heard about the risk of addiction. Those opiates are among many drugs that vets are taking for everything from pain to PTSD. 1 in 3 vets polled say they are on 10 different medications. Today we are going to hear how some veterans are rebelling. NPR's Quil Lawrence met some veterans who are kicking drugs against doctors' orders. And a quick word of caution -  For a lot of people PTSD is knowing that if you sleep you return to the worst place you have ever been at the worst possible moment.  I always see his face. And in my dreams it is the same thing but I always walk over to him and instead of this Afghani kid that is laying there it is my little brother.  Will is 33 years old. He did one tour in Iraq one tour in Afghanistan with the Army.  In Afghanistan there was a real bad incident. We would just finished this humanitarian aid mission. And we were getting ready to roll out and this kid runs up to a Humvee. The kid's yelling water water water. And so the medic reaches down to a case of water on the floor. And we turn around - the kid bashed him in the face with a rock. And kid runs off and I mean we were like a hive of angry bees. And a guy comes out with an AK and you know it was the kid's father we found out later - and start shooting. And they shot the father. The kid ends up picking up the AK. I mean he was 13 - 14 years old. And the driver that had shot the father just froze and I ended up shooting the kid from - could not have been 50 feet away. And after I did that all I remember is that I was shaking. And one of my soldiers took my weapon away and said it is OK primo. It is going to be OK.  Will has other stories and they are some of the worst I have ever heard - not for the intensity of the firefight or the size of the bombs but just for the bad pictures he is got stuck in his head - like pulling a friend out of a river in Iraq only to find that there is nothing left of him below the waterline - like realizing your buddy is dead because you find nothing but a huge scrap of his tattoo.  Those guys had wives and kids you know? Everybody in my Humvee - we were all single. And it was just - I felt guilty. You know that should have been us. It should not have been them.  Will came away with only only two ruined knees a wrecked back and a piece of bone fragment that sort of floats on his hip and a mild traumatic brain injury and PTSD. And for all of those things Will has been prescribed meds - lots and lots of meds.  For migraines and whatnot due to TBI topiramate - 10 milligrams of Ambien daily...  We will hear more about Will in a bit. It will take him about six minutes to list all of his pills. But there are other vets in the same boat. On average veterans get prescribed narcotic painkillers three times more often than civilians like these three.  Leo Kalberg. I served in the United States Army.  My name is Nancy Bryant and I served in the Air Force.  My name is Rachel Stokes. I was in the Army.  They have their lists as well.  I have been on tizanidine.  Citalopram.  Trazodone.  Trazodone.  Prozac.  Ambien.  Klonopin.  Dicyclomine.  Xanax Seroquel and Zoloft.  Hydrocodone.  Tramadol.  Tramadol.  Percocet Vicodin.  Compazine.  Oh naproxen sodium.  Everyone has that for every reason.  Besides getting the same drugs these folks have something else in common. Despite the pain and PTSD they have decided without telling their doctors to stop taking their meds. They say the side effects make them feel like zombies. Nancy Bryant came on the idea by accident. She got a stomach flu and she could not keep any food or her meds down.  After a few days of that you know those medications clearing my system I just realized - wow I felt like a totally different person.  Leo Kalberg says he realized he was addicted to Percocet. He used to get nervous when he only had a few left. And Rachel Stokes started looking into what the meds she takes are really designed to do like the ones to help her sleep.  Seroquel is for sleep but it is not even for sleep. Seroquel is for people that have bipolar schizophrenia. And I am all like that is not me.  They were using antipsychotic drugs off label - way way way off label. Obviously they are not using them to treat the major disorders for which these drugs are designed.  Richard Friedman is the director of psychopharmacology at Cornell Medical College. He researched the military's use of antipsychotics like Seroquel and stimulants like Adderall and Ritalin. He says those drugs have no official purpose that fits a combat zone. He figures the military was using whatever drugs they could to keep troops sleeping waking up and functioning at war.  They were in a difficult situation when they had unprecedented levels of stress in a group of otherwise healthy people. So I think they resorted to psychopharmacology as a means to keep people in active duty.  Friedman says it is like giving a football player painkillers so he can finish the game. It gets him back on the field but it might hurt him worse in the long-term. The Pentagon says it has safeguards to prevent over prescription or the use of drugs in harmful combinations and the VA's guidelines warn about using many of these drugs off label. Now using drugs off label is common in medicine and Friedman says doctors do it with good intentions. He also says stopping taking the meds without a doctor's guidance can be dangerous. Maybe but Rachel Stokes is sick of doctors and their pills.  The medications - I hate all the medications. If a scientist actually went through and did research and they really found out what really worked then that is different. But it does not seem like they are doing that.  She may have a point. A study by the Institute of Medicine last month concluded that the VA and the Pentagon do a poor job tracking what happens when they treat PTSD with drugs. There is a brand-new effort at the VA to educate its doctors. Gavin West is with the VA.  We have undertaken a psychopharmacologic safety initiative where we are looking across the board at more safe and more effective use of medications.  Which brings us back to Will. Remember Will? He is almost done reading out his prescriptions.  We have got tramadol baclofen...  Will's also not taking his meds. He is still in the process of being medically retired from the Army so he asked that we only use his first name.  I always keep at least one month on supply. My next month's supply comes next week so as soon as they come in I take those and I flush them. And then I just scrape my names off the - all the pill bottles and throw them all away.  Will keeps a month's supply of pills because he is getting drug tested. That is right - tested to make sure he is on drugs. That is to make sure he is not selling his drugs on the street which is not uncommon. So every few months when he has an appointment Will gets himself back on drugs. He gradually works up to the dose he is supposed to be on. When we met he had just cycled himself off the meds again after a doctor's appointment.  I am actually feeling pretty good. I have now been fully off the meds for nine days - the first three days of being off them were really bad. I just - real bad nausea diarrhea shaky.  Will hopes he will be out of the Army soon and he can stop the roller coaster of getting on and off the drugs. He says it is worth it for now. When he was on the meds he was a shut-in - too doped up to drive depressed. Dealing with his PTSD without the drugs - he is still working that. Quil Lawrence NPR News. 