 Nurses medical residents and doctors across Haiti have been on strike since March. They are protesting low wages and the lack of medical supplies. The strike has spread to more than a dozen state-run hospitals. Four have shut down altogether and that is put pressure on the nonprofit and privately run medical groups that operate in the country. One of them is Haitian Hearts based in Illinois. Dr. John Carroll is the founder. He recently returned from a trip to Haiti. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much Audie. It is my pleasure to be here.  So you have been back and forth to Haiti the last couple of months. What are you seeing in terms of this health crisis? What does this look like?  Well for me personally when I am working in a pediatric clinic in Cite Soleil it is very difficult for me to send my sickest babies to a hospital that can admit the baby where the mother can actually pay for that admission because the public hospitals are now on strike. They are essentially closed. So I have to do a lot of outpatient treatment of children where I would prefer that they were admitted to a hospital to get better care.  So talk about the demands of the striking medical workers. What are they calling for and are they any closer to getting it?  There are about 450 residents on strike throughout all of Haiti and they are asking for an increase in salary. Their present salary is up approximately 120 U.S. per month. And the government has gone up to 220 but they are holding out for 450 U.S. per month. They are also striking for better working conditions within the hospital. The hospitals are frequently very dirty. The operating rooms are not adequate. Anesthesia machines break. They are fighting for the rights of their patients.  So who is picking up care for these needy patients? I mean right now if something happens to you in Haiti where do you go?  The average needy patient is in trouble. He can try - or she can try to go to an NGO-run hospital a Doctors Without Borders hospital. But the situation is very difficult for the vast majority of poor people. At one of the major public hospitals in Port-au-Prince before the strike they were delivering about 50 babies per day. Now these women who were to deliver naturally in that hospital are not going to deliver at that hospital because it is closed and so the majority of them would be delivering at home with the help of a Haitian midwife.  We know that there is political instability in Haiti. That is what is contributing to this. There is an interim prime minister right now. But there is also criticism that there has been so much focus on targeting money - for instance the NGO community targeting things towards specific diseases or towards specific facilities - that there is not the same support just for general care. Do you think that is the case?  I do think that is the case. And primary care needs to be really supported in Haiti so Haitian physicians go into primary care and are paid for their services and take care of diseases that the majority of the population suffer from.  You have been doing this work for a long time. What are you hoping for going forward? Is this the worst you have ever seen it?  I would say it is the worst I have ever seen it as far as their fragmentation and the lack of care. I work in a pediatric clinic in Cite Soleil and I do all I can to treat my babies as an outpatient. And I will give them antibiotics and see them back in the morning if I do not have a place to refer them. But the strike - the situation needs to be taken care of and it can be taken care of I think with the beneficent government. And you know I think of the 33 million the United States donated to the election last fall the presidential election and what that 33 million could have done for Haiti's health care system.  That was Dr. John Carroll of Haitian Hearts. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you Audie. It is been my pleasure. 