 Health care in the U.S. has gone through so many changes since the start of the coronavirus pandemic - elective surgeries were canceled more doctor visits are happening over video. In hospitals some of the changes have to do with protecting the youngest most fragile patients as we hear from a health care worker in New York City.  So my name is Claire Panke and I have been a neonatal intensive care nurse for over 30 years. You know we are primarily there to stabilize the baby to do whatever care that that child needs because we have premature babies we have full-term babies we have post-term babies. From the moment a baby wheels in really from the first minute it is really more than just the baby. It is the whole family. And so we are helping the families through the experience explaining things to them. There is a lot of equipment here. There is a lot of strange sounds. It is a really intimidating environment for people to walk into.  Hi I am Jasmine . I am Joshua's  mom. Josh was born at 29 weeks 11 weeks early. And we have been in the NICU since the 26th of February. So we sort of witnessed the transition of the hospital from being like a bustling - sort of like lots of other types of patients here to just like COVID being in full swing. So we are the only visitors that come into the building. And when we are the elevators we are with people in like full you know PPE. Like everybody looks worn down exhausted. Everyone's talking about how long their day has been. So we are sort of witnessing it but we are so separate from it at the same time.  I think the main thing that most health care workers realize is kind of our baseline. It is hard sometimes to work in health care. It is certainly hard to work in health care right now but it is much harder to be a patient. And it is much harder to be a family member.  You ready for a bath kiddo?  OK mom. You are going to help me. We spend 12 to 13 hours a day with masks on our face. Not only is that somewhat uncomfortable breathing but there is this like barrier when you are talking to a baby who was wired from birth to look at two eyes a nose and a mouth. They are not wired to look at two eyes maybe some glasses and a big blue mask. So one of the biggest days for the families and certainly the babies in the NICU is the day they get to go home. It is also really exciting for us as staff members. And I got to speak to one of our moms Michela  on the day that she was bringing her baby David  home.  My husband and I were not allowed to go into the NICU together as only one parent was allowed at a time. So my husband and I have not been together with our son until today which is because he is finally getting to come home. So today will be the first day he gets to see our faces and that we will all be together as a family.  It is a lot. It is a lot. And that little boy wants to see your face. And you want to show him your face. And how many weeks is he today?  He is 35 12. So he is come a long way and we are grateful to the NICU team at Lenox Hill and everything they have done. Oh my God. I am so sorry.  Say goodbye.  Bye my friend. You are ready.  Bye-bye.  Look at you.  Yay.  Congratulations.  Thank you.  I wish we could hug you.  That is NICU nurse Claire Panke at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. The moms we heard from were Michela King  and Jasmine Moadele .  