 We are going to spend a few minutes on a different kind of medical crisis - a shortage of doctors who treat the elderly. At Edgewood Summit retirement community in Charleston W. Va. 93-year-old Mary Mullens is a big fan of her geriatrician.  He truly knocks himself out to take care of all of us. And I  do not know how he does it.  But her doctor Todd Goldberg is one of just 36 geriatricians in all West Virginia. Kara Lofton reports that as these doctors retire the state's rapidly-aging population will not get the care it needs.  West Virginia has the third-oldest population in the nation just beyond Maine and Florida. Goldberg is medical director of Mullen's retirement community.  With the growing elderly population across America and in West Virginia obviously we need health care providers.  Including nurses physical therapists and psychologists who know how to work with this patient population.  The current workforce is inadequately trained and inadequately prepared to deal with what is been called the silver tsunami - a tidal wave of elderly people increasing in the population of West Virginia across America and across the world really.  Goldberg is also director of geriatrics at West Virginia University Charleston home to one of the state's four geriatric fellowship programs for medical residents. Fellowships are required for any physician wanting to enter the field. For the past three years no physicians have entered his fellowship program. In fact for the past three years no physicians have enrolled in any of the four geriatric fellowship programs in West Virginia.  And this is not just our local program or in West Virginia. This is a national problem.  The United States has 130 geriatric fellowship programs with 383 positions. In 2016 only 192 of those - almost exactly half - were filled. With that kind of competition he says why would a resident apply to a West Virginia school when they could get into a program like Yale or Harvard? Adding to the problem the average medical student graduates with 183000 dollars in debt. Dr. Shirley Neitch head of the geriatrics department at Marshall University Medical School says almost every year doctors express interest in geriatrics. But...  They fear their debt and they think that they need to get into something without the fellowship year where they can start getting paid for their work.  This trend is of huge concern to West Virginia families.  It is kind of scary that they do not have the care that really they need to help them through these times so - and help prolong their life and give them a better life.  That is Todd Plumley. His elderly mother has dementia and a little bit of Alzheimer's. There are no geriatricians in Plumley's hometown so he or one of his siblings drives their mother almost 45 minutes to Huntington to see a specialist. Plumley says the effort has helped stabilize his mother's symptoms.  Right now if we did not have the knowledge and resources that we did have I believe that my mother would have progressed a lot further along quicker.  Plumley is in his 50s. If trends persist in 20 years should he need specialized care driving even 45 minutes may not be an option. For NPR News I am Kara Lofton.  This story is part of a reporting partnership with NPR West Virginia Public Broadcasting and Kaiser Health News.  