 More than 200000 people in the U.S. have now died from COVID-19 and scientists around the world are racing to develop a vaccine to prevent the disease. So far they have enrolled more than a hundred thousand volunteers to test the leading vaccine candidates. NPR science correspondent Joe Palca has been looking into how we will know whether a vaccine is truly effective and when we might have that answer. Hi Joe.  Hello.  First off would you recap for us why we need so many people in these trials?  Well one of the reasons is you want to be able to look for rare side effects. I mean the initial trials involve tens or maybe hundreds of people and there are sometimes side effects that only show up when you look at a lot of people. But the other thing is you need to make sure people get exposed. And this is where things get really interesting because researchers cannot go out and tell people yes now if we have given you a shot go see if you can get exposed to the virus. That would be unethical. I spoke with Ruth Karron director of the Johns Hopkins Vaccine Initiative and she says volunteers will be told to do all the things that will keep them healthy - hand-washing wearing a mask social distancing.  Some people will not be able to adhere to that and some people will have exposure just by the nature of the kind of work they do. For example it could be if they are health care workers or if they are other kinds of frontline workers.  And also they need a lot of people because the trials will have two groups - people who actually get the vaccine and people who just get an injection with an inert liquid like saline.  And since there are those two different groups how do you know that the vaccine is responsible for people not getting ill? I mean maybe more people in the vaccinated group just never left their homes and so had no contact with anyone who could expose them to the virus.  Exactly. Well that is a possibility. But there are two good reasons why that does not happen. First of all there is something called double-blind which I am sure you have heard of. It means...  Sure.  ...When you get jabbed in this study you do not know what you are getting jabbed with and the person doing the jabbing does not know what he or she is giving you. So there is no basis for changing your behavior based on whether or not you think you got the vaccine or did not think you got the vaccine. But the other thing is something called randomization. And yes. OK. They will be some people be hermits. And they will some people who go out with a devil-may-care attitude and they will expose themselves. But the idea with randomization is those people will be equally distributed between the vaccine group and the placebo group. And so you get the same numbers doing the same sorts of things and so you can make a meaningful comparison between the two groups.  And then how do researchers know if anyone's actually being exposed to the virus?  Well I mean the truth is you do not. In an individual case you are making a bet that with a lot of people being out in the world some people will be exposed. And you want to test the vaccine in a place where there are people - where the virus is circulating. But the other thing is you have to wait until you get the - a certain number of results. They call it events in the trial lingo - the number of people getting sick. And this is why big numbers are needed - because if you get the first 10 people and they all turn out to be in the control in the placebo group it is - oh the vaccine's working. That is fantastic. But it may be a statistical fluke. And the next 10 people might be all in the vaccinated group who get sick. So you really have to wait until you get a certain number of cases. And in this - in these studies they think that number is around 150 cases of disease. And then they will look to see well how do those match out between the control group the placebo group and the people who actually get vaccinated?  Joe is there any way to show that a vaccine works without involving so many people?  Well there is a way. You can do what is called a challenge trial where you actually take the virus - after you vaccinated somebody you take the virus and put it into their nose. But this has got ethical issues with it because you do not have a treatment. And if they get sick you could actually be killing people in your trial. So you are kind of betting that the vaccine will work and some people feel that is not really ethical to do.  That is NPR science correspondent Joe Palca. Joe thank you.  You are welcome.  