 As of today in California you must be 21 years old to buy tobacco products. That includes cigarettes chewing tobacco and somewhat controversially e-cigarettes. California is only the second state to increase the smoking age to 21. Hawaii was the first. State Senator Ed Hernandez wrote the legislation and he joins us now from the state capitol in Sacramento. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me on.  Eighteen-year-olds can vote. They are adult under the law. Why should not they be able to smoke?  Because it is a health hazard and if they become addicted it is only going to lead to one thing. It is going to lead to death or disease. And we need to make sure that we keep our young adults - not to become addicted to tobacco.  There is though an exception made under this law for active duty military. Why? Why then should there be an exception?  Well there is an exception. We had some vote problems. And one of the members was asking for that amendment and - in order for us to get it off the floor - and we took it.  How confident are you that convenience stores around the state have gotten the message about the change in the smoking age?  Very confident. We have been getting a lot of calls from various vendors the various association represents of businesses. We have been communicating with the Department of Public Health to make sure they get all the signage out. And we have been trying to get out as much messages as we can to the public as well.  Now we know from experience with alcohol that people under the legal age find ways to get ahold of beer for example. How concerned are you about a black market for cigarettes either forming or becoming larger as a result of this law?  Well that is always been a problem as you mentioned even with alcohol. However if you look at young adults who are say 16 or 17 they are more likely to have friends within their social sphere who are 18. Now that the age has changed to 21 that is going to make it a lot more difficult. Even if the few that do get the product - there is going to be a significant amount of adolescents that are not going to. And in the long-term it is going to definitely save lives but more importantly reduce healthcare costs.  What do the experts tell you about compliance with a move like this?  Well I mean if you look at what happened in the East Coast cities that did it it not only was effective in that particular city but in surrounding areas. A lot of the scientific evidence - but more in particular the Institution of Medicine study - showed that there will be significant impacts immediately and in long term.  The e-cigarette industry strongly opposed the legislation that groups vaping products in the same category as tobacco. They claim vaping is a safer alternative. The evidence is somewhat unclear. Why include them in this?  And the reason why we include them - because even though they are claiming it is a safer product they are still inhaling nicotine and nicotine is an addictive product. And studies show that if you know an adolescent starts smoking and are becoming addicted to nicotine before the age of 21 they are going to be lifetime smokers. And you know whether it is a safer product or not I mean we know that the effects of nicotine are bad.  Have you ever been a smoker?  Never been a smoker and do not like the smell of it. And I encourage my kids not to and luckily they are not.  Well Senator Hernandez thanks for talking with us about your bill.  Thank you. Thanks for having me on.  California State Senator Ed Hernandez who joined us from Sacramento. We are talking about the new law in California. You have to be 21 to be able to buy tobacco. 