 At a Steubenville Ohio hospital the other week I heard about the expense of running an obstetrics department including this troubling fact. One newborn in 5 there is born having been exposed in the womb to opioids. That figure certainly shows how pervasive opioid abuse is among young women there of childbearing age. But what does it say about the health and developmental prospects for the babies? Well from Dr. Joshua Sharfstein the former health commissioner of Baltimore comes this surprising answer. In terms of physical consequences it may say a lot less than you think. Dr. Sharfstein who is a pediatrician and a professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health joins us now. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  So one baby is born having been exposed in utero to heroin or Oxycontin. Another is born not having been exposed. What does that say about what lies ahead for those two babies?  Well it is terrible news for the first baby particularly if there is an addiction in the parents because when parents are addicted the home life is chaotic. There is an increased risk of abuse and neglect. And all of those factors conspire against the child. It is really a very difficult start to life.  But you are not talking about a baby whose nervous system or whose neural development is being greatly damaged by that exposure.  Right. It is not so much a chemical problem. It is a social problem. When it reflects an addiction an out-of-control home life that is the problem. And the reason to put it that way is when we think of solutions the solutions are to help the parents to help the mom particularly out of her addiction to get her into effective treatment. And when you do that then the prospects for the child really improve.  What is neonatal abstinence syndrome?  It is a collection of symptoms that babies can have as they are withdrawing from the opioids that they were exposed to in utero. Those symptoms can include tremors increased muscle tone excessive sucking poor feeding. And what you do is you treat that with an opioid that is slowly weaned off.  You have cited as precedent for what you say is an alarmist exaggerated fear of prenatal exposure to opioids the widespread concern in the 1990s about crack babies what prenatal exposure to cocaine can do to a child. What does the latest research say about babies who were exposed prenatally to cocaine?  We certainly should learn the lessons of what I would call maybe the crack baby panic. There were magazine covers newspaper stories. What was happening to the brains of these babies and would they be permanently scarred? The long-term evidence of that is that it really does not look like there is much of anything from cocaine in terms of the chemical impact on the brain. The real harm is if the baby is going home into an environment that is unsafe. There are all kinds of problems. And the reason this is important is for crack babies people sort of saw the mom as the enemy right? The baby was viewed as separate from the mom and the mom could get punished and all sorts of things. And when that happened the baby wound up doing worse. A better way of thinking about it is what can we do to help the mom? There is nothing more important for the baby than that the mom is healthy.  It sounds to me that as someone in public health having been a Baltimore health commissioner you are concerned about a kind of shaming of the mother here that that is the wrong way to go.  Absolutely. And this is the tragedy that just absolutely drove me crazy - is you would have a mother who maybe got methadone during pregnancy was actually finally starting to put the pieces of her life back together. And then when the baby comes out a little jittery with the symptoms she is made to feel horrible. She is told it is 'ecause she was on methadone. And then what happens is she goes well I am coming off. And the next thing you know where she was getting her life back together she is relapsed Social Services involved. She lose custody of the baby. The baby is off to a terrible start in life. That is just a terrible outcome. And we have to be able to see this issue of neonatal abstinence syndrome in a little more complexity to be able to prevent those bad outcomes.  And that story that you just related to me - that is not a rare hypothetical from your experience in Baltimore.  Absolutely not. Actually my wife is an addiction medicine doctor so some of these people wind up her patients.  Well Dr. Sharfstein thank you very much for talking with us today.  My pleasure.  That is Dr. Joshua Sharfstein who is a pediatrician and professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. He used to be health commissioner of Baltimore Md. 