 In West Africa the numbers continue to mount in the worst Ebola outbreak the world has ever seen. Ebola has now claimed more than 1200 lives almost all of them in Guinea Liberia and Sierra Leone. More than a thousand others are known to be sick. Doctors Without Borders is the main organization on the ground caring for patients. And their staff face a dangerous challenge dealing with a highly contagious virus. Amos Tuba  was disinfecting an isolation center on the outskirts of the Liberian capital Monrovia.  I have to be brave to do it. That is the only way we can attack the virus. We need brave people to do it. The fear is that we have to put a .  Earlier I spoke with Joanne Liu the international president of Doctors Without Borders who is just been in West Africa. This week she is in New York trying to drum up international support for what she is calling a public health disaster of unprecedented magnitude.  The reality is all of us who are dealing with Ebola in this particular epidemic are breaking new grounds. We never faced an epidemic of Ebola of that kind of magnitude and that much spread in the past. And so all of us are reviewing our I would say standard operation because what was applied in some isolated remote villages in the past you cannot do a cut and paste right now of what is going on and in the urban area like Monrovia.  At this point what additional resources are you looking for?  We are looking for mobilization in terms of hands-on in the field. So right now I think the world is looking at what is going on in Western Africa with Ebola. There has been some uphill in pledge in terms of money that is one thing. We are going to need to make sure that the money will have some fast-track in terms of being available quickly and not in two or three or four months. We need money now. But in addition to that we need people who is going to go and talk to the community talk to the elder talk to the religious leader and tell them about Ebola and in order to mobilize the preparation and make them understand what is going on how to avoid it how to prevent it. That is one thing. But we need as well people who are going to walk around and find out how many cases we have in each villages because right now we do not have a full picture of the magnitude of the epidemic.  But where do you think this is going to come from? I mean do you sense some reluctance here on the part of the international community?  I would say NGOs that I used to see in some other crises like after the Haiti earthquake or even in CAR or South Sudan are not present right now in Western Africa.  Are not present?  No.  What have you heard from these organizations? I mean have you reached out to them and said hey you know help us?  Yeah this is what I am doing right now. I am doing a tour. I have meeting here the U.N. - but I am meeting as well some bilateral state government representative. I am meeting other NGO. We have been ringing the alarm since the beginning of the Ebola epidemic.  But what has been the response? Are they basically saying to you we do not want to endanger our people? Are they saying that we do not think the local government support on the ground is there to help us and make our work possible? What are their arguments?  I do not think people are giving arguments. I think they were a bit I would of a slow wake-up call. I think it comes from our past experience. In the past we used to have Ebola epidemic in some remote isolated villages and it was a business of a few weeks because basically the chain of transmission will die off very quickly. But what is happening now is the fact that we have cases in a highly dense populated area like Monrovia with 1.3 million and we have no clue how it will evolve and how will be the chain of transmission. And this is why we need much more actors now. And the reality is I cannot predict you how long it is going to last but the reality is it will not be a matter of weeks. It is going to be a matter of months. And if there is no other actors coming to the field and stepping up to the plate and helping we will not be able to contain the Ebola epidemic. The only way to contain is to work and increase the capacity locally and it starts by barricading ourselves in our home country in the Western world.  Given the effect that this has had on the health worker community where doctors and nurses have been infected and even died of Ebola what has this done to the health infrastructure of these countries? I mean what is it like if you do not have Ebola and you are trying to get care?  Yeah this is actually what I call the emergency within the emergency. And right now it is really one of the big problems besides Ebola. It is the fact that if you are sick today in Monrovia and you are seeking care for malaria you might not be able to find anyone to give you your malaria treatment. We were faced with the - I would say really hard reality of welcoming six women who were pregnant and who lost their children because they were walking around the city trying to find a place to deliver their babies. By the time they got to our centers the babies were not alive anymore.  Dr. Joanne Liu. She is the international president of Doctors Without Borders. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you. 