 It is been a rough few days for President Obama's signature health care law. Now three major health insurers say they will cancel many of the policies they offer through the Obamacare exchanges. The companies say they are losing hundreds of millions of dollars on those policies. To explain why this is happening and what this might mean for the law and consumers we are joined by NPR's health policy correspondent Alison Kodjak. And Alison the news today is that Aetna is pulling out of the exchanges in several states. What reason did it give?  Basically their answer is they are losing money. They lost 200 million in the last quarter. What they are doing is pulling out of the specific markets that they are having the hardest time making money in and those are often rural areas areas with poorer and sicker people or areas with fewer hospitals that is harder to negotiate with.  Why have these insurance companies gone from supporting Obamacare to saying it is too expensive to maintain?  Well what most of them have said is there are more sick people signing up than healthy people. The law requires that all people get health insurance. So if you do not get it through your employer you have to buy an individual policy and you pay a fine. But sometimes those fines are less than the premium for buying a plan and if you are healthy and you do not think you are going to be very sick you would rather pay the fine. And so what Aetna said and what the other companies UnitedHealthcare and Humana have said is that they are not having enough healthy people sign up and pay the premiums and spend less.  So what does this mean for the law? Can this system work if there are states where there like are so few offerings - right? - states where insurance companies have pulled out of these exchanges?  Well that is a real problem. There are few states where a lot of markets are only going to have one company selling insurance and that is not really good for the marketplace obviously because there is no competition. What the regulators are hoping what the states are hoping is that another company will come in and fill that void. And that is happened in a few places. Recently Cigna said it was going to move into Illinois. But the real test is going to be whether these companies can figure out how much to charge for these individual plans so that they do not lose money on every customer but also manage to get the people who are healthy to want to buy insurance. If they charge too much there are going to be more and more healthy people who say no.  In the meantime what does this mean for people in the affected states who have to buy insurance through the exchanges?  Well what you are going to see is the people who have these kinds of policies who - that you know an Aetna policy or a Humana policy - that is being cancelled at the end of the year - this does not go into effect until January 2017 - they will have to find a different policy through the exchange or perhaps on their own. If you buy a policy through the exchange and your income is low enough you can get a federal subsidy. If you buy it on your own outside the exchanges you cannot. So wealthier people might just buy insurance on their own at which point Aetna is still selling policies and some of the other companies are. But if you want a subsidy and you need a subsidy you are going to have to go through the exchanges. Most of them will at least have one policy available. We did identify one county in Arizona that right now with Aetna pulling out does not look like it will have any policies available and people are debating what is going to happen there whether a new company will come in whether they will change the law somehow. It is really unclear what is going to happen there and especially if that spreads further.  What have we heard from the Obama administration? How have they responded to this?  Well they are basically just saying the marketplace is new. It needs some time to work out the kinks and adjust so that companies can sell insurance and make money.  That is NPR's health policy correspondent Alison Kodjak. Thanks so much.  Thank you Audie. 