 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. In the last few years wheat has gotten a bad rap. Eating gluten-free has become a kind of cure-all for what ails you. It can help you lose weight reduce bloating eliminate headaches. And while it is not clear that wheat really is linked to so many ailments there are a lot of theories out there about why gluten intolerance could be on the rise. NPR's Allison Aubrey reports.  A decade ago if you heard about someone taking wheat out of their diet chances are it was a person with celiac disease. About one percent of Americans cannot tolerate the gluten protein in wheat it makes them very sick. But nowadays lots and lots of folks are experimenting with wheat free diets. And a lot of the interest is driven by a best-selling book called Wheat Belly. William Davis is the author.  Wheat is the most destructive thing you could put on your plate no question whatsoever.  Wow that is a strong statement given our long history of bread pasta and pizza lovers. But Davis who is also a physician - a practicing cardiologist - became passionate about this topic when he took wheat out of his own diet. He believes that this made him much healthier.  So I was diabetic about 25 years ago. I am no longer diabetic and I had like mind fog and mood swings and joint pains and acid reflux. I had all that sort of stuff.  And he says what he is seen with his patients who go wheat free is similar.  You take wheat out of the diet and you literally see lives transformed.  Now Davis' beliefs are way outside the mainstream. Most doctors do not think that wheat causes problems for most people. Nonetheless with a growing number of people claiming they feel better without wheat Davis says there is something going on here. And his theory is that it is modern varieties of wheat. He says the wheat of yesteryear did not make people sick.  We know that celiac disease has doubled in the last 20 years. Now humans have probably had not changed so it is more likely culprit is the wheat itself that has changed.  Now it is true that about 40 years ago wheat breeders introduced new varieties of wheat that helped farmers increase their yields per acre. But this claim that these changes are somehow making people sick does not sound right to scientists who work with wheat.  I never thought that wheat was toxic.  That is Donald Kasarda. He has studied gluten proteins for more than 40 years as a USDA research chemist. He says when he came across the idea that the rise in celiac and gluten sensitivities was linked to breeders increasing the amount of gluten in wheat he was very skeptical.  That seemed strange to me.  As far as he knew gluten levels had remained about the same. And when he dug deeper combing through the scientific literature and comparing the gluten levels in wheat from the early part of the 20th century compared to the latter half he found gluten levels had not changed much.  As I suspected I did not find any evidence that this is true.  And he is published his findings in the peer-reviewed Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry. Now Wheat Belly author William Davis believes there are more subtle changes to wheat that are causing the problems. But there is no scientific agreement on this point. And meanwhile in the medical community there is a lot of pushback against the idea that wheat has become toxic to all of us. DR.  I certainly think that is an overstatement.  That is physician Daniel Leffler a leading celiac expert. He directs research at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and is on the faculty at Harvard Medical School.  I do not think there is one evil food that is causing all the problems in our society.  In fact he says most people eat wheat with no problem.  There is good evidence that the vast majority of people actually do just fine with wheat.  But Leffler says it is true that the prevalence of celiac disease is going up to nearly one percent of the population. And that some portion of the population does have a gluten sensitivity. But he says there is almost certainly not one single cause like a change in wheat breeding.  We sort of chafe at these over-simplistic theories that purport to explain an entire rise in a disease.  Leffler says the increase in celiac disease comes at a time when lots of other autoimmune diseases and allergies are on the rise too. And what might explain this phenomenon is the so-called hygiene hypothesis. This is the idea that our environment has become so clean that our bodies no longer have to fend off so many bugs and infections. So our immune systems look for something else and they start to overreact to things that should be harmless like wheat or peanuts.  You can see quickly how this gets very  And there are many other theories that could help explain gluten intolerances everything from changes in gut bacteria to antibiotic use early in life to the timing of introducing babies to wheat and other grains. So Leffler says stay tuned on this one and do not think you have to avoid wheat if you are a person who enjoys breads and pastas and tolerates them well. Allison Aubrey NPR News. 