 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. The world's leading AIDS researchers will gather in Washington later this week to talk about how they plan to cure HIV. They think it may be possible to eliminate the virus from infected people or at least reduce it to levels their immune systems can control. That would relieve patients from having to take potent antiviral drugs for the rest of their lives. NPR's Richard Knox explains why scientists are so hopeful.  Ask AIDS researchers why they think a cure is possible and their first response is the Berlin patient.   It was a big news story back in 2008. Doctors in Berlin announced they had rid a man of HIV by giving him a new immune system. It came from a bone marrow donor who has a genetic mutation that makes him immune to the virus. Four years later the so-called Berlin patient is still a rock star in the AIDS community.  My name is Timothy Ray Brown and I am known as the Berlin patient. I come from Seattle Washington and moved to Berlin in 1991.  Brown a wiry 46-year-old who now lives in San Francisco is still free of HIV drugs and apparently free of HIV. Scientists regularly bleed and biopsy him to learn as much as they can about his amazing cure. Among other things they want to understand how the gene mutation in his new immune system is protecting him. Brown has made himself endlessly available for the research.  I kind of have - sort of guilt feeling about being the only person in the world that is been cured so far. And I would like to dispel that guilt feeling by making sure that other people are cured.  Dr. Steven Deeks at San Francisco General Hospital is studying Timothy Brown closely. Before the Berlin patient he says it was almost taboo to use HIV and cure in the same sentence. DR.  It was the C-word. It was something that we were not allowed to talk about it was something we were not allowed to pursue - not entirely sure why it got to that point.  One big reason is research back in the late 1990s that showed how HIV hides out in certain immune cells. They are called memory cells because they contain a memory of all the infections we encounter in life. They stand ready to attack if a germ reappears. DR.  HIV has really taken advantage of this very fundamental aspect of the immune system and found a way to essentially hide in these long-lived T-cells.  That is Dr. Robert Siliciano of Johns Hopkins University. Years ago he showed that HIV-infected memory cells hang around for 60 or 70 years - basically a lifetime. But the virus invariably roars to life again as soon as somebody stops taking antiviral drugs.  People actually began to think that you know this was not going to be a problem that we could solve in the foreseeable future.  But lately Siliciano and others have discovered that some drugs can wake up the virus and get it to show itself. They want to use these drugs to purge HIV from its secret hiding places. Scientists thought the infected memory cells would be killed in the process but they were wrong.  That is been one of the - sort of recent discoveries that is been a little bit discouraging. The cells do not die nor are they readily killed by the immune system.  But he thinks there is a way around that. Maybe a vaccine could prime the immune system to mop up infected cells after a drug smokes the virus out. However it is done Siliciano hopes HIV could be eliminated from the body. That would mean never having to take HIV drugs again. Other scientists are pursuing a completely different approach - gene therapy. They want to mimic the Berlin patient's cure without a risky and expensive bone marrow transplant.  All right so this is the only thing that I am going to do today. I am just going to test this.  In a nondescript office building in San Francisco nurse Priscilla Grace Gonzaga is drawing blood from Gregg Cassin's arm.  Your T-cells went up a little bit and your percentage went up a little bit.  What did they go up ...  Right now you are at 484. You are...  My God it would be nice if they would continue going up.  Yeah.  Cassin is one of several dozen human guinea pigs in one cutting-edge gene-therapy experiment.  I wanted to get into what the next exciting thing was in research. And completely by accident I found out that I had one of these mutations.  It is the same mutation that is protecting the Berlin patient from HIV the one he got from his bone marrow donor. The mutation blocks a door that HIV needs to get into immune cells. Now the important thing to know is that the Berlin patient got two of these mutations. And it takes two to bar the door completely. But Cassin only has one. In a sense he is halfway towards a cure. So scientists wanted to give him both mutations. To do that they treated some of his cells with a chemical that mutates both genes. Then they put billions of these engineered cells back into him. Next Cassin stopped taking HIV drugs for several weeks - that was part of the plan. Sure enough just like earlier patients who stopped taking the drugs the virus woke up and started flooding into Cassin's bloodstream. That made him panic.  This is the - a part that I am a little - I feel a little bit bad about a little embarrassed about. But my viral load had shot up and I got nervous. I went back onto treatment.  But he may have panicked too soon. A blood sample drawn just before he started taking HIV drugs again showed the amount of virus had actually started dropping on its own before he restarted anti-viral drugs.  So my body was going in the direction - my body was taking care of it.  It looked like the gene mutations were protecting him. But researchers will never know if his HIV levels would have continued to fall without treatment. In fact Cassin's up-and-down virus level is a tantalizing clue that gene therapy against HIV might work. To find out it will take many more patients who have more definite and lasting benefits. The same goes for other would-be cures. Most researchers think the answer will be a combination of approaches. Timothy Ray Brown the Berlin patient could not agree more.  I think it is really important that the medical scientists and drug companies look for a cure. And I am pretty sure that it is going to happen.  And Brown is still teaching scientists lessons. Recent research suggests a few of Timothy Brown's cells may still contain traces of HIV. But if that is true researcher Steve Deeks says it does not seem to matter.  The consensus on what actually happened in this patient is that he is cured clinically. Whether there is any virus left we are not sure. But we cannot detect anything that can replicate. And his immune system is no longer really responding to the virus - which to us suggests well the virus must be almost gone.  If so almost gone may be good enough. And that is an important insight. As they say more research is needed. I asked Brown if he is going to put up with being poked and prodded for years to come.  I think so. Until there is a cure I am going to keep working for it. And - well hopefully one day I will not have to do it anymore.  You will just be one of many.  Yeah right.  That would be nice.  That would be nice.  Richard Knox NPR News. 