 There is not one sure way to help combat veterans who have PTSD depression or who abuse alcohol or drugs. But we are going to hear about a new hip-hop album released today that could help. It is written and performed by a former Navy corpsman - that is someone the Marines would call a medic - who served in Afghanistan. NPR's Elizabeth Blair reports.  Doc Todd is direct.    Take those bottles out Dog and pour them in the sink. Take the needles out of your arm and the gun away from your forehead. It is time Man. You have been through enough pain. Stand up.  He is tough in the way that only one veteran can be to another.    It is time to stand back up. All my veterans Man - Army Marine Corps Navy Air Force Coast Guard get up. You know...  The song Not Alone is from the album Combat Medicine.  Not Alone is about empowerment. Not Alone is about taking charge of your life taking charge of your transition.  In his own transition Doc Todd went through many of the same issues lots of veterans face - shame isolation self-abuse. For Todd it began in 2009 after he was in a large and dangerous battle in Afghanistan. Many of his friends were seriously wounded. His roommate was killed. He was medevacked to Germany when he fell seriously ill with pneumonia.  That tore me up so bad because I felt like I was alienated from the guys that I served with. I felt like there was an asterisk next to my deployment. I felt like it would have been better if I would have got shot because that would have been more heroic.  Todd says it took him several years before he got help for his PTSD. He was depressed and started drinking. Eventually he realized what he needed to be doing was helping other veterans. With savings from his job as a money manager and help from his wife he was able to quit his job. He would been making music since he was a teenager. Now he had plenty of material for his lyrics.  The struggle is real - found a feast and lost a soul. Eventually my drinking - it got out of control. There in darkness I roamed struggling to find home. See suddenly death did not feel so alone.    Twenty-two a day destination unknown - it could have been avoided if you picked up the phone. But now you are gone so I guess all we would get is the tone - nothing but blowing weeds overgrown pushing up stones. I have triumphed over enemies co-created many me's .  To record Combat Medicine he worked with the hip-hop producer Mook. The singer Bingx who also served in the military is a guest artist.    Boy I try so hard to have faith.  Amen.   I bow my head and I pray.  Keep praying.  Lord please lend me the strength to carry on and keep standing.  Stand up.  In the video to the song Not Alone a young veteran gets out of bed and reaches for the bottle. Former Marine Zach Ludwig served with Doc Todd in Afghanistan.  The video was very accurate. I mean it was like - it is like that is not the movies.  Ludwig is working through his own PTSD. Doc Todd he says captures exactly what he is going through in his lyrics.  He knows what to say and how to say it. And because he is experienced it he has the ethos to back it up. I mean what the man speaks is just blunt-force truth.    Without my Georgia girls yeah I would probably be dead because I would be taking every med that the VA said - gave every shred every last thread of my identity. Conquer my fragility. Eliminate the enemy.  Blunt-force truth can do more to help veterans than in Todd's words coddling them.  You know we have to be responsible for empowering our own lives. And it does not really help when the overwhelming narrative is victimization and brokenness.  Doc Todd says his mission with the album Combat Medicine is to show veterans they are not alone and to urge them to get help. Elizabeth Blair NPR News.    I hurt each time I wait. But with you I am not alone. 