 Mississippi is heading for a title that no state would want. According to researchers at Harvard it is about to become the No. 1 state for new coronavirus infections per capita. Dr. LouAnn Woodward is the top executive at the University of Mississippi Medical Center and she joins us now. Thank you for taking the time today.  Absolutely. I am glad to speak with you this evening.  Well first just tell us what things look like from where you sit right now.  We have sadly held a couple of titles that nobody would really want to have. As a state we have very often held that No. 1 title whether it is rates of diabetes hypertension heart disease obesity et cetera. Of course the challenges specific to this pandemic are new and different but they are layered on top of our existing challenges. So most of the major-sized hospitals in the state have had challenges with capacity particularly ICU capacity in these last few weeks.  Well you say hospitals are already challenged with capacity. And the numbers are going up. They are not flat or going down. So what does that mean as you look to the next few weeks?  So we have not yet we believe hit our peak nor have we certainly started on the downhill trend. So we anticipate and expect that these next few weeks will continue to be very challenging and in fact will bring a couple of new challenges for us as we try to get back into the routine of starting school. But we do anticipate that we will see more increase in our numbers of positive cases which then of course a few weeks later we have increased number of hospitalizations and a couple of weeks after that increased numbers of deaths.  Paint a picture for us. When you say this is challenging for hospitals and it is going to get worse what does that actually look like in the ICU?  So our ICUs are full. I mean that is the bottom line. We have been full for several weeks. When other hospitals around the state call us for help we are unable to take their patients. We have had to assist a number of times in having patients transferred actually out of state. The patients with COVID are staying typically longer than many of our critical care patients. So they are tying up beds for a longer period of time. As the time goes on what we are really seeing is a fatigue that our own particularly critical care teams but also emergency department teams and our COVID units are experiencing. And part of that challenge is we do not know the endpoint.  You are saying people are already overextended they are stretched to the brink and they are going to have to keep stretching farther and extend themselves even more.  That is right. We know this is not forever. You know we know that there is a term limit on our acute dealings with this virus and this pandemic. But it is unknown at this point. And so that adds to the fatigue and to the concern that I have for our staff.  Do you feel like state officials are your partners in this? There is no statewide mask requirement. Restaurants and bars are open. I mean does it feel like politicians in the state are listening to you when you say how dire the situation is?  It is very difficult because the governor is practically on a daily basis adding new counties to the mask mandate as we have an increase of cases in particular counties. And I wish that he would proceed to a statewide mask mandate. But there are a lot of citizens in the state of Mississippi that would not support that so our state officials are in a pickle honestly because they are in a bind between what the medical profession is telling them and what they know would be the opinion of a lot of the people in the state of Mississippi. Speaking from a medical standpoint if you look at the data what we have been doing has not changed the trajectory of our number of hospitalizations the number of new cases et cetera. We need to do something different.  That is Dr. LouAnn Woodward one of the leaders at the University of Mississippi Medical Center. She is also an emergency medicine physician. Dr. Woodward thank you for talking with us and good luck with your response.  It is a pleasure. Thank you. 