 NPR has been looking at the way abortion is regulated around the world. Latin America has some of the strictest abortion laws with some exceptions for cases of rape or to protect the health of the mother. But in El Salvador abortion is completely banned. A woman accused of terminating a pregnancy can face up to 50 years in prison. NPR's Jason Beaubien reports these laws have had broad consequences for medical professionals and for pregnant women.  Christina Quintanilla's nightmare with El Salvador's abortion law began on October 26 of 2004. Christina was 17 years old and seven months pregnant with her second child. She was staying at her mother's small apartment in a gang-controlled housing project on the outskirts of San Salvador. It was the middle of the night. She could not get comfortable. Her belly was bulging. Her back was aching. Her stomach was upset.   I felt - I do not know how to describe it - a pain - a terrible pain. And then I felt like I could not breathe like I was drowning. And in that moment I could not call anyone. I could not speak. I just remember banging on the bathroom door.  Quintanilla says she went into labor. And the next thing she remembers her mom was picking her up from a pool of blood on the bathroom floor. Both Quintanilla and her mother Carmen say the baby was stillborn.  .  The bathroom was a disaster Christina's mom says with blood everywhere. Carmen was desperate to get medical help for her daughter.  .  It was 12 midnight and there were not any buses or taxis at that time of night so we called 9-1-1 Carmen says. But no one came. Eventually one of her neighbors drove Christina to the local public hospital. Christina says she passed out and woke up in hospital bed. She remembers being confused. The doctors seemed to be wearing white lab coats instead of the usual blue medical scrubs. But the thing was they were not doctors. They were actually criminal investigators.   This seems strange to me. And then they said Christina as of now you are under arrest for the murder of your child. I was shocked and I was confused about what they had told me. I could not speak.  El Salvador's abortion law requires doctors nurses and other medical professionals to report suspected abortions. It turns out that someone at the hospital had denounced Quintanilla to the police. As a result she was dragged into a court case that lasted almost 12 months and ended with her being sentenced to 30 years in prison. Quintanilla and several of her family members say they would been eagerly awaiting the birth of her second child. They would even had a baby shower for her.  .  Christina states emphatically that she did not kill her baby. The forensic lab report lists the cause of death of her fetus as undetermined. OBGYNs contacted by NPR say Christina's account of what happened is consistent with a severe placental abruption in which the placenta detaches from the uterine wall. The hospital found no evidence that she would intentionally aborted the pregnancy. Yet the district attorney pushed forward anyway arguing that she had terminated the pregnancy because she could not afford to support another child. During the trial Quintanilla says her public defender was awful and could not even remember her name.   At times she was like I am defending - what is your name honey? And I would have to reply my name is - I do not know. It is like her mind was somewhere else or something.  When she was convicted Christina left her young son Daniel with her mother and reported to the women's prison in Ilopango.   El Salvador is a predominantly Catholic nation and it is one of several Latin American countries where abortion is completely illegal. The Catholic Church was influential in amending El Salvador's constitution 1999 to state explicitly that life begins at conception. Prior to this abortion was permitted in some instances including pregnancies that resulted from violence or incest. But Catholic Bishop Romeo Tovar Astorga says even if a young girl of 10 or 12 years old is raped abortion is not the solution.   The abortion - the killing of the child - does not solve the problem of being raped - does not solve it.  Prior to 1999 abortions were also permitted on medical grounds in El Salvador. And technically they still are allowed if a pregnant woman's life is in danger. But last year a court battle over a woman with lupus transfixed the country.   .  .  The woman known publicly as Beatrice was carrying a fetus with terminal birth defects. And her doctors argued in court and the media that she faced kidney failure if she did not get an abortion. The Salvadoran Supreme Court however refused to grant her permission to terminate her pregnancy. She ultimately had a cesarean section and the baby died a few hours later.   .  Prominent gynecologists in the country say the total ban on abortion ties doctors' hands requires medical staff to betray the confidence of their patients and at times is detrimental to women's health. Take for instance an ectopic pregnancy. This is when an embryo embeds itself outside of the uterus usually in one of the fallopian tubes. The growing fetus can cause the fallopian tube to burst and produce massive life-threatening bleeding. In the developed world such pregnancies are usually terminated either with medication or surgery but not in El Salvador.  When we see the heartbeat we say well OK the fetus is alive. So the law is to protect that fetus so we cannot do anything.  Dr. Geuro Antonio Ortiz Avandonio  is the head of obstetrics at the National Maternity Hospital in San Salvador. He says he cannot do much for women with ectopic pregnancies. They are admitted to the hospital and then the doctors simply wait either for the fetus to die on its own or for the mother's fallopian tube to rupture. Once hemorrhaging starts then the medical staff rush to save the life of the mother. Avandonio  says there is no way an ectopic embryo is going to survive and this major surgery for the mother could be avoided if doctors were allowed to terminate the woman's pregnancy.  We could not offer another option that maybe the patient wants. We cannot do it even if we know that is the best option we can offer because law is against that option.  Activists who are pushing to liberalize El Salvador's abortion law argue that the total ban is unjust because it only applies to the poor. Women who can afford a plane ticket fly to Mexico City or Miami for an abortion. Middle class women can pay for a black market abortion in a private clinic or get abortion pills. Dr. Jose Miguel Fortin Magana the head of the National Forensic Institute which investigates suspected cases of abortion says abortions happen regularly in El Salvador and poor women get prosecuted because they are most likely to get caught.   In El Salvador the people in the countryside are very ignorant. They do things that are really repulsive.  He says they get cases of women who introduced knives or chemicals into their bodies to try to terminate their pregnancies. Magana's staff perform pelvic exams on women accused of abortion. They conduct autopsies on the fetuses. His lab is the key agency that gathers evidence to be used by prosecutors in abortion cases. But Magana says most abortions are never detected. And he says feminist activists over-exaggerate the impact of El Salvador's abortion law.   The lie resides in trying to make it appear that all the women who have an abortion are in jail. This is not true.  He says most of them are at home and no one ever knows that they had an abortion.   Christina Quintanilla is also now back in her home. After serving four years of her 30 year prison term a young lawyer who tumbled across her case managed to get the sentence overturned. He argued successfully no one ever established the cause of her baby's death. Quintanilla now lives near the eastern Salvadoran city of San Miguel with her 11-year-old son Daniel and her daughter Alexandra who was born after she was released from prison. Christina says her life post-prison is peaceful.   I look after my children and my family. I help out my relatives. I end up with a little extra money and so that is the good life I now have.  She says she still thinks about the baby she lost back in 2004.   When I see another baby it takes me back. With time it is gotten better. But sometimes I think if he was with me he would be eight or nine old and I think about him. But now I feel like there are some holes that you cannot fill. The love I would have given him I give to my two children.  Christina may have come to grips with losing a baby but coming to grips with serving four years in prison for a crime she says she did not commit is harder. She blames the hospital for accusing her of abortion and says that would not have happened if she would been able to afford a private clinic. The whole experience has made her afraid of doctors and hospitals.   Perhaps if it was something minor I would go back to a hospital. But if I was pregnant again I would be terrified to go.  And she says if she was bleeding from another possible miscarriage there is no way she would go back to the hospital. Jason Beaubien NPR News. 