 What does the failure of Congress to pass a health care bill likely mean for people's health insurance? Well for a reality check we are going to turn to one state Tennessee and to that state's insurance commissioner Julie Mix McPeak. Thanks for joining us today.  Thank you for having me.  And at the moment it appears there will be no bill replacing the Affordable Care Act also known as Obamacare and no repeal of that law. What does that mean for the health insurance market in Tennessee?  Unfortunately the lack of a bill passing in Congress to repeal or replace or revise the Affordable Care Act does very little to address the lack of stability in the individual market for the consumers purchasing insurance on the insurance exchanges.  You said the lack of stability. Critics of Obamacare use the phrase death spiral in the insurance marketplaces to describe what is going on premiums rising out of control. What is happening in Tennessee?  Well in Tennessee we have an extremely fragile individual market. We do have coverage available in all counties of our state. But for the clear majority of our state we only have one insurer willing to offer policies on the exchange to the individual market. So there is really a lack of competition increase in premiums that we are experiencing and really not so much today from the medical trend as much as it is from the uncertain regulatory environment.  I have seen some increase numbers reported in the Memphis region Cigna increasing premiums for some plans by 34 percent by some as much as 84 percent. Those sound astronomical.  Well they are certainly substantial. And it is very unfortunate for our Tennessee consumers that were looking at making financial decisions about whether to purchase insurance or pay for electricity or car insurance or pay for groceries at the store. The insurance premium rates are increasing at a rate that is really not sustainable for our consumers but also for the federal government that is picking up a tremendous amount of these premium increases in terms of premium tax credits and subsidies.  If so many counties have - I believe it is two-thirds of Tennessee's counties have only one insurer who is offering individual insurance plans there in the exchange. Why are not other companies there? What do you hear from companies that are leaving these exchanges?  You know we have had a pretty routine withdrawal of insurers from our state. I think prior to the Affordable Care Act we had 12 to 14 insurers in our state and in various areas. And now as we mentioned the clear majority of our state only has one insurer willing to offer coverage. And what we are hearing from them is that the cost to cover the exchange population with the essential health benefits with the administrative costs and the regulatory uncertainty make it really untenable for the companies to stay and write policies in Tennessee and in many other states.  You mean because people will not buy them because they are too expensive? What is the logic there?  Well the coverage in essential health benefits and on the exchange plans as required under the ACA are richer than what we were seeing on the individual market prior to the ACA. And so the cost to cover those individuals is higher than the insurers had predicted. And then unfortunately because of some you know first coverage of previously uninsured individuals some of the claims experience has not been as positive as the insurers would have predicted as well. So...  People that were not taking care of themselves before now are once they get insurance is what you are saying.  That is exactly right.  Very briefly if in fact Obamacare were now be repealed with no new law in place would that just increase uncertainty in Tennessee and be even worse news for the insurance markets?  Yes. I think that we are facing a very delicate situation with considerations of total repeal. There is a somewhat better forecast I think if we are giving a transitional timeframe which I think is also being discussed. But I think we also need to be very aware that the administration can cause the markets to constrict even further through the lack of the CSR funding...  These are the...  ...The - yes the cost-sharing reduction payments that are so critical to the insurers both in terms of premium rate amounts and then also participation in the market. You know those payments have not been made for July yet.  These are the federal payments to insurers that encourage them to provide insurance at subsidized rates.  Yes that is exactly right. And you know without those payments the insurers may decide not to participate in exchange markets nationwide. And you know that uncertainty is certainly not something that we are looking forward to with the lack of congressional action and the talk of total repeal. I think our markets might be in even a more fragile state as a result.  Commissioner McPeak thanks for talking with us today.  Thank you very much for having me.  That is Julie Mix McPeak who is insurance commissioner for the state of Tennessee.  