 Let us say it is 2021. Scientists have already developed and marketed a vaccine for COVID-19. Now they face a new problem - convincing people to actually get vaccinated with it. A Gallup Poll last month found that more than 1 in 3 Americans would not get an FDA-approved coronavirus vaccine even for free. Psychology professor Dolores Albarracin studies behavior and medicine at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She spoke with our co-host Audie Cornish earlier today about why some people are skeptical of vaccines.  We know that it can take years to develop and distribute a safe vaccine to everyone. And then of course just this week the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca announced that it was hitting pause on its trial to investigate an unexplained illness in one of its participants. So there are people who are concerned about potential long-term side effects who are worried about this process being rushed. Does that boost people's doubts? And is that wrong?  Well I think it is completely normal. And we should all be looking at side effects for any pharmaceutical product that we consume right? So among those who hesitate 60 fear side effects 37 are not afraid but they just do not think it will work. And then you have 20 who are the staunch opposers - so the anti-vax group and that is a small group. So for the folks who are fearing side effects I think news like the one you are referring to are going to be extremely influential. And they connect with some pretty strong and persuasive narratives about Big Pharma. And we have data even my own data with colleagues at the University Pennsylvania showing that exposure to social media earlier on actually predicts vaccination intentions in the domain of flu later on. So there is pretty good data that those groups are not trivial.  Wait. So help me understand this. Essentially if someone sees anti-vaccination social media posts that can actually influence their own decision about whether or not to accept a vaccine?  Yes it is similar to that. So we surveyed 3000 participants over one year following the flu season - 12 months. So what we observe is what is going on on Twitter what misinformation about vaccines is being distributed and where. So when you look at that and then you look at - whoever lives in a county that has that kind of Big Pharma conspiracy misinformation circulating on Twitter are less likely to get the flu shot a few months later except that they are not affected if they have discussions in real life. So if they can discuss this information with friends family their physicians then they are less persuaded by the misinformation. But otherwise the misinformation they encounter regionally affects them.  What does all this mean for the public information campaign? How should authorities public health officials go about trying to convince people to embrace a vaccine should one come along?  So the strategy in my view should be to communicate a norm clearly. So you need to tell people that everybody wants it. We all like it. We must have it - so something quite different from what we saw with wearing masks where there was a lot more hesitation in the messaging - right? - and contradictions over months. So clear norm. You also need to be of course correcting for misinformation systematically every day through health education in schools and work - everywhere. We have seen an explosion of misinformation in what the WHO has referred to as an infodemic . And if we do not eradicate it it will make it very difficult to end the COVID-19 pandemic.  That was Dolores Albarracin. She is a professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Thank you for speaking with us.  Thank you. 