 The Food and Drug Administration says it is taking on what it calls an epidemic of e-cigarette use among children and teenagers. The FDA laid out a crackdown on companies that make the devices and stores that sell them. NPR health correspondent Rob Stein has been reporting on this. He is in the studio now. Hey there Rob.  Hey there.  So take us through what the FDA announced today.  Yeah so the FDA announced what it is calling a major escalation of its battle against vaping by kids. You know the FDA's been going after e-cigarette use among young people for a while now but it says it is taking that to a whole new level. And specifically the agency announced that it is issuing more than 1300 warning letters and fines against convenience stores gas stations and other outlets that the FDA discovered were illegally selling e-cigarettes to kids during an undercover blitz over the summer. And the agency says this is the largest coordinated enforcement action the FDA's ever taken.  So that is the action they took against sellers. What about the companies that make e-cigarettes?  Yeah so the FDA says it is giving five companies that make the most popular forms of cigarettes among kids 60 days to prove that they will keep these things out of the hands of young people. And they are asking the companies to do things like you know stop marketing these things to kids and stop supplying stores that are found to be illegally selling them to underage young people and also you know stop the online sales of e-cigarettes to kids. And the agency says if these companies do not prove that they are doing this within 60 days they might pull flavored e-cigarettes off the market. And those are the ones that are thought to appeal most young people.  What prompted all this?  So FDA commissioner Scott Gottlieb says he is become convinced that e-cigarette use among kids has reached epidemic proportions. And you know you have got to remember e-cigarettes - you know they are thought to be safer than regular cigarettes but they are not totally safe. They are really potent deliverers of nicotine which is a highly addictive drug. And so the fear is that these things have become so popular that we might be addicting a whole new generation of kids to nicotine.  Now what kind of reaction has today's announcement received?  Yeah so the companies that make these products they say look you know we do not think kids should be using them either. We have been doing everything we can to keep kids from vaping from using our products. But they say that this move like this could backfire because you know adults who are - use e-cigarettes are using them to quit smoking tobacco cigarettes which are really dangerous. And so if we make them harder to get that could make it harder for people to kick the habit. And that could you know go - cause real problems in the antismoking efforts in this country. And the advocates for these devices also say that look you know today tobacco stocks went up which is a signal that you know who is going to benefit from this but the tobacco companies?  You mentioned the antitobacco activists. What about them and public health advocates? How do they see all this?  Yeah so they are happy to see the FDA finally doing something in their minds. But they say look this does not go nearly far enough. So far it is a lot of asking companies to do things voluntarily. And they think the only thing that ever really works for these companies is ordering them to do things. And the FDA has a lot of power to order these companies to do things about these devices. They have a lot of new authority. And they could do something like just ban flavorings in e-cigarettes altogether.  And what is the reply from the FDA about that?  So the FDA says look we are trying to balance two really important things. We do not want kids to be vaping. We know it is dangerous. But on the other hand we do not want adults to be smoking tobacco cigarettes. And in fact the FDA's announced a plan to basically slash the amount of nicotine in cigarettes to try to wean more Americans off tobacco cigarettes. And the concern is you know if we do that we have to give them an alternative form of nicotine. And these e-cigarettes could be really important for that. So we have to sort of balance these two competing demands.  That is NPR's Rob Stein. Rob thank you.  Oh sure nice to be here. 