 There is a COVID-19 treatment that many physicians think is promising but the Food and Drug Administration has not yet given it special status. Joining us to discuss what the treatment is and why there might be some hesitation about it is NPR science correspondent Joe Palca. Hey Joe.  Hi Ailsa. How are you?  Good. All right so what exactly is this treatment that we are talking about here?  Well we are talking about something called convalescent plasma and it comes from patients who get COVID-19 and then get better. So think about it like this - let us say you got sick and you felt terrible for a while but then you got all better. Well presumably in your blood there are some antibodies that help you get better. Now let us say I get sick. Well if I am given your blood into me - some of it anyway - those antibodies presumably would help me get better. And it is an approach that is been used for a while and it is often used in pandemics before there is anything better.  Fascinating. So why does the FDA appear to be hesitating?  Well I mean the FDA does not usually give any kind of hint about what they are thinking until they publish a result. But The New York Times reported today that some officials at the National Institutes of Health who are advising FDA did not think there was strong enough evidence that convalescent plasma actually keeps people from dying. There is good evidence that giving someone the plasma does not make them worse but what the NIH folks appear to be concerned about is whether it actually helps keep them alive. Now Arturo Casadevall of Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health has been one of the champions of convalescent plasma and he agrees there is not the kind of study you know the randomized controlled clinical trial that is gold standard that would prove that convalescent plasma helps people survive when they are hospitalized. But that is not to say the approach is a flop.  There has been no data that say the plasma is not working. In fact all the information that we have is very encouraging.  Casadevall says there is now data from about 30000 patients indicating that the treatment does seem to be helpful somewhat.  Well then where does all of this leave patients? I mean can they still get access to this treatment?  Yes. Casadevall says even if the FDA does not grant what is called an emergency use authorization that makes it easier for doctors to provide convalescent plasma to their patients...  It does not change the fact that you know a patient in United States will continue to have it available.  That is because the treatment is available under what is called an expanded access program which requires more paperwork and approvals but it can be given to patients. And you know a lot of patients are getting this. The Mayo Clinic is running a lot of patients and subjects in a program to study this. And I just looked at the Mayo website and there are now 66735 people who have been treated with this convalescent plasma. So that is quite a few.  Wow. But I mean I imagine that logistically it could be really hard to collect and then distribute all of this plasma right?  Oh yes you are right. It is a big logistical lift and it involves a lot of people and it involves patients going and having their blood drawn and spun down and bag the plasma and send it to where it is gone and make sure it is not got any other diseases in it. So it is complicated. But as I said it is something you can use until something better comes along.  OK. So real quick putting this aside is there anything better coming down the pipeline?  Well yeah in fact there is or there appears to be. I mean this idea that there are antibodies in the blood that could help someone get better is prompting people to build what they call synthetic antibodies or monoclonal antibodies. And there are a lot of studies that are beginning that will test whether these synthetic antibodies which are purified and concentrated will work just as well or work better.  That is NPR's Joe Palca. Thank you Joe.  You are welcome. 