 We are going to hear now from a county in Florida that like many places around the country has seen a dramatic rise in drug overdoses - Manatee County on Florida's west coast. They recorded 216 emergency calls for overdoses in July alone. Last July that number was 17. Michael Dunn is a firefighter with Cedar Hammock Fire Rescue in Bradenton and responding to overdoses has become part of his daily routine.  We have heard words thrown around lick epidemic. And the word epidemic's been used in newspapers a lot. The word epidemic to me is something that you kind of sit back and watch. This is more like a war because there is people dying in our community.  And what does that mean for you on a typical day?  On a typical day we respond quite a few times to overdose victims and it is increasing dramatically from something that I have witnessed back whenever I started working in 2007 to now. It is been on a steady increase. Specifically this last year it is been really really bad.  Is there a pattern Michael to who is overdosing where you are finding people?  Slightly. The thing with overdose - nobody's immune to it. But we are looking at the age 20 to 40 is our biggest jump in overdoses.  So that age group - and men women?  It is definitely male at 62 percent but also females are at 38.  And when you are responding where generally are you going? Is it people in their own homes?  We have responded to just about anywhere and everywhere that you can think of. Overdoses in vehicles - we have seen overdoses in bathroom stalls. We have seen overdoses in homes just about anywhere.  I have read Michael that you have come up with a card that you want to give to overdose victims who have survived. What can you tell us about that?  Yes. We have created a card that we can hand to anyone that meets the criteria for a substance abuse. And basically all it is is just a little index card that is been laminated. And on the front of the card with the words your life matters and on the back of the card are numbers specifically to our county for substance abuse help.  Is not part of the problem generally though that there just are not enough treatment options available there are not enough beds?  Yes. That is the biggest - in my opinion the biggest hurdle that we are trying to overcome right now.  So you are giving people these cards but it is unclear whether they actually could get help in these places.  Yeah. And that is one of the things when we first designed the card was instead of just putting Manatee County numbers we extended the reach to other surrounding areas with hopes that they would be able to help someone.  Why did you come up with that idea for the cards in the first place?  It was an idea that after running so many overdose calls we just - we felt the need to do something. I mean anybody can sit around and go oh it is bad it is so bad. But we decided that we wanted to actually take action and try to make a difference and do something. And I know it is probably not the best thing but it was a start. And I am hoping that we can continue to make a difference in our community and we are. We are just trying to figure out how and where we need to go from here.  Michael Dunn is a fireman with Cedar Hammock Fire Rescue in Bradenton Fla. Thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you so much for having me. 