 OK lots of us do this. We want to know what is going on with COVID where we live so we pull up a COVID dashboard online. States have them counties have them. They tell you about new cases how many people are in hospitals. The data is supposed to get pulled together by the CDC the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - except it is not. Austin Fast of NPR's investigations team reports.  So for those of us who track data about s this mystery. We know there have been 38 million confirmed cases across the country but when you want to dig into the details you cannot find them. They are missing for 7 million people.  When you go and you look at the map and you see Texas in gray and you see there is no data coming out of Texas.  Josh Zarrabi tracks how diseases affects different races and ages with Atlanta's Morehouse School of Medicine. His online maps have big gray spaces in states without good COVID data.  I think a lot of Americans to be unhappy about that because we are missing a huge piece of the puzzle here.  Those puzzle pieces help the CDC put together the big picture of  like race gender and age symptoms and whether the patient was hospitalized or died all details that can help the CDC more accurately track who is getting COVID-19 and better protect at-risk groups. It is not required but most states send that information to the CDC. A handful have not - Texas Missouri Louisiana West Virginia and Wyoming among others.  That is ludicrous. It is shameful. It is wrong.  Nancy Krieger studies health equity as an epidemiologist at Harvard University.  You need good data to do proper planning to understand what the risk is how the risk is changing.  At the CDC Paula Yoon is the person who does that planning. Her team watches about 120 diseases including COVID. But important details for 1 of every 5 reported COVID cases are completely missing. Their job would be simpler if they just had that data.  Yes we would be in a much better place. It is not because the states are not sharing those data with us. It is because the states do not have the data themselves.  There are plenty of reasons why. For one counties do not have the money to upgrade the tech they need to track diseases. Ideally counties would enter it once and it would automatically show up for the state and CDC. But near Kansas City Mo. like many other places workers manually copy and paste data field by field and hospitals fax records to county health departments. Disease prevention manager Chip Cohlmia jokes that health departments keep fax machines alive.  It is like having an old car and you are needing to push the car to like a hundred miles an hour but you know you have not changed the oil. You have not checked the tires.  There is another challenge. Just like the feds cannot always mandate what states must do states cannot always tell counties what to do or even want to.  I would not touch that with a 10-foot pole.  Diana Cervantes teaches at the University of North Texas. She used to supervise 49 counties for the Texas State Health Department. She says the state prefers not to dictate how counties gather data.  We do not want to start getting in power struggles with the locals.  And county leaders can do whatever they want. In Ellis County near Dallas Todd Little is in charge. And earlier this year his staff was overwhelmed trying to keep up with all the cases.  At this point we are ready to move on with our lives and experience the freedom that all Texans get to experience on a daily basis. We are ready to move on.  We should have these data at this point.  Epidemiologist Nancy Krieger.  The answer to having not good enough data is to make it really public that it is not good enough and to figure out how do you make it better?  Texas plans to get whatever case data it has to the CDC's system in October. In Missouri they expect a fix by late September. Texas has over 3 million cases to submit and a handful of other states each have hundreds of thousands to work through. As COVID surges again their to do list will just keep growing. Austin Fast NPR News. 