 Quarantines are back in effect in parts of West Africa. That is because Ebola refuses to go away. Despite dramatic drops in the overall numbers of Ebola cases in Sierra Leone and Guinea these countries are still struggling to stop the deadly disease. NPR's Jason Beaubien reports.  While Liberia was declared Ebola free in May Sierra Leone confirmed 14 new cases this week and Guinea counted 10. Over the last three months the case tallies in both Sierra Leone and Guinea have dips toward zero only to then bounce back up. To try to finally wipe out Ebola once and for all Sierra Leone President Ernest Bai Koroma last week ordered soldiers to enforce new community-wide quarantines around the most recent cases.   The curfew restrictions and the soldier activities will last for 21-day period.  People are not allowed to leave the quarantined communities and the government has imposed a 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew. The World Health Organization says the new restrictions are aimed at quote ending the secret movement of cases contacts and dead bodies that has propagated transmission over the past two months. President Koroma says anyone caught violating the quarantine will be arrested. Guinea arguably is in a worse position than Sierra Leone. The outbreak has been going on longer in Guinea it is more geographically widespread and some rural communities in Guinea have blocked health workers from entering. Dr. Daniel Lucey a professor of immunology at Georgetown University just returned from Guinea last week.  I think it is going to be very difficult to actually get to zero cases and to stay at zero cases in Sierra Leone and Guinea.  This was Lucey's fourth trip to the region over the course of this outbreak. Last fall he worked as a doctor on Ebola-treatment wards both in Sierra Leone and Liberia. After this latest trip he still sees major problems facing the Ebola eradication effort. One bad sign is that people continue to die from Ebola at home and are only diagnosed as having the disease postmortem.  Which means they have been sick for days or possibly weeks and therefore contagious. Who did they expose? It is hard to know once they are dead.  To gain the upper hand against the outbreak health officials need to be able to track down anyone who may have been exposed to the virus. Currently local health authorities are monitoring more than 2000 contacts of Ebola patients in the region. Yet despite this new cases keep turning up who are not on any known contacts list.  We do not have the degree of control that is essential to stop the epidemic.  To get full control of this outbreak health officials need to be able to go visit the contacts who are being monitored for Ebola. They have to get blood samples to laboratories. They have to be able to transport patients to isolation wards and safely bury anyone who is died of the disease. In remote parts of Africa with poorly maintained dirt roads this is difficult in the best of times and it will get even more difficult as the seasonal rains kick into full gear.  If we have not been able to succeed the last six months in the dry season how are we going to succeed in the next approximately six months to the end of this year in the rainy season?  Lucey says there has been incredible progress against Ebola. At the apex of this outbreak last fall there were more than a thousand cases being reported each week. Now we are down to just two dozen new cases weekly. But Lucey warns that those last few cases may be the hardest. And if the outbreak does not get completely stopped soon he says there is a danger in Ebola could become endemic in the region. Jason Beaubien NPR News. 