 Senate Republicans have scrapped their latest plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act. They say the Graham-Cassidy bill did not have enough votes to pass. For now Obamacare remains the law of the land. But big questions about the future of health care remain questions like is health care a right? Surgeon and New Yorker writer Atul Gawande put that question to people in Athens County Ohio where he grew up. The answers Gawande heard said much about people's attitudes toward the Affordable Care Act Medicare and Medicaid. Atul Gawande welcome back to the program.  Glad to be on.  First tell us about Athens County Ohio and the people you interviewed for this story.  Well it is a rural county. It is poor. It is in the Appalachian foothills in southeastern Ohio. And the people I grew up with and then their friends that they connected me to were people who were still back home many not doing financially fabulously. And the interesting thing was the answer I got when I asked people about whether health care should be a right. They said no often even people who had been bankrupted by their health care costs.  Well when they said no I do not think it is a right did they then say it is a privilege it is something that you have to work for? What - how do they regard health care?  No. When you said it is a right what they called to mind was that they are getting a very different deal for health care than people they see around them. Monna French graduated the same year from high school that I did became the librarian at Athens Middle School. Now after 22 years is only making 17 an hour pays half of her paycheck in taxes and premiums for what turns out to be crummy insurance with a 3000 deductible. And her frustration is that meanwhile those taxes are going to pay for others in her own neighborhood that she sees who are getting a Medicaid card with better coverage than she can dream of - no deductibles no co-pays no premiums. That is when she responds by saying should there be a right to health care? No because what she hears that as - who else am I supposed to be paying for now too? I cannot even afford what I have got.  You mention Medicaid people who might have looked at those with lower incomes than their own envious of the health care they got through Medicaid. But Medicare was something different. They did not have the same problem with Medicare.  Yeah that was the interesting thing is that we were in a situation where people were divided on whether government-guaranteed health care was a good idea but fully supportive of Medicare. When we think of the health system for people over 65 it is very much rooted in the Social Security ethic of we all pay in and then we all benefit equally. And whatever may happen happens. Some people will benefit more. Some people will benefit less. Medicaid however is a program that is seen as the poorest get some of the best coverage there is. So that sense that we are in it together is what is broken.  But which do you think the problem is here that somehow the system has not been engineered well enough to make sure that people getting Medicaid are not doing better than people who are getting insurance on the exchanges or that the very idea of having two different ways of delivering health care is fundamentally wrong and that we will never get that zone of moral hazard right?  It is the latter. We are locked into this zero-sum game. It is sort of like being in that airport security line where I am in zone 5 and why does the person in zone 6 jump the line ahead of me and somehow get a better deal? You know when you compare it to the way we take care of roads and schools and other basic needs that we have to count on others to contribute towards we have all gone in together. We do not have a different lane where you have a higher co-pay on your lane if you are in one job or if you happen to earn a certain amount. We are all on those roads together.  In some states there are moves to have a work requirement for Medicaid eligibility. To my knowledge no one has yet proposed in recent decades that if you are not working your kids do not have a right to a public education. What is it that is so different about health care that makes us say wait a minute why are you getting access to coverage and you are not pulling your weight economically?  I think this ties to the core problem that we going back now to World War II linked where you get health care to your job. We did not do that with our roads. We did not do that with your schools. But when we did that with this thing that is incredibly important to your life and well-being it is proved to be a mistake because we then have to figure out how do we construct systems to capture people who are not covered by their job - small businesses self-employed disabled and so on? And then each of them get a different deal we end up fighting over. Now the most creative state efforts to solve this are ones like in Nevada. The legislature passed a program that would have allowed people to buy into the state Medicaid program. And that would have shifted it from being a welfare program to a program open to all on their basis of their ability to pay. Those kinds of experiments are going to be the future of where we go. It was too bad the governor vetoed that plan. But that kind of program - buy into Medicaid buy into Medicare an open system that allows people to get in according to their ability to pay - that comes closer to enacting the values that people were describing to me when I went back home.  Atul Gawande is a surgeon and staff writer for The New Yorker. His current article is Is Health Care A Right? and his book Being Mortal is now out in paperback. Thanks for talking with us.  Many thanks. 