 It is been a bumpy road for the Johnson  Johnson COVID vaccine which has been viewed as an important part of the U.S. vaccination strategy during the pandemic. But production problems and safety issues have dampened enthusiasm for the JJ vaccine and unused doses are piling up. Here to talk about this is NPR's Pien Huang. Hey Pien.  Hey Mary Louise.  Just this week we heard the Johnson  Johnson vaccine is associated with a rare autoimmune disorder. What do we know about that? How is that going to impact demand for the vaccine?  Well it certainly does not help. The FDA announced that there is a very slight risk that people getting the vaccine could develop Guillain-Barre syndrome. It is a neurological issue that can lead to muscle weakness sometimes paralysis. And it is not good but it is very rare. About 100 cases have been reported to the CDC out of almost 13 million people who got the JJ vaccine. Even so Mollyann Brodie who directs public opinion research at Kaiser Family Foundation says it does not inspire confidence.  Overall it feeds into the unvaccinated's concerns about what is not known about the vaccines.  Research shows that for the 30 of adults that are not yet vaccinated their top concerns are safety and side effects. Now the JJ vaccine has been through a couple of hard knocks before. Earlier this spring there were contamination issues at their Baltimore factory. In April a rare blood clotting disorder caused the vaccine to be put on pause. So this latest news kind of piles onto a vaccine that was already languishing in the U.S.  Yeah. So how much of the Johnson  Johnson vaccine supply - how much is still being used?  Not very much especially in comparison to the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. I mean states have been sitting on stockpiles. Just 60 of their JJ doses have been given out versus 85 to 90 of the other vaccines. And for the JJ vaccine especially there is a looming time issue. It has a limited shelf life. Claire Hannan head of the Association of Immunization Managers says they are supposed to be tossed after 4 12 months.  And we do have programs trying to make sure the vaccine that has already been distributed in the communities is moved to places where it can be used before it is expired.  She says the JJ vaccine is still considered a good safe option for most people and its main selling point is convenience. It takes just one shot. She says it is being offered at subway stations in New York at mobile clinics at concerts block parties baseball games. It is still really useful in places where it makes sense to give out one quick shot without requiring a return visit.  And what about outside the U.S.? I am thinking if American states have stockpiles of this stuff and there is not that much demand for it from Americans would it make sense to send some of it abroad?  And that is definitely something that the global health community has been pushing for. Saad Omer - he is director of the Yale Institute for Global Health. He says that if the U.S. does not want them there is plenty of demand in other countries. And wasting vaccine doses right now he says is a real tragedy.  Every week we wait there are actual lives being lost. They are not being lost in our hospitals so therefore it is out of sight out of mind. But these are real people - people's parents grandparents brothers and sisters that are dying.  The Biden administration has pledged to give away 80 million vaccine doses mostly to a program called distributes them among poor countries. But the vaccines that have already gone out to states - there is no real mechanism for reclaiming them. If they are not used before they expire they are probably going to be destroyed.  Pien before we let you go there is some other Johnson  Johnson not vaccine news. They are recalling some of their sunscreen products after they found traces of benzene which is a carcinogen. What do we need to know there?  That is right. So Johnson  Johnson has recalled five products all aerosol sprays including Neutrogena's Beach Defense and Aveeno's Protect and Refresh. Now benzene is not an ingredient in any of these products and the company does not really know why trace amounts of these chemicals were found. But prolonged exposure to benzene can cause cancer so the company says that it is acting in an abundance of caution and it is urging people to get rid of these products and pick up some alternatives.  Thank you Pien.  Thanks for having me.  NPR's Pien Huang.  