 The Food and Drug Administration today announced a major shift in how the agency plans to fight smoking. In what would be a first the FDA is planning to reduce the level of nicotine that is allowed in tobacco cigarettes. The agency is also making changes in how it regulates electronic cigarettes. NPR health correspondent Rob Stein is here with more on today's development. And Rob what is the FDA's rationale for wanting to lower the amount of nicotine in cigarettes?  Well as you know Robert cigarette smoking is a huge public health problem. I mean it is the leading cause of preventable death in the United States. Something like 480000 Americans die each year from tobacco-related diseases. And the big reason for that is nicotine is a powerful addictive drug. So the FDA says you know weaning American smokers off nicotine could go a long way towards helping many more kick the habit and save tens of thousands of lives every year.  Is the FDA saying how much it wants to cut the amount of nicotine in cigarettes by and how quickly it wants to make those cuts?  Not yet. At the moment all the FDA is doing is kind of putting the tobacco industry on notice and saying this is something we are planning to do. But that is a big question that the FDA is going to have to figure out. Can you reduce the amount of nicotine in cigarettes to the point where they are no longer addictive but that smokers are no longer - are trying to smoke more cigarettes to try to get their nicotine fix? And there is a fair amount of scientific evidence that says yes that is possible but you have to still...  You can find that sweet spot.  That is right.  The FDA made some other announcements today in connection with nicotine and cigarettes. What were those?  Yeah so the big announcement had to do with electronic cigarettes e-cigarettes. You know these are the things that kind look like regular cigarettes but instead of burning tobacco they heat up a liquid that contains nicotine that turns into a vapor that users inhale. It is called vaping. And these are very controversial devices. There is a lot of concern they could hook a new generation of kids on nicotine. And the FDA says OK we are going to go forward with regulations like banning sales to kids and forcing the e-cigarette makers to reveal the ingredients in these devices. But it is delaying a big one. It is going to let all the e-cigarettes that are currently on the market to stay on the market much longer before they are required to go through a careful and expensive regulatory review by the agency.  Why is it doing that?  Well basically the FDA says look we might need these e-cigarettes. You know imagine - you suddenly slash the amount of nicotine in cigarettes you are going have all these addicted smokers desperate for nicotine. Where are they going to get it? I mean they can use you know nicotine patches and gum but e-cigarettes might offer a really good alternative.  What is the reaction to all of this from the FDA?  Yeah so you know this is a big blow to the tobacco industry. And - but so far their response has been fairly muted. They are saying things like you know we are going to work with the FDA and do whatever we need to do. But they are saying things like we want them to take a scientific approach to this sort of thing. The e-cigarette makers as you might imagine are thrilled. I mean they have been arguing for a long time that their devices are much safer than regular cigarettes and could provide a way for people to kick the habit. And you know the anti-smoking and public health experts that I talked to today are thrilled. They are saying this could be a landmark moment in the fight against tobacco. But they are also a little cautious and saying you know we are a little worried that this could become kind of an excuse to delay the e-cigarette rules without ever getting around to actually cutting the amount of nicotine in cigarettes. So they are sort of taking a wait-and-see approach and saying you know look the devil's in the details in how the FDA goes about actually implementing this plan.  OK NPR's Rob Stein thanks.  Oh sure. Nice to be here.  