 Indonesia has the most COVID-19 infections and deaths in Southeast Asia with more than 88000 confirmed cases and more than 4200 dead. Partial lockdowns and social distancing have apparently failed in the world's fourth most populous nation. And as Michael Sullivan reports epidemiologists say it is going to get a lot worse.  As the coronavirus started sweeping the world in February Indonesia's health minister stubbornly insisted the country was virus-free that prayer was keeping it safe. Indonesia's president knew better but stayed silent later telling reporters he had not wanted to create panic. That delay epidemiologists say cost Indonesia big time.  We have a lot of big missed opportunity. This is the problem. If you want to protect people do something seriously and do something right.  That is Pandu Riono an epidemiologist at the University of Indonesia who says the government did neither. Panji Fortuna Hadisoemarto is a lecturer at Padjajaran University in Bandung Indonesia.  The central government for the most part was very slow in deciding what to do. I guess one of the explanation was that there was a big pull and push between economy and controlling the disease.  Unlike other Southeast Asian nations that have successfully contained the virus - Vietnam Thailand - Indonesia has had no nationwide lockdown with local governments left largely to fend for themselves. Partial lockdowns in the capital of Jakarta and other cities started late - in April. And most ended early - in June - too early experts say.  I do not think Indonesia - the central government I am saying - has the means and resources to stop the disease now.  Again Panji Fortuna Hadisoemarto.  I think it is going to be a fairly long way for Indonesia to recover from COVID-19. You know people have talked about the second wave. I think we have not even seen the peak of the first one.  A lack of testing and a proliferation of bad information have not helped. Indonesia's agriculture minister for example said two weeks ago that his team had developed a eucalyptus necklace to ward off the virus - a claim that frustrated public health experts. Critics say the rising number of infections may also be a result of mixed messages from the government. For example...  I think the government now tries to defend the increasing cases by saying that OK this is due to more testings. And I think this is somehow worrying.  That is Habib Abiyan Dzakwman with the Disaster Management Research Unit at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta worrying he says because it encourages people to think the worst is over.  .   For example these children playing on the beach on the tourist island of Bali could soon have company when Bali reopens to international tourists in September including planned direct flights from the U.S. despite both countries' poor record in containing the virus. By then epidemiologist Pandu Riono says if the central government does not impose and enforce strict rules on masks social distancing and washing hands his modelling suggests...  Maybe the possibility we report 4000 cases daily.  That is almost double the highest daily total so far. Pandu says at this pace Indonesia's infection rate will not peak until October or November. For NPR News I am Michael Sullivan in Chiang Rai Thailand.  