 The Global Energy Balance Network is a nonprofit concerned with preventing diseases associated with inactivity poor nutrition and obesity. That is from the group's website. The site also acknowledges that it has received support from the Coca-Cola Company. In fact The New York Times reports today that Coke gave the group 1.5 million to get started and that it has supported the work of two of the group's founders to the tune of almost 4 million. The Global Energy Balance Network stresses lack of physical activity as opposed to diet as a cause of obesity. Reporter Anahad O'Connor wrote the story and joins us. Welcome to the program. ANAHAD O' Hi. Thanks for having me.  Your story places Coke's support of this group in the context of moves to reduce our consumption of high-calorie foods like sugary soft drinks. Does this group find any fault at all with sugar consumption? O' So this group you know their message is one that is pretty contradictory to what you know most independent public health experts are saying which is you know people need to cut back on the amount of you know calories food in general that they are consuming and especially you know sugary sodas. And this group is saying that you know we need to emphasize that side of the equation less and people just need to be more physically active and get moving and that that will you know help sort out the obesity epidemic.  How dependent on Coca-Cola is this group? O' Very. I mean Coca-Cola has not only provided at least 1.5 million of money to get them started from what I could find but when I also looked up the group's website what I found was that Coca-Cola had registered and launched the website and they are listed as the company that is running the website. They are the you know domain administrator which means they have control over the website.  And they did get a shout-out in a tweet from Coke's scientific officer as well. O' Absolutely. When they first launched a top exec at Coke was promoting them on Twitter you know encouraging other scientists to join.  You quote the president of this group as saying we are running the show not Coke. You also quote nutritionist Marion Nestle as saying the Global Energy Balance Network is nothing but a front group for Coca-Cola. Who is right do you think? O' You know when I talked to the public health experts like Marion Nestle you know they said when they first came across this website the language is so similar to everything Coke says which is people need to exercise and balance their intake of foods and that sugary drinks can be a part of a healthy diet just as long as you are exercising enough. And they said when you look at you know the similarities between the group's language and Coke's language it is clear that Coke is the brains behind it. And they say you know when you look at all the money it is also clear that Coke is not just giving money to any which group that it comes across. They are giving money to groups that can help it sell more Coca-Cola. Coke is a business. They are you know a for-profit corporation that is publicly held. And you know they cannot do things  that will decrease their shareholder value. They have to increase their sales otherwise their shareholders will be upset.  What has Coke said in response to your story today? O' They said oh well we fund a lot of different areas of research and you know there is nothing unique about the Global Energy Balance Network. But you know it is pretty clear that Coke has made quite an investment in this group when you look at the top executive tweeting about it and it is clear that they were trying to help this group you know get its message out which coincides with Coke's message.  Anahad O'Connor of The New York Times thanks for talking with us. O' Thanks for having me. 