 If you have a baby at home or are expecting one in the next few months you might be on edge for all sorts of reasons but particularly because of COVID-19. The delta variant has turned nearly every community in the country into a hotspot and babies are not eligible to get vaccinated. So what can you do to keep your baby safe? NPR's Selena Simmons-Duffin has the latest science and some practical tips.  The first tip? Share some of your antibodies with your baby. If you are still pregnant the best way to do that is by getting vaccinated because the antibodies you develop will transfer through the placenta. Dr. Karen Puopolo heads newborn medicine at Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.  The paradigm of immunize a pregnant women so that her newborn and young infant is protected from a disease is an old one.  For instance the whooping cough vaccine is given during pregnancy to protect babies in their first few months. And Puopolo says nature is pretty good at this.  Late in the third trimester there is an active process so that essentially your body makes it so that there is more antibody in your baby in terms of the concentration than there is in you.  Many pregnant people are not getting vaccinated against the coronavirus though despite recommendations from physician groups and the CDC. Nationally only about 1 in 4 pregnant people had at least one dose as of the end of August according to CDC numbers. There is another way to get the babies some antibodies and that is through breast milk. Dr. Flor Munoz a pediatric infectious disease specialist at Texas Children's Hospital and Baylor College of Medicine explains the milk acts like a surface coating of the baby's nose and mouth and that can help block the virus.  This is where these respiratory infections will go in - from the nose or the mouth of the baby.  Munoz is leading a large NIH-funded study called will answer all sorts of questions about pregnancy and newborns and the coronavirus vaccines. To be clear though she adds antibodies in breast milk are not a substitute for antibodies that babies get through the placenta after vaccination. OK. So beyond antibodies what are some other ways to protect your newborn? Start by thinking about who is around the baby Munoz says.  For the most part what we have learned is that when an infant becomes ill with a respiratory illness such as flu COVID or pertussis it is because they have been in contact with someone in the house.  So Munoz says make sure everyone who is taking care of the baby holding them kissing them is healthy and not bringing any bugs home that can make the baby sick. In the era of COVID-19 Puopolo says that means coronavirus vaccinations for everyone who can get them.  The parents should be vaccinated. If you have grandparents or a nanny or someone make sure they are vaccinated.  Siblings who are eligible should get vaccinated too. And that creates a kind of force field of vaccine protection around your baby. Also think about layering prevention strategies says Dr. Jennifer Shu a pediatrician in suburban Atlanta like having family members and caretakers wear masks when they are in public good hand-washing and good ventilation at home or daycare. That does not mean you can never leave your house she says.  Taking baby outside is fine. You do not want them in large groups of people. If they want to see guests you might have them visit outside.  Now if your baby does get sick know that the risk they will get serious complications from COVID-19 is low says Shu.  Fortunately in my practice the newborns and young infants I have seen who have had COVID have done well. They tend to have cold symptoms. That said I have seen other infants with a fever lasting for many days from COVID.  Red flags include a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit poor feeding or fussiness that does not resolve. Any of those things should trigger a call to your pediatrician or a trip to the emergency room. Puopolo says this is all actually tried-and-true advice.  Nothing I would tell a family today - although you know it is a much more difficult and risky time - is really that different than I would have told them at any time.  Pandemic or no pandemic babies have always been delicate. So she says while acknowledging there are things out of your control take the steps you can to protect them. Selena Simmons-Duffin NPR News.  