 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. Now we are going to hear about the latest hot product from the athletic shoe industry. The toning shoe is basically a fancy sneaker with an unstable sole that is supposed to make your leg muscles work harder without making you work harder. Shoe companies claim that toning shoes can sculpt your legs and reduce the girth of your backside while you walk but at least two new studies say not so fast. NPR's Anthony Brooks reports.   beers that taste great but do not fill you up workouts that do not require work. Now we have athletic shoes that promise the benefits of athletics without doing any athletics. Here's how Skechers is promoting its toning shoe.   Get in shape without setting foot in a gym with Shape-ups from Skechers.  I already feel the difference in the way my jeans fit.  My feet...  Skechers along with companies like Reebok and MBT are all selling versions of toning shoes from 100 a pair to as much as 245 a pair. Outside her office in Boston this week Carin Willis was wearing her MBTs which have big thick curved soles that look like big rubber rockers. Ms.  They are very heavy. They are very ugly.  Maybe so but she says they have helped her sore back. Ms.  I followed the hype of great for your legs great for all of that. And do I think that they have resculpted my legs? No. But I do think that it has helped with my back and my posture.  Toning shoes represent the fastest-growing segment of the shoe industry. Here in the Skechers store in downtown Boston a manager says the shoes are flying out of his store - even if customer Muhammad Jaffa seems skeptical. Mr.  Yeah the way they look I do not like them much.  They claim that if you walk in them they make your legs - they tone your muscles - they make your muscles stronger. Mr.  Oh yeah?  Yeah. Mr.  I have no clue about that. You have some research about that or just...  In fact there is research. It just does not all agree. The latest two studies come from the American Council on Exercise or ACE. The nonprofit group compared the benefits of toning shoes from Skechers Reebok and MBT with ordinary running shoes. Here's Todd Galati of ACE. Mr.  Both studies found is that there was no significant difference between any of the toning shoes and the standard running shoe.  Bottom line says Galati claims that toning shoes help people burn extra calories improve muscle tone and build strength are bunk. Mr.  These shoes are not a magic pill. It is the walking that will make the big difference in your life not the shoe.  But that is not the way Skechers sees it. Mr.  Well first of all I would say that the study that they conducted is deeply flawed.  That is Leonard Armato president of Skechers Fitness Group. He says the ACE studies are too limited and he says they are contradicted by what he calls more than a dozen larger and more rigorous studies and by his customers. Mr.  Skechers has received 12000 unsolicited positive reviews of Shape-ups and many of these people insist that the health benefits they have enjoyed from wearing Shape-ups have literally transformed their lives for the better.  But the American Council on Exercise stands by its studies and points out they were conducted by independent researchers at the University of Wisconsin. Todd Galati of ACE does concede that while toning shoes are not magic they might motivate people to walk and exercise more and that can only be a good thing. Anthony Brooks NPR News. 