 Tens of thousands of American parents enroll their children in medical research studies every year. Parents make those sometimes risky decisions in hopes the studies will help advance medical treatment. But an analysis out today finds that many of those results are never published. NPR's Richard Harris reports.  Central New Jersey businessman Vincent del Gaizo has a son with a hard-to-treat form of juvenile arthritis. When the boy was about 9 years old he had a particularly difficult flare-up. Del Gaizo learned that a nearby medical facility was running a clinical trial of an experimental drug.  When he enrolled in this study he went through the previous three weeks of life without being able to straighten his elbow like literally one degree. It was locked at a 90 degree position.  The experimental drug helped the boy and the scientists ultimately published their overall results in the medical literature. Del Gaizo said that last step was hugely important in his mind part of the implicit deal he made with the researchers when he agreed to put his son at risk for unknown side effects in the study.  The patients need to know. They need to know the results of the study. They need this information to help make these treatment decisions.  Have you encountered patients who have gone through clinical trials and then heard absolutely nothing about the results of the trials?  Yeah I mean that is commonplace. There is so much research that was conducted and a lot of it finished and maybe some of it not finished. But still the results are never disseminated.  For the benefit of other patients. Del Gaizo has become an advocate over this issue and now scientists at the Harvard Medical School and Children's Hospital in Boston have put some hard numbers on the problem based on studies that were conducted between 2008 and 2010. They found that about 20 percent of pediatric studies were not published because they were never completed. And among pediatric studies that were completed about 30 percent still did not publish their results in the scientific literature. Dr. Florence Bourgeois co-authored that analysis in the journal Pediatrics.  We found that tens of thousands of children had been enrolled in these trials and the results are then never published - means that they can never be incorporated into our clinical decision making and will never benefit the care we provide.  Sometimes scientists do not bother to publish their results because they did not find what they would hoped to find. But even those disappointing results can be important.  Well the harm is - is that we end up with scientific literature that only shows all the things that do work.  It is just as important to know what does not work. For one thing when those results are not published Bourgeois says other scientists may waste their time trying to do the same experiment and hitting the same dead end.  It creates a lot of inefficiencies and waste.  That is not just a problem for pediatric studies. Dr. Joseph Ross at the Yale School of Public Health is among those who have documented similar failures in medical research involving adults as well. He points to the ethical issues here which are intensified with research involving vulnerable groups such as children.  When you do a clinical study and you are asking patients to participate and subject themselves to a risk in order to inform science and generate knowledge - that you have an ethical obligation to disseminate those findings to the wider scientific community.  But the new study underscores that even in the sensitive world of Pediatrics medical researchers do not always take that obligation to heart. Richard Harris NPR News. 