 For a moment there some Americans were desperate enough to get the coronavirus vaccine that they were cutting the line. Now some states are offering up everything from free beer to a million bucks to convince people to get vaccinated. And that is in large part because many who have not yet are still hesitant about the vaccine. But with a new variant on the rise in many countries - Brazil India still devastated by the virus - this pandemic is far from over. Dr. Junaid Nabi thinks that is a reality some vaccine-hesitant Americans just do not grasp. He is a physician and health systems researcher who wrote an op-ed for NPR about the kind of privilege of vaccine hesitancy. Dr. Nabi joins me now.  Thank you so much for having me.  So the thing you wrote about was about the privilege of vaccine hesitancy...  Right.  ...A sign of what you call extreme privilege. In what way?  Vaccine hesitancy in the U.S. especially is a very complicated issue. I do not think it is black and white. I know of the history that underserved and minority populations in this country have faced. But at the same time I live in the U.S. right now but I have a lot of family in India and a lot of countries in Africa and what I see is that there is this large disparity in the attitudes. And what I noticed in the U.S. was this casual recklessness towards vaccinations. And it is been a little disturbing because in the U.S. there are health care facilities and in general there is a lot of support for getting vaccinations. To refuse getting vaccinations that to me is a big privilege because this is not something that is available to people in other parts of the world. They are struggling to get vaccinations.  So the idea of hesitancy that is sort of on the micro level. I want to talk about something - another trend you write about which is vaccine nationalism. What is going on there? And how is that actually playing out?  So we noticed early on that when the conversation around development of vaccines and how they needed to be distributed that was mostly concentrated in certain countries of the world. And what started happening is that rich countries mostly in the West they started hoarding vaccines and they are not helping other countries in terms of raw materials or technology transfer. And what is instead happening is that there is this donation approach where OK we are going to distribute 500 million doses. But these will not be enough. We need almost 10 billion doses at the global level.  But can I stop here? - because you know President Biden announced that the U.S. will purchase just like you said and donate half a billion Pfizer doses and donate them to 92 countries. I mean are not those numbers showing that there is a little more effort? Or are you saying that donating is not as good as creating a scenario where countries can do this on their own?  So there is definitely effort and I do think these actions are in the right direction. I just do not think they are enough because we need to understand that there is a lot of variants in circulation right now.  Right like the Delta variant.  Yes. And that is causing a lot of devastation. So we do not know all the dynamics around viral transmission and that means that other countries need to have the capacity to build their own systems and build their own manufacturing units. And by just donating them once in a while it is not an approach that is sustainable or fair.  In the end what do you think that this chapter is revealing about global health and how particularly people in the U.S. see the issue of global health?  We know already if we look at Ebola response or what is happening in terms of tuberculosis or malaria in so many other countries. There has always been an attitude of this is not our problem. But even after more than a year of being in a pandemic I see that the attitudes have not changed that much. And a lot of people in developed countries think that these are problems in these other places. There is this notion of otherness not an attitude of this is our problem. So that to me reveals what has been happening and why we have not been able to control diseases such as malaria tuberculosis or others why there has not been enough investment - because a lot of them never reach Western rich nations.  You say Americans can do something to alleviate the dire situation in a country like India where most of your family is. And the number of vaccinated Indians is still under 5. So fundamentally are you implying that this is something that Americans can somehow help on an individual level?  Yes. At the individual level I feel that if Americans were to participate fully in the vaccination programs and play a role not just for their own country but this would also enable the U.S. government for example to worry a little less about the national response and start helping other countries more broadly. Because at some level there is a concern - how are we going to control the spread if variants get spread too much or a certain vaccine does not work? So a lot of governments are worried about that. The more people participate in these programs the more they alleviate that concern that we have a certain level of protection where we can start thinking about other countries.  That was Dr. Junaid Nabi. He is a physician and health systems researcher at Harvard and the Aspen Institute. Thank you for sharing with us.  Thank you so much for having me.  