 The latest Republican effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act appears all but dead tonight now that Republican Senator Susan Collins of Maine says she does not support the proposal. She joins Republican senators John McCain and Rand Paul in opposing the bill and that is one too many noes for the bill to pass the Senate with only Republican support. Collins' announcement comes minutes after the Congressional Budget Office said the plan known as Graham-Cassidy would leave millions more people without health insurance coverage. And all this caps a dramatic day of hearings and protests on Capitol Hill. Joining us now to talk about the day is NPR health policy correspondent Alison Kodjak. Hi Alison.  Hi Ailsa.  So why does Senator Collins say she is opposed to this plan?  Well Senator Collins says you know she is worried about the cuts to the Medicaid program. This plan would roll back the expansion of Medicaid that happened under the Affordable Care Act and it would grow the program more slowly over time. Now Medicaid covers the poor low-income people and people with disabilities. And you know it is very hard to see how they can grow it more slowly than inflation and still cover those people. She also says she is worried about people with pre-existing conditions. This bill does not actually have the same level of protection as the current law. And you know if it were to go into effect insurers potentially in some states could charge people more if they have a pre-existing condition. And it could eliminate some types of coverage like mental health care or maternity care which then would not give people who need those coverages the care they need.  Senator Collins' decision came on the heels of this Congressional Budget Office analysis. What did the CBO say about this proposal?  Yeah. You know it was interesting. The CBO was only supposed to talk about the deficit impact of this bill. And it did say that it would reduce the deficit by 133 billion. But the CBO decided to go further. It said that while it did not have time to do its thorough analysis it concluded that millions fewer people would have insurance under this plan. It said that a lot of people would lose coverage because of that Medicaid rollback and that who lost insurance would really depend on what state they lived in. And that is because this bill would have taken all this money from the Affordable Care Act and instead redistribute it to states to design their whole - their own health plans.  Right.  And it was unclear what each state would do.  So that report comes on this day where there was a lot of drama on Capitol Hill right? What happened?  Yeah there were protests. And they were pretty dramatic on Capitol Hill.  Yeah.  There was a hearing in the Senate the Senate Finance Committee which is going to be the only hearing on this bill. And early in the day a lot of advocates for people with disabilities showed up. And they were determined to fill that hearing room. And a lot of them were in wheelchairs. And as soon as the hearing opened they started chanting. And they were chanting no cuts to Medicaid save our liberty. The senators could not speak over them. They could not proceed. And it delayed the hearing. And eventually the Capitol police were called in. And they had to drag people out of the room. They took some out of their wheelchairs. They wheeled them out in their wheelchairs.  Wow.  It really made for some unsettling images.  So now that at least three senators Republican senators are opposing this bill I suppose now Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has a decision to make right?  Yeah. He has to decide whether or not to pull this bill or to take it to a vote. And you know it is unclear what he will do. If at some point he does pull it or the bill fails there is a bipartisan effort standing in the wings waiting to go forward. And so we will see what happens whether that can get done after this bill finally disappears.  All right. Alison Kodjak is NPR's health policy correspondent. Thank you Alison.  Thank you Ailsa. 