GREG O' You ask me the question of who I am. There are days when I am not quite sure but in reality my name is Greg O'Brien. At age 59 I was diagnosed with Early Onset Alzheimer's.  Since January writer Greg O'Brien now 65-years-old has been documenting his experience with Early Onset Alzheimer's Disease and sharing it with us. G. O' How do you tell your kids that you got Alzheimer's? It sucks.  On losing independence. G. O' I know I should not be driving but I just hate to give it up.  And day-to-day struggles. G. O' Hey where - I forget where I put the keys. Where are they?  Recently Greg has been thinking differently about the future. Today we hear him talking to his doctor and with his wife Mary Catherine. They are talking about when to let go because Greg does not just have Alzheimer's. He also has stage three prostate cancer which he is decided not to treat.  G. O' All right I am talking with my doctor and one of my best friends Dr. Barry Conant. I have a couple exit strategies one of which is not treating the prostate cancer. Are you OK with that? DR.  Absolutely. I think honestly - in a perverse kind of a way - it gives you solace. Maybe it will shorten the period in your life which you find right now to be something you want to avoid. And so far you are only talking about neglect of a potentially terminal condition. If you decided to be more proactive that is where the discussion becomes more interesting. Some people would say I am violating my Hippocratic Oath by discussing that. But I think I do not feel uncomfortable having that discussion. And you know while you still have the ability to reason it would not be a bad discussion to have with your family. G. O' One of the things that keeps me going is my family and fear of what happens. And just tell me again what you told me about that and the letting go part.  Nobody is indispensable - nobody. And if you or I were to immediately vanish from the Earth our families would do fine. They have family support. They have friend support. They are in a nice community. It is a terrible sense of loss that they will have but they will do fine. And if they are honest with themselves they would realize that they are going to do fine. G. O' Down at Wellfleet Harbor in Wellfleet Mass. on the cape with my wife Mary Catherine. It is kind of a time just to talk with Mary Catherine about where we are. Tell me what you are thinking about. MARY CATHERINE O' Going through you know Alzheimer's it is not the plan. . G. O' Where do we go from here? M. O' That I do not know because I will be working. I do not know. G. O' You know the other day it is getting so frustrating for me that - I mean I care obviously deeply about you and the kids but I could see three or four more years of this. But I cannot keep the fight up at this level. We talked about that the other night. How did you feel about that? M. O' I do not want to talk about it. G. O' Can you see it coming? M. O' Yeah I can. Stop. G. O' Are you OK with me not treating the prostate cancer? M. O' Only because you are OK with it. You need that exit strategy and the exit strategy with Alzheimer's is horrible. So - well they are both horrible. . G. O' You know I have been there with my grandfather mother and do not want to take my family and friends to that place. M. O' I know. I understand. G. O' Do you still love me dear? M. O' Yes I do dear. G. O' I love you too.  That is Greg O'Brien and his wife Mary Catherine. You can hear previous installments in our series Inside Alzheimer's at our website npr.org. 