 The symptoms are familiar - fever runny nose coughing trouble breathing - but we are not talking about COVID. Doctors in many states are seeing an unexpected spike in children contracting another respiratory virus. It is called RSV and it normally emerges in colder months which makes its presence this summer troubling. Oklahoma is one of the states that is seen a big rise in pediatric RSV cases. And Dr. Cameron Mantor is chief medical officer of Oklahoma Children's Hospital in Oklahoma City. Welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you. I am glad to be here.  Does this look like what you would expect to see in the winter? Is it worse than that? I mean paint a picture for us.  So no it is fairly similar to what we see in the winter. We have patients that are in the hospital particularly young children who can get quite ill be in the ICU be on the ventilator have true respiratory failure from this virus. Currently when we look at the recent spikes it is not quite to the percent positive that we have seen at our highest peaks in the winter times but it is getting very close.  I know it is been a grueling 18 months of the pandemic. Do you have the nursing and medical staff to attend to this spike in pediatric patients?  It is a concern. Staffing is unquestionably a concern. There are days when we cannot fill all of our physical beds because we simply do not have enough nurses. There are days when we have had to transfer patients away from our emergency room even out of state. It happens very rarely but it is taking constant diligence. And there is no question that nursing staffing is a concern of ours right now.  This summer spike in RSV cases is happening in many parts of the country - Texas Florida Louisiana. What is your best guess for why?  You know I was talking to one of our infectious disease physicians just the other day asking them exactly this question. And as we talked about it we thought OK what is different? What we do know is that RSV is an incredibly common virus that adults have but do not get sick from but it does not prevent us from transferring it to our kids. And so we are typically a normal vector for RSV. So we think back before June and what were we doing? And we were really doing a pretty good job of masking and all of that prevents the spread of these respiratory viruses. And then we saw that the COVID numbers started to go down so we unmasked and we got together. And we think that OK now we are out there spreading the virus and that is what' When you have already got this spike in RSV cases Oklahoma City schools are scheduled to begin the new school year on Monday and the state will not allow schools to require masks. So what is your concern about RSV potentially spreading among students in the new academic year?  There is no question. It happens in the wintertime. And with the number of cases that we are seeing today that is a great concern of ours. We know that respiratory syncytial virus or RSV is a typical respiratory virus just as is the coronavirus. And they are spread like normal respiratory viruses. And when kids get amongst themselves and are unmasked they are going to spread the virus.  What advice can you give parents who want to protect their kids from RSV?  So it is - and I will even include RSV and COVID. It is sort of the same thing. They are both spread in the same way. So parents if you feel like you have got a cough or cold protect your kids by either not being around them as best you can or just wear a mask. Wash your hands is very very important. COVID is the same way but for adults we have the ability to vaccinate. So you can absolutely protect your kids by going and getting vaccinated. And then lastly when your kids go to school if they are ill you know maybe it is better to keep your kids home. Or if they are well and they are going to go to school there is no reason that parents cannot ask their child to proactively wear a mask. They are used to it now. It is quite common.  Dr. Cameron Mantor is chief medical officer of Oklahoma Children's Hospital in Oklahoma City. Thanks a lot.  Thank you Ari. I appreciate it. 