 As cases of the delta variant rise several cities and states are requiring that public employees be vaccinated against COVID-19. Today New York City announced that its government workers must be vaccinated by mid-September. Those who refuse will have to wear masks indoors and submit to weekly COVID tests. These requirements will apply to about 340000 workers. That includes teachers and police officers. And shortly after that announcement California announced that it will require state employees to show proof of vaccination. NPR's Jasmine Garsd is in New York City and joins us now. Hey Jasmine.  Hey.  So what are the numbers like in New York? Like why is this mandate coming down now?  Well cases in New York have nearly doubled over the last week. And the mayor expressed concern over the delta variant. At a press conference this morning he said he believes September is going to be a crucial month for the city.   September is the pivot point of the recovery. September is when many employers are bringing back a lot of their employees. September is when school starts full strength. September is when people come back from the summer. September is when it will all happen.  September September September - OK. So this requirement is for government workers but then what about everyone else?  Well Mayor Bill - Mayor de Blasio urged private companies to get stricter with vaccination requirements. Look New York City has a high vaccination rate compared to other parts of the country. Right now 54 of New Yorkers are fully vaccinated. But there is this tangible sense of urgency as the city reopens and delta variant numbers start to creep up.  Yeah. Well what about communities in New York where the vaccination rates are still pretty low?  Well I mentioned earlier that 54 of New York City is fully vaccinated but that varies tremendously. Only 31 of Black New Yorkers are vaccinated. Boroughs like the Bronx lag way behind. So in a separate press conference Governor Andrew Cuomo acknowledged that in immigrant communities and some communities of color there is a well-founded apprehension towards the medical establishment and public health matters. And today he announced he is allocating 15 million to organizations that will help vaccination efforts on the ground in communities that have high positivity rates and low vaccination rates.  I am just wondering Jasmine. Can city and state governments actually require this? Like is there legal precedent for this?  There is precedent. And in recent weeks some hospitals and health care systems have announced that they would begin requiring all employees to be vaccinated. And the VA announced today its health care personnel must get vaccinated. And the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has said that the mandates are permissible. For example many hospitals already require employees to get flu shots. So of course just because it is legal does not mean it is not controversial. We have already seen a lot of pushback and I think we can expect to see more.  That is NPR's Jasmine Garsd in New York City. Thank you Jasmine.  Thank you.  