 Nearly 5000 people are in quarantine in South Korea after an outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome or MERS. This is the largest outbreak of MERS ever recorded outside the Middle East. Fourteen people have died and more than 140 cases have been diagnosed. Researchers say the threat is not going away any time soon. NPR's Jason Beaubien explains.  The big problem in trying to wipe out MERS is the camels. From a purely scientific perspective a lot more research needs to be done to understand MERS and how it is transmitted but the most likely culprits at the root of this are camels.  The presence of the virus in camels is fairly well-established and is widely accepted.  Mark Pallansch is the director of viral diseases at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. His department has been involved in investigating MERS since soon after the first cases were reported in the Middle East in 2012. His team and others have been trying to figure out where this disease comes from. It looks like camels are a permanent reservoir for the virus and he expects more outbreaks to pop up.  We are proceeding as if we will have to maintain our vigilance for the near future.  Currently here's what researchers believe is the pattern with MERS. The virus hangs out in camels. Then when a person is working with the camels or drinking camel milk they may end up catching the MERS virus. When those people sick people seek medical care the virus flourishes in hospitals where it has the potential to spread to dozens of people. Eventually all those cases get contained roughly 40 percent of the patients die and that distinct outbreak comes to an end. But then another restless MERS virus makes the jump from camel to human and the whole outbreak cycle starts all over again.  As long as there is continual exposure to whatever animal source for MERS exists in the Arabian Peninsula we will always continue to have sporadic cases.  The current outbreak in Korea shows the virus has the potential travel anywhere commercial airlines fly. The CDC is now reminding U.S. doctors to be on the lookout for MERS among patients who have recently traveled to the Middle East or Korea. The head of the World Health Organization 's MERS task force Peter Ben Embarek says the Korean outbreak became the worst ever outside the Middle East in part because doctors were slow to recognize the first case as MERS. He says cultural factors also fueled the spread of the virus.  There is a habit in Korea when you go to a hospital to see a doctor that you go and see several hospitals in the days after if you feel the need for a second opinion.  And that is what happened in this outbreak. Also Korean families tend to be highly attentive to family members when they are hospitalized which may have put more people at risk of exposure to the virus in Korea. There is no vaccine or specific drug to treat MERS. Embarek at the WHO says the most promising potential weapon against the disease is a camel vaccine. Rather than try to address MERS directly in humans the idea is to wipe out the virus at its source in camels. Embarek says some promising vaccine trials are in the works but it could be years before there is a viable solution.  In this type of work developing vaccine takes time so for the time being unfortunately we will not have a vaccine at hand.  So doctors around the world he says are going to have to continue to be on the lookout for this potentially deadly disease. Jason Beaubien NPR News. 