 We are guessing that sitting in a dentist chair is not your idea of a vacation - just a wild guess. But it is for tens of thousands of people who go to Los Algodones Mexico every year. The tiny town across the border from Yuma Arizona has proclaimed itself the dental capital of Mexico. NPR's Ted Robbins made the trip.  It is afternoon at the Hacienda Los Algodones. People sit around the fountain in the courtyard of the tile-roofed hotel. There are tables or at the outdoor bar most of them look like they could use a drink.  Oh boy I had 22 crowns done four root canals.  Brian Quade is still numb from the Novocain. His mouth is bloody.  Nine hours straight yesterday and then today they did a deep-cleaning scaling and tomorrow they are installing all the crowns.  What could possibly make those three jaw-dropping days appealing to this cabinet-maker from Seattle?  It is 50000 up there about 5000 down here.  It is inexpensive - prices average two-thirds less than in the U.S. And it is quick. There are so many dental labs in town it only takes a day or two to make a crown a bridge even dentures. I know just hearing that drill hurts but a long line of patients are sitting in the hallway of the Sani Dental Clinic opposite a long line of exam rooms. This town is a virtual dental factory. Some 350 dentists work within a few blocks of downtown Algodones. Most patients come for major work.  Implants and crowns that is the most common thing that they have.  Miguel Ibarreche - known to patients as Dr. Mike - runs the clinic's diagnostic department. He looks in patient's mouths tells them what they need done and how much it will cost. He says dentistry is cheap here for some obvious reasons - inexpensive labor and real estate. He also says dentists in Mexico do not need to charge as much because they do not graduate with a lot of student debt. The government subsidizes many dentists' education.  When we go out of school we have to pay the government but we do it by one year of free service and that is it.  There is also no high-priced mandatory malpractice insurance as there is in the U.S. Edmond Hewlett is a spokesman for the American Dental Association and a professor at UCLA. He says Mexico has good dentists but he warns potential patients to make sure they are getting a good one.  My best advice is to plan very carefully right? And know what you are signing up for. What are the standards that are in place say for regulation of the dentists in that country? What sort of safety guidelines are in place in the offices?  There are still some hawkers in the street as you enter Los Algodones trying to lure patients in but not like decades ago when dentists began marketing to U.S. and Canadian patients. These days there are companies online that arrange trips. That is how Ron Colvin came to Los Algodones.  Somebody told me about dental travel and then research on the Internet and more research on the Internet.  Colvin picked his dentist based on hundreds of online user reviews. He came from Indiana for dentures. He just had his teeth pulled and he is happy with how it went.  Great dentist young fella patient took his time.  Most people who travel to Los Algodones need a lot of dental work. That makes the town both a destination for dental tourism and a reminder to floss and brush so you can avoid this place. Ted Robbins NPR news.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 