 Now some encouraging news about breast cancer. Scientists have pinpointed dozens of genetic mutations behind the four major types of the disease. Breast cancer kills nearly 40000 American women each year. While researchers say no one should expect any overnight successes these findings do give them many more ways to attack the disease with drugs. NPR's Richard Knox reports.  For at least a decade experts have known breast cancer is really four different diseases. And that is helped improve treatment for some. But scientists have not understood much about how these four types differ. The new report published online by the journal Nature is a big leap in that understanding.  This paper gives us a level of detailed knowledge of breast cancer that vastly exceeds what was available before.  That is Matthew Meyerson one of the paper's 348 authors. He and his colleagues analyzed the genes from more than 800 breast cancer patients.  We basically studied the genomes of the breast cancers from each of these women in comparison to the genomes of the rest of their bodies.  They found 40 or so key differences in the genes among the four major types of breast cancer. All of these differences are potential targets for cleverly designed drugs. But Meyerson who is with Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston cautions it is a long way from the outmoded dream of coming up with a silver bullet that would knock out breast cancer or any other kind.  I think in the end to treat cancer we are going to be developing a lot of specific silver bullets but we will need to use them in combination. So you will really need a gold bullet and a silver bullet and a bronze bullet all together to effectively treat cancers.  And that arsenal is being developed which is the good news right?  That is Charles Perou of the University of North Carolina another study author.  But the bad news is it is complicated. And we have to figure out you know which bullet to use when and where and that needs to be done in rigorous clinical trials and that is happening.  But it is going to take a long time to find and test all those different bullets says Karuna Jaggar of Breast Cancer Action a consumer group.  For me I have to say my enthusiasm around this as new and exciting is somewhat dampened by the knowledge that it is going to many many many years before we see something that is clinically meaningful for patients. And in the meantime too many women continue to be diagnosed with the disease.  Fran Visco agrees.  Finding targets doing screening genomic screening that is not the end goal. That is simply a tool a step in the way to figuring out how to save lives.  She is president of the National Breast Cancer Coalition another advocacy group.  We have to be careful what we celebrate and we have to be careful what we consider to be success. We are nowhere near a success.  Perou the North Carolina researcher understands their frustration.  We are all including myself right disappointed in the speed required to make these clinical advancements. It is far easier to make a discovery than it is to translate that discovery into a clinical impact.  He thinks the first impact from this new research could be two to five years away. That would probably be for the most common type called luminal breast cancer. And that is because the new paper shows it has relatively few genetic mutations and there is already a drug in the works for one of them. Richard Knox NPR News. 