 If you are in Acadia National Park this summer you might try the famous popover at Jordan Pond House Restaurant or in Yellowstone a big tasty bison burger. What you might not find are a lot of healthful options. Well the park service has a new initiative to up its game when it comes to the healthfulness of its food. NPR's Allison Aubrey got a preview tasting of what visitors can expect.  Jon Jarvis has been a park ranger for a long time. From Mount Rainier to the National Mall in D.C. he is been wearing the green and gray uniform and ranger hat for nearly 40 years. And for much of this time one thought run through his mind.  You know if I was in charge this is what I would do and so I sort of accumulated a list over those years.  Well now Jarvis is in charge. He is the director of the National Park Service. And when it comes to changing things up food has been near the top of his list. Jarvis says he visited too many parks where the concessions left him wanting.  You know it was pizza or hotdogs or something and nothing wrong with those foods but I wanted more options and more healthy choices.  And now he is getting them. From Yellowstone to the Shenandoah park food is getting a makeover.  These are fresh jumbo lump Maryland crab and it is got a roasted garlic bechamel sauce folded in with it and that is it. It is pure crab no filler at all.  New guidelines announced this week require the companies that run food and beverage operations in national parks to up their games when it comes to offering wholesome and sustainable options. And chef Steven Sterritt of Skyland Resort in Shenandoah National Park is leading the way. What makes this new or different?  New or different is just our new approach on things you know? Simple cuisine you know for the  the main ingredients speak for itself.  Now to give a sampling of what national park visitors can expect the Park Service set up a big food tent along the National Mall this week and invited chefs from across the country. Stefan Larsson a native Norwegian is executive chef at Yellowstone National Park which has multiple eateries.  We are changing to a healthier fare of course.  And local ingredients are getting bigger play. Larsson points to seasonal berries local cheeses and of course local meat.  We have the bison here smoked with juniper berries. Here we have rhubarb gazpacho.  Can I taste the bison? Larsson says bison tends to be lower in fat than beef and he likes the flavor. Oh wow that is fabulous. What is the sauce?  That is fresh horseradish and a low-fat sour cream.  To usher in the national park food initiative the White House sent over Sam Kass who heads up the first lady's Let us Move! campaign. He was served an almond-crusted chicken tender with a fennel salad.  You know baked is the new fried so that looks absolutely delicious. That is really innovative. Yeah yeah I would love to taste that.  Kass says it is significant that the national parks are helping to make healthy choices the easy choices.  That baked chicken tender is absolutely delicious.  So does this new initiative mean that park visitors will pay more not for basic concession stand food but the Park Service says even the newer offerings will still be affordable. Rick Abramson president of Delaware North which runs eateries at Shenandoah National Park says this could be really good for his company's bottom-line.  We are a commercial company OK? We are in it to make money. And you know what the market wants is what we deliver.  Abramson says there is demand for these new options. He is sure of it. It does not mean taking away old favorites. The strategy here is to add healthier options to the mix. Allison Aubrey NPR News Washington. 