 You cannot see it but every one of us is walking around in a cloud a cloud formed by millions of microorganisms spewing from our bodies. That is the conclusion of a study released today. NPR health correspondent Rob Stein reports the findings could lead to new ways to understand and use the microbiomes that live in and around each of us.  A lot of people probably know this character from the cartoon Peanuts.    Pigpen you are a disgrace.  Pigpen's the little kid who walks around in a cloud of dirt whose friends like Violet are always giving him grief.    What is the matter?   What is the matter he asks? You are a mess when you eat a mess when you play and a mess when you are just standing still.  Yeah it turns out that that kid is all of us.  James Meadow led the new research at the University of Oregon.  It is just a microscopic invisible cloud that is really hard to see.  Because our clouds are not dirt they are microscopic bacteria and other organisms. You see we all carry around millions of microorganisms - bacteria fungi viruses. Most of them are not dangerous. In fact they help us in lots of ways. Scientists call this our microbiome.  A lot of recent work on the human microbiome has revealed that we are kind of spilling our microbiome all over our houses and our offices and the people around us.  By touching them sharing objects beds. But Meadow and his colleagues wanted to see if we are also spewing our microbial companions into the air around us. So they studied the air around 11 volunteers as they sat alone one by one in a special sealed booth for four hours.  And the results really surprised us.  Not only could they clearly detect plumes containing thousands of different types of bacteria they could tell all sorts of things from the clouds like whether they came from a man or a woman. And they realized each person's cloud is sort of like a fingerprint.  We each give off a slightly different cocktail of those bacteria. There is just really subtle differences and you can tell that different people give off a slightly different cocktail. We could actually tell people apart.  Meadow says this raises all kinds of possibilities like someday maybe being able to identify a murder suspect by reading the microbial cloud he or she left behind at the scene of a crime.  You know there is a lot of reasons why we might want to know if some nefarious character's been in the certain room in the last few hours and maybe there is a way to use microbes for that.  Other scientists agree. Rob Knight studies the microbiome at the University of California San Diego.  What is exciting about this is in addition to showing that we leave microbes behind on surfaces we touch this also shows that we release our personal microbes into the air of the spaces we inhabit.  The research could also explain how we get our microbes in the first place.  We know that if you live with people and even if you just work with people your microbial community has come to resemble theirs. And in the past we mostly thought that that was due to touch. It may be just that you are releasing microbes into the air and some of those microbes are colonizing the people you are with.  Knight thinks we have just begun to understand what our microbes could tell us.  We are finding out that our microbes have a tremendous amount of data in them right? And if you think about that as a data recording device that we are just beginning to read out now your microbes may contain a tremendous amount of information about where you have been who you have been in contact with and so forth.  So Pigpen may not have been so far off after all.    Sort of makes you want to treat me with more respect does not it?  Rob Stein NPR News.    When you are doing the Pigpen Hoedown you have got to have a caller you can trust because when Pigpen does the hoedown he really kicks up some dust.    Hey Chuck we are all bumping into each other. Let me give it a try.  Bow to your left bow to your right and if you find no one in sight just bow to your toes and bow to your knees and gather 'round just as you please.   When you are doing the Pigpen Hoedown you have got to have a caller you can trust because when Pigpen does the hoedown he really kicks up some dust.    I can hardly see.   It is getting worse.  