 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Madeleine Brand. Today  Is a vaccine against the new H1N1 swine flu a good idea? The agency sponsored a meeting to consider whether to license vaccines now being manufactured. NPR's Joanne Silberner was at the meeting and she joins us now in studio. And Joanne first of all this virus it was just identified in April. So is there going to be a vaccine available so soon in the fall?  Yeah what happened was that the government and the World Health Organization everybody was getting ready for the big avian flu that was going to come through and be really awful. It has not come through yet or at least not in a big way. But they had all these plans in place. They had - the manufacturers were alerted. There had been working groups working to get on how to expedite the process. The manufacturers already have seed stock you know basic virus for this current vaccine and they have been working away at it.   Will this vaccine be safe?  Well that is the question of the hour. Now there is every reason to believe that it is going to be safe because basically this is a seasonal flu that just has some weird attributes - it came a little bit late in the season it is sticking around a long time. But other than that as far as they can see it is acting like a seasonal flu and every year we get new seasonal flu vaccines and they do not seem to be causing any problems. The big thing that haunts everybody is what happened back in 1976 when as what looked to be a routine flu vaccine had some bad effects. Some people got a neurological condition called Guillain-Barre syndrome.  Right. And that was when the government pushed a big vaccine effort back then in the '70s. Did anyone ever figure out what caused those problems?  No and everyone's dying to know. I think it is a thing that keeps vaccine planners up at night. They just do not know what happened. And was it a contaminant? Was it something about that virus? That was the virus that is somewhat similar to this virus. But we have had you know 30 years of virus - or 33 years of virus since then and - of vaccines rather - since some of them are very similar and nothing's happened.  So Joanne any reason then to think that this new flu is any different? And should it be treated any differently than from the regular flu?  Well so far no but they are watching carefully. They are alerting the neurologists who will notice if there is any Guillain-Barre syndrome coming up. They have got all sorts of plans so that if something happens people will notice. But other than that strange scheduling - coming in late in April sticking around in the summer - other than that this does not seem to be all that different.  Children though seem to be especially vulnerable to this virus. And there was just a report today that four children infected with it had seizures. So is the vaccine going to be safe for them?  Well they are not getting - they are getting infected more than older people. And that is probably because older people have been exposed to a similar virus and built up immunity. And kids have not because that similar virus was years ago. They are getting it more. There are a couple of cases like that. But other than that no does not seem to be much special about kids. And they will be testing kids in this new series of tests when these new vaccines are tested. But they are so calm about this actually that it looks to me like the FDA is going to approve these vaccines just as a new seasonal flu.  So presumably people will want this vaccine. Will there be enough?  Possibly not right away. It depends. I mean you have to say with this if this all goes well this vaccine - the virus is reproducing slowly so it is making it a little bit difficult to make the vaccine. But they are making a lot of it. There may not be enough in September or even August when the kids come back to school and it starts spreading again. But by October November December from the reports from the manufacturers today it looks like there is going to be a lot of it around.  NPR health correspondent Joanne Silberner. Thank you very much.  Thank you. 