 Over the next few weeks we will be looking at the safety of abortion around the world. And today we start at home in Texas. The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals will hear arguments tomorrow that could determine the fate of the latest restrictions on Texas abortion providers. Those restrictions govern clinic facilities and hospital admitting privileges for doctors. A federal judge has ruled them unconstitutional. Nevertheless nearly half the clinics performing abortions in Texas have closed down which leaves many women in places like the Rio Grande Valley along the Mexican border without access to services. NPR's Wade Goodwyn has our story.   Margarita Jimenez.  In a Brownsville family clinic a powerfully built completely bald doctor treats a never-ending line of sick and injured patients. He is been practicing for nearly four decades but family medicine is not his calling. That is something he does not do anymore.  Well I am Lester Minto. I am a family physician. For 35 years I had a clinic where I just saw women and took care of their reproductive needs but mostly terminating pregnancies.  Lester Minto seems an unlikely abortion provider. The son of an army officer Minto grew up in a deeply religious family in rural Texas. His career path was influenced when he was in medical school in the early 1970s. A young woman whose uterus had been accidentally pierced by a backroom abortionist bled to death in front of him. After Roe versus Wade was decided the young doctor devoted his career to helping poor and working-class women terminate their unwanted pregnancies in South Texas.  Ninety-eight percent were Hispanics. I would spend days - I would not speak English because they were all Spanish speakers which is great. Getting this level of care has always been a available to rich women. They can always go somewhere else - go to another state another country. They can go to their doctor's office - their gynecologist and get a menstrual extraction or something done that is not called an abortion and so they are OK.  Minto says nearly half his patients were teenagers. He averaged more than 4000 abortions each year. But Minto had to close his clinic after new laws passed by the Texas legislature rendered his clinic obsolete because it does not meet ambulatory surgical center standards with amenities like extra wide hallways. The other important restriction required all doctors performing abortions to obtain admitting privileges at a nearby hospital. Both the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Medical Association say these two requirements are medically unnecessary. If one of Minto's patients were to have a medical crisis during an abortion she would be rushed to the closest hospital emergency room. Doctor privileges are not an issue in emergencies.  I have been there 30-plus years. Two girls have gone to the hospital. And they went to the hospital because of bleeding conditions. In other words their blood would not clot.  Nevertheless the laws led to the closing of half of the 40 clinics providing abortions across the state. It is not just the Valley. In vast swaths of Texas there are no longer any operating clicks performing abortions.  It is so desperate that women will get on the phone and when they hear I have closed after all these years they cry. Do not know what to do. Ask me what do I do doctor?  But there are plenty of people in South Texas who enthusiastically support the restrictions. While the Rio Grande Valley is deeply democratic it is also very Catholic. Democratic state Sen. Eddie Lucio Jr. has been representing the Valley for nearly 30 years. SENATOR  take the position that life starts at conception and it ends in natural death. I was an outspoken advocate for the bill.  Lucio and his allies in the legislature say the restrictions increase patient care and reduce medical complications. Clinic closings are a happy byproduct. The Texas legislature has thrown up as many obstacles to abortion as the federal courts will allow including waiting periods ultrasounds and outdated abortion pill administration protocols that require women to repeatedly returned to the clinic. And for women on the border there is another barrier - an inland border patrol checkpoint on the highway to San Antonio. Women whose visas confine them to the border or who are completely undocumented cannot get past the checkpoint to San Antonio. For Senator Lucio that is a plus.  People having that concern especially undocumented women having to go past a checkpoint here in Sarita to get abortion services - I am OK with that because all they are looking for is putting an end to a life. And I am not for that.  Senator Lucio and his allies had abortion-rights supporters on the run in Texas - that is until US district judge Lee Yeakel stepped in in late August and struck down the admitting privileges and ambulatory surgical center requirements as unconstitutional. In his decision the judge ruled the abortion rights of women along the border were especially endangered. The requirements erect a particularly high barrier for poor rural or disadvantaged women Yeakel said. A woman with means the freedom and ability to travel and the desire to obtain an abortion will always be able to obtain one the judge wrote echoing Lester Minto's sentiments. Yeakel concluded Rowe's essential holding guarantees to all women not just those with means the right to a pre-viability abortion. The judge's ruling has had an immediate impact in Texas. Amy Hagstrom Miller the CEO of Whole Women's Health says they are re-opening their clinic in the Rio Grande Valley. But with a Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals hearing looming it could only be a matter of days before she is forced to close the clinic for good.  I am very careful with hope in the state of Texas being an abortion provider but I am hopeful for a couple of reasons. I think we put forward a very strong case with very strong evidence. And I am encouraged by the Fifth Circuit giving us two weeks with this injunction instead of ruling immediately.  The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals - one of the most conservative federal courts in the country - has a history of reversing its federal judges in Texas who have generally ruled to protect women's abortion rights. Oral arguments begin tomorrow. Wade Goodwyn NPR News Dallas. 