 Marijuana is a dangerous drug - that is how Alex Azar the secretary of Health and Human Services described it today in a press conference announcing a campaign to raise awareness of the risks of dependency and addiction. NPR's Allison Aubrey reports the new advisory focuses on risks to adolescents and pregnant women.  At a time when more than 30 states have passed laws legalizing marijuana for medical or recreational use more young people are smoking it. One survey found about 9 million teenagers and young adults report using marijuana within the last month. But the U.S. surgeon general Jerome Adams says no amount of marijuana is safe for adolescents.   And while the perceived harm of marijuana is decreasing the scary truth is that the actual potential for harm is increasing.  The drug is a lot more potent than it used to be. Since the mid-1990s there is been at least a threefold increase in the concentration of THC in marijuana plants - that is the psychoactive component that leads to feelings of euphoria. But Adams says many people may not be aware.  This as not your mother's marijuana.  The drug can be smoked vaped or eaten and the surgeon general's report finds some concentrated products can contain up to 75 THC. Adams says this is concerning.  Well the science tells us the higher the THC delivery the higher the risk.  Young people who regularly use marijuana are more likely to show a decline in IQ and school performance Adams says and frequent use of the drug can also impair a child's attention memory and decision-making. There is also a risk of dependency and addiction.  Nearly 1 in 5 people who begin marijuana use during adolescence become addicted. That is scary to me as a dad of a 15- a 13- and a 9-year-old.  Symptoms of dependency include irritability mood and sleep difficulties that peak within the first week after trying to quit or not using the drug. And when a person cannot stop using even though it interferes or impairs with their performance at work or school it is considered addiction. Elinore McCance-Katz is assistant secretary for mental health and substance use at HHS. She says marijuana use in adolescence is also linked to an increased risk of depression.  When you look at the increasing trend for marijuana use and you see the association of increases in serious mental illness and major depression it is quite concerning.  There is still a lot that is unknown about the effects of marijuana use in adolescents and adults and federal officials say they support more local and federal research. Just this week the Drug Enforcement Administration said it would start to process applications for permission to cultivate cannabis for research. Meanwhile the CDC is investigating nearly 200 reported cases of severe lung damage among people who vape. Many of the young people who have been hospitalized with the condition acknowledged using THC. The surgeon general says he is concerned.  Reports are that many of these cases are correlated with THC or marijuana vaping. And so the best way to avoid lung injury is to avoid vaping because you do not know what you are getting. You do not know what is in these products.  To raise awareness of the risks of marijuana Secretary Azar said today that President Trump has donated 100000 a quarter of his annual government salary to fund a digital campaign. Allison Aubrey NPR News Washington.  