 Republicans' efforts to follow through on their campaign promise of overhauling the Affordable Care Act have collapsed. First four Republican senators went against their party's leaders saying they would not vote to even debate the bill to replace Obamacare. Now Republicans are thwarting Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's fallback plan. That was to simply repeal the health care law now and replace it later. Well what does this chaos in Washington mean for the U.S. health care system? NPR's Alison Kodjak is here to tell us. Hello Alison.  Hi Robert.  Today President Trump standing alongside Vice President Mike Pence said he plans to let Obamacare collapse.   I have been saying that - Mike I think you will agree - for a long time. Let Obamacare fail. It will be a lot easier. And I think we are probably in that position where we will just let Obamacare fail.  Alison President Trump says we will let Obamacare fail. First of all do you understand what it means for Obamacare to fail at this point?  Yeah this is the so-called death spiral. So what would happen is insurance premiums would be a little bit too high for a lot of people to buy a policy if they do not really need it. So the healthier people would drop out. Sick people would continue to buy insurance. But then their costs would go up and then the insurance companies would raise premiums. And then more people might drop out. And it would cause this spiral of upward prices. And eventually nobody would be buying insurance because nobody would be able to afford it.  And when President Trump says we will let that happen can he do that either by action or by inaction?  Well they seem to be helping it along. They have been refusing to say whether they are going to enforce this individual mandate. That is what makes young healthy people buy insurance because there is a threat of a fine. Those people if they buy insurance keep the premiums lower. And they are also refusing to say whether they will make these controversial cost-sharing payments. They reimburse insurance companies for discounts that they are required to give to low-income customers. So by doing these two things they are actually making the markets weaker. If he just left the law in place and he enforced the mandate and he made those payments the experts I talked to say the markets would be in pretty good shape.  Well then why are the insurance companies dropping out of Obamacare markets? And why are premiums rising?  There is this uncertainty about what is going to happen. Insurance companies do not want to commit to selling policies unless they are fairly sure they are going to have a decent customer base. But for a little perspective there are about 38 counties out of more than 3000 that are at risk of having no options next year. It is a relatively small number of people but it is become a big political issue. In the past in those bare counties an insurance commissioner or the Health and Human Services secretary might have intervened to convince a company to enter the market. That may not happen this year so it is unclear what is going to happen in those counties that do not have anybody right now signed up to sell policies.  Well should we expect any changes to Medicaid now that there is not a new replace bill that is going to be passed?  Yeah Medicaid was a big part of the controversy on these bills. But right now nothing changes. The Medicaid expansion that happened as part of the Affordable Care Act that is going to stay in place. And the big plans to overhaul Medicaid that were part of the Senate and the House bills are gone. But the question now is whether other states are going to pursue Medicaid expansion. There were a few that were looking into it before the election and we do not know if they are going to now get back on the bandwagon.  And what are the insurance companies saying now?  Well the insurance companies really want stable markets. And all along they have been making the case that these cost-sharing payments that I talked about have to be paid and that the government has to guarantee that they are going to be paid. And also they want the individual mandate to be enforced. And so they said last weekend that the bill that was being considered would really disrupt the market. So they have made clear what it is they want. Today I have not heard too much about what they are saying now that that bill has collapsed.  That is NPR's Alison Kodjak. Alison thanks.  Thanks Robert. 