 In that speech today on the health care law President Obama made a point of highlighting some good news the administration got yesterday.  State officials in New York announced that average premiums for consumers who buy insurance in their new marketplace will be at least 50 percent lower next year than they are today. Think about that 50 percent lower.  And New York's not alone the administration says. A report it released today found nearly a dozen states coming in with lower than expected premiums that will be available in the new marketplaces next year. That is a vivid contrast to Republican claims of skyrocketing rates. Now with us to try to sort some of this out is NPR health policy correspondent Julie Rovner. Hey there Julie.  Hey Audie.  So bottom line premiums next year are they going to be higher or are they going to be lower?  Well I am sure this will not come as much of a surprise but the answer is both. In some states and it may even be different in different parts of states premiums will go up compared to what they are now. And in other states or parts of states premiums will go down. As usual it is going to depend on a lot of different factors. And I am sure this will not come as a surprise either but both Republicans and the Obama administration are doing some cherry-picking here to make their side look as strong as possible.  All right. So let us break this down. The administration's claims about premiums going down where and why would premiums fall?  Well as we have heard in New York premiums are largely going to be lower and that is remember just in the individual market where people buy their own health insurance. That is the part of the market that is been the most dysfunctional and the part that this part of the law is aimed at fixing. There is some other states where premiums are reportedly going to be lower than expected. That includes Colorado Oregon Washington and Vermont. Now there is one thing that all of these states have in common and that is they have something called community rating. That means insurers already had to sell insurance to sick people. That means there will not be an influx of new people with preexisting conditions next year in those states plus there should be more healthy people buying insurance when there is a requirement for everybody to have coverage. So not much of a surprise to the experts that premiums in those states would go down.  Okay. So then help us understand where Republicans are coming from. I mean they say that premiums are going to go up.  Yes. And they have mostly been looking at states where insurance companies have been allowed not to sell to sick people before and now of course they will be required to. And also to make their point sometimes critics have been looking at specific premiums for specific types of people. One example is that for years insurance companies have been able to sell at very cut rates to healthy young men. That is because they have been able to charge women more 'ecause they use more services things like maternity care and they have been able to charge older and sicker people more. Well the law does not any longer let them give men this kind of advantage so critics keep pointing out how much higher premiums are going to be for those young men. And to some extent that is true. But the people who wrote the law decided that risk in the market should be spread more evenly and that people with lower incomes would be given financial help if they need it.  And the idea is that people will also be getting more in the way of benefits?  That is right which is also the subject of debate. The law requires a minimum set of benefits called essential benefits. Until now particularly in this individual market people could buy very inexpensive insurance but did not cover very much. Sometimes it would have these huge deductibles like 10000 or more or it would only cover a couple of thousand dollars worth of care. So if you had serious problem you might be seriously up a creek. That kind of coverage is now going to be outlawed but more comprehensive coverage costs some more money.  So how long till we know like who is right here?  Well probably not until September. The federal government remember is operating about two-thirds of these exchanges. We keep asking them when they are gonna tell us how much the premiums are going to be and they keep telling us probably not until they have to.  Julie thank you.  Thank you.  NPR's health policy correspondent Julie Rovner. 