 From NPR News this is ALL deleine Brand in California.  I am Melissa Block in Washington. And we begin this hour with a voice from inside the White House on the heated issue of health care. Angry questions and jeers have become the norm at health care forums around the country this month. President Obama will be holding more of his own town hall meetings later this week. But so far he has not faced the angry questioning that lawmakers such as Democrat Arlen Specter have confronted. It happened again today at his town hall in State College Pennsylvania. And yesterday Specter heard these voices in Lebanon Pennsylvania.   You have awakened a sleeping giant.  Amen.  Yes.  We are tired of this. This is why everybody in this room is so ticked off. I do not want this country turning into Russia turning into a socialized country.  We cannot afford this period. Keep the government out of it. We are doing just fine.  To me it is obviously written with the assumption that government has the right to control our lives from pre-birth to death. For that reason it is not worth considering it is not worth modifying it is not worth amending. It is needs to be dumped.   Those voices yesterday at a town hall meeting in Lebanon Pennsylvania. We are going to hear now from the director of the White House Office Of Health Reform Nancy-Ann DeParle who is also counselor to the president. Welcome to the program. Ms.  Thanks good to be here.  And as you listen to the hostility at that town meeting that we just heard how concerned are you that the administration's message about the need for health care overhaul is simply being drowned out? Ms.  Well it is not the administration's message about the need for health care overall it is a message that President Obama heard from the American people and that members of Congress have heard from the American people over the past several years. So what we are talking about Melissa is reforming the insurance market so that when people had a pre-existing condition when they have been sick that they are still able to find affordable choices for insurance. There are questions out there and there is plenty of things that we can have a civil debate on and I think the president is encouraged that people are engaging in that.  When President Obama was in New Hampshire yesterday he was responding to some of what he called wild misrepresentations about health care and I want to play for you one example that he brought up.  The rumor that is been circulating a lot lately is this idea that somehow the House of Representatives voted for death panels that will basically pull the plug on grandma because we have decided that we do not - it is too expensive to let her live anymore.  So pull the plug on grandma and the president went on to explain that is not true. But there are studies that show that paradoxically the more you repeat a myth even if it is to debunk it that you actually can reinforce false information in people's minds. Have you thought about that as you have thought about the message and how much you are repeating what you consider to be misrepresentation that is out there? Ms.  Well I do not think we are repeating them that much. But that is one that really needed to be dealt with that. That - these kinds of misrepresentations are scaring people and they are - it is just wrong to do that. It is really cruel I think in fact to try to suggest to people that this provision in the House bill that simply allows for Medicare to pay when a senior chooses to talk to a professional about end of life care and how they would like their wishes to be respected is totally voluntary. It is something to help families. And it is really cruel to somehow turn that into death panels. That is a part of this debate that I think goes beyond a civil discussion into something that is very different and not not helpful.  With the number of bills that are emerging from Congress and as this debate sharpens is it time now really for the president to be more specific about exactly what he thinks is vital to a final bill? What he would not sacrifice. Ms.  Well I will tell you what he would not sacrifice and he is been clear on that throughout this debate which is he wants a bill that lowers costs and gets everyone covered. And he wants to see it done in a way that offers more choice and competition and affordable plans to Americans. And he wants to build on the existing system. So some of the things you hear at the town halls about single payer or socialism I mean that is obviously not something that he would support and not something that he is been discussing with the Congress and frankly not something that is in any of the bills. But I think he is been clear about what his principles are. And now you are talking about going through line by line each of the bills. The first step that has to happen is that the three bills in the House need to be put together as one bill. And then yes we are going to sit down and engage with the leadership in the House about the things that we like and the things that we would like to see done differently in their bill. But I would say 85 percent of these bills is very similar and all around a consensus of what needs to be done to improve health insurance. So those things we have been clear on and now we need to keep working on the 15 percent that is a little bit more in disagreement.  And in that 15 percent I would think would be one really big issue and that' will there be a public plan or might the president be amenable to something more like a co-op that is been discussed in the Senate? Is the president insistent that a public plan be part of this overhaul? Ms.  Well the president has said that he thought a public plan makes a lot of sense. It was part of his campaign in part because he views it as something that will help ensure that there is choice and competition in the insurance markets. And so there will be some affordable choices available. There are two different models out there maybe three if you count the original House version of this. There is a co-op which is one option for a public plan. That is a consumer-based model that would not be managed by the government. There is the plan in the House and in the Health Committee of the Senate which would involve a public plan that would be run by the HHS Secretary. So there is a couple of models out there that can achieve what the president wants. And we are still looking for the details about the co-op but I am hopeful when I look at that that it is also going to achieve those principles.  You are not sure yet whether the co-op idea from the Senate would be acceptable? Ms.  I am not sure whether it would be. And I do not know whether it will meet the principles and honestly the Senate Finance Committee has not decided that yet either.  Well Nancy-Ann DeParle thanks very much for talking with us today. Ms.  Thank you.  Nancy-Ann DeParle is the director of the White House Office of Health Reform. 