 OK people are attracted to those who have power - who are winners. A new study shows that is true from a very young age. Even toddlers seem to prefer winners - at least a certain kind of winner. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce explains.  We live in a world where some people have more power more prestige. Ashley Thomas is a researcher at MIT and Harvard. She wondered if very young children were tuned into all that.  Recognizing social rank - and then also using it to sort of inform how you interact with people - is an important thing for any individual in a social species.  To see if toddlers could do it she and some colleagues got little kids to watch a puppet show.  Up goes the curtain.  The show had just two puppets.  And they are just shapes with googly eyes. So one of them is a square and one of them is an oval.  One's red and one's yellow.  Yellow.  That is one of the toddlers watching the puppets. They cross the stage from opposite sides and bump into each other.  Oh no.  The kid says oh no.  Uh-oh. Woah.  This little social conflict ends in one of two ways.  Either one of the puppets kind of bows down and moves out of the way allowing the other puppet to pass or one of the puppets pushes the other guy out of the way and passes in front of him.  Then the researcher would show the kids the puppets and ask...  Which one do you like?  They liked the winner - specifically the puppet who won because the other puppet bowed down and yielded. They did not like the puppet who won the conflict through force. After that version of the puppet show they chose the loser.  So it seems like toddlers care about who wins but they also care about how they win.  The finding appears in the journal Nature Human Behavior And it intrigues Kiley Hamlin. She is a researcher at the University of British Columbia. She says it is the first to show that babies prefer those with high status.  I think it is really compelling in how similar it is to what adults do - how much we tend to like celebrities and you know rich people and those who are granted status for various reasons.  She notes that humans do seem to differ from their close primate cousins - apes called bonobos.  Bonobos actually do prefer those who sort of win by beating somebody else off. So they prefer dominant individuals no matter how they achieve their dominance.  For human toddlers it is not enough to have high status. Little kids know it means nothing if you got it for the wrong reasons. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News.  