 When James Harrison was 14 he got really sick. Doctors had to remove his lung and he needed a lot of blood.  I was in hospital for three months and I had a hundred stitches.  He got 13 units of donated blood - almost two gallons. Harrison knew right away that he wanted to give back.  I was always looking forward to donating right from the operation because I do not know how many people it took to save my life but I have never met them did not know them.  So when he turned 18 Harrison started giving blood a lot - every three weeks or so for 11 years. Meanwhile doctors were struggling with cases of something called rhesus. It goes after newborns and the babies get very very sick.  They were just dying. They were dying.  Rhesus disease causes the mother's antibodies to attack her fetus. Scientist needed a way to turn this reaction off and in Harrison's blood they found it - antibodies called anti-D. Doctors believe Harrison has anti-D because of the blood he received at 14. Harrison became the first anti-D donor in Australia and the most prolific.  And I was prepared and wanted to give something back and I have been donating for 60 years.  At this point he is donated enough blood for 2 million babies including his own grandson Scott. And when Scott turned 16 he made his first donation sitting right next to his grandfather who was making donation number 1000.  The whole family are blood donors and that makes you feel proud too.  Harrison is one of only about 50 people in Australia who can donate plasma with anti-D. The Australian Red Cross says that is just enough for the demand and Harrison is 78 years old. At 81 he will have to hang up the needles and retire from donating. Those are the rules. He says others need to step up. If you are healthy why not?  Some people say oh you are a hero. But I am in a safe room donating blood. They give me a cup of coffee and tell me to move along. And then I just go on my way - no problem no hardship.  James Harrison is on vacation right now. He goes up north in his caravan camps on a beach. But he makes sure he knows were the closest donation center is wherever he roams.  I will be going on Tuesday and make my 1106th donation on Tuesday.  One thousand one hundred six and counting. 