 In the war to control the Ebola outbreak in West Africa doctors and health workers man the frontlines. Dozens of them have been infected and many are already dead. In Sierra Leone the death of the country's campaigning Ebola doctor was especially hard to take. Dr. Sheik Humarr Khan cared for dozens of patients before testing positive and dying of the lethal virus last month. NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton has his story.  Everyone you meet tells you what a smiling gracious man Dr. Sheik Humarr Khan was and that he was totally dedicated to his profession and to his branch of medicine virology. He fought infectious diseases and hemorrhagic fevers like Ebola. Dr. Kahn was 39 and a father of two children. He spent 10 years as a physician becoming the leading virologist in Sierra Leone. He risked his own life caring for others in the country's East where the evil outbreak has concentrated. There in June he gave an interview to local journalist Umaru Fofana who asked him about the risks to health workers.   Yes it is always of a concern. But the point here is what we have to understand clearly is the fact that the first point of call for somebody who is ill is the health worker.  But being at the front line of the fight against Ebola was Dr. Khan afraid for his own life or perhaps being infected with the virus? S.  Yes of course I am afraid of my life I must say because I cherish my life. And if you are afraid then you will take the maximum precautions which I am doing.  A month later on July 30 Doctor Khan himself succumbed to Ebola. Sierra Leoneans are hailing him as a national hero. To his close-knit family he was the ninth of 10 children known simply and fondly as Humarr. The 93-year-old father a retired headmaster and mother who is 89 live in Lunghi in a modest house wreathed in lush green foliage. That is where his brother and two sisters spoke about their late brother as the rain poured down outside. First Mariama Khan Lahai.  He was full with life - happy to be a doctor. He was so happy. He was getting closer to the people talking to them - sometimes can help to heal - that is what he told me all the time we talked not knowing that that was the last time we seen each other.  Aissata Khan.  I usually say he is a born doctor. If you are born in it you really have the passion. I think that is Dr. Humarr Khan. He is born a medical doctor. I think he has to - and he died like a doctor.  And their brother C-Ray Khan.  He do not discriminate on people's financial status. The underprivileged go to his hospital to his clinic and he helped them out. He was a good doctor - good man - a very good man. And that is how I will always remember him. He makes me proud he makes his family proud.  Sheik Humarr Khan's colleagues also speak highly of him. Friend and Sierra Leonean cardiologist Dr. James Russel. They met at medical school.  On the 6 of June he told me in categorically in his usual cheerful and ever smiling face that this is what I have been doing over the past six to 10 years. And if I leave who will come in and step into my shoes? I was honestly touched.  Dr. Russel describes his friend from med school days as an extrovert a gentleman with down to earth humble and respectful.  This is a common call to us all - that we medical personnel should always give service to humanity and make sure that greed selfishness should not be the principal objective of our practice.  During Catholic mass this morning a special prayer was read for Ebola victims and patients titled Prayer Against The Dreadful Disease. In an interview afterwards Father Alphonso Carew brought up the name of the late Dr. Sheik Humarr Khan who was a Muslim from a mixed Muslim Christian household.  We have certainty of the death of Dr. Khan a man who became a hero in this country endeavoring to reach out to those who are afflicted and in the cause he lost his life. So my first message to them is a big thank you and we are praying for you.  Sheik Humarr Khan has come to symbolize what is good about Sierra Leone say his compatriots. They hope his legacy will inspire hope in others as the Ebola crisis continues to rage in their country. Ofeibea Quist-Arcton NPR News Lunghi Sierra Leone.  This is NPR News. 