 We are continuing to check in with health care workers still on the frontlines of this pandemic and that includes Grover Nicodemus Street - a military veteran and traveling nurse with the company Fastaff. Back in March after a year of treating COVID patients across the country he told us this.  What I have seen throughout the year I would rather die any other way of dying than dying with coronavirus. It is a sad way to go. And war - war has - war does not even compare to this.  But also in March Street told us he saw some hope after getting immunized.  Having the vaccine has made me feel more comfortable going into the patients' rooms. And you know I feel great. I feel much safer.  We caught up with Street again on assignment at a hospital in Oceanside Long Island where he now says the anxiety he feels on the job is back to where it was this time last year. I asked him what changes he is seen in treating cases now compared to back in the spring.  You know it is so odd to see older people in their 70s and 80s who are vaccinated. They come in with these symptoms but their symptoms are a lot milder than these patients who are in their 30s 40s. I have even seen a 25-year-old. I had a 25-year-old that tested positive that was unvaccinated. My question to them is if you get better and you get through this will you get vaccinated? And they said absolutely because they feel like they are going to die.  Wow. So at least you are seeing people go through these conversions. Like they change their minds about getting vaccinated after they have contracted COVID.  Yes madam.  That is good news right?  Every patient - well it is good news in a sense. But you know it is bad because people who are sick right now did not think they would get sick. People who have died throughout the pandemic last year and who are still dying those are people who said well I am not going to get sick. I am healthy. I am strong. I am not going to get sick. And then now they are on their deathbed. That is scary.  What do you say to them? Like do you try to reason with them?  I tell them - whenever they are on their deathbed and just trying to fight to breathe I really do not want to you know like chastise them and say hey you should have done that. I do not want to point my finger. I hold their hand and I say we are going to get through this. But after we get through this you need to go get vaccinated. This is why we are here and this is why we are having this conversation right now. That is what I tell them.  Yeah. You know again the last time you talked with us another thing that you mentioned was that you were seeing doctors nurses other health care workers quit because the pandemic had gotten so overwhelming for them. Are you still seeing that - many of your colleagues struggling and just wanting to leave health care altogether?  Yes madam. Nurses everywhere and physicians they burn out. And they are quitting the industry left and right. I hope nursing school enrollments increase medical school enrollments increase. Respiratory therapists are under-recognized throughout this pandemic. And it is like they are right there swimming in it. So coronavirus has changed the culture of the world. We need nurses and people in the medical industry because we are not going to have anybody to take care of us.  In the end though Grover how are you taking care of yourself these days? I mean we are a year and a half in. Things are not abating at the moment. How are you - how are you checking in with yourself day after day after day?  I stay active after work. I work out. I am in the gym for a couple hours. I mean I do well by relieving stress that way. And I go for hikes. And then I talk to my wife a lot on the phone and that helps relieve a lot of this anxiety you know? And it is PTSD to the nth degree for everybody. There is - this virus has touched every single person on the planet.  What is the past trauma you think this pandemic is bringing out for people?  First of all the trauma that - the patients and their families of the ones that have passed on. I think the grieving process for something of this nature is going to take a lot longer because a lot of people have in the back of their minds well it could have been prevented if we would have just worn a mask or it could have been prevented if we would have just gotten vaccinated. And the ones that have not seen lost loved ones they lost jobs. They have broken homes. It goes deeper than just health care. You know it is our economy. It is on so many levels that we have been affected by Mother Nature.  Grover Nicodemus Street is a traveling nurse and author of the book  Life As A Travel Nurse In A Global Pandemic. Thank you very much for taking the time again to speak with us.  Yes madam. Thank you and I enjoyed talking with you guys. 