 When you go on vacation do you stop looking at work emails? Or are you possibly one of those people who do not even bother going on vacation? Well if so you are not alone even though a majority of Americans say they are stressed at work. The latest poll showing that comes from NPR the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. It is been known for years that time off can reduce stress but about half of Americans who work 50-plus hours a week say they do not take most of the vacation that they earn. NPR's Patti Neighmond reports.  There is lots of reasons why today's workers feel greater stress than in the past. We are connected 24-7 and lots of our work can be done anywhere. When asked about major issues affecting health at work Harvard health policy professor Robert Blendon says the top issue in our poll was stress.  You realize that people who are in work situations that lead them to feel pressures that actually long-term hurt their health.  Even when people actually take time off - what Blendon describes as the antibiotic for stress - they really do not.  Those who went on vacations 30 percent of them said oh I do a significant work while on vacation. So they are taking their stress along with them wherever they are going.  In our poll one in five workers spend 50-plus hours a week on the job. You would think they would want a break but no.  I am in a position that requires my attention pretty much 24-7.  Twenty-seven-year-old Julie Hagopian works in digital marketing for a large educational company. She adores her job she says but there is no off switch.  In social media marketing I am on-call all the time to moderate to create the content to curate everything. So generally speaking even if I am Technically on vacation I am checking emails and I am moderating our social feeds.  As for the classic one to two weeks off forget it she says. Too many of her colleagues would be burdened by having to pick up her workload and they already have too much to do. Hagopian does take a few days here and there but definitely stays connected. Thirty-three-year-old Adam Rowan does not worry about that. He just does not take off ever.  Just - it is not my thing I guess. That probably sounds strange but I prefer to be at work getting things done. Even when it is slow I am trying to learn new things.  Part of that might have to do with his age. Rowan says most IT workers get their start in their early 20s.  A lot of my peers my age have already had 10 or more years' experience in the field whereas I am just getting started. So that is another reason why I do not take time off - is because I want to learn. I need to learn more to get a foot in the game.  And 35 percent of those polled who work at least 50 hours a week say they do not take all their vacation days because they too want to get ahead. Forty-two percent say there would not be enough people to pick up their workload. And many Hagopian and Rowan say they are one of the only workers expert in systems used by the company. A survey from the staffing firm The Creative Group finds about 40 percent of executives say employees would be more productive if they took more time off. Executive director Diane Domeyer...  I believe that executives truly understand that while we are in a 24-7 connected world - that the movement to occasionally and regularly disconnect from that can actually improve your focus improve your commitment improve your engagement.  Psychologist Matt Grawitch with St. Louis University and the American Psychological Association says it is one thing for employers to recognize the value of vacation and another to make it happen.  It has to involve thinking through how to restructure the work how to utilize technology more effectively how to coordinate vacation times so that the work is still being accomplished and not by that person that is on vacation.  Diane Domeyer says many companies are trying to figure out plans to help employees take time off. Patti Neighmond NPR News. 