 The coronavirus has upended access to health care - online-only consultations closed pharmacies having to wonder whether going into an office is safe. And it is presented particular challenges for women and reproductive health. A third of women in a new survey say they have struggled to get birth control during the pandemic and many said that the pandemic is causing them to rethink their plans to have children. The survey out today is from the Guttmacher Institute a research group that advocates for reproductive rights. I spoke earlier with the study's lead researcher Laura Lindberg. Thanks so much for joining us.  Thank you for having me today.  So first of all why did you want to conduct this study? I mean take us back to early in the pandemic when you began asking women these questions. Was there something you were seeing that tipped you off that there might be a problem?  Yes. So we were already planning to survey women about their contraceptive use. We had a study scheduled to start in late March. And in mid-March when we looked around we thought we cannot possibly talk to women about their contraceptive experiences right now without taking the pandemic into account.  And what did you hear from them?  What we heard from them very clearly was that due to the COVID-19 pandemic far fewer women want to get pregnant and at the same time contraception is harder for them to get. And those two opposing forces mean that people are going to have a harder time delaying pregnancies during the crisis even as more people say they do not want to get pregnant right now.  Right. Your survey found that about a third of women were struggling to get birth control during the pandemic. Those numbers were more pronounced for women of color. So 29 of white women reported challenges compared to 38 of Black women and 45 percent of Latinas. What is the disparity about?  This COVID-19 pandemic has really compounded existing racial inequities in reproductive care. Black and Hispanic women were more likely to face delays or were unable to get contraception or other compared - other care than were white women. This is what health care inequities look like in action. At the same time we should remember that there are also racial inequities through who gets to work from home who risks losing their job whose job is not going to come back immediately even when the stay-at-home orders are lifted.  And the COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted these existing racial disparities that you describe. Is what we are seeing in terms of access to contraception - is it different or worse than before the pandemic?  Yes. I think it is certainly worse than before the pandemic. A couple of things are going on. So one is cost. If you have lost your job right now you may have lost your health insurance and that limits the kind of providers you can go to or access. Transportation child care physically leaving your home are all more difficult right now. That is for individuals. For the health care provider side we know that clinics and pharmacies and health care providers have been closed or have not been providing as much care because of COVID-19. It is harder to get contraceptive care right now than ever before.  What is the upshot of this? Fewer children in the next year? We heard about the possibility of a baby boom from the pandemic. Can you make any predictions based on what you are seeing in the data?  Usually I am not willing to do a crystal ball prediction but in this case I think it is pretty clear we are going to have a baby bust not a baby boom. Women are clearly expressing a desire to have - to delay childbearing right now. And although we are only in the first few months of this pandemic as more time passes I think the fuller effects are still going to unfold and that is going to be a decline in fertility.  So a decline in fertility despite the difficulty getting access to contraception?  Overall there'ill be a decline in fertility. But we need to be concerned about individual women who cannot get the contraception they need to achieve their own fertility goals.  Laura Lindberg is a research scientist at the Guttmacher Institute. Thank you so much.  Thank you. 