 As new coronavirus hotspots emerge around the country we want to focus on this question. Do states have two key weapons they need to contain the pandemic - testing and contact tracing? NPR's Science Desk has been closely tracking both of these things and today is releasing the results of a survey on the contact tracing workforce around the country. NPR health policy reporter Selena Simmons-Duffin is here to tell us about that. Hey Selena.  Hi.  Also health correspondent Rob Stein who has been all over reporting on testing and where that stands - hey Rob.  Hey Mary Louise.  So Selena I am going to get you to talk about those survey results but first - the basics. When it comes to coronavirus keeping the virus in check how are testing and contact tracing connected?  Well testing really comes first. You want to have enough tests that if someone is sick or if they have been exposed they can quickly get a test. And if they are positive they can stay home and not be out in public where they could infect other people. But that is only step one. Then you need contact tracers public health workers who get that sick person to think through all their close contacts and then reaches out to those contacts who may have been exposed so they can stay home and well. And that way people who are sick or exposed know their status and can stay isolated. And if you do not have both of those pieces of the puzzle you are not going to be able to effectively stop the virus from spreading out in the community.  Rob since you are our expert on step one on the testing I want to ask you about that. There was so much reporting early on in this about how we did not have enough tests. People who needed tests could not get them. Everything was falling short. Where does that stand now? Does the U.S. have enough tests? Are we testing enough?  Yeah. Well that is a big question and the answer depends on who you talk to. I spoke today with Adm. Brett Giroir about this. He is the Trump administration's testing czar and he notes that 25 million Americans have now been tested and almost 500000 are now being tested every day. Here's what he said when I talked to him about this.  Testing is in a really good place overall in the country no matter what metric you look at and nobody's ramped up testing as much as we have.  Rob Stein is that true?  Well the public health experts I have been talking to say well you know yes things are definitely much better than they were but we are still nowhere near close to where we really need to be. The U.S. may be testing more than any other country but the U.S. is a huge country and has the biggest coronavirus epidemic in the world by far.  Yeah.  Here's Dr. Marcus Plescia. He is the chief medical officer for the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials.  What we do not have yet is the full-fledged capacity and scale of testing to really do the kind of testing that we would do to get a step ahead of the pandemic and really start to tamp down some of the current levels and particularly to try to tamp down some of the areas where we are seeing increases in infection.  All right - so a couple of perspectives there on testing and what still needs to be done. Selena let me turn you to this survey. You have some new answers today about whether states have enough contact tracers. You surveyed all 50 states and Washington D.C. What did you find?  Right. This was the second time we asked states how many contact tracers they have. In early May there were 11000 tracers across the country and this time we found more than 37000. And that means the workforce has tripled in about six weeks. But when we dug into whether states have enough tracers in most places that staff still comes up short. We used a calculator created by researchers at the George Washington University's Mullen Institute and analyzed the number of tracers in each state with recent COVID cases. So a place that is seeing lots of cases will need more tracers. And our results show that only seven states along with D.C. and the territories of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands currently have enough tracers. And we have a lookup tool on npr.org so you can see how your state stacks up.  That is fascinating. Only seven states have enough tracers. What are the holdups...  Yeah.  ...In the other states? Why are so many states still behind?  A big barrier is money. Early in this epidemic - in you know around April - there were calls for an army of contact tracers funded by billions of dollars. And there was the thinking - OK there are these tens of millions of people who filed for unemployment. Some of these roles are entry-level. There is potential here. But a big initiative from the federal government has just not happened yet. Some funding and coronavirus relief packages could be used for contact tracing but there just has not been the same attention or energy around contact tracing than there is been for testing. And in the absence of that federal leadership and funding states told us they have had to kind of muddle through to find the staff. Some turned to private sources like New York which has support from Bloomberg Philanthropies. Nevada and West Virginia have partnered with local universities. And others are reassigning - other government workers are using volunteers. And beyond funding there is another barrier that this country has which is a really decentralized public health system. In most states local health departments are units of local government. They do not report to the state health departments. And some - so some state health departments like Wyoming told us we really have no idea how many contact tracers we have in this state. And that can create challenges. If there is a spike in cases in a new place and you want to quickly know what your contact tracing capacity is and send reinforcement it helps to know what your starting point is.  Just before we move on from this Selena I am really curious about how this is playing in some of the hotspots the new hotspots we are hearing about like Alabama and Arizona and Texas. What'd you find there?  So according to NPR's analysis none of those states have enough contact tracers and none are planning to hire or reassign more people to do that work. And that finding really concerns Crystal Watson of the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. Here's what she told me.  I worry especially for those places that they will get into a hole quickly that they will not be able to keep up with contact tracing. And then without social distancing measures to control the spread then it will be fairly uncontrolled. And we have not seen what that looks like yet.  So as bad as it is been in the U.S. - so far there have been 2.2 million cases and 118000 deaths - Watson says uncontrolled spread without these public health tools to keep it in check could really be much worse.  It is still just so hard to hear those numbers - 118000 deaths and climbing. I want to end with testing and Rob bring you back in on this and just get another snapshot of where we stand because we are hearing now about places that say they have more tests than they need that they have more testing sites set up than they have people who want tests and also hearing this argument that maybe one thing that explains why cases are rising in so many places is that we are actually doing so much testing the logic being you do more tests you are going to find more cases. Does that logic hold up?  Yeah. So there are places that have gotten enough testing to start trying to recruit people to get tested but that could just be evidence of a problem actually - that the tests are not getting to the people who really need them. Many people and doctors may not realize that the tests are not being rationed the way they were in the beginning. Tests may not be available in some places especially like minority communities or at times that are practical for people. Some people cannot afford the tests and some people are afraid to get tested because a positive test means they will not be able go to work and get stuck at home. And as far as you know whether the testing is driving the apparent hotspots most experts say the surge in cases in some places may be due in part to testing but that does not really explain it. For one thing infections are going up in some places that are not doing more testing like Tulsa Okla. And in places where they are doing testing the percentage of people being tested and testing positive is going up with the testing which is the opposite of what you would expect to see if we were doing enough testing. And that is happening in a lot of the hotspots too.  All right - a little report card there on how several states are doing. That is NPR health correspondent Rob Stein and health policy reporter Selena Simmons-Duffin. Thanks very much to you both.  Thank you.  You bet. 