 Today in our series Rhythm Section we are going to delve into the biological cadences of living creatures. NPR's Jon Hamilton explains how beats in the brain contribute to everything from walking to thinking.  Here we go.  In a dance class in Silver Spring Maryland Lucy Bowen McCauley is helping her students keep the beat.    A brown and yellow basket...  Now let us do two heels. Up down up.    I sent a letter to...  A half dozen bodies move in time with the music. And if you can look inside the brains of these dancers you would see clusters of motor neurons firing in sync with Ella Fitzgerald.    A little girly picked it up and put it in her pocket...  Five six seven. Tap your heel.  Our brains have lots of these internal beats.  The brain absolutely has rhythm.  Nathan Urban is a neuroscientist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.  So for example if you are concentrating high-frequency oscillations - so-called gamma frequency oscillations - turn out to be very important. In other contexts lower frequency oscillations become more and more important.  Urban says all of these oscillations - these rhythmic electrical patterns - begin with individual cells. He says every cell in the brain has its own beat.  They are little clocks. They have an intrinsic frequency.  Some fire once every second. Others up to 200 times a second. All those different beats could produce chaos. One reason they do not is that groups of brain cells tend to synchronize when they need to get something done. So when a mouse is exploring a new place cells begin firing together in areas of the brain involved in navigation and memory. Urban has been studying how brain cells achieve this synchrony. He thinks it works something like this.  Imagine you have a room full of people and you ask them to start clapping OK?   Urban says now imagine that you ask people to clap together. They will start listening to their neighbors and adjusting their rhythms.   Urban says brain cells appear to do something very similar when they need to work together and brain rhythms often control body rhythms. Eve Marder at Brandeis University records and studies the electrical activity in nerve cells that produce repetitive muscle movements in crabs.  If you walked into my laboratory and if I took the electrical recordings and plugged them into an audio monitor you would hear something like brrr brrr brrr brrr.  That is the firing pattern that controls a crab's digestive system.  It turns out that the stomach of a crab is a very very complicated mechanical device.  It does not just digest food. It also chews it and filters it. This requires the crab's nervous system to coordinate 42 different sets of muscles.  So it is really sort of a biomechanical wonder.  And Marder says the way a crab processes lunch has a lot in common with the way a ballerina does plies. Both actions rely on circuits of nerve cells that fire in a sequence.  So that you get a one two three - one two three - one two three. Muscle one muscle two muscle three - muscle one muscle two muscle three - patterns of movement.  Necessary for both digestion and dance. Mark Churchland at Columbia University says rhythmic sequences are also needed for pretty much any form of locomotion.  You sort of have no choice but to move somewhat rhythmically right? You need to put your foot down push it back lift it up put it down push it back again. Or you know if you are a fish you swish your tail to the side. It is got to come back again. It is just sort of very hard to imagine any way of doing continuous locomotion that was not built on a rhythmic underpinning.  Churchland says the brain appears to use rhythms as a kind of shorthand. Instead of sending instructions that include each muscle contraction needed to take a step it just says activate the walking rhythm. What is interesting he says is that the brain seems to use this rhythmic shorthand for some motions that do not appear rhythmic at all like reaching.  You start with your hand in one place and you move your hand to another place. There is nothing rhythmic about that.  But when Churchland took a closer look he found something really surprising.  That pattern of muscle activity is the sum of two rhythms.  Churchland says certain brain rhythms are problem. For example people with Parkinson's disease tend to develop abnormal patterns associated with severe tremor.  Clearly they have a pathological rhythm that is you know large enough and strong enough to be quite harmful.  And that brings us back to Lucy Bowen McCauley's dance class.   This is a class specifically for people with Parkinson's. Anne Davis is a retired teacher who is had the disease for more than 15 years.  You will notice I am holding my hands behind my back.  To hide her tremor. Davis says Parkinson's has given her lots of reasons to think about rhythm and the brain.  My doctor says he can tell a Parkinson's tremor from any other kind. And that is rhythm in itself so that is pretty interesting.  A few months ago Davis had surgery to implant a device that sends high-frequency electrical impulses to the part of the brain causing her tremor. Scientists think the fast pulses somehow override the much slower rhythm that makes her hands shake. Deep brain stimulation also can help Parkinson's patients with what is called freezing. Davis asks her friend and classmate Phyllis Richman to help describe what that is.  You are trying to go forward or sideways or whatever and you are feet will not move.  So then you fall.  But musical rhythms have a remarkable ability to help Parkinson's patients unfreeze. Lucy Bowen McCauley says she is seen that herself.  Two times I have had people really have trouble walking down the hall to get to the class. And I have gone in the lobby and we hum a tune and I hang onto their arm. And one time I did a march. One time I did a waltz. And we got in sync with the rhythm and they were able to get their feet to match.  Of course dance does not halt the brain damage caused by Parkinson's. But McCauley says it does offer people a temporary respite from their symptoms.  When we give them images and warm-ups and use music these dancers - these Parkinson patients become dancers. And they look graceful and they can move in rhythm.  Anne Davis puts it another way.  I come here because this is where I get joy and almost nowhere else when you think about it.  Thanks to the rhythms in her brain. John Hamilton NPR News.  Oh you are so musical you guys. Thank you so much.      A-tisket a-tasket a brown and yellow basket. I sent a letter to my...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 