 Back in 1909 the Boston Post held an unusual publicity stunt. They sent canes made of ebony and capped with gold to 700 small New England towns with instructions that they be given to the oldest citizen of that town and passed on after their death. The Boston Post folded 60 years ago but the cane tradition has continued. As Daniel Rosinsky-Larsson reports some of the cane-bearers are not exactly thrilled with the honor.  I am the oldest person in the town of Minot.  This is Noella Hemond. She was awarded the Boston Post cane in rural Minot Maine in 2014. She is 95 years old.  That is the only reason - because you are the oldest person. It is not that you did a lot. It is not that you are famous. It is just that you are old.  Noel's still accomplished a lot in almost a century of life. She donated a fire truck to Minot and set up a scholarship for local students and her dairy farm was selected as the best in Maine by the state's largest milk company. Years ago she asked if she was next in line for the cane.  When I was 75 I had asked now how far down the line am I? And they said oh you are pretty far down the line. But you will be surprised how the old people die fast. This one's ahead of you this one's ahead of you - whoops. There you come right up on the top.  Today some people say getting the cane is like a kiss of death. Some towns have retired the award altogether since no one wanted it. Dana Lee presented the cane several times when he was town manager of Mechanic Falls Maine.  Sometimes unfortunately people were kind of sad to see us. It was almost like you know the Grim Reaper's at my and they have got the cane and that means that I am probably not long for the world. You know I would go home from those things and it would tear at me a little bit.  Dana says the kind of life people had lived determined if they would accept the cane with gratitude or fear. He found the people who were healthy and had good relations with their neighbors were happy with the award. But he says old people today often are not close to the people in their communities.  Now people are very mobile. You know they come into town - you might have 100-year-old or you know a very old person that rents an apartment in town for a while. And then maybe they are only there a year but during that year you find out about them they get the cane. Nobody even knows their name because they are transient.  Acton Maine is a small town of just a few streets on the Maine and New Hampshire border. Louise Horne's the oldest person there. She is 95 and she is lived there since 1949. But she is seen Acton change as new people built vacation homes on the surrounding lakes. She thinks that diminishes the value of receiving the cane.  We have so many people that come from other states and they do not - it does not mean anything to them. And I think you need to live in the town for a certain number of years to feel as though it is an honor.  But Louise says older residents of the town know her from the nursing services she provided back when Acton was more isolated.  I did a lot just because there was no doctor around. I worked with the doctors in the hospital so they knew me. And so they would say well when so-and-so has too much pain and needs a shot why do not you give it? And I used to do that.  Louise was proud to receive the Boston Post cane two years ago.  I got mine hanging up there so anybody can see it. And I think people do that and they talk about it more.  As more seniors move into nursing homes and new communities it is become harder to find people who appreciate an award for being old. But in many of New England's small towns the Boston Post cane remains a celebration of a rich and long life. For NPR News I am Daniel Rosinsky-Larsson. 