 Things are tense in Liberia where there are now more than 970 reported cases of Ebola. This morning a riot broke out in one neighborhood of the capital Monrovia. Officials had just imposed a quarantine on the community known as West Point. Security forces had come to help escort a handful of people out of the quarantined area attracting an angry crowd. NPR's Nurith Aizenman and Nicole Beemsterboer were there when the riot broke out.   Where is Nurith? She is up there on the left.  Get in.   Oh my God.  Nurith Aizenman joins us now from Monrovia. And Nurith what did we just hear there? What was happening?  Well what you heard there was producer Nicole Beemsterboer and myself trying to extricate ourselves from the riot. But let me take you back. We had gotten permission to go into West Point. And we had made our way past several blockades that security forces had set up sealing off the neighborhood. And we were walking along one of two very narrow roads in West Point. And to paint the picture this is an extremely poor densely-packed neighborhood. The area consists of a small finger of land jutting out from central Monrovia into the Atlantic Ocean. So as we were walking up that road we saw the group of police escorting a local official and her family including several children out. And right on their heels was a throng of very angry people. They were shouting and they started throwing chunks of concrete and smaller rocks and things escalated almost immediately. Everyone started rushing towards us. Security forces started firing shots in rapid succession. At least one person was shot. He was a young teenager. He looked about thirteen.  And what were people angry about? Explain this. What was the grievance there?  Well resentment had been building for some time now. One of the most recent grievances was the government had opened a holding facility for people with symptoms of Ebola right in the heart of the neighborhood. People were upset because the government had not explained what the purpose was. Officials were also bringing in suspected Ebola cases from other neighborhoods and the facility was not providing care. It was just there to isolate people. It had essentially become a dumping ground for people with Ebola. People were dying there. Then over the weekend a crowd stormed that facility. They carried off supplies including mattresses covered in blood which may have been highly infectious. Ebola is spread by contact with an infected person's bodily fluids including blood. And now these people were being put under complete quarantine - no one in no one out for at least three weeks. They are essentially being told you have a deadly and contagious disease running through your neighborhood and you cannot leave. So this place was a pressure cooker.  Well are any actions being taken to relieve that frustration and all that pressure?  Well I met with one of the top officials of Liberia's national police just a short while ago and he tells me that he has had meetings with elders and other community leaders from West Point since the riot. And he says they are working on a plan to make the quarantine less onerous. That is going to include beefing up the police presence to keep the peace in the neighborhood and also providing food and other supplies. But it is worth noting that this is a community of tens of thousands of people and so far it is unclear when or frankly even whether the first food delivery is going to occur.  I think I am asking you something now that a lot of people listening are wondering which is are you and Nicole our producer - are you safe from Ebola being in this quarantine area right now?  Well I mean we are obviously taking every precaution that we can while still making every effort to find out what is going on and tell our listeners the story. What we are doing is making sure that we avoid contact with any persons. You really do not want to touch anyone and you do not want to touch anything. So we walk around with big thick rubber boots and we are very very careful about not entering homes and not touching anyone. But you know it is a challenging story to cover. That is for sure.  I will say. Thank you very much for that report. That is NPR's Nurith Aizenman who with producer Nicole Beemsterboer is in Monrovia Liberia. 