 There is no cure for COVID-19. There is one drug scientifically shown to help a bit but researchers are hunting for better ones. And now they are testing some of those in people. NPR's science correspondent Joe Palca is here to tell us more about where we stand with COVID-19 treatments. Hey Joe.  Hey Mary Louise.  I am going to let you start with the one drug that I mentioned that is shown to help a little bit.  Yeah. It is called remdesivir. It does show - they have shown that it shortens a stay in the hospital from 15 days to 11 days but it does not reduce mortality. And I know that scientists and patients for that matter would like to have something better. This is good but it is still not what you would call a cure. So they are looking for better things.  So in terms of things that are actually far enough along that they might actually show up at hospitals soon what are we looking at?  Well Actually some of these are in hospitals some as being tested there and some under what is called compassionate use or emergency use. One is called convalescent plasma. This is plasma that is taken from patients who have gotten sick with COVID-19 and then recovered. And their blood or their plasma is full of the antibodies that helped them recover from the disease. And so if you take their plasma and give it to somebody who is sick the hope is that that will help them get better. And this is actually been used in other infectious diseases and it does work to some degree. The other thing that is happening is people are taking that plasma and they are concentrating it and turning it into a drug which can be delivered instead of you know a bag of blood.  Right. And then I mentioned there are other things that are being tested maybe are not actually being used in hospitals yet. What else is actually looking promising?  Not routinely. Not routinely used in hospitals. Well one is an antiviral. So remdesivir is a drug that blocks the ability of the virus to replicate. So is this drug with the terrific name of EIDD-2801.  Wow.  It was developed -  yeah I know. It was developed at Emory University and it is now being marketed by Ridgeback Biotherapeutics. And Merck the big pharmaceutical company has joined in. And that says to me at least that they see great promise there. It is being tested in clinical trials in the U.K. and it seems to be showing great promise. It is also shown to work at least in animal studies previously with SARS which was also a coronavirus-caused illness. And so there is hope that it might work there.  Right. I mean the question on all of our minds is for treatment that might be ready and ready soon what else are you keeping your eye on?  Well actually there is something called a monoclonal antibody which is a synthetic version of the antibodies that our bodies make. And there is one monoclonal antibody that is already begun testing in humans. There are others that are coming along very soon. There are more than a dozen others that are coming. These are drugs that have been used to treat other human diseases and they actually do look quite promising in animal studies. And they are anxious to try them or eager to try them in humans as well.  So many things to watch in the pipeline. Thank you for the update Joe.  You are welcome. And there is more to come. We have not stopped yet.  Not yet no. Not until we get that cure. That is NPR's Joe Palca reporting. 