 I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Mary Louise Kelly with the latest installment in our Medical Bill of the Month series. NPR along with Kaiser Health News has received nearly a thousand of your bills. They are often complicated. They are often expensive. A dozen listeners sent in bills for their air ambulance rides. Now these stories are remarkably similar. A helicopter company charges tens of thousands of dollars for a ride insurance pays only a fraction the patient gets billed for the rest. NPR's Alison Kodjak brings us one of those stories. And a warning - there are graphic descriptions of a wound.  Dr. Naveed Khan is a radiologist in the Dallas suburbs and his life has changed in a lot of ways since he lost his left arm in December like how he cares for his 1-year-old son.  How do I hold him while he is crying and at the same time heat up his bottle?  He now depends on his wife to help him dress.  She helps me put on things in the morning when I get going. I mean she is there at night when I need her.  And there is at least one thing that he does not miss.  I have not changed a poopy diaper since I got home from the hospital . That used to be my job - all the poopy diapers.  Khan and his wife Ayesha have three preschool-age kids. They live a typically busy life of two professionals with young children.  Come on hurry eat it .  But I am not hungry right now.  When I visit them in their suburban Dallas home they have just picked up the kids from day care and are feeding them takeout.  You want more? Yeah. No oh do not spit.  .  We sit down and talk about his accident. He had gone to Wichita Falls with a friend to ride ATVs. It is about two hours from Dallas near the Oklahoma border. They went riding along the banks of the Red River. And then his friend told him to take the wheel.  And he said all right you get in the driver's seat because at that point he had mostly been doing the driving.  Khan did a few circles in the sand and then turned back and the ATV tipped over.  In a second I was on my side realized that I could not move my arm much.  He worked his way out of his seatbelt and took off his jacket.  And when I looked down on my arm I had about a 6-inch-wide exposed flesh gap that I could see below on my forearm. And I could see muscle. I could see the fat. I could see the skin and blood was pooling around it.  Khan and his friend are both doctors and they could see that this was serious but they were pretty far from the road. So they made a tourniquet from his jacket. Then they struggled to get the ATV upright and on the trail again.  I slumped into the side and he just let it rip. And then we just went as fast as we could. He was just gunning it.  When they reached the road he got into an ambulance.   The ambulance brought Khan here to the emergency department at the United Regional Health Care System in Wichita Falls. They told him that they could not treat him here and he would need to go to the trauma center in Fort Worth by helicopter.  They took one look at it and said that is one of the worst forearm injuries we have ever seen.  Khan by now groggy from painkillers asked the doctor how much it would cost.  And he said I have no idea. And I think they told either my friend or someone that look he needs to stop asking questions. He needs to get on that helicopter. He does not realize how serious this injury is.  The helicopter brought him to the John Peter Smith Hospital in Fort Worth. Rajesh Gandhi the head of trauma surgery there shows me where Khan landed.  This is our helicopter pad.  Gandhi says in Khan's case speed was important because the blood flow to his arm was compromised.  If there is no blood going that means there is no oxygen. There is no oxygen that means those cells are going to die.  Khan spent three weeks at JPS hospital. He had eight surgeries to try to save his arm. But in the end they were not successful. His arm was amputated in December. Still his doctor says time was crucial to any hope of saving it and the helicopter added to that hope but it came with a price. The helicopter company Air Evac Lifeteam called Khan just three days after the flight while he was still lying in his hospital bed.  They said it was going to cost over 50000 and said yeah how do you want to pay for it?  The bill was 56000. Khan's insurance paid 12000 so he still owes 44000. So how did Air Evac Lifeteam come up with that price? The company would not do a recorded interview so I asked Rick Sherlock. He is the executive director of the Association of Air Medical Services. He says the average cost for an air ambulance ride is 10200.  But that number needs to be placed in context. You know it costs roughly 3 million a year to run an air medical base.  He says Medicare which accounts for about half the air ambulance rides pays only about 6500 and Medicaid pays even less.  You have to solve the problem of the vast under-reimbursement.  So Air Evac Lifeteam and other medevac companies try to get people like Khan who have insurance and maybe a good income to pay the difference. But Dr. Ira Blumen says those helicopter rides do not need to cost that much.  I think overall we have too many helicopters serving the continental United States.  Blumen is an ER doctor and runs the air ambulance program at the University of Chicago and he tracks the industry more closely than just about anyone. He says the number of air ambulances grew dramatically in the early 2000s when private equity companies started buying them up and expanding.  It is true that what Medicare reimburses is below that range of 10000 to 12000 that it would cost per flight. But if they were doing more flights because there were fewer aircraft then there would be a better ratio for the reimbursement.  He says that in the 1990s helicopters generally flew more than 500 patients a year. At that rate each ride today would cost less than 6000. When I explain all this to Naveed Khan he is angry.  It is random. It is arbitrary. It is whatever price they want to set. And to put that on a person who is already been through what I have been through it is - I hate to say it but it is cruel.  Alison Kodjak NPR News.  And if you have a medical bill you want to share with us and with our partners at Kaiser Health News you can do that. You can do it online at NPR's Shots blog. 