 As the delta variant spreads across the country fights have flared over what protective measures should be in place. Should there be more mask mandates? Should big gatherings be banned? Should restaurants close? There are no clear answers that apply in all situations but researchers have learned some lessons about what measures actually work to slow down the virus. NPR's Selena Simmons-Duffin explains.  If you have ever felt confused over the course of the pandemic trying to keep track of which restrictions were on at a given moment in your community - like still no indoor dining - right? - masks at the grocery store - no? - then consider this feat. A team of researchers at the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University created a database of every statewide restriction and every time restrictions were lifted in all 50 states plus D.C. since last March.  I mean truly this was a labor of love.  Seema Lakdawala was one of the project leads. Usually she studies influenza transmission at the University of Pittsburgh like lab work.  We are mostly an experimental lab where we do a lot of molecular virology and animal-model-based transmission studies.  But when she and her staff were home like everyone else in March of 2020 they got curious about what impact these restrictions would have on transmission of the virus. They started scouring state websites for restriction announcements.  So we came up with a rubric to say well how strong were the interventions based on multiple categories - masking gathering size bans state-at-home orders closing non-essential businesses restaurant and bar closures restrictions.  Then she decided they needed help figuring out what it all meant so she phoned a friend.  My name is Rebecca Nugent. I am the head of the Department of Statistics  Data Science at Carnegie Mellon University.  With a full team assembled one of the ways they crunched the numbers was to graph out for each state how cases and deaths grew those curves that show peaks during a surge and then mark when restrictions were put in place or lifted to show whether restrictions helped to flatten the curves. It turned out...  It worked. They have an impact. They are contributing to the control of the spread.  Granted timing is really important. The researchers found it was better to put restrictions in early before a surge had really had a chance to heat up and then keep them in place for a while. It took about four weeks or so before they started to pay off. Lakdawala explains they also found there seemed to be a sweet spot. When states had several kinds of moderate restrictions in place for long enough that worked particularly well.  Some level of masking some level of restaurant or bar restrictions and some level of gathering size bans - those we think are the critical three.  What they could not figure out was whether some restrictions are better than others like are restaurant closures more important than limiting the size of gatherings? Because a lot of times the restrictions went into place as a package so they could not tease apart the impact of one versus another. Melissa McPheeters an epidemiologist at RTI International who was not involved in the research calls the database this team made a terrific resource especially since even though there are now highly effective vaccines available at the moment...  We do not have enough people vaccinated and we do not have enough people who can be vaccinated. Think about all the children who are not eligible yet. And so we need to do combinations of things.  That might look like getting vaccinated and masking keeping gatherings small good handwashing good ventilation and the rest because even though delta is highly contagious and taking off across the country all of these tools to flatten the curve do still work. Selena Simmons-Duffin NPR News.  