 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  NPR's Brenda Wilson has this story.  In 2000 just a couple hundred-thousand people in developing countries were getting antiretrovirals the drugs that keep HIV from progressing to a deadly condition and now more than four million are in treatment. Teguest Guerma the interim HIVAIDS director for the World Health Organization says that is a 39 percent increase in one year.  The greatest gains were seen in sub-Saharan Africa where two-thirds of the HIV infections occur. An estimated 2.9 million people were receiving treatment at the end of 2008.  There is one area in which more progress has been made than in others. Forty five percent of pregnant women are enrolled in programs that help prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Dr. Chewe Luo is the senior advisor for HIVAIDS to UNICEF.  What is even more exciting is that you find that in Africa the percentage of women from east and southern Africa is actually much higher it is over 50 percent. And that is where much of the burden of HIV is. These are countries that have very limited capacity to deliver on some of these programs but we continue to see progress.  Despite the progress 5 million people are still in need of treatment at a time when programs are threatened by the global recession. Take South Africa the country with the largest treatment program it also has the largest burden of HIVAIDS. Now 600000 are getting treatment though 1.5 million actually needs the drugs. Dr. Robin Wood of the Desmond Tutu HIV Center in Cape Town works with people who have both HIV and tuberculosis. He is worried that in a bad economy Western countries may renege on promises for universal access to AIDS drugs.  Initially there was a lot of reticence. It was thought that we would not be able to run programs in developing world that patient population would not be able to take therapy. And we have shown that they can. We have shown that we can run very large programs.  Can we keep the focus and keep the funding and keep the political will to move forward?  Brenda Wilson NPR News. 