 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand.  And I am Melissa Block. The fury over health care continues to boil over at town hall meetings. Senator Arlen Specter today got an earful from constituents in Lebanon Pennsylvania including this question.  I did not want to pay on a health care plan that includes the right for woman to her unborn baby.   Is it true that this plan is in the health care bill?   Senator Specter pointed out that the Senate has not yet voted on a bill. One idea he said is to have options.  If you want to have a health care plan which does not have payment for abortions you can have that one where you will not be charged for somebody who has an abortion. Now if you want a different health care plan an option where you can have payment for abortion and you pay for it because there would be a little bigger premium you have the choice of being in one plan or the other.  We are going to truth-squad this issue now with Robert Farley who is written about this for the nonpartisan fact-checking Web site politifact.com. Robert welcome to the program. Mr.  Oh thanks.  And let us talk about the bill that has been approved in the House. It includes an amendment from Democratic Congresswoman Lois Capps in trying to make the bill abortion neutral. First of all in the public plan under that bill is abortion coverage required? Mr.  It is not required but it is allowable.  Okay. So not prohibited not mandated. Mr.  That is right. There are lots of versions as you know of the health care plan that are kicking around in Congress. But interestingly none of them initially even mentioned the word abortion until this latest version took on this issue last week.  We should explain that the public plan that is being discussed for health care is not like Medicaid. It is not government-funded but there would be some government subsidies for low-income people to buy insurance. So that does bring up the money question that that questioner in Pennsylvania was alluding to. Would taxpayer dollars in fact be paying for abortion through subsidies to those people who are insured? Mr.  Well this Capps Amendment seeks to answer that question by segregating the money that would be used to cover abortions. It would specifically prohibit federal dollars from being used to subsidize abortions. Any of that money that would be used for abortion coverage would have to be paid through the premiums paid by an insured person.  So not from government funding. Mr.  That is the idea.  Robert you heard Senator Specter's explanation there of the two options given to people - truth-squad that for us did he have it right? Mr.  Yes. According to the Capps Amendment there would be options available for people who wanted to have abortion coverage as well as for those who do not. In fact it is required that every region offer one of each type plan.  One that offers it and one that does not. Mr.  Exactly yes.  You know abortion rights advocates point this out that if you look at private insurance plans now most of them cover abortion. And they say look if you take that away you will be taking benefits away from people who get them now. Mr.  Exactly. Studies have shown that somewhere between 45 and 80 percent of the women who have health care coverage through their companies currently get abortion coverage. And so the argument then is that if the government plan were to disallow that you would essentially be stripping that coverage from people who already - who currently get that.  Well when you put the statements that are being made out there through your Truth-O-Meter as you call it on politifact.com where do you end up on this question of abortion and plans for heath insurance overhaul? Mr.  Well we specifically looked at the question of whether federal tax dollars will be used to subsidize abortions. And that kind of language is not in any of the versions of the plan that are kicking around in Congress. And specifically the House version with the Capps Amendment states that no federal funds could be used to subsidize abortions. And so we ruled that false.  Robert Farley thanks very much. Mr.  Well thank you.  Robert Farley is the staff writer for politifact.com. 