 And now to a widespread problem in hospitals. Usually it is high drama mistakes that end up in headlines such as the amputation of the wrong limb or a surgical tool left inside a body.  it is patients falling down. From member station WBUR Sacha Pfeiffer reports.  About a year ago something tragic happened at Fairview Hospital in Western Massachusetts. Ms.  All of a sudden out of nowhere we heard a humongous thud. And not only did we hear it but we felt it throughout the whole unit.  Nurse Ellen Beckwith was working on that floor. Ms.  So we all went running and this little lady had gotten up. And we are not sure if she had stood and turned or just stood and fell but fell backwards. And we have closets that have a metal sill and she had hit the back of her head on that sill.  The patient who had fallen was 90 years old. At first she seemed fine. She was awake and talking and her only complaint was a sore back. An hour and a half later that all changed. Ms.  All of a sudden she went unresponsive and vomited. And she was never responsive after that. She died not long into the early morning hours.  The cause of death was a traumatic brain injury from the fall. The accident was devastating for Fairview staff. So the hospital decided that even though it already had a fall prevention program it could be more aggressive. Ms.  These are our rooms and our little stars on the outside.  you know that this person in this particular room is a fall risk.   outside several rooms are big stars made of bright yellow construction paper. Ms.  You can look in and see on the closet there is a yellow sheet. That individual is somebody that is a high high fall risk so they should be being rounded on every half hour versus every hour.  All patients admitted to Fairview are evaluated for the risk of falling then they are re-evaluated daily.  bed alarms. If a patient at risk of falling tries to get out of bed unattended   that blaring tune sends nurses running to help. And these precautions are not just for elderly people. Debra Schermerhorn is only 45 but even she felt unsteady a day after gall bladder surgery at Fairview. Ms.  When you start getting up your feet are not where they should be and you really could feel that all the oars were not in the water. You are dopey for lack of a better word.  Patient falls are the most common injuries reported in hospitals. So many hospitals are making simple changes - for example no diuretics before bedtime. That is because a full bladder might tempt patients to make a nighttime bathroom trip by themselves - a classic scenario for a fall. Some hospitals avoid drugs that could impair a patient's balance. They are also using beds that can be lowered to the floor so that if patients fall out they will not fall far. All this patient protection is not just happening out of benevolence. In some states hospitals now have to publicly report their fall rates. There' Medicare will no longer pay for costs related to certain hospital falls. Those falls can add more than 4000 in excess charges per hospitalization. But Sharon Inouye a Harvard Medical School professor worries these fall prevention efforts could have a dark side. Dr.  My concern is that in the desire to prevent falls from occurring hospital staff may want to do things like put up more restraining devices or not let people get up out of bed.  Instead Inouye wants hospitals to get patients up and walking as soon as possible because when a person is confined to bed Dr.  They lose muscle mass. They start to get weak. They lose their balance ability and that of course predisposes to falls.  Many hospitals say they restrain patients only as a last resort. They say these other techniques are helping reduce falls. And now that hospitals' reputations and financial health are on the line that is strong incentive to keep driving those fall rates down. For NPR News I am Sacha Pfeiffer. 