 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  Hi Julie.  Hi Madeleine. You know for all the complications about Medicare - and boy there are a lot of complicated things about it - it is really a very simple paradox. The people who have it there is 45 million of them really really love it. The problem is that what they really really love about it makes it really really expensive. And so it is really not fiscally sustainable. But I went to New York to talk to one of those people who really really really love it. Her name is Audrey Bernfield. And we took a little walk around her neighborhood in Chelsea on Manhattan's West Side.  There are a lot of little shops. There is a very nice jewelry store and a very funny fabric store and a wonderful paella restaurant.  Bernfield is from Chicago by way of Maryland California and Boston. She says New York is by far the easiest to get around.  I do a lot of walking. And I think that that is what I like about New York is it is a wonderful walking city. And it is a healthy place to live. I read somewhere that we live five years longer.  To see the 71-year-old Bernfield charging up and down the street you would never know she is actually a two-time cancer survivor. But back upstairs in her cozy new condo she is as upbeat about her medical situation as she is about her new hometown.  In 1994 I had breast cancer and then I was free and clear until about three years ago when I got a recurrence on the same side. And then it metastasized to bones but it is very much under control. I feel I have the kind of physicians who said this is a chronic disease and we are dealing with it and if one thing does not work another does. And I feel very confident that they are going to take care of me.  Another thing Bernfield says works for her is her Medicare insurance coverage. Sometimes it even provides more coverage than she realized.  I had a prescription to get a new prosthesis because I had a mastectomy. And the woman said but you are also entitled to six bras. I said excuse me? She said you are entitled to six bras with this. But I said who needs six bras? So now I have a brown one and a red one and white one.  Bernfield's life has not been without its challenges. After she married her high school sweetheart and moved to Maryland she wanted to study international affairs at a local university.  But they told me that I would not get accepted as a full-time graduate student because that place was saved for men.  Bernfield left the admissions office in tears but she did not give up. She eventually rose to become the head of undergraduate advising at Stanford University and later helped students at Harvard Medical School design research projects. After her husband died in 2002 she waited a year before deciding to move to New York. That is where her grandchildren live. One thing that made her moving decision easier is the fact that her Medicare coverage follows her no matter where in the country she goes. But now that she is in New York family is not the only thing in Bernfield's life. She spends a lot of time volunteering for a women's group. Among other things she counsels women about their own health care.  I like to talk to people about how to talk to their doctor. And especially with Medicare sometimes doctors do not take it. That is when the problem comes.  Bernfield found her own doctors the old-fashioned way. She called a friend.  Then she referred me to somebody who was fabulous who then referred me to the next doctor. You know so all of the people that I go to know each other and collaborate and take care of me. And unfortunately I have needed a lot of different services and it is worked perfectly.  Well not always perfectly. Bernfield has Medicare and a supplemental policy from Harvard where she last worked for which she pays about 200 a month. And she is been treated by a couple of doctors in New York who do not accept Medicare so she had to pay upfront and wait for Medicare to reimburse her.  I walked out of one experience like that and said what if I could not pay? Then would I have to go home and find another doctor who would take my Medicare? And by this time the problem that I have is going to grow and it is really a significant problem.  Bernfield says she is not at all worried about claims that the bills now under consideration in Congress might cut back on her Medicare benefits. She says she hates it when other people complain about all the things government cannot do well.  In fact public libraries are government too as are schools. And we are very proud that we have them.  Meanwhile Bernfield says she is happy with the way things are. She has good medical care satisfying work to do and time to spend with her children and grandchildren whose pictures cover the top of a bureau in her bedroom.  This is my daughter-in-law and my grandson who is 4 and my sons. So there is Jim Camilla and Julian.  She says she is loving watching her grandchildren grow.  And you never realize how kids look growing. I mean you miss six months and you have missed a whole part of their lives. So I hope Medicare stays healthy for a long long time because I am planning to take advantage of it.  That was 71-year-old Audrey Bernfield. 