 Nearly 2000 people have died from the Ebola outbreak in West Africa but 16-year-old Shacki Kamara was an accidental victim. He did not die from the virus. He died from gunshot wounds suffered when Liberian security forces imposed a lockdown on a shantytown in the capital. NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton has been speaking with his aunt who is still asking why.  The day began peacefully despite the West Point neighborhood being under Ebola quarantine. Eva Nah sent her nephew Shacki out to the local shop to buy her tea for breakfast. Next thing she knew the 16-year-old had been shot.  They shoot him. The soldier shot him. The bullet penetrated his leg and came through the front and bust the entire leg.  Shacki was shot in West Point the densely populated shantytown in Monrovia where a quarantine was imposed last month. Angry residents opposed the transfer of suspected Ebola patients from other parts of the city to a holding facility in their community. They attacked and looted the health center. Shortly after the slum area was sealed off by the security forces. Eva Nah says everything was quiet at first.  So I in the process of waiting for the person who makes the tea. That was when a riot came from inside West Point. And he got caught up in the mix.  Shacki's 63-year-old aunt first heard the news of his shooting from neighborhood children and then from her oldest son.  Then my son came running there and he came to me and said oh Mom I heard that they shot Shacki. And he ran there. And then the other man said do not some any closer. If you come any closer I will shoot you.  Meanwhile the teen was laying on the street bleeding. An ambulance eventually arrived and picked him up says the aunt. She says she raised Shacki from the age of 2 after the death of her sister and brother-in-law. She says he helped her with her work selling ice water to local residents in West Point.  I feel so bad. Shacki was everything to me. He was a great help to me. I normally sell cold water in the cooler. And every morning Shacki will wake up go and get my - get me the cold water to sell. Now Shacki is dead. I have no one to help me.  She blames the army for Shacki's death. But his wounds were treatable and his death highlights a serious problem here in Liberia. He sought medical treatment at two hospitals. The already fragile postwar health system has been simply overwhelmed by Ebola. Liberia's chief medical officer Dr. Bernice Dahn.  It is true that it is tough for us right now. It is true that people are dying from treatable conditions. Prior to the outbreak of Ebola Liberia had made significant gains when it comes to routine health care services. But at the moment it is difficult.  His aunt maintains Shacki did not get the medical care he deserved.  No no no no. He did not get no treatment - no treatment they gave him.  President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf went to West Point during the quarantine and personally apologized to his aunt. Eva Nah says she is heard nothing from the army.  I feel so bad. I am hurt. Every day I wake up. I cry because I feel bad that Shacki has left me. My neighbors come to comfort me. Only God can take me through.  Ofeibea Quist-Arcton NPR News Monrovia. 