 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. Rural hospitals across the country are struggling to keep their doors open. Voters in Modoc County in the remote northeastern corner of California will soon decide whether to tax themselves to save their local hospital. The county has gone broke trying to keep the hospital open and that has led to a fractious debate in a proudly conservative frontier community. From member station KQED Sarah Varney reports.  The hospital hallways here like the nights are quiet. It is been years since pregnant women could deliver their babies at Modoc Medical Center. A surgeon comes just twice a month to do simple procedures. Even the helicopter pad is sprouting weeds. But it is no exaggeration to say that the county hospital in Alturas even with its limited services is a lifeline to the people who live here. The closest full-service hospitals are hours away and the nearby medical centers over the mountains are often unreachable during winter storms. Ms.  You have got to have something.  Vicky Smith moved here as a young girl. She is now 61 and owns the Main Street Family Diner. Ms.  There is a lot of retired people here a lot of them. And if they do not have medical they will have to leave.  The talk of the diner and elsewhere in the remote Pit River Valley is the fiscal calamity that could force the hospital to close and the county to go bankrupt. An outside audit found that county supervisors improperly used restricted funds to bail out the hospital which was losing millions of dollars a year. Now the county has to pay back some 12.5 million in federal and state grants. And the hospital is on its own to make ends meet. Ms. MONICA Medical Center It is almost living paycheck to paycheck basically.  Monica Derner is the hospital's interim CEO the seventh CEO in the last four years. Ms.  And some months are better than other months. And it is kind of just juggling the finances around to make it work right.  Somewhere along the way a county supervisor uttered the unutterable -that the Modoc Medical Center just might have to close. The suggestion enraged residents here especially those who came to Modoc with their Medicare cards to retire. A group formed to save the hospital. They held evening meetings and collected signatures. And now at the end of this month voters here will decide whether to increase their property taxes to fund their hospital. Mr.  Good afternoon I am Lau Miller with Save Our Hospital committee and we have some information and was wondering...  Lou Miller is a retired security guard who has the unenviable job of selling a tax hike here. Modoc is California's most Republican county where ads for the local Tea Party run prominently in the weekly newspaper. Mr.  Sometimes it works sometimes it do not.  Still Miller says the one thing voters here hate more than taxes is the thought of being stranded in Alturas or on a ranch with no ambulance service and no place to spend the night when felled by pneumonia or a hip fracture. The hospital in Alturas though is not just a lifeline it is an economic engine even if it is just sputtering along. Like many rural hospitals Modoc Medical Center is the largest employer in town and people here worry what will happen if it closes. Ms.  We will be reduced probably to one grocery story we will probably lose a hardware store. We will lose a lot of things and a lot of people cannot stay here.  Judy Mason is secretary of the Save Our Hospital committee. Ms.  Then you get a reduced value of properties so now your tax base is smaller also. So the county becomes even more impoverished. VARNEY Still there is strong opposition to the tax measure.   Doug Knox retired with his wife to a small ranch outside of Alturas. His driveway is lined with American and Confederate flags and he is single-handedly leading the opposition to the parcel tax with radio and television ads. Mr.  If it costs me 10 15000 I am willing to do it because I do not believe that throwing money at a problem is the way to go it and put it on the backs of the taxpayers.  But even the staunchly conservative county supervisors - who have come under fire for creating the crisis - admit the parcel tax may be the only choice. Dan Macsay is president of the Modoc County Board of Supervisors. Mr.  We are going into battle right now we do not want to go insolvent. That is not going to resolve anything. If the county goes down the hospital goes down. If the hospital goes down the city goes down. And we do not want to see that happening.  The battle over the hospital and allegations of impropriety have engaged people here in county government in a way not seen in decades. Attendance at public meetings is at an all-time high and in dozens of interviews residents say theyre beginning to challenge the closed-door way county officials have long conducted business. Even the county supervisors admit the uncomfortable scrutiny may in the end be a blessing. For NPR News I am Sarah Varney. 