 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Do elderly patients with dementia have the mental capacity to consent to sex? When does consensual sex turn into the abuse of someone who is not mentally competent? And how should elderly care facilities deal with those questions? Those are among the issues raised in two articles running on Bloomberg News. They are written by reporter Bryan Gruley who joins me now. Bryan welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me Melissa.  Your first story Bryan looks at court documents from a case in Coralville Iowa. It is from a 120-bed nursing home called Windmill Manor. And as you described it two patients both with dementia were found having sex. The man was 78 the woman was 87. What was the outcome? What happened?  The result of this event was three and a half years of regulatory prosecution in effect private litigation. The administrator of Windmill Manor was fired. The director of nursing was fired. The people were separated. The man was discharged from Windmill Manor so that his family had to drive nearly two hours to visit him instead of a mere few moments. I think it ended badly for everybody involved. And I think it shows that with the baby boom generation growing up and going to be entering these facilities and there'ill be more people with dementia that nursing homes the families the people who deal with these people are not really prepared to do it.  The nursing home did not think this was a case of abuse. They said there was no injury or evidence of force. What do we know about the woman and how she felt about it?  We do not really know. In the hundreds of pages of documents I studied I could not find anywhere where they actually asked the man or the woman about what happened. Now they both have dementia so maybe their answers would have been somewhat unreliable but I could not find evidence there that they asked. Maybe I missed it. But the night that the nurses stopped the sex and removed the man the woman responded by kicking screaming and biting the nurses. And the documents show that when she was with this gentleman that she was calmer that she was happier. And throughout this long process that generated hundreds of pages of documents at three different regulatory agencies again and again  did either of these people - both of these people have the ability to consent because they both had some level of dementia? The man's was according to the documents a little less sharp than the woman's.  And that is of course the really thorny issue here because in your story you explain that according to the documents - the court documents the woman called the man she was with by her husband's name. So even if the sex may not have been by force is she really consenting if she is so confused about whom she is with?  Occasionally she did that. And this comes up frequently in the academic literature about dementia and people having sex who have dementia. And there are two schools of thought about this. One is that you know if they are that confused how can they have the capacity to consent? And another school of thought is that these are people who have become to some degree somebody else. They have lost mental connections with people they loved with much of their past but that does not rob them of their desire and their need for touching for intimacy. Just because they confuse who they are with that does not mean it does not give them some pleasure at a time in their lives when pleasure comes at a premium.  Well your second story for Bloomberg focuses on a place that has apparently broken with industry practice and encourages sex and intimacy among its elderly residents. That is the Hebrew Home in Riverdale New York. What did they tell you about why they have that approach?  The president and CEO of the Hebrew Home at Riverdale Dan Reingold  My biggest problem is my residents are not having enough sex. And he does not mean that in a joking way or that he wants to encourage lasciviousness. What he means is that he believes none of the great programs they offer their residents there can do anybody as much good as having a romantic relationship where somebody wakes up in the morning and cannot wait to see their boyfriend or their girlfriend.  And he is including patients with dementia...  He is including them all. The Hebrew Home they wrote a policy back in 1995 that was designed to encourage sex and intimacy by training staff to deal with it and also to deal with it when it became uncomfortable or dangerous to people.  Is the Hebrew Home essentially saying that no matter how strong your dementia is you are able to consent to sex? I mean...  No.  ...they are drawing no boundary at all?  No no. They believe there are people who do not have the ability. But rather than presume as many health care facilities do that somebody who has dementia cannot consent no matter what they presume the other way. They presume the person has the capacity and then they observe as the relationship appears to be developing. They ask questions. They want to make sure that this person - both persons are comfortable in the relationship.  And what about if family members do not agree with that? What do they do then?  That is a great question Melissa because families get involved. And as you can imagine some families would not want to think of their mom who was married for 40 years having a relationship with some man they have never met particularly if as happens sometimes she is still married. But some families do come around to this. Maybe the most famous case of that is former Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor whose husband had dementia and took up with another woman in the home he was living in. And Justice O'Connor decided that this was good for him that it made him happy. And she wanted him to be happy. So I mean every situation would be different. Obviously if the family is adamant and you know in some cases a family might threaten litigation well that changes the ballgame to some degree. But again it comes down to who are these people now? Philosophers have argued about this as to whether a person with dementia should be judged according to who they were before they had dementia. Would they have done this before they had it? Or are they really somewhat of a new person who should be allowed to make new choices that makes that new person happy?  Bryan Gruley of Bloomberg News thanks very much.  Thank you Melissa.  Bryan's stories for Bloomberg about sex among nursing home patients with dementia run today and tomorrow.   This is NPR News. 