 NPR and ProPublica have spent months investigating why it is that the number of mothers dying from complications of pregnancy and childbirth has been rising in the U.S. why that death rate is now higher than any other industrialized nation why American women are three times likelier to die than women just across the border in Canada.  As NPR's Renee Montagne and ProPublica's Nina Martin have reported 60 percent of these deaths could have been prevented. Today we hear about a woman who had a complication unique to pregnancy and childbirth. Renee looks at what her experience tells us about the system that allowed her to die.  This is the story of Lauren Bloomstein. We heard it one rainy day in the New Jersey home of Larry Bloomstein looking onto a child's playroom filled with princess dresses and a big plush unicorn.  Come here.  Hi cutie.  Hi.  Can you say hi?  Hi.  Hi.  I have a question for you. Where did you get these beautiful green eyes?  Mommy Lauren.  From Mommy Lauren yeah.  Hailey knows Lauren through stories and photographs. A favorite of Larry's shows Lauren slender and tan standing in the foam of a pale blue sea with a barely swelling belly.  Lauren loved the beach.  Etched in the sand is the name Hailey.  She looks I would say like the happiest and most alive the whole time I knew her. I remember her talking to Hailey through her tummy. I remember like 28 weeks saying just do not come out too soon.  As a neonatal nurse at a large medical center near the Jersey Shore Lauren knew how vulnerable preemies can be.  So she made it all the way to 40 weeks like really no problem. She was entirely entirely healthy.  What neither she nor Larry an orthopedic surgeon himself considered was that Lauren might not survive her own baby's birth. Yet as we have reported every day in America on average two or three women die from pregnancy-related causes. Complications include hemorrhage blood clots infection heart failure and the syndrome that killed Lauren Bloomstein preeclampsia a disorder of the placenta the organ that delivers oxygen and nutrients to the fetus. There are an array of symptoms - persistent swelling and headache and dangerously high blood pressure. Preeclampsia affects about 5 percent of all pregnant women in America. It is highly treatable but it can turn deadly if that treatment comes too late. In Lauren Bloomstein's case her medical charts during labor record high blood pressure readings though her nurses did not alert her doctor. And in a home video taken minutes after birth Lauren is glowing tearing up in wonder at her tiny newborn. Then Hailey was whisked away to be weighed and measured. Lauren would never see her again.  Lauren did not touch any of the food that they brought her and she started describing like really one of the worst pains she is ever felt and she was pointing with one finger right in the center of like the bottom of her sternum. And she did not know how to get rid of that pain.  Lauren's blood pressure had begun spiking and that upper gastric pain - it is a key symptom of severe preeclampsia. Yet her medical records show her obstetrician ordering a common antacid. Acid reflux heartburn is a leading misdiagnosis when it comes to preeclampsia.  Being around patients in a hospital you can tell when someone looks sick. And she looked really bad and I was not sure what to do because the OB seemed confident that this was nothing and I was not trying to overstep my bounds and assume the system knew what it was doing.  Untreated Lauren's preeclampsia progressed to a far more dangerous syndrome. Known by the acronym  lead to kidney and liver failure after a breakdown of blood cells and a dramatic loss of the blood's platelets which help stem bleeding. Lauren's medical records show her writhing in agony for hours as the doctors treated her pain but failed to accurately put together her symptoms. Finally this - patient states quote do anything to stop this pain. Larry was by now frantic that Lauren's high blood pressure was not being treated. Her obstetrician responded with a call for morphine.  I was like you know maybe another doctor should see her. But while I am talking to Lauren I looked at her face and I realized that she is not moving her whole face. She just suddenly looks really calm and comfortable. And I am like Lauren smile for me. And when she smiled only the right side of her face - only the right side went up. So then I actually said to the OB you have to call a neurosurgeon. And he did not know why. He asked me why? And I was like 'ecause she is had this blood pressure for so long that is so high she now has a stroke. She burst a blood vessel in her brain. She has a huge bleed. It needs to be evacuated. And the obstetrician was like you know she just got morphine this is going to be some weird adverse reactions to the morphine. It is not going to be a stroke. And I was thinking like I do not see how that is going to be true but I will pray for a miracle here. And I remember watching her CAT scan come up on the screen and there is an enormous bleed in her brain. So it is like - I was like all right well we will still have her. She might be paralyzed. She might be partially paralyzed but we will see.  Eleni Tsigas has been hearing stories like this for 20 years after she was rushed to the hospital with severe preeclampsia. She survived. Her baby did not.  It was a perfectly normal pregnancy until it was not.  Tsigas now heads the preeclampsia foundation focused on a complication many say should never lead to the death of a mother. Preeclampsia kills up to 70 women in the U.S. each year. Great Britain once had similar statistics until it instituted a system of uniform responses the kind of protocols not followed in Lauren's case. With British medical teams basically on high alert for preeclampsia Britain brought its numbers down to nearly zero on average one death a year.  It is the disorder of the placenta right? And when it is not functioning properly it is going to affect both mom and baby. And what a lot of science is really trying to push for now is understanding what is it that is breaking down in the placenta that causes this to happen?  Even though it is little understood what causes the placenta to become dysfunctional there are drugs for the high blood pressure and seizures associated with it. Traditionally one important treatment is simply giving birth. But the widely held notion that expelling the placenta is the cure is a myth.  And the problem with that myth that delivery is the cure is it mentally emotionally intellectually - like it just releases you from like anything else that could go wrong is not going to go wrong. And that is not true.  In a 2015 deposition after her death Lauren Bloomstein's own obstetrician was asked how to treat or cure preeclampsia. Twice he answered delivery the third time quote delivery is the only cure. In fact 80 percent of all deaths from severe preeclampsia occur after birth as happened with Lauren. It was not until after a code stroke was called that the most basic treatment for severe preeclampsia magnesium sulfate was initiated. Lauren had finally gotten the correct diagnosis but now she needed surgery to relieve the pressure on her brain caused by the bleed and also a much higher level of platelets. Remember they help clot the blood. As a surgeon Larry new platelets could be transfused and yet...  They had none. They were able to call to another hospital and have platelets brought but that takes all night. And in the meantime Lauren has this bleed. So we just sat overnight.  And by the time the platelets arrived the next morning it was too late.  She did something called doll's eyes where they - if you take someone's head and basically turn it side to side and the eyes just move with the head and do not deviate it is the beginning of brain death. And I remember watching him - sorry - do that to her. And so they took her to the operating room and the neurosurgeon - they operated for I think about four hours and when he came out he said that she is still alive. She is on - basically on life support but she is braindead. So at that point we decided to withdraw care. And then I brought Hailey in one last time. And I just put Hailey in Lauren's arms. Then they withdrew care and she passed away.  Days later Larry held Hailey in his arms when they buried Lauren. He never returned to live in the red brick house they had just bought. When Hailey was nearly three Larry remarried and he and his wife Carolyn had another daughter. Yet on a day devoted to Hailey's birth and Lauren's death it is clear the hurt is always there.  I cannot. Like I literally cannot accept it. The amount of pain she must have experienced in that exact moment when she finally had this little girl - I cannot fathom it. The timing is just so incredibly cruel.  NPR and ProPublica found many of the mistakes that lead to maternal death stem from a medical system that bases care on the idea that it is rare for a woman to die in childbirth. It is a system where funding and resources are directed mostly at saving babies.  The assumption is pregnancy and delivery is a normal process and bad things do not happen.  Dr. Barbara Levy handles health policy at the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecologists.  But we worry a lot about vulnerable little babies and we do not pay attention I think to those things that can be catastrophic for women.  And those catastrophes are not a thing of the past. In May not far from Larry Bloomstein Joe Dellavalle watched his wife Jessica die in terrible pain nine days after giving birth in an emergency caesarian to their third child a daughter stillborn. Doctors told them her placenta had torn away from the womb due to severe preeclampsia rome neither Jessica nor Joe had ever heard of.  We were asking a lot of questions. You know what is happening? Why is she so swollen? And then every single day either the OB team - each one explained to us that the baby had come out of her system and you know that was the cure and it was just a matter of days until the HELLP syndrome worked its way through her system.  Jessica was advised early on to chew gum to get rid of gas. For days she was given pain medication abdominal surgery an array of treatments without addressing the syndrome that she would die of.  I was just stunned that we lost her. I cannot - I think that you know Jessica and I and the children could have moved on from the baby so we would have grieved together as a family. But losing my wife is a completely different story. To me it is so much more impactful to not only me but my children to lose Jessica.  Jessica Dellavalle's Facebook page is a poignant reminder of what has been lost. A little girl and boy smile shyly out from behind their mother's pretty profile photo. And her very last post at the end of a seemingly perfect pregnancy - a do-it-yourself video on how to fashion cupcake liners - yellow and pink and lavender - into a bright bouquet for Mother's Day. Renee Montagne NPR News.  