 COPD or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is one of the most common illnesses among Medicare enrollees. But a recent study finds that the inhalers that people with the disease need are not affordable even with Medicare's drug coverage. Reporter Sarah Jane Tribble went to Texas to find out more.  Juanita Milton needs help breathing. She spent a lifetime smoking. Now she is on 24-hour oxygen and uses two inhalers a day including Spiriva first thing in the morning.  And this is really expensive once a day.  She is 67. Her chest heaves as she walks down the hallway into the kitchen. Her voice is constricted as she prepares her inhaler.  Capsule in. And you close it. And you push this blue button - turquoise actually if you want to be correct - and it puts a hole in it.  Milton like many Medicare enrollees is on a fixed income. She is got a mortgage to pay high electricity bills because of the Texas heat a car payment Medicare premiums and well everything.  I got to stretch out that plus I have the less costly medicines that I have to pay for and also my oxygen.  To manage Milton gets free samples of her inhalers. She regularly skips doses of one inhaler called Breo Ellipta. And on this morning she has only two doses of Spiriva left. She is counting on her doctor for help. Dr. Brian Stigall is part of Hill Country Medical Associates in New Braunfels Texas. He has a closet full of free drug samples for patients like Milton.  Thank goodness the drug reps are good. They bring us lots of samples. So what I tend to do is I save those samples back for the Medicare patients who I know they are not going to get coverage.  Patients suffer without the inhalers.  And they are going to end up back in the hospital. They are going to end up seeing me much more often. But I will have people there for three to seven days to actually get them controlled once they go full blown into an attack.  Being able to afford inhalers has long been a problem for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients. Dr. Peter Castaldi of Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston surveyed thousands of Medicare patients in 2006 up to a third said they could not take their medication because of cost.  Even at a relatively seemingly low amount of 20 per month out-of-pocket cost you could see the effects of costs on people being able to take their medications.  Since 2006 co-pays and prices have only gone up. Spiriva's list price jumped 31 percent in the past five years to 368 a month. Patients do not actually pay those prices after rebates and discounts but Dr. Chien-Wen Tseng of the University of Hawaii said that pricing strategy still hurts patients.  It is not unusual for someone to be on more than one inhaler.  And that adds up. Tseng studied projected cost of deductibles and co-pays for multiple inhalers. She found that COPD patients were likely to spend thousands of dollars out-of-pocket each year even if they had Medicare's Part D drug coverage.  Medicare Part D was really designed in 2006 with 2006 prices. With all the much higher drug prices now in 2017 does Medicare Part D really still work?  For Juanita Milton the answer seems obvious - it does not work. Milton struggles daily to breathe and she worries about how to pay for her medicine. She spends most mornings on her back patio talking to God.  I talk. I do not pray. I talk. I carry on a conversation.  Do you ever talk to him about COPD?  Oh yes. I understand and I have to accept it. I know it was that - my doing that everything is in his hands.  That includes making sure she gets more free samples of those inhalers. For NPR News I am Sarah Jane Tribble.  