 If you spot a gluten-free label on a food package in the grocery store you can now be pretty sure it means what it says. Beginning this week food manufacturers must meet strict new labeling requirements set by the Food and Drug Administration. The aim is to protect people with celiac disease who can get sick from eating gluten - that is a protein found in wheat and other grains. NPR's Allison Aubrey joins us to talk us more about it. Hey there Allison.  Hi there Audie.  So the use of the term gluten-free on labels really has not been regulated up until now.  That is right.  Why did the FDA decide that these new standards were necessary?  Well I think with the boom in the gluten-free trend there are literally thousands of foods labeled this way. We have all seen them right? And what is fueled this trend is the perception that many people have that gluten-free is some how healthier or can help them lose weight. So for food manufacturers the gluten-free message has become a marketing tool. The problem is that some manufacturers have been sloppy calling some products gluten-free when they are not. And while this might not be a big deal for people who are casually trying to limit gluten it is a real problem for people with celiac disease which is a chronic autoimmune disorder that can destroy the lining of the small intestine. So for the estimated three million people who have this disease even a little gluten can make them sick.  So what does the new requirement specify and how tough will it be for food manufacturers to comply?  Well the new requirement says that a food can carry a gluten-free label if it does not contain more than 20 parts per million of gluten. So a miniscule amount of gluten. And no I do not think it will be tough for the companies that have been serious about labeling all along to comply. I mean in the early days when awareness of celiac disease was just taking off a handful of companies really built their brands on true gluten-free foods. For instance I spoke to Beth Hillson who started Gluten Free Pantry after she was diagnosed with celiac and she was celebrating. This is what she is been pushing for. So I think what this rule will do is to force all food manufacturers including those who have just jumped on the sort of gluten-free bandwagon to be much more careful.  Now at this this point there are people who have been experimenting with a gluten-free diet even though they do not have celiac disease. Do the new labeling requirements mean much for them?  Well I think that is debatable. There are three categories of people here. One people diagnosed with celiac disease. We have already discussed that they truly need to avoid gluten. Then there are people with a gluten sensitivity. This is kind of a fuzzy term but plenty of mainstream doctors now acknowledge that some people do better - have less inflammation and less GI distress - when they eliminate wheat and other grains with gluten. So it is good that these people can trust the labels too. But then we really get into the gray zone. I mean there is this growing sort of anti-wheat sentiment that has been fueled by best selling diet books. And the argument put forth is that gluten is just not good for us. But the science does not bear this out. I have interviewed gastroenterologists including Daniel Leffler at Harvard Medical School who say you know there is good evidence that the vast majority of people do just fine eating wheat. So I think the bottom line here is for most people it is probably more important to focus on a healthy pattern of eating rather than trying to avoid one food.  That is NPR's Allison Aubrey talking to us about new gluten-free labeling requirements from the FDA. Allison thanks so much.  Thank you Audie. 