 If one glass of wine or one beer takes the edge off why not have a few more? Well this thinking may help explain new findings published in The Journal of the American Medical Association Psychiatry. As NPR's Allison Aubrey reports the study finds that a growing number of Americans are drinking more than they should.  To assess drinking trends in the U.S. researchers did face-to-face interviews with tens of thousands of adults. They went into people's homes and asked a series of questions. Study author Deborah Hasin of Columbia University says the questions get at both how much people are drinking and whether alcohol is becoming a problem.  One question is if they ever drank five or more drinks on an occasion and if so how often?  Hasin says that compared to previous surveys they found that over the last decade the number of high-risk drinkers has increased from about 10 percent of adults to about 13 percent.  We found that both alcohol use and high-risk drinking which is sometimes called binge drinking increased over time and with some particularly large increases found in women and individuals with lower incomes.  Now it is not clear what is behind the increase. The new study does not answer that question. But Hasin says people do use alcohol to cope.  Increasing numbers of people feel pessimistic about their economic chances.  And she says changes in how alcohol is marketed may play a role too.  Looking at the increases among women I can tell you just looking sometimes in the display windows of liquor stores you see everything's pink. It is all rose. And you know it really seems designed to appeal to women.  Some beer makers have sharpened their pitch to female drinkers too. This is a Coors Light campaign.   What would we be without our mountains?  The ad shows women doing yoga marathon running and hiking.   Because every climb deserves a refreshing finish.  The new study results suggest that many people may either ignore the risks of alcohol or not realize when they are drinking too much.  Excessive alcohol use is a huge public health problem in the United States.  That is Bob Brewer. He is a physician who studies alcohol use at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  We estimate there are about 88000 deaths due to excessive alcohol use in the United States each year.  That is more than the number of people who die from opioid overdoses or in car crashes. So when does drinking become excessive or risky?  Ninety percent of people in the United States who drink to excess are binge drinkers.  Binge drinking may sound like an all-night bender but Brewer says here's the reality.  Binge drinking we would define as four or more drinks within an occasion for a woman or five or more drinks within an occasion for a man.  So for an evening out if you start with a cocktail or two and then have beer or wine with dinner it soon adds up.  It can be tricky sometimes for people to really keep track of the actual number of drinks that they are consuming.  He points out one drink is a small five-ounce serving of wine. And a shot of liquor counts as one drink too. But oftentimes cocktails have more than that. Then there is beer.  A lot of beer now particularly craft beers may have higher alcohol content. So if you have 12 ounces of beer that has let us say a 9 percent alcohol content you are really drinking the equivalent of close to two drinks.  And Brewer says it is worth reminding people that U.S. guidelines recommend that women limit alcohol to no more than one drink a day and no more than two for men. Allison Aubrey NPR News.  