 A can of Coca-Cola Pepsi or ice tea could soon cost a bit more in Philadelphia. It is poised to become the first major U.S. city to pass a soda tax. From member station WHYY Katie Colaneri reports.  After months of debate and a day of tense negotiations a Philadelphia City Council committee voted last night in favor of a 1-and-a-half-cents-per-ounce tax on sugary drinks. That is lower than the 3 cents per ounce originally floated. In a twist the council decided to tax diet drinks too. The compromise helped to get some council members onboard who were concerned that the burden would fall hardest on Philadelphia's poorest residents. Still just before the vote Council President Darrell Clarke acknowledged the deal would not please everyone.   The action that we will take will probably have some people - a sour taste in their mouths but we believe that working with those individuals on the long-term basis - we will ensure that this will be a fair and equitable solution.    No more taxes. No more taxes. No more taxes.  Hours before the decision hundreds the critics protested outside city hall including members of the local Teamsters union which represents people who work in soda bottling plants and drive delivery trucks. Union leader Daniel Grace warned his members the tax could threaten their jobs and hit their wallets.   This tax will be passed on to the Philadelphia citizens who are already among the highest-taxed citizens in the country. Enough already.   The taxes faced fierce opposition from the soda industry. The American Beverage Association poured more than 4 million into an ad campaign. On the pro-tax side about a million dollars came in part from wealthy former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg who failed to pass a ban on oversized sodas as a public health measure. Philadelphia's mayor Jim Kenney did not argue health. Instead he pushed the roughly 90 million a year in revenue that could be put to popular projects.  People understand pre-K. They understand community schools. They understand that their parks recreation centers and libraries need to be restored.  Other American cities are watching closely. Berkley Calif. passed a sugary drinks tax in 2014 and similar measures are on the ballot in San Francisco Oakland and Boulder Colo. this fall. Philadelphia's city council takes its final vote next week. For NPR News I am Katie Colaneri. 