 Now we are going to talk about dogs. The health hazards for our best friends are many - ticks fleas chocolate. But there is another danger for dogs that may not be on your radar yet. Reporter Laura Klivans with member station KQED first learned about it in her very own living room in San Francisco.  I came home from work one night to an unmistakable absence - our brown and white pit bull Maizey was not at the top of the stairs to greet me. Instead she was in her bed shaky and confused. When I tried to get her up she stumbled.   At the vet they ran some tests. I got a 300 bill and a diagnosis - Maizey the dog got high.    Because I got high because I got high because I got high. La-da...  She would probably eaten some marijuana. And it turns out she is not the only accidental hash puppy.   Thank you for calling Animal Internal Medicine. This is Gerald . How can I help you?  At this San Francisco clinic near Golden Gate Park Dr. Dorrie Black sees a lot of high dogs. Weed's legal in California.  You definitely are going to see a few a month for sure. But in the summer we often see about three a week.  Here's what she looks out for.  One they do have a dazed or glazed look in their eyes. Often owners report that they are wobbly or what we call ataxic. And then they also often urinate a lot uncontrollably.  But it is not like Fido is intentionally getting baked.  Dogs will get into anything and everything.  Like eating the end of a joint on the sidewalk or more likely edibles they find at home. And with many people living on the streets in the Bay Area dogs are ingesting drugs through human poop.  Dogs love that scent to them it is perfume.  We are pretty sure that is what happened to Maizey. She spent a little too long in the park bushes that morning. Dr. John de Jong is the president of the American Veterinary Medical Association. He is based in Massachusetts one of 10 states where recreational and medical pot is legal.  In those states that have legalized marijuana we are seeing an increased incidence of marijuana toxicity in pets especially in dogs.  This kind of call to ASPCA's National Animal Poison Control Center has increased sevenfold since last year not only because of legalization but also because weed products now have higher levels of THC.  The THC which is the active ingredient in marijuana that gives people high is the one that is actually toxic to dogs.  Even though THC is toxic none of the vets spoke to for this story have ever seen an animal die from it. Here's Dr. Black again.  There is nothing about that actual drug itself that will kill them.  But a dog could get so high that it inhales its own vomit. So she urges caution.  If you do not know the quantity that they got into I am always going to recommend that you go to your vet.  Maybe they will pump your dog's stomach or if it is not as serious let them ride out the high. Former emergency vet Ben Otten jokes about what he used to tell pet owners.  OK we are going to take your dog in. We are going to put him in a quiet room. You know we are going to play some Led Zeppelin for him and give him some Doritos and then you can come pick him up in the morning.   In Maizey's case she was not dangerously high so the vet did not need to keep her for observation. He sent us all home and told us simply to keep a close eye for the next day or two on our sweet stoned pooch. For NPR News I am Laura Klivans in San Francisco.  And this story is part of a reporting partnership between NPR KQED and Kaiser Health News.  