 Texas is now among more than a dozen states that have cracked down on surprise medical bills. Governor Greg Abbott signed a law late last week. It aims to shield patients from huge bills when the insurance company and the hospital cannot agree on payment. Ashley Lopez of member station KUT reports from Austin.  High school history teacher Drew Calvers life is fairly normal now.  Susanna .  He and his wife Erin are trying to track down goggles as they get their two young daughters ready for swim lessons.   We are piranhas...  But two years ago Drew had a dangerous heart attack. And even though he had health insurance Drew ended up with a 109000 bill from the hospital because the hospital he went to in Austin was out of network. Calver's wife Erin says she was shocked because it was an emergency.  I guess we never thought something like this could happen to us. And then when it did we we understood like people are being exploited.  The Calvers fought with the hospital and Drew's insurance company for months and eventually turned to the press. Last summer Drew's story was part of a Bill of the Month investigation from NPR and Kaiser Health News. Shortly after his bill was slashed to just 330. Erin says it was resolved for them but the conversation kept going. E.  For whatever reason people just - they could relate to us and be scared that maybe it could happen to them right?  Drew heard the same thing. D.  The doctor that put my stents in you know he either just had a baby or he is about to have a baby. And he was saying that yeah it could happen to me too.  In fact most Americans say they worry a lot about getting a steep hospital bill. Stacey Pogue is with the Center for Public Policy Priorities in Austin.  Polling shows us that it is the top household pocketbook concern for consumers is a surprise medical bill. And that is actually pretty shocking.  State Senator Kelly Hancock a Republican has been working on this issue for more than a decade. He says this year the complaints were louder than ever.  We wanted to do two things. We want to try to take the patients get them out of the middle of it because really it is not their fight.  Hancock says that fight is between the insurance companies on one side and the hospitals doctors and labs on the other. He says his other goal was to make sure there was a clear way for both sides to figure stuff out.  We wanted to maintain some level of negotiation between the parties. We just - it was just time to get the patient out because frankly the patient was nothing more than a pawn.  Texas' law now requires both those parties to enter arbitration when they cannot agree on a price. Stacey Pogue says she is pretty happy with the new law.  It is as strong or stronger than any of the protections in the country. There are only maybe a handful less than - fewer than 15 states now that have a comprehensive solution for consumers. And Texas is now on that list.  But Texas' law only goes so far. The new law will only shield Texans with state-regulated plans from surprise medical bills. However 40 of plans in Texas are regulated by the federal government. So Pogue says those Texans can only be protected if Congress does something.  And I think Texas passing a bill will really help on that front.  Texas is just one of several states that has passed a law like this in 2019. And Congress is looking at the problem but has not settled on a solution yet. For NPR News I am Ashley Lopez in Austin.  This story comes to from a reporting partnership between NPR KUT and Kaiser Health News. 