 Today marks 30 years since President George H.W. Bush signed the Americans With Disabilities Act into law. Now no one conversation or story can do justice to that landmark legislation so on this anniversary we decided to focus on one small slice of the story - preserving access to cultural spaces for people living with disabilities. It is a particular challenge during the current coronavirus pandemic so for more on this we call Beth Ziebarth. She is the director of Access Smithsonian an arm of the Smithsonian Institution that ensures that the institution's many museum spaces and exhibits are designed with inclusivity and accessibility in mind. And Beth Ziebarth is with us now from Washington D.C. Thank you so much for joining us. Welcome.  Thank you. It is my pleasure to be here.  Before we get into the specifics of the Smithsonian I just wanted to ask you about the significance of the ADA. And I ask because you incurred a spinal cord injury at the age of 16 and you have been using a wheelchair for what - more than 40 years now? Would that be right?  Correct. Yes I have.  So do you remember a before and after? Can you talk a little bit about the importance of the law in opening up spaces and possibilities for somebody like you?  Yeah. I certainly do remember the before and after of the ADA and the enforcement of the rehabilitation act. So for me at 16 I was in high school and I went on to college. College was definitely a challenge in that I chose a university that did not have a lot of accessibility physical accessibility just because I was young and that  did not seem to be as much of a barrier to me at that time. But then when I think about hitting my 30s when I really discovered my disability identity and right around the time of the passage of the ADA that I could really reflect on what it was like before and what it started to be like after both in you know my personal life and in my professional life. So I think that it was definitely groundbreaking. And I see it as something that is so important for us to understand the history of disability rights as part of the civil rights movement.  Can you give me example though like of a before and after? I was thinking about maybe would you have figured out like maybe having to pick your classes depending on what building they were in or something like that? Can you just think of an example?  That is actually a really good example. When I went to university I remember a particular instance where I had to take a course that - the instructor taught it on the fourth floor of the business administration building and there was no elevator in the building. And when I asked the instructor whether he would be willing to move the class to a first-floor classroom space he said no because the other space was right next to his office and he preferred that. I do not think that would happen anymore .  Wow. So let us shift to the pandemic now. What have you been thinking about during this whole period here? I mean as you know buildings have closed so most people have not had access to the institutions as we are accustomed to experiencing them. What have you been thinking about and worrying about during this period?  Yeah. The pandemic has really disrupted people being able to visit museums. But it also has disrupted accessibility accommodations as we reopen. We have to have time ticketing. We have to have social distancing. We need to have mask or face covering policies. We need to have - think about taking away some of the touch experiences or changing the way that people might touch and reinforcing that people need to wash their hands and use the hand sanitizer. So those are some of the things that are part of the health and safety concerns. But as we take away some of those touch experiences we need to think about how somebody who relies on tactile experience for understanding content is impacted. But when we get to things like 3D models of an object that is on display and having to take that offline right now because of the health and safety concerns I do not want to see us go down the road to the future where we have taken away those experiences. That is so important for a wide range of people - not only people with disabilities but also people who are tactile learners.  I am sure you have been thinking about this that - you know we have certainly been talking about this - that people living with disabilities are also some of the people who are most vulnerable in this pandemic from a health perspective depending on what the disability is. But also some of the accommodations that people have had to make are burdensome for some people more than others like covering people's faces or - you know even recognizing that some people are using that as a scam and we get that. But I mean for people...  Right.  ...Who need to see people's faces in order to really understand and navigate the world how are you thinking about this?  What I am really focused on is the communication. And that can be anything from having the clear face mask for staff so that when they are communicating with a visitor that the visitor can see their mouth especially if they speech-read technology that we can use to facilitate communication like apps that will help with somebody who has hearing loss or is hard of hearing.  But before we let you go has there been any silver lining to this current crisis? Because - and the reason I ask is that a number of arts institutions have experimented with things - technologies techniques ways of storytelling and doing their work - that they just had not done before. And I just wonder if there is any way this has opened anything up for example that might be helpful to people with disabilities and the public at large that you just had not had time to do before?  Yeah that is a really good question. So the pandemic has presented challenges but also opportunities. You know as museums and other institutions grapple with how to best reach their audiences while their buildings remain closed virtual programs have been the way that many organizations have been able to stay in contact with their audiences. And virtual programs can provide fewer barriers to people with disabilities. So for example we moved our See Me at the Smithsonian program for people with dementia and their care partners online. And we saw a spike in participation. Before the pandemic visitors who had dementia and who participated in our program came to in-gallery experiences. Now they are doing the experiences online. And it is eliminated some of the worries like transportation to the museum standing in line to get in. That is an opportunity. That is a plus. And we will continue to have the online program in addition to the in-gallery experiences after we reopen.  That is Beth Ziebarth. She is the director of Access Smithsonian. That is an arm of the Smithsonian Institution. Beth thanks so much for talking to us. I hope we will talk again.  Thank you.  