 This a Ebola outbreak is the worst in history and this week there is been a lot of finger-pointing over who is to blame for the slow response in West Africa. Part of the problem is the inability of local health care providers and international aid groups to contain the outbreak. But major demographic and environmental changes in Africa are also contributing as we hear from NPR's Jason Beaubien.  The Africa of today is far different than the Africa of 1976 when Ebola first was discovered. Over the last four decades the population of the continent has tripled. Forests have been cut down roads have sliced into areas that used to be almost inaccessible to outsiders. These changes have made it more likely that Ebola outbreaks will occur and that when they do they will affect more people than in the past.  If we just take a look at this current Ebola outbreak the virus has not changed Africa has changed.  Michael Osterholm is the director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy known as CIDRAP at the University of Minnesota.  We now have this virus in an urbanized population and amongst people who travel far and wide.  In the past most Ebola outbreaks happened in remote sparsely populated parts of central Africa. Health officials controlled the outbreaks by quarantining the effected villages. The people who were going to die died the lucky few who were going to survive survived. The outbreak did not spread because the people could not go anywhere. In the current outbreak in West Africa people infected with Ebola have ended up on buses communal taxi's and airplanes.  That is the modern world we live in today and trying to control an infectious agent in that world is very different than it was 20 or 30 years ago.  Making things worse the population growth and deforestation happening across Africa increase the chances that more outbreaks - like this one will occur in the future. Most of the time the Ebola virus lives inside some animal probably fruit bats in the jungle. Outbreaks occurs when Ebola spills over from its animal host to a person. Jonathan Epstein an epidemiologist with the EcoHealth Alliance in New York studies emerging viral diseases. He says increased human activity in and around forests logging farming hunting creates more chances for viruses like Ebola to jump over to people.  So this is really a probability game. This is a matter of opportunity for spillover to happen.  While it is impossible to say that cutting down one particular forest led to one particular disease outbreak Epstein says humans are making these outbreaks worse. In the current outbreak in West Africa the virus is being carried by buses that link remote rural villages to Capital Cities. It is spreading through social rituals such as funerals. The virus is moving from person to person in hospitals.  This outbreak is entirely driven by social dynamics. This right now is the largest outbreak Ebola we have seen  because there is so many different factors that really have to do with people.  It is being fueled by not just population growth and new transportation networks but also by human emotion. When people with Ebola are afraid and flee away from treatment centers they end up spreading the virus further. Back when Ebola first immerged in the midst of the Cold War the world was also a very different place politically. If the U.S. or Soviet Union wanted to provide aide during a humanitarian crisis or stop out an outbreak they just did it. Osterholm of CIDRAP says today that is no longer the case.  We do not always know who is in charge we do not know what they are in charge of. We have all these other changes that are occurring and yet we still have the same infectious agents emerging. So I think this concept of a changing world is really a very important one and raises the question of what are we going to do in the future.  Because he says this issue is not going away. Jason Beaubien NPR News. 