 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. If you have shopped for water bottles or Sippy cup recently you' BPA-free. BPA is a chemical that can act like the hormone estrogen. Well now there is a new claim to consider EA-free. It is supposed to mean free of any chemicals with estrogen-like activity. NPR's Jon Hamilton reports on a legal battle over whose plastics consumers should trust.  Environmental groups and the government still disagree about whether any of these estrogen-like chemicals pose a health risk.  they want Sippy cups and water bottles made of plastics they consider safe. Enter Eastman Chemical. In 2007 it began marketing a tough new safe plastic called Tritan.   The houseware made of Tritan survives to face another toddler.  Tritan is clear like polycarbonate plastics. But unlike those products it contains no BPA. Lucian Boldea a vice president at Eastman says that has given Tritan a marketing edge.  Concern around BPA began to arise so we were able to make the statement that our product is not made with BPA and would release data to support that fact.  Things are going well for Tritan. Then about a year ago a scientist named George Bittner published a study of more than 400 plastic products including some made with Tritan. Bittner is the founder of two companies involved in the legal battle with Eastman. He is also a researcher with the University of Texas Austin. One of his companies is called CertiChem. It tests products for chemicals that act like estrogen. The other is PlastiPure which helps manufacturers make EA-free plastic products. Bittner's study touched off the battle with Eastman because it found problems with a wide range of BPA-free products including Tritan.  We found that most other plastic products also released chemicals having estrogenic activity.  Bittner says even products that had no estrogenic activity when they came off the shelf changed under certain conditions.  Boiling microwaving dishwashing or exposing to sunlight.  Eastman responded by declaring that Tritan products are not only BPA-free but EA-free. And it filed a suit against CertiChem and PlastiPure. Eastman's Lucian Boldea says Bittner's study subjected products to extreme conditions not found in the home. And he says the study used a screening test that sometimes indicates estrogenic activity even when there is none.  So to misrepresent a screening test as conclusive evidence is what we have the issue with.  Bittner of CertiChem says other tests confirmed the finding. He also says Eastman is just trying to squelch scientific evidence that makes its products look bad. From Eastman's point of view Boldea says PlastiPure and CertiChem both have an unhealthy incentive to find fault with his company's products.  What we are dealing with here is two companies that are set out to financially benefit from a consumer concern by providing false and misleading information.  What is interesting about the legal battle is that Eastman a major chemical company thinks estrogen activity is important enough to fight over. That is a big change. Just a few years ago chemical companies including Eastman were arguing that BPA was safe. Now many of those companies have voluntarily remove BPA from products and seemed to be going even further embracing the idea that consumers want plastics free of any chemical that acts like estrogen. Mike Usey the CEO of PlastiPure says that is why he sees an upside to Eastman's suit against his company.  The recent lawsuit is validation that consumers do want safer products. They do not want slogans that consumers I think are recognizing that the issue goes beyond BPA.  And it could go way beyond BPA. Many endocrinologists think it is time to identify chemicals that act on any of the body's hormone systems. Tom Zoeller a biologist at the University of Massachusetts says it does not make sense to focus only on chemicals that act like estrogen.  To the extent that legislators or regulatory bodies might actually think that if we take care of estrogen we are really OK. I would be surprised if anybody took that seriously.  Regulators are discussing ways to identify a broad range of so-called endocrine-disrupting chemicals. But even as agencies like the FDA look to new potential threats they still have not reached a conclusion about some of the old ones - not even BPA. Jon Hamilton NPR News. 