 Bars and coronavirus do not mix so say public health experts. And so many states have closed bars down. Will Stone reports.  At The Beer Junction in Seattle the stools are stacked in the corner. The bar taps usually busy are for to-go drinks only. Owner Allison Herzog says Fridays are not what they used to be.  It would be very lively. It is weird to come in here and not feel that vibrancy.  Herzog had to shut down in spring after the coronavirus swept through Seattle. Then in late June her tavern was finally allowed to serve a few customers indoors at the bar.  I could hear people laughing at the bar and that was so - it touched my heart to hear. And it just felt like something was normal again.  But it did not last long. Coronavirus was soon back on the rise and Washington state closed down some indoor service again. Herzog says it is disappointing but she understands why the state pulled back.  I trust that they know what they are doing that they will open when it is responsible and scale back when it is responsible.  The coronavirus is a social virus. Across the country dozens - in some cases hundreds - of infections have been traced back to a single bar. What makes your local pub or nightclub so appealing is also what makes it so risky. There is drinking eating shouting over loud music dancing laughing.  If you were to create a petri dish and say how can we spread this the most? - it would be cruise ships jails and prisons factories. And then it would be bars.  That is Dr. Ogechika Alozie an infectious disease specialist in El Paso Texas. He says these indoor settings are primed to unleash infections.  As we talk we spray. As we cough we spray. That is where you get the most potential for transmission of these respiratory viruses.  Alozie worked with the Texas Medical Association to create a COVID risk scale for common activities like going to the movies or a sports game. But what ranked the worst of all - going to a bar.  The reality is to drink you cannot wear a mask. So you are taking off your mask. Lots of people tight spaces - and as we all know alcohol is a disinhibitor.  People are touching tables glasses bottles each other. An outbreak linked to a bar in southwest Washington shows how even the best plans can go awry. For karaoke night the staff spaced the tables checked temperatures even put up plexiglass near the singers. Dr. Alan Melnick is the county health officer who oversaw the investigation.  And you are asking the customers who are drinking and doing karaoke to follow the physical distancing and masking requirements. So that was challenging in this particular situation.  A few weeks later close to 20 customers and employees had been infected. Because bars are so high-risk some states have taken a very cautious approach. Other states opened them up only to shut them down as cases surged this summer. But some bar owners want to stay open. In Arizona more than 60 bars are suing to overturn the governor's order to shut them down. Ilan Wurman is their attorney. He says if restaurants can serve alcohol and stay open late why cannot bars?  Either treat them all equally and shut them all down or treat them all equally and allow them all to conform to reasonable health measures. But what you cannot do is pick out a criteria something like alcohol. So it is - that is totally arbitrary and it totally discriminates.  All over the country bar owners are suing. Steve Smith owns a handful of honky-tonks in Nashville Tenn. who argue they are being unfairly singled out.  We have been targets and it is wrong. We are citizens of the United States. We are small business people. And I have been doing this for 44 years.  So what kind of chances do these lawsuits have? Georgetown law professor Lawrence Gostin says historically the courts have sided with public health.  As long as it has a rationale and it is not singling out a bar because it disfavors bars then it is absolutely clear that they have the right. In fact they have the duty to do it.  And yet it is this duty that has upended business for bar owners like Seattle's Allison Herzog.  I lose a lot of sleep over it. I wake up and I think every day what am I going to do to keep going?  Herzog says The Beer Junction just hit its 10-year anniversary. Instead of a big blowout they handed out some cans to go and kept things quiet. For NPR News I am Will Stone in Seattle. 