 It can be really hard to get help for a mental health condition if you live in a rural part of the country. Insurance companies do not seem to make it any easier. April Dembosky of member station KQED brings us this story of an 18 year old with depression living in far northern California.  There is a hot pink suitcase on the floor of Shariah Vroman-Nagy's bedroom. She is packing for a trip to Disneyland.  Let us see.  There are porcelain dolls and stuffed animals tucked into every corner of the room and she is got posters and quotes from Marilyn Monroe all over the walls.  And then that one - those are the lyrics to a song called Smile.  They hang in a frame over her bed.  My mom made me that when I was struggling because that is a song that I would listen to.  She sings it to herself when she feels her depression creeping in.   If you smile through your tears and sorrow smile and maybe tomorrow...  Three years ago it was in this room where Shariah tried to kill herself. She was a freshman in high school.  Everything piled up and piled up and piled up until I just could not handle it anymore. So I had my antidepressants and I took a handful of those. But then I thought better of it and I told my mom. And she took me to the emergency room.  There is no adolescent psychiatric hospital in Redding. So Shariah was taken from the local ER to a hospital in Sacramento an hour and a half to the south. She was there eight days and the doctors diagnosed her with bipolar disorder. They said they wanted to keep her longer but they told her the insurance company would not cover it.  I did not really feel like I was ready because I had just been put on new medications right when I got there and I was like in the past I have had reactions to medications.  After Shariah went home. The hospital helped her find a therapist but the insurance company said no to that too. They said the therapist was not part of their network.  We spent quite a long time with the insurance company battling them trying to get them to cover visits with her.  Shariah says the insurer Anthem Blue Cross wanted her to see someone on its list of approved in-network providers. At the time that list was six people. And when Shariah called them they either said they were full or retired so she stayed with the out-of-network therapist.  It was at that point. I mean you are talking you know possible life and death issues.  That is Shariah's dad Tom Nagy.  That was my approach to pay for it you know - run up the charge cards and things like that.  He ended up paying thousands of dollars out of pocket. Nagy is a teacher. His wife is a nurse and they could not afford to keep doing that. He had to fight with the insurance company for a year until he was finally reimbursed.  As a parent it is hard enough to deal with these situations. You are trying to be supportive but then you get the whole financial thing. It just adds a whole other layer and it is real frustrating.  Anthem Blue Cross declined an interview. In a statement the insurer said it is committed to providing access to high quality mental health care and a range of resources to help people find the best provider. Earlier this year the company launched an online psychology service where patients can see a therapist using their computer or smartphone.  Dad.  It is Shariah's spring break.  We are taking your car or mine?  And she and her parents are getting ready for that family trip to Disneyland.  They call it the happiest place on Earth and I really do feel that. It really makes me happy when I go. So I am glad we get to go this week because I have been having a little bit of depression kind of going on.  Overall Shariah says she has more good days than bad.  Put on some music.  She is in regular therapy. She works at In-N-Out Burger and she is studying psychology and music at the local junior college. She would like to be an adolescent therapist one day.   Can you show me...  But first she would like to be a character singer at Disneyland. For NPR News I am April Dembosky in Redding Calif.   Tell me more. Will you show me?    Will you show me? Something's familiar about these strangers like me...  This story is part of a reporting partnership of NPR KQED and Kaiser Health News.    Tell me more. Will you show... 