 Today the World Health Organization released the first global estimate of violence against women. The figures are high all over the world. And as NPR's Rhitu Chatterjee reports the violence has serious implications for women's health in ways that are not always apparent.  According to the new report about one in three women aged 15 and above has been physically abused or raped. And over 85 percent of those women were attacked by their own partners.  I think this is a shockingly high figure.  Karen Devries is at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and contributed to the WHO report. She is also the author of a paper on domestic violence in the latest issue of the journal Science. She says not only does domestic violence physically injure women it can also lead to death.  Thirty-eight percent of all women who were murdered were actually murdered by their intimate partners.   Depression alcoholism and in some places even AIDS. And these health effects Devries says may carry over into the next generation.  We see that women who have experienced partner violence have a greater chance of having a low birth-weight baby.  The report is the first comprehensive look at levels of sexual and domestic abuse around the globe. Claudia Garcia-Moreno is a physician with the World Health Organization and one of the lead authors of the report. DR.  When we look at all this data together what it flags is that this is a tremendous problem.  She admits that some of the findings may even underestimate the prevalence of violence against women. But she says the report goes well beyond just presenting data.  We are releasing guidelines for health care providers doctors nurses midwives.  So they are better prepared to identify victims of domestic violence.  When and how to ask about domestic violence how to respond appropriately to disclosure of violence.  There is a strong stigma attached to sexual violence and most victims do not reveal that they were abused. But they do access regular health care facilities so Garcia-Moreno says doctors and nurses must be prepared to step in and help.  We want to see these issues integrated into the curriculum on the basic training of doctors and nurses.  The report is being well received by experts. Anita Raj directs the Center on Gender Equities and Global Public Health at the University of California San Diego. She welcomes the report especially the guidelines for health workers. DR.  A lot of health providers do not have training on how to do assessments and screen to see if such violence has occurred.  And she says they often feel helpless when they do confront cases of sexual or domestic violence.  I think there is a lot of providers that worry OK now what am I going to do?  Raj says the new report is full of detailed advice and information about resources. Sohaila Abdulali is with the Ubuntu Education Fund a non-profit that works on public health and sexual violence in South Africa. She agrees that the new report has the potential to make a big difference. But she says it could have gone further.  There is only one vague mention of social support.  And Abdulali knows just how important social support is. She was raped herself as a teenager. And for years she worked with victims of sexual violence at a rape clinic in Boston.  Medical intervention is great. But really if somebody comes in to you for support no matter what you give her it cannot make up for what she could get from her own community.  She says most victims' families are not supportive of them. In fact they often blame the victim. Even one trustworthy person to talk to Abdulali says can take a victim a long way on the road to recovery. Rhitu Chatterjee NPR News. 