 Vaping has taken off with young people and one e-cigarette brand is especially popular Juul. Not all e-cigarette products contain nicotine but many do including Juul. And some people fear a new generation is on its way to getting hooked. From Colorado Public Radio John Daley explains.  When someone vapes be it a Juul or another brand there is no fire ash or smoky odor. Public health officials worry it could be an emerging disaster. Twenty-one-year-old Julien Lavandier says believe it.  It is a habit for me all the time. When I set down my schoolwork to do homework take a rip of the Juul - when I get in my car take a rip of the Juul.  Lavandier a college student at CSU says he started vaping when he was 16 a sophomore in high school. It was common to smoke an e-cigarette at parties. When vaping you inhale water vapor through a device an e-cigarette or other battery-powered inhaler that heats up and vaporizes a liquid or solid.  At first it was a lot of chasing flavors or doing smoke tricks and that was really what impressed me. I thought you know this is cool. This looks like something fun.  He says students at his high school smoked in class without teachers knowing. Lavandier started vaping regularly and later began smoking traditional cigarettes. When Juul arrived on the market he took up that brand.  It is impossible to let go once you have started using it. I will tell you after even an hour and a half or two I am chomping at the bit to find my Juul.  Stores are not supposed to sell e-cigarettes to minors but Lavandier has been buying them for years and never been carded not once he says. Representatives from Juul Labs in a statement say its products offer a true alternative to adult smokers not anyone else not minors. Other companies that make e-liquids also say their products are not for minors but Juul and other brands offer flavors like cotton candy caramel and cookies and milk.  If they taste good and a kid might get their hands on that is not our goal.  That is Jameson Rodgers. He is with California-based NEwhere Inc a producer of e-cigarette and vaping products. He says its products comply with federal law and it is up to retailers and distributors to not sell to minors.  Some of the responsibility has to fall on the parents of any kid that is deciding to walk into an adult store whether that is a liquor store or tobacco store or whatnot.  One of the benefits of e-cigarettes according to the industry is that they can help people quit traditional smoking. Ray Story is CEO of the Tobacco Vapor Electronic Cigarette Association.  Do not start at all. But if you are going to smoke or do e-cigarettes then certainly take an e-cigarette because it is vastly less harmful than conventional tobacco.  This is a new way to get kids addicted to nicotine.  Deb Liptzin is a pediatric pulmonologist at Children's Hospital Colorado. She says there is been scant e-cigarette research.  They specifically used nicotine salts. We have no research that I could find on nicotine salts that are inhaled because it is so new.  Data in Colorado shows e-cigarettes are far more popular than traditional cigarettes with high schoolers. Jen Bolcoa is a health educator with Jefferson County schools.  The Juul has definitely been a game changer.  Bolcoa says a tiny pod of e-liquid in a Juul has the equivalent nicotine of 20 cigarettes. She says most educators parents and students...  Do not realize how much nicotine is in there or that there is even any nicotine.  Bolcoa works to educate students on the dangers and it is a tough task. On YouTube there is a slew of videos like one called Juul Challenge. Two guys sit in the smoke-filled front seat of a car competing pulling on Juuls.   Cheers guys. Let us see how many hits I can do. You got five?  Five on...  How many hits can you do? Write in the comments.  That video had more than 230000 views and 380 comments in seven weeks. College student Julien Lavandier says he is now hooked on both cigarettes and e-cigarettes. On a typical day he will take upwards of 300 puffs of his Juul.  So my biggest concern is right now I am puffing happy worry-free. And then in 20 years I will have to explain to my kids why I have developed popcorn lung or some new form of lung cancer because I did not know what the risks were of e-cigarettes. It terrifies me.  He says it took him less than 10 days to get addicted. He is since tried to quit but now cannot go three days without using a Juul. For NPR News I am John Daley.  This story is part of a partnership with NPR Colorado Public Radio and Kaiser Health News. 