 As we have heard Senator John McCain is recuperating from neurosurgery. He had a blood clot removed from over his eye. And to learn more about the kind of surgery he underwent its risks and what a recuperation might be like we turn now to Dr. Peter Nakaji who is director of the neurosurgery residency program at the Barrow Neurological Institute in Phoenix. Welcome to the program.  Thank you Robert.  And we should say you are not treating Senator McCain. We are just calling you as someone who does this kind of work. Senator McCain's office describes the procedure as a minimally invasive craniotomy with an eyebrow incision. What does that mean?  So there are a lot of ways to get into the head and some are more invasive and some are less. And what that really means is that instead of making a large opening in the head and opening a large window through the skull we make a small one right over the eye through the eyebrow and open a little window and really make a direct route to whatever we need to get to assuming it is right under that spot. So that is a less-invasive easier-to-recover-from kind of surgery.  The blood clot was described as 5 centimeters or about 2 inches. Is that average relatively large small? And what danger would it have posed?  So as you point out I am not a treating physician so I do not have all of the information. And the real key is 5 centimeters in which direction. So something which is 5 centimeters around is actually pretty big for the frontal lobe whereas if it is shaped like a pancake it is not very big. So if the blood is outside the brain it may not be that impactful. If it is inside it may or may not be impactful. It really matters a bit more what it is caused by.  But when you use the word impactful in this case what kind of impact are you alluding to?  Well the left frontal lobe in most people is considered the dominant one meaning it is responsible for a lot of high-level thinking. And if you are a very high-functioning person like he is a lot of things like judgment and speech can be in that area. Happily it sounds like he was out quickly and doing very well so it may not have had a lot of impact. Draining a blood clot that expands like a balloon and then deflates like a balloon sometimes can be recovered from very well.  Well obviously much depends on the details here of the blood clot but how long might it typically take say a robust 80-year-old to recover and be back on the job?  Yeah well fortunately he is a very robust 80-year-old. He is in good shape and that is where I like to start. I mean reasonably we would send someone home in a day or two which nowadays for this kind of minimum-invasive neurosurgery is realistic. But I would not counsel anybody to go back to normal activity for at least two weeks. And many people may take even four to six weeks to feel really up to snuff.  Yeah. We are told that tissue pathology reports are pending within the next several days. What are the answers doctors are looking for there?  Well I think what we are all hoping to see for the sake of Senator McCain is that we do not see something underlying like the melanoma that we know is in his history. This is one of the tumors more likely to bleed in the brain. And we would like to see that that is not it and that it is something else. But you know pathology - we get it because we do not know what it will show to be sure.  After Senator McCain's melanoma which was over 15 years ago he said that he was being followed very closely. Would that mean regular scans? And would that mean that something grew to this size even despite his being looked at very recently?  Yeah surprisingly we do see bleeding in the brain. You know the brain is not sensitive to pain so you can see things expand without really seeing them happen sometimes to rather alarming sizes. And we do see it all the time. So the fact that they would be looking a little bit more at him because of his history might have mean that they did pick it up and it did get to be very big despite all. But it is hard to say without knowing a bit more about it.  The only thing I would ask - and I would respect your not answering if you chose. But I am just curious to hear...  Yeah.  ...What you would say was. Not too long ago in his questioning of former FBI Director James Comey Senator McCain betrayed a confusion in public. He later said I was up late watching the Diamondbacks baseball game. Is there any link between confused speech or thinking and a blood clot of this size?  Yeah I mean I think in this case it would be speculation because this might well have started after that for all we know. But if you had something in that location I suppose it is possible - as I say probably speculation at this point.  That is Dr. Peter Nakaji director of the neurosurgery residency program at the Barrow Neurological Institute in Phoenix Ariz. Thanks for talking with us.  Thank you. 