 Here are some numbers to get excited about. In the U.S. more than half the eligible population - that is people 12 and older - are fully vaccinated. And new coronavirus infections have fallen to their lowest point since the pandemic began - under 14000 a day.  But we know you still have a lot of unanswered questions. For example how long does vaccine protection last?  Will there be booster shots available?  When can young children get vaccinated?  Are they carriers?  And what is the U.S. doing to prevent the spread of variants?  When will Americans feel safe in terms of international travel and global pandemic management?  And what is the U.S. doing to prevent the spread of variants? So when we got the chance to do an interview with the U.S. surgeon general this week we got answers. We did that on Twitter Spaces a social media platform for live audio conversations. And that is what you are about to hear - Dr. Vivek Murthy in front of a virtual audience. And the first question - how exactly does the Biden administration plan to meet its goal of getting 70 of adults vaccinated by Independence Day with the rate of vaccinations slowing?  We are going to have to work really hard to make sure that there are more and more ways to access the vaccine from you know extended hours at pharmacies to getting it into doctors' offices to free rides through Uber and Lyft and free childcare as well. You know I am optimistic that we will make the 70. But it is not going to be easy. It is going to take all of us.  You have talked about the idea of the issues being access as a problem right? Then there is also the issue of I guess confidence people who basically say look. This vaccine was developed too fast. And I have got my reservations so I am going to wait. That is a not-uncommon thing to hear.  It is a great question Audie. And I would say that there are three buckets of reasons why people are not getting vaccinated that we are really focused on. One is access as we spoke about. And for many people time off from work getting a ride to get a vaccine - these are all actually important logistical barriers that they need help overcoming. The second bucket though has to do with mobilization. And we know that there are a number of people who are not sure if they still need the vaccine. They see cases coming down or they think well I am young and healthy. I am at low risk. Do I really need to get vaccinated? By the way...  Are they wrong?  No. So it is a great question. And the answer is absolutely yes it is important to get vaccinated. And I will go into why in just a second. But the third bucket actually has to do with exactly what you brought up which is information. We know that about 23 of people who are not vaccinated right now either believe some of the commonly held myths that are out there or think they might be true. They are not sure. And some of those myths include for example number one that you do not need to get the COVID vaccine if you have already had COVID. And the answer is you actually absolutely do because the immunity that you get from natural infection is not nearly as robust especially against the new variants as the immunity you get from the vaccine. There are also some myths out there that you can get COVID from the vaccine itself which is absolutely not true.  But in a way we know what the myths are. I think what we do not know is what is the script you are giving to providers to counter them? Because what you guys have right now is like a regional problem right? You have a lot of southern states where there are less than 40 of people vaccinated. In Mississippi that number is 33. Are we looking at a political problem - a red state problem - versus a scientific one?  Well what we have learned in the last many months is that the key to getting people vaccinated is for them to hear from people they trust. And we are a big diverse country and the people we trust and listen to are not always the same. And that is one of the reasons we are - we have been working so closely with faith leaders with rural clinics and rural hospitals teachers and educators or doctors and nurses. But that is really going to be the key to ensuring that we lift vaccination rates in all parts of the country.  We are going to be taking questions from within the room in just a few minutes. We actually reached out to listeners for questions. So the surgeon general is going to take one or two questions from that batch now.  Hi. My name is Christine Stern 47 of Paso Robles Calif. Last week our public school board announced masks were not required for grades TK through second ages 4 to 8. But being only kids 12 and up can be vaccinated I feel like younger children are sitting ducks. What is the real risk of having this age group in school without a mask? Can they transmit the virus?  Well I look at it as the dad of young kids too. And my kids are 4 and 3 and they do not have a vaccine that is available to them - you know kids under 12 - right now. And so we do have to take steps to be cautious. What we have seen is that - in schools where masking is actually implemented we have seen that you are able to actually keep infection rates quite low. And so that is what we have got to do. I think removing the requirement for masks for children who are - we are expecting to go to school and be in close proximity to other children when they do not have a vaccine available to them - that is not consistent with everything that we have learned from a public health and medical perspective about COVID-19.  We have two questions from Twitter Spaces. And we are going to start with Sam  and then go to Katie . Sam if you can open up your mic and give your question to the U.S. surgeon general.  Hi. I go to a university a public university. It being a public university means that money comes through federal funds. Does that mean that if there is a vaccination mandate that would extend to all universities as well?  Well Sam that is a great question and thanks for asking it. We do not anticipate a federal mandate for vaccinations. So I would not anticipate any direction for the federal government telling your university that they should require you to get a vaccine. On the other hand I absolutely do hope that you will strongly consider getting vaccinated if you are not already and that you will also tell your classmates. Because one thing we have learned is not only is the vaccine important for people who are younger even though you are at less risk of having a bad outcome compared to somebody in their 60s 70s or 80s we still have had thousands and thousands of young people who have been hospitalized a number who have lost their lives to this virus. We want to prevent that. The vaccine is the best way to do that.  Sam thank you for your question because I think you are trying to take my job. That was a very specific  and very smart question. We want to turn the mic over to Katie. Katie open up and let us talk with the surgeon general.  Perfect. Hello. And Audie thank you. And thank you NPR for having this informative discussion. You know I have a child who is too young to be vaccinated in the current moment. Do you have any predictions about when the below-12 set will be in on this? Because I am a bit worried about those variants breaking through my vaccination protection and me bringing home a real serious problem for my youngest. So if you could shed some light I would appreciate it. Thank you.  Well Katie first of all thank you so much for your question. And there are trials underway. I think there is a pretty good chance that by the end of the calendar year there may be a vaccine available for your kids and for my kids. But the second thing I would also just reinforce about the variants since you raised those - all the evidence we have tells us that the vaccines we have in the United States are effective against the variants circulating in the United States. And we obviously want it to stay that way which is why we are working hard to get vaccine to other countries around the world until we can tamp down the development of variants elsewhere too.  Since we are heading into the summer I think this question is pertinent. It is from Toby Algya.  With summer fast approaching I was wondering what is the statistical probability of contracting COVID from an outdoor event? For example how many people have gotten COVID from being outdoors and how many people do you expect to contract COVID from outdoor events this summer? Thank you.  Toby that is a really good question. And the good news is that being outdoors seems to be one of the most effective things you can do to reduce your likelihood of getting COVID. And we have learned during the course of this pandemic that ventilation is a critical factor in determining how much risk there is in your interaction with other people. So the one exception I would say is if you are unvaccinated and if you are going to be in really tight crowded spaces for a prolonged period of time that is the circumstance where you are going to want to wear a mask.  So you still want people to be giving each other some space I mean if you are doing the picnic outside.  Well so generally if you are having a picnic you are at low risk. What I am talking about when I say really jammed up is if you imagine an outdoor concert if you are unvaccinated where a whole bunch of people are just really jammed up right against each other tightly. You cannot really move. You are inches away from other people for a prolonged period of time. I do not anticipate most people are going to be in those circumstances but I mentioned it as an aside. But the vast majority of outdoor circumstances - barbecues walks with friends outdoor dining - most of those things you know we feel pretty good about from a safety perspective because of the good ventilation outdoors. But finally just a reminder Toby - the way to really reduce your risk is just make sure you get vaccinated. It really - it is not just about protecting you from getting COVID. But I would say the most powerful effects of getting vaccinated is a reduction in worry because you know you are going to be safe. You know you can interact with other people without putting them at risk. And that means a lot.  Thank you to Dr. Vivek Murthy who is the U.S. surgeon general.  Thanks everyone. Take care Audie.  Thanks so much.  