 You can learn a lot about the cost of health care in the U.S. by examining a single medical bill and for our September Bill Of The Month we are taking a close look at facility charges which should be familiar to anyone who is ever been in a hospital. Dr. Elisabeth Rosenthal is editor-in-chief of our partner Kaiser Health News. She is here in the studio. Welcome back.  Thanks for having me.  So just basic definition - what is a facility charge?  This is the charge for rental of the room. It is a common line item on hospital bills but it also occurs on surgery center bills and sometimes even on bills from a doctor's office.  Kaiser Health reporter Cara Anthony is going to introduce us now to someone who had one of those surprises and then we will talk a little bit more after. Here she is.  Brianna Snitchler is 27. She says life was just starting to come together. She and her partner were setting up a new home.  Sit. Good.  Her student loan balance was down and Brianna finally had health insurance through work so she decided to do something about a small cyst on her abdomen.  Whenever I would go swimming or you know try and wear a crop top or anything like that people would always call it out and be alarmed by it. People would be like whoa. You should get that checked out.  Brianna wanted to get the cyst removed but her doctor suggested that first they check the growth for cancer. She had a needle-guided biopsy at a hospital in Detroit. She was awake the entire time. She never put on a hospital gown.  I am wearing my street clothes. I did not have to change or do anything at all.  A nurse numbed up her stomach and the doctor took a sample from the cyst. Brianna says the whole thing took about 20 minutes and then she was sent home. The results came back benign. The whole thing was painless until the bill came. Brianna owed the hospital 3300.  Oh did I cry?  You were sobbing hysterically. Do you not recall?  That is Brianna's partner Emi Aguilar. They were both in shock. The biggest charge listed on the bill was for operating room services - nearly 2200 for that. It is known as a facility fee.  She panicked and I was like we are absolutely not paying this. This is astronomical. We do not have any disposable income.  It felt like taking 10 steps back financially.  I remember a few days prior to that I would like checked my credit score and I am like yeah. I think it was like 50 points higher than it was the last time I saw and I am like hell yeah. I am finally doing great.  After a nudge from Emi Brianna started making calls hoping to discover a mistake.  Thank you for calling the billing office and customer service department of Henry Ford Health System.  But there was no mistake. That big charge was for overhead costs of the hospital staff salaries and radiology equipment. But Brianna says when she booked her appointment no one told her that.  Why is the facility fee 2000 and why do not they tell you that the facility fee is 2000?  After the biopsy a representative from the billing department told Brianna that the hospital is not legally required to tell patients about fees ahead of time and it is the patient's responsibility to check. Brianna says the whole experience could have gone better if the hospital would have been more transparent about the cost.  I do know now to ask more questions. I found that out the hard way I guess.  Tangling with the health system left her with billing headaches and debt. For now she is decided not to get the cyst removed. I am Cara Anthony.  And we are back again with Dr. Elisabeth Rosenthal and you were shaking your head during this piece so I want to ask you a question here. Brianna Snitchler said why are facility fees so high? And she also asked why nobody told her before the procedure. Can you help us understand?  So the first thing to know about facility fees is that they are a business construct of U.S. health care. They do not exist elsewhere. You are essentially paying to rent the space and the overhead and think about it. When you get your car fixed the costs of the repair include the cost of the garage and equipment. You are not paying an extra fee for that.  So why do not they tell patients before they have these procedures?  As you heard from the hospital representative - which makes my blood boil - legally they do not have to. But one basic fact that everyone should know is that a hospital facility fee is going to be a lot more than a surgery center facility fee which is going to be a lot more than a doctor's office facility fee where there may be no facility fee at all.  So you just mentioned some alternatives there. Did Brianna actually need to have her biopsy at a hospital?  Likely not. This was a minor procedure. Remember she only had local anesthesia and did not even have to take her street clothes off.  So given what you have told us does the adage buyer beware actually apply here?  Well I love this case because it is a case where knowledge of the system and its tricks can actually make you a better shopper. So many doctors perform procedures at different locations - for example at a surgery center one day of the week and a hospital another. So when the scheduler asks you hey do you want it Tuesday or Thursday? you should know that is not just about the day of the week. It is about the facility fees that might be added on. So you should always ask can I have this at a cheaper place? I want it in the office if it can be done in the office.  That is Dr. Elisabeth Rosenthal of Kaiser Health News. Thank you for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  And if you have a medical bill that you want us to investigate head over to NPR's Shots blog. 