 About two-thirds of Americans think other countries have done a better job handling the coronavirus. That is according to an NPRIpsos poll. Germany is one of the countries that has managed well by comparison. It is had a recent uptick in cases but has flattened its curve. And while the country is experiencing an economic slump its unemployment rate has remained relatively low. Sally Herships checked in with some German expats who live in the U.S. to see what they think about their adopted country's response.  A few days ago 38-year-old Felix Zeltner and I were chatting on Zoom. He was in a hotel in rural Bavaria. Is this a regular summer vacation trip home to see family? It is. And he was just explaining that he his wife and two kids were quarantining before visiting family when he saw a call come in on his cellphone.  I am so sorry Sally. I have to take this call because this is the doctor telling me the test results. So...  OK. The results of his coronavirus test. We will get back to those but first a six-hour time difference away in Connecticut another German Kathleen de Leon is feeling frustrated. The pandemic meant she had to cancel her trip home. That means she her husband and 6-year-old daughter Zoe do not get to see her family. Zoe has lived all her life in the U.S. but she knows Germany well. So Mom and Zoe do you think things are easier better different in Germany?  Yes.  Yes.  What makes you think that? What were Klaudia and Louisa and Oma and Opa be able to do that we could not do?  Go to a hotel.  They went on vacation.  De Leon says she is specifically frustrated with the federal government here.  Well just look at the news. It is a disaster.  There is been no consistent messaging and misinformation. And another problem here versus Germany De Leon says no one is able to talk politics calmly.  I am in a moms group on Facebook - not to make this political let us not get political. I mean politics - like there is not a way to discuss politics with different opinions without getting nasty.  De Leon has been living in the states for more than a decade. She says she and her husband were not planning a move to Germany. Zoe is happy here. But now they are talking about it. An hour's drive away another German Lars Hierath says he is not moving. He is head of the German International School in White Plains N.Y. He agrees with De Leon. People communicate differently here than in Germany.  There seems to be in this country more of an emotional of a political discussion. Whereas at home there is more agreement on what needs to be done and how things should be tackled.  But he says he admires how quickly businesses here have adapted. Hierath sees this in all the offers he gets like for new remote work apps at the school. He says of course the numbers are scary but what he is hearing locally at least from Gov. Cuomo seems very sensible and smart. And even in the face of a global pandemic Hierath says America remains optimistic and he really treasures that.  I find this is a very American attitude. You know there is a problem. Let us tackle it. Let us do something.  Back in Bavaria Felix Zeltner is at the hotel. He just got his test results. And it is great news.  Super.  He does not have r the first time he feels far away from Germany.  I have friends who do not know anyone who had the virus.  Zeltner says that here in the U.S. he knows so many families where people got sick and even died.  I am traumatized. Like I think about it all the time.  He says the longer he spends in the U.S. the less he understands it. But he loves his home in New York and he feels safe there and optimistic. Are you coming back?  Oh for sure. Yes.  Right after vacation. For NPR News I am Sally Herships.  