 President Obama wants the U.S. military to help combat the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. Local health care systems are collapsing and American troops could help. But as NPR's Geoff Brumfiel reports getting the U.S. military involved is not as straightforward as it might sound.  This latest Ebola outbreak is the worst ever. It is already sickened and killed thousands. And speaking on NBC's Meet The Press earlier this week President Obama said the U.S. military could help.   What I said - and I said this two months ago to our national security team - is we have to make this a national security priority.  That was so great to hear.  Timothy Flanigan is an American doctor volunteering in Liberia the nation hardest hit by this outbreak. He says the local health care system has completely broken down. The U.S. Department of Defense has doctors nurses field hospitals. It can move supplies food fuel - all the things the nation needs as the crisis grows worse.  The U.S. military is uniquely poised to help with this disease. We have trained for it. We have got the logistics. We have got the support. And we have the material.  But the day after the president's comments the Pentagon made only a modest commitment. It will supply Liberia with a 25-bed field hospital and no medical staff. Flanigan is disappointed.  A 25-bed hospital it really is not going to be a significant help to Liberian people.  But the military cannot solve everything just by sending in the troops says Michael Lumpkin who is heading up the Pentagon's Ebola response.  Our deployable medical capabilities are generally trauma medicine treating people who suffer wounds in combat and things of that nature. That is not necessarily what they are dealing with there.  And Lumpkin says sending in large numbers of troops could make things worse.  Flooding the zone with everything is - can honestly cause more problems. So what we have to do is make sure that we are putting the right capability in the right place at the right time.  Earlier this summer Liberian troops were in the wrong place and it made things a lot worse.   Security forces came in to quarantine the citizens of an Ebola-stricken slum without explanation. Residents got angry. They started throwing rocks. Then live rounds were fired into the crowd.   A teenage boy died. Foreign troops would not be there to enforce quarantines but just their presence could be destabilizing says Julie Fischer a public health expert at George Washington University.  It is not so good to invade with public health. That does not build trust. . It does not build sustainable relationships.  In fact until recently many charities working in the region did not want militaries involved. But as the outbreak grows worse aid groups feel they have to take a chance.  I think that what we have already seen is a sea-change in the receptiveness of many international public health workers to military engagement.  Doctors Without Borders which has clinics throughout the region is now asking for military support. In neighboring Sierra Leone the British military is planning to set up and run a 62-bed facility. That work is being done in coordination with the charity Save The Children. The White House is now considering how the U.S. can best help fight Ebola. Those battling the outbreak hope it will decide to increase military aid and soon. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News. 