 An Alzheimer's diagnosis can be so frightening doctors say that many people would rather dismiss memory problems than investigate them. As a result experts think only about half of all cases are actually diagnosed. Recent developments could make it possible to detect the illness long before symptoms appear. But since there is still no cure the question is whether getting an early diagnosis is worth it. Alex Smith of member station KCUR has this report.  Jose Belardo of Lansing Kan. spent most of his career in the U.S. Public Health Service. He worked on the frontlines of disasters in places like Haiti Columbia Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic. At home with his three kids and wife Elaine he was unfailingly reliable. So when he forgot their wedding anniversary two years in a row they both started to worry.  We recognized something was not right and pretty much attributed it to being overworked and tired.  Then last year when Jose was 50 years old he got an evaluation at the Walter Reed Medical Center which included an amyloid PET scan. Jose says his diagnosis of early-onset Alzheimer's disease came as an inconvenient shock.  I got responsibility man. I cannot go away. I got kids. I have got graduations coming up. I got all this stuff coming up. I am not going to let Alzheimer's take that away from me. That is for sure.  Alzheimer's testing with biomarkers like beta-amyloids is still not widely available. But John Morris at Washington University in St. Louis says while still in the developmental phase it could be the start of a new chapter in Alzheimer's care.  We are trying to treat people prior to the stage of dementia prior to the stage where memory and thinking are affected in an effort to delay the loss of memory and thinking ability or even prevent it.  Even though such treatment is probably a long way off researchers and advocates say there are still lots of good reasons to seek an early diagnosis. Alzheimer's has typically been diagnosed by observing a patient's behavior and running cognitive tests. This can be pretty inexact and lead to misdiagnosis or other conditions going undetected.  For example sometimes a low thyroid hormone level can produce a dementia-like state. And that can be easily treated with thyroid replacement therapy.  A study by the Alzheimer's Association shows that with more accurate tests early diagnosis could save 64000 per patient over the course of their lifetime. And since the new diagnostic method may make it possible to detect Alzheimer's at an earlier stage patients can be more involved in planning for their future. That can go a long way to reduce the emotional toll of the disease for them and their loved ones. After Jose Belardo's illness was diagnosed his family rushed to get his affairs in order. They got in touch with the Alzheimer's Association which provided support groups and other help. And before long as his wife Elaine explains the shock started to wear off. E.  And so what I would say is after you get a diagnosis of something that is incurable and progressive and perhaps even aggressive pause and breathe and think about where the person is right at that moment because at that moment Jose was not dying. And at this moment Jose is not dying.  Researchers hope that by getting more Alzheimer's patients diagnosed early on more people with the disease will like Jose be able to make the best of the health they have. For NPR News I am Alex Smith in Kansas City.  We have an update from the Belardos. They are in the final stages of preparing for the wedding of their daughter Lauren  next month.   This story is a partnership between NPR KCUR and Kaiser Health News. 