 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Kelly McEvers. When Kathleen Raven was 5-years-old she found out she had a hearing problem - complications during her birth left her with moderate to severe high and low frequency hearing loss in both ears.  I could not hear water dripping from the faucet. And I could not hear crickets on a summer night. I could not hear sirens. I could not hear the fire alarms in our fire drills. So I did a lot of watching other people.  When it comes to speech certain sounds are out of range.  Those are TH so thirst. CH church - as well as SH. And so those sounds co-mingle and when they are at the beginning or end of words it is difficult to hear them. I lip read religiously.  If she cannot see someone and read their lips Kathleen says she can understand maybe every third word. That is without a hearing aid. Over the decades Kathleen has been able to witness up close how dramatically hearing aids have improved. She got her first bulky set of hearing aids back in 1993 when she was 5.  They were about two inches long and they connected to a very large ear mold inside my ear. They call them flesh colored but they are not the color of anyone's flesh.  Her classmates gave her a hard time but the technology kept changing.  Hearing aid technology from the early '90s up until the 2000s would leapfrog every 4 years. The hearing aids on the market would be nothing like the ones that I got before.  Her parents would shell out 4 to 5000 on each new device. By the time she got to high school she had her first completely inside-the-ear hearing aid and that changed everything.  All I wanted since I was little was to not have a visible impairment. I just became more confident walking into crowds I did not you know arrange my hair to cover my ears. I started being more talkative going out with my friends more. And I did not realize how much that fear had impacted me until I got completely-in-the-ear hearing aids.  She went to college and pursued her dream of becoming a reporter.  I encountered a few raised eyebrows along the way. Why do you want to make a living of hearing people when that is a challenge for you?  But she went for it. Today she writes about oncology for the online news service BioPharm Insight. As time went on and technology progressed Kathleen thought her ability to hear had maxed out. But with each upgrade in hearing aids she discovered more sounds.  Two years ago my audiologist fitted me with the current pair I have. She put them in my ears and I just happened to smack my lips together like - smacks lips - and I said what is that noise? Such a simple exercise in sound but it was earth shattering. I had never heard before. She put on Beethoven's Ninth Symphony and I heard instruments come out of the woodwork.   It was like seeing the world in 3D or hearing the world in 3D for the first time.  That latest pair is 3500 apiece and basically invisible. I asked her if she tells people about it when she meets them?  I love that question because five years ago I was still not ever telling people unless it was just absolutely necessary. And now I do work it into conversation in the first 5 minutes or so. In social settings somebody may already say something that I need them to repeat it and along with saying could you please repeat that I medially say I have a hearing problem. That phrase was impossible for me to say for the first 20 years of my life. Now I think it is very important for hearing loss to be accepted for younger people of course and then also for older people.  That is Kathleen Raven a reporter for BioPharm Insight. She says her hearing loss has leveled off for now. Living in New York she is careful to protect her ears from loud voices. 