 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. Eugene Robinson is the deputy editor for the online magazine Ozy. He also dabbles in mixed martial arts fighting and many years ago was a bodybuilder. He got into bodybuilding as a teenager and for many years competed as a natural competitor - that means without the use of performance enhancing drugs. In a recent piece he writes about a time that I am when he decided to become a steroid user. Eugene welcome to the show.  Hey thanks for having me.  So you competed in the natural category but from your description it does not sound like a lot of the competitors were all that natural.  You know I was not hanging out with these guys in their bathrooms near their medicine cabinets. But anytime some guy who is about 6 foot 1 6 foot 2 starts to push the scales at about 250 you know eyeballs start to roll specifically mine.  So was that what prompted you to start taking to keep up with these guys?  It was the exact opposite of that. I figured you know if you are going to anything you just take it because you want to take it and competing really has nothing to do with it. In fact after I started taking it I never competed in bodybuilding again.  So you did this just for you?  Yeah pretty much just for me.  So when you started taking the drugs when did you first start to notice results? What was it like?  You suddenly feel fantastic. I mean you know you need a lot less sleep. You know you do not need any recuperation time between your sets. And I understood much more clearly why people were loathe to stop them. But of course there is a dark side.  Well talk about the dark side. What was your experience of the dark side?  When you completely stop you might find yourself prone to mood swings sleeplessness. And then I found myself emotionally sensitive. But it only lasted about two weeks. And then it was sort of back to normal. The second time I went to a doctor and had blood work done maybe much more like professional athletes and tapered off gradually. And I did not have any dark side problems on the other end of it. And I would have to say maybe I would done in total about four cycles back in my thirties.  For somebody who is not competing what was the motivation to do this?  I had gotten to 265 pounds and you get used to dead-lifting over 600 pounds. You get used to you know bench pressing close to 400 pounds. But I stopped doing it because I got heavily into mixed martial arts and Brazilian Ju-Jitsu and I guess fitness would be the key things changed. I mean I do not wear bellbottoms anymore either you know?  With everything that is come out about steroids since you were a user I mean both the medical research and the disgraced athletes do you look back on that time differently and think man that was silly or how do you feel about it?  The disgraced athlete issue is a very separate issue. At one point my mother said well is not that cheating? I said it would have been if I was competing. But I was not competing. The cases that you hear the abuse cases are typically terrible and have really negative consequences. But people have gotten a lot smarter about it in general.  Do you ever get the itch to use it again?   Well I mean there is just something elementally  attractive to me about that barge-like heft. There was just something glorious about that that for sure is something you might miss you know. But you also realize too that these are not easy to get. I mean it is involved. So yeah I do not find myself missing it.  Eugene Robinson is a deputy editor for the online magazine Ozy. Eugene thank you.  Thanks for having me man. 