 More troubling news about the controversial diabetes drug Avandia today. The Food and Drug Administration released more than 700 pages of documents including several new studies of the drug. They show that people with type 2 diabetes who take the drug run a higher risk of heart problems and possibly death. Next week two advisory committees will vote on whether the drug should remain on the market. Reporter Joanne Silberner has been covering the ups and downs of Avandia since questions first arose about its safety back in 2007. She joins me now. And Joanne lots of questions now going back several years. Why is Avandia still on the market?  Well it is good at controlling blood sugar. That is what the company developed it for and that is what the FDA approved it to do and it does do that well.  But tell us more about these heart problems now that these studies are showing.  Well they are getting to look more and more real. I mean this all started back in 2007 when Steve Nissen from the Cleveland Clinic took a look at some data on the drug. It looked to him like there could be some heart problems going on. And he did a study and an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration looked at that study and some other data and said the drug does in fact cause heart problems. But they suggested back then to leave it on the market. They did not think the evidence was strong enough or that the problem was big enough. Now though there is a lot more data coming in. There was a study just last week of 227000 people. And all these new studies are starting to really build up.  And if I am somebody with type 2 diabetes taking Avandia how concerned should I be right now?  Well there seems to be a real risk. I think the easiest way to think about it is David Graham a Food and Drug Administration staffer did a  he was the one who did the analysis of the 227000 people on the drug. And the way he puts it is this. He says for every 60 people on the drug for a year there is going to be one extra case of heart attack or stroke or heart failure or death. And that is a pretty high number. Now I have got say here though that the manufacturer GlaxoSmithKline is saying its analysis of some of the same data plus six studies it is really focusing on - that looking at those two things they say there is not any increased risk of heart attack stroke or death.  Well how do you explain that Joanne? How can there be such wildly disparate results in these studies?  The FDA staffers analyzing the data took a look at why there could be different interpretations and they looked specifically at the company's interpretation. And they are accusing the drug company of using incomplete data. They are  and using studies that were not done all that well where people were sort of lost to follow-up or people stopped taking the drug after a short period of time. And there are other issues when you look at statistics. Now how long did the studies last? What really counted? Did it have to be a heart attack that was directly observed or really proven or could it be a suspected heart attack? You know what counted? When the FDA looked they saw things that counted and looked real. They saw more things than the drug company did. It is really tough to tease these things apart and that is why the Food and Drug Administration has asked this outside committee of experts to come in and come to some sort of conclusion.  And if their conclusion is that in fact Avandia should come off the market what will people who have been taking that drug do?  Well the FDA has to decide whether to follow the advice of the committee. It held that hearing back in 2007 and that committee did not say it should come off the market. If this committee says that it does there is actually another drug out there. It is in the same class as Avandia a very similar drug. And there is no direct head-to-head comparisons of these two drugs. But indirect comparison suggests that the second drug - it is called Actos it is also a popular drug - that that drug does not cause the same level of problems as Avandia does.  Okay Joanne Silberner speaking with us from Atlanta. Joanne thanks so much.  Thank you. This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 