 And scientists have been working to pinpoint where the current Ebola outbreak began. One theory was that people were eating contaminated bats across a wide swath of West Africa but that is not holding up. NPR's Michaeleen Doucleff reports on the difficulty of finding patient zero.  Back in December a little boy in southern Guinea caught a mysterious disease. He had a fever was vomiting and had blood in his stool. The boy died a few days later but before he did he passed the disease to his 3-year-old sister his mother and a midwife. A team working with Doctors Without Borders reported that this little boy just 2 years old likely triggered the entire Ebola outbreak in Guinea which spread to Liberia and Sierra Leone. He was called Patient Zero.  There is a physician that started to draw that chain of transmission that went all the way to two kids - 2 years old 3 years old.  That is Pierre Rollin at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. He just got back from Guinea. He says these kids are likely early cases of the outbreak but he says it is not correct to call the boy Patient Zero.  It is not Patient Zero it is the chain stopped there because we cannot find anybody else or nobody can remember anything.  So just because all their leads stopped at the boy does not mean he was the source of the outbreak. In fact the outbreak likely started before him. But Rollin says one thing is now clear - Ebola did not spread across the region because multiple bats were infecting multiple people but rather there was just one person who got the virus and then it took off from there.  So we think there was only one introduction and then from that it went from human to human to human to human.  Scientists figured this out in two ways. First every person they know who is gotten Ebola has had contact with somebody else with the disease.  The story that we got so far is we always find a link with someone else that had been sick and someone else that had been sick. You always find this chain.  So the virus just is not popping up without explanation. And then there is DNA evidence. Scientists have analyzed the genetic fingerprint of the virus in Sierra Leone and the one in Guinea.  It looks like they are all either the same or very related.  Which also suggests there are not hundreds of bats or bat colonies swarming around West Africa infecting people but instead there is just one source of the virus that cropped up way back in December. If that is the case it means people in Guinea were getting Ebola and did not realize it which is a bit surprising. How can you have Ebola and not realize it? Well there is actually a good reason. There is another disease in West Africa that acts very similar to Ebola it is called Lassa Fever and it can even cause bleeding like Ebola. John Fair is an infectious disease doctor working on Lassa Fever in Sierra Leone. He thinks people may have been catching Ebola in the country for years without knowing it.  Actually around five years ago I was doing a study with a colleague from the U.S. Army where we were looking at patients that were admitted for suspected Lassa Fever tested negative for Lassa Fever and looking at all the other pathogens that might be present.  Fair says many of the people had common viruses like West Nile and Yellow Fever.  But what was interesting is we did find two individuals and that was up to five years ago with recent exposure to Ebola Zaire.  That is the type of Ebola causing the outbreak right now. The team found just two patients back then with Ebola Zaire but...  That finding is obviously a lot more important now that we are having a major Ebola outbreak in the same area.  And it likely means that Ebola has been simmering in West Africa for years now waiting for just the right moment and the right person to launch an outbreak. Michaeleen Doucleff NPR News. 