 Now it is time for our regular feature Words You will Hear where we try to understand what is happening in the news by parsing some of the words associated with it. This week the word is chimera. Yes it is the mythical being - a lion crossed with a goat and snakes - but it is in the news because it is also the name for a kind of research in which human stem cells are combined with the tissues of other animals with the potential for creating human-animal hybrids. The National Institutes of Health just lifted a ban on federal funding for this type of research which has some bioethicists concerned. To break it all down we reached Insoo Hyun. He is a professor of bioethics and philosophy at Case Western Reserve University. Professor thanks for joining us.  Great to be here.  Why are some ethicists so concerned about this? Walk us through the main ethical argument.  Right. The main argument in favor of this type of research is that it could be an incredibly useful tool as it has been for decades in other areas of biomedicine. When you mix human cells and the animal models you can do many many kinds of experiments where you can study how human systems behave in an animal before you move on to work with patients and human subjects. But on the con side you do have concerns by many people who are worried about the level of mixing that could occur when you use stem cells in your animal models. And one of the concerns might be about animal welfare. We do not know exactly what effect in terms of the animal suffering these experiments will result in. There is also great concern about the level of human-animal mixing that might result in animals that are not 100 percent animal and not 100 percent human. We may be flirting with an area of human dignity that we just do not want to cross even if the scientific value of the work may be quite high.  Well give us some examples of the things that have already been done and what we have been able to find out as scientific research proceeds.  Well one experiment that happened recently was when researchers put human glial cells which are a type of human brain cell into mice that did not have the ability to make their own glial cells. When they did this experiment where these mice had large numbers of human glial cells in their brains they found that the mice were able to solve maze tests twice as fast as normal mice and had memory tests that were twice as fast. So that is an area that in recent years has drawn some attention and could be sort of a harbinger for the kinds of concerns people have as you go outside of rodents and go to more complex more human-like animals.  Because we are getting down to a level of combining cells to create something that would never exist in nature is it different from for instance growing human organs inside a pig?  I think that is the root of many people's concerns just this idea of creating something completely new and in some people's view completely unpredictable.  One of the big political divides in the United States has been between Democrats and Republicans over the right to abortion. And some pro-life Americans say they want to stop abortions because they believe even at the earliest stages after fertilization the resulting embryo is a full-fledged person with a consciousness and with a right to life and a right to be legally recognized as having a right to life. Is this the same ethical debate?  If you are creating ambiguous embryos with human cells that are very early in development into an animal embryo then it does raise the question of what is the moral status of that embryo. Is it an animal embryo and we can just treat it like any kind of lab animal or is that a human embryo? Or is it something in between? So I think we have a continuum of belief as to what it means to be a human. Not everybody agrees. But this is definitely butting up against that continuum because we are talking about embryo research and human cells.  You know I am thinking back to when in vitro fertilization was first introduced. There were people with a lot of ethical concerns. And we built in guidelines we still continued to hash it out and now it is a widely accepted practice. Is this going to be different or kind of like IVF?  That is an excellent example. My prediction is that it will be kind of like IVF if we find that there are good medical benefits that come from this activity. So IVF as you pointed out was extremely controversial when it was first proposed in the early '70s mid-'70s. But it was not until the inventors of IVF brought out a healthy baby on TV that people clamored for this technology and have not stopped science. On the other side though what we did find with IVF is with the new technology you do open up the door for new future controversies. So for example without IVF without the ability to grow embryos outside the womb you would not have had stem cell research. If chimera research proceeds and if it shows social value it could open the door for other future technologies that we cannot imagine at this time that might themselves generate controversy.  The word you will hear is chimera. That is Insoo Hyun a professor of bioethics and philosophy at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland Ohio. Thanks a lot professor.  Thank you. 