 The U.S. has contracts for hundreds of millions more COVID vaccine doses than it could possibly use. Today the White House announced a long-awaited plan for sharing that wealth with the rest of the world. The first shipment went out today of what will be 25 million doses shared and there are promises of a total of 80 million by the end of the month. NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith joins us with more. Hi Tam.  Hi.  Where are these doses going?  So the bulk of them 19 million will go to COVAX. That is an international effort to vaccinate people in the world's poorest countries in an equitable way. And they will go to Latin America Asia and Africa. And then the other 25 will be shipped directly by the U.S. to areas of particular need or to friends and neighbors. So for instance today there is a plane with a million vaccine doses headed to South Korea to vaccinate the military there because they work closely with U.S. troops. The president of Mexico tweeted that he got a call from Vice President Harris saying the U.S. would be sending vaccines to Mexico more. There had already been some sent to Mexico. Surplus vaccines will go to Canada India Ukraine the West Bank and Gaza among others.  We are talking about 25 million doses but given the scope of the pandemic is that enough?  In a word no. The U.S. has been under intense pressure to share its wealth of vaccines. I talked to advocates today. They are happy that the U.S. is emphasizing a global effort and not just sharing those doses through bilateral deals but Carolyn Reynolds of the Pandemic Action Network told me billions of doses are needed not millions.  It is time to have a global road map to vaccinate the world. That is what we hope will come out of the G-7 summit next week. So this announcement today from the White House is an important step forward but we have got a lot more to do and we have got to step up the pace and we have got to do it quickly. As long as this pandemic is raging anywhere around the world Americans are not safe. None of us are safe.  She is part of a coalition sending a letter to President Biden tomorrow calling on the G-7 - so the world's wealthiest nations - to donate at least a billion doses by the end of August. And they are calling on the U.S. alone to contribute at least 350 million. So that is exponentially more than the White House announced today.  China and Russia have been distributing vaccines to other countries for months already. Is this U.S. effort different?  In many cases countries had to pay for those vaccines and they also came with strings attached. National security adviser Jake Sullivan was adamant that the U.S. is taking a different approach.   We are not seeking to extract concessions. We are not extorting. We are not imposing conditions the way that other countries who are providing doses are doing. These are doses that are being given donated free and clear to these countries for the sole purpose of improving the public health situation and helping end the pandemic.  And there is a real emphasis from the administration on the idea that the world's democracies are going to help guide the world out of this pandemic but the administration has taken a lot of criticism for vaccinating the U.S. first. Now Sullivan says that the U.S. will try to galvanize the world's leading economies to get behind this push and draw a contrast with the more transactional approach taken by China and Russia.  That is NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith. Thanks a lot.  You are welcome. 