 We are going to take on this health question now - can the medical profession be cured of racial bias? A growing body of research suggests that doctor's internal prejudices may affect the health care we receive. From member station KQED in San Francisco April Dembosky reports that some medical schools are trying to combat that. They are training their students to confront their own unconscious bias.  Jane Lazarre was pacing in the hospital waiting room. Her son Khary was 18 at the time and he would just come out of knee surgery. But the nurses were not letting her in to see him.  They told us he would be out of anesthesia in a few minutes. He never came out. The minutes became an hour. The hour became two hours.  Lazarre and her husband called the surgeon in a panic. He went in to check on their son.  And came back and said that Khary had come out of the anesthesia violently thrashing and flailing about.  The doctor told Lazarre that with most young people his age there would not have been a problem. The doctors and nurses would have gently held him down.  But with our son since he was so quote large and powerful they were worried that he might injure the medical staff. So they had to keep sending him back under the anesthesia.  Khary was six feet tall but he was slim.  He was not the giant that they were describing him as.  Lazarre is white. Her husband is black. She says there is no doubt her mind that what happened with Khary was because of race.  I understood certainly not for the first time that my son - and my sons both were viewed as being dangerous being potentially frightening to people who were white.  She is sure the surgeon did not see his reaction as biased.  Like most white people I do not think he was conscious of it at all.  Lazarre and her husband insisted on seeing Khary. They saw right away that their son was not angry or violent. He was scared. Lazarre leaned over and whispered in Khary's ear.  It is going to be OK. You can calm down and he began slowly to come out of the anesthesia more normally.  This happened years ago but some medical schools today are looking for new ways to prevent these kinds of situations. Places like Johns Hopkins and Baylor College of Medicine are teaching their students about unconscious bias. Take this class for pharmacy residents at UC-San Francisco taught by Dr. Rene Salazar.  A lot of folks come to San Francisco thinking oh you know it is such an open-minded place. There are no biases here. Actually that is not really true. I mean you are going to see this - every hospital it is going to be an issue.  What Salazar wants these students to talk about is not other people's biases but their own. And not just the biases they know they have but the ones they do not know or do not believe they have.  Like it or not all of us hold unconscious beliefs about various social and identity groups.  Before the class students were asked to take the implicit association test. It is a timed computer test that measures people's unconscious attitudes around race gender age and weight. Professor Salazar asks who wants to share their results. The students study their fingernails.  Well I can share with you my story all right?  When he did the test for the first time it showed that he had a bias against African-Americans.  I was struck.  He began to explore where this bias came from.  I grew up in south Texas - 99 percent Mexican-American mostly Latino - and in my high school we had one black student.  After Salazar tells his story a student named Amanda raises her hand. She asked that we not use her last name because she is afraid that what she learned about herself could damage her career. Her parents grew up in Iran and made their way to the U.S. after the revolution. She took the test that measures bias against Muslims and another on light and dark skin tone.  I kind of went in thinking that these are two areas that I would probably not have a bias in. And that is kind of why I choose them.  But the results were not what she expected.  It was like actually you are really - you are biased. And you do not like brown people. And you do not like Muslims which is interesting for me 'ecause that is kind of the two things that I am.  Right right absolutely right - and I think that is such an important thing to acknowledge.  Salazar tells the class that the key to understanding bias is not to deny it but to accept it. And he emphasizes that while unconscious beliefs cannot be eliminated they can be managed.  So how do we address our biases? What do we do?  One student says slow down.  Yeah. A trick that I use is I pause before I walk in just to try to clear your mind and try to go in with that clean slate.  It is too early to say if these new trainings actually have any effect on what goes on in the exam room. Salazar admits they do not know.  The key is what is the impact on patient care? And that is a little bit harder to assess.  But UC-San Francisco is betting that this is the future of diversity training. The school believes it can help shift medicine by teaching the next generation of doctors nurses and pharmacists how to keep their own biases in check. For NPR News I am April Dembosky in San Francisco. 