 Obesity has long been recognized as a public health problem. But this week the American Medical Association the nation's largest professional organization of physicians has taken the step of officially recognizing obesity as a disease. NPR's Allison Aubrey joins us now to talk about what this means. Hi Alison.  Hi there Robert.  What is the significance of declaring obesity a disease?  Well I have spoken to a few physicians today who tell me that this is important because it can open the door to changes in the way obesity and obesity-related conditions are covered by insurance. I mean currently there is not a lot of incentive for doctors - particularly primary care physicians or family docs - to spend a lot of time on lifestyle or diet counseling because the reimbursement structure is really weighted much more toward procedures not towards prevention. And even with treatments available say bariatric weight-loss surgery currently some insurance plans do not cover the surgery or put up barriers that can make it tough to get. I spoke to Louis Aronne who directs a weight-control program at New York PresbyterianWeill Cornell Medical Center. And he says it is really discouraging. DR.  We still get claims denied. So if anything our system is designed to do nothing until someone has complications of obesity. That just does not make sense.  But Allison has what the AMA announced here is this really a new way of thinking? Has not there already been a shift toward wellness and prevention that looks at obesity in a new light?  Well you know I think in some ways that this decision by the AMA - to recognize obesity as a disease - is a way of playing catch-up if you will. I mean I think some people listening to us now might probably say you know duh obesity is a problem. We have a country where about a third of adults are obese so this is not a new conversation. We have all heard plenty about it. And from an economic perspective the costs are clearly high. A recent estimate is that the nation spends about 190 billion a year on obesity-related costs. So I mean this is not lost on insurance companies and employers who offer health insurance.  So what are a few examples of how the coverage for treatment or prevention of obesity have begun to shift?  Well you know I can think of several. For instance insurance coverage for nutrition counseling for commercial weight loss programs - such as Weight Watchers. And diabetes prevention as well being overweight is a major driver of the development of Type II Diabetes. And for instance Aetna a major health insurance company has begun offering a Type II Diabetes prevention program. So I think the fact that the nation' Hey obesity is a disease it may help nudge the medical system a little bit more towards new paradigms of treatment and prevention.  That is NPR's Allison Aubrey. Allison thank you.  Thank you Robert. 