 NPR's show that examines human behavior Invisibilia has returned with a new season of stories. This week they are exploring the idea of personality. And it turns out a lot of research suggests that it is far less stable than you might think. And today we have co-host Lulu Miller to talk more. Hey there Lulu.  Hello Audie.  All right. You got a story about a young runner - right? - who basically thought he had it in him to break the four-minute mile which is a big deal until a potential change in personality makes him question that. What happens?  All right so our young runner - his name is Mike Marsella He is from Rhode Island.  OK. Hold on. I have an idea. So how about in the spirit of athletic competition you tell this story in under four minutes?  Oh but I actually cannot really because it involves many characters. It takes place over many years.  OK. But what if I only give you four minutes and you do the best you can?  All right.  Ready set go.  OK. OK. So Mike Marsella grew up in Rhode Island and he is always been really really competitive.  Like any board game I play with my family I could not lose without flipping the board.  So you were that kid? Like...  Yeah I was that kid that everyone's like oh crap.  He got into running his freshman year of high school. And by his junior year of high school that kid had almost already broken the four-minute mile.  Four minutes and nine seconds.  Wow.  I remember like sitting there and I would count to nine seconds. Nine seconds - what is nine seconds? One Mississippi two Mississippi three Mississippi four Mississippi five Mississippi six Mississippi eight Mississippi nine.  And yeah. He just skips seven.  I did?  Yeah. We will get to that.  I will count again. One two...  So he keeps running. He gets a running scholarship to college.  The University of Virginia.  He buys a moped.  It is a little red Yamaha.  And one night...  Just driving down the hill over the bridge and .  There was a lot of blood.  This is his dad.  Please let him live. Please let him live.  And his mom who came to the hospital to find Mike in a coma after being hit by a car.  The impact was so great that it actually knocked his helmet off...  Off.  ...Of his head.  He was unconscious for four days and then...  The first time he woke up he did not recognize us. Michael it is your mother. I am here. I love you. And he turned around and he screamed the F word at me. And he said you never loved me.  He had suffered brain damage. He had problems with his speech with his memory...  They say remember four six two nine and I jumbled the letter - the numbers up or just not even say the right numbers at all and...  I was afraid that now he would be not him.  But Mike at that point did not think the accident had changed him. As soon as he was healthy enough to run he was back on a starting line.  The gun went off and I kind of slid in the middle of the pack. First two laps we run around in two minutes - 01 which is...  Whoa.  Yeah which is like right around four-minute pace. But 50 meters later everything blew up right in my face.  He totally ran out of steam finished nowhere near a four-minute mile.  I mean I was obviously very disappointed after that. I slapped the bleachers. Mike you suck.  He said that all of a sudden his mind was flooded with doubt about who he was.  You are not Mike Marsella anymore.  And when his mind changed his running changed. All around the country he ran race after race but...  Could not do it.  And then comes a race near his hometown. So his parents come out his childhood friends.   Let us go Mike.  Go Kyle.  Let us go Tom .  All the people who knew the Mike he used to be. He said the pain was horrible.  You are not Mike Marsella anymore. Finally with a lap to go...  He hit the point.  There is a point in almost every race where you hit this moment where you could give in to the pain or push through it. And once you almost break through that initial pain you honestly feel better once you get to the other side but it is that moment where you just need to decide. What do you want this for?  And then he pictured something something he worried he had lost in the accident. And...   On January 31 2015 Mike Marsella became the 427th American to ever break the four-minute mile.  The whole thing stadium was goes yeah.  He did it. He did it.  And Mike standing there staring at the scoreboard...  Three minutes 59 seconds point 97.  ...Saw what he had reached for.  A sign that I was still still me.  And at three minutes 59 seconds Lulu you did it.  Yes. And Mike Marsella - we are happy to report has made a full recovery. He will be graduating from UVA shortly with a degree in sociology and has since won first team All-American and ACC champ.  Nice. Lulu Miller thanks so much.  Thank you for having me.  And thanks also to David Nyman for composing the music for that story. Now on the next Invisibilia out tomorrow you will hear Lulu and Elise Spiegel explore how frighteningly unstable personality is for us all. 