 The octogenarian and septuagenarian working to defeat the pandemic in the U.S. are trying very hard to reach Gen Z. Dr. Anthony Fauci has started showing up on TikTok. President Biden posed for pictures in sunglasses with 18-year-old pop star Olivia Rodrigo. Their efforts underscore one of the roadblocks to vaccinating more Americans - many young people just are not rushing to roll up their sleeves. NPR's Sam Gringlas reports.  Last spring James Lifton and Arham Imran arrived on campus at Texas AM University. They were both transfer students. And so when they ended up in line together at the campus Panda Express...  We just started talking. And we sat and we got our food. And then we were like hey let us just keep on hanging out.  They became fast friends.  And one of the things we like to do is we like to argue about political issues . We were just talking about like the vaccine. Is it worth it?  Lifton wanted to get it right away. He worried about spreading the virus to his parents. Imran was hesitant. He wondered whether it was developed too fast. And then when Lifton did get the shot Imran was surprised by how sick it made his friend.  Yeah.  I had to bring him Gatorade...  It was bad.  ...And his lunch. I really did not want to be bedridden for two or three days. COVID does not really affect a lot of people of my age and so I did not feel any sense of urgency to get it.  The CDC says about 60 of all adults are fully vaccinated. That is compared to only 42 for people 18 to 24. Jordan Tralins a rising junior at Cornell is trying to narrow that divide. So she started the COVID Campus Coalition.  People from my generation do not spend their free time sifting through scientific literature. We really look at what is on our social media. And that influences the way that we think.  Scrolling through Instagram and TikTok Tralins noticed feeds full of misinformation like this video from a TikToker with 65000 followers and a Trump2020 in the bio.   OK let me explain something to you. I am not getting the COVID vaccine. And a lot of people want to know why.  One reason that pops up a lot - and to be clear without evidence - is that the vaccines cause infertility. On TikTok Tralins knocks down myths like that one and explains how the shots work.   First we are going to take some mRNA. This will give your body instructions for your cells to make a spike protein. This spike protein will help produce COVID antibodies but it is harmless.  Her group now has chapters on almost 30 campuses.  My generation is not as selfish as I think we are always painted to be. I just think that some young individuals were misguided through this process.  The White House may be catching on - hence Olivia Rodrigo's White House visit and Dr. Fauci's TikTok tour.   Hi Mia.  Nice to meet you Dr. Fauci.  Same here. Thank you for what you are doing. It is really...  The administration also launched a campus vaccine challenge among other efforts. But it has not been easy. In Washington D.C. only 30 of young adults are vaccinated. And the disparity between wealthy and white neighborhoods and working-class Black and brown ones is still huge. Here's City Council Member Christina Henderson.  For many of them they do know family members who have passed away because of this virus and still somehow thinking that they are super hero-immune to it. So we just have a lot of work to do.  Henderson says incentives like gift cards only do so much. She suggested money for college tuition and having the right people making the pitch.  You or me or President Biden probably are not the best messengers for this particular group of folks. And so what are the other credible messengers that we are getting out there who can have real conversations with young people?  In Louisiana State Health Officer Joseph Kanter says hesitancy among young people worries him. It is one factor holding down the state's low vaccination rate. In focus groups though Kanter's been hearing something that gives him hope.  The answer usually of folks who have not yet gotten vaccinated is yeah I will probably get vaccinated at some point I am just not there yet.  Which is why James Lifton is still working on his friend Arham Imran.  Do it not just for yourself but do it for those around you. I think all of us can agree that we want to go back to where we can shake hands with people we can hug our family we can hang out with our friends.  Imran is weighing the decision carefully. He might get the shot before fall semester starts. For now he is still on the fence. Sam Gringlas NPR News.  TROUBLE IN MIND 