 The prospect of having to show a so-called COVID vaccine passport is controversial but that is essentially about to happen in France where about 40 of the public is fully vaccinated. With the delta variant rising President Emmanuel Macron will require health care nursing home restaurant and bar workers to get the vaccine and everyone will have to show proof of inoculation or a negative test to do just about anything in public. NPR's Eleanor Beardsley reports.   .  The doorbell and the phones have been ringing nonstop in this Paris doctor's office as people clamor to get the vaccine. Receptionist Katie Braka is buzzing people in the door while she works two phones.    Since Macron's speech we have been completely underwater. I am going as fast as I can. Everybody wants to get vaccinated now. And they love Johnson  Johnson because it is just one dose.   .  On Monday in his eighth address to the nation about the pandemic Macron warned France is in a race against time against the spread of the delta variant.   .  We are a nation of science of Louis Pasteur he said. The vaccine is our only way back to normal life. So far shots are not mandatory for everyone but starting in August people will have to show a vaccine pass or negative test if they want any kind of social life - if they want to go to bars restaurants museums or get on a train. And as of September COVID tests will no longer be free. Before Macron's speech vaccinations had plateaued. After his speech the country's appointment platform nearly crashed as 2.5 million people rushed to get a first dose.   .  This week in this French television broadcast the journalist described a previously empty vaccination center as a teeming anthill before interviewing several people.   .  Right after Macron spoke we made an appointment because we realized we could not do anything if we were not vaccinated says Jeanne LeClerc.   .  It is a new vaccine so I am still wary says restaurant owner Charlotte Pinault. But I have no choice because I will have to close if I do not get it.   .  Polls show 10 of the French population say they will not get the COVID vaccine no matter the pressure. Thousands of vaccine skeptics hooked up with others including anti-Macron yellow vest protesters to demonstrate in several cities this week. They chanted liberte and we are not your guinea pigs.   At an outdoor cafe in Paris' 15th arrondissement two friends argue about Macron's vaccination approach over lunch. They will not give their last names so they can speak openly about a sensitive topic. Guillaume a communications executive says the president is acting like a dictator.  I mean you cannot separate different people different rights not going to restaurants to hospitals to get a train just because you are not vaccinated. It is not democracy.  Guillaume's friend Kamel disagrees.  .  He says the French do not have the luxury of debating the vaccine while others are dying horrible deaths from COVID with no access to vaccines at all. Eleanor Beardsley NPR News Paris.  