 This summer the World Health Organization recommended that certain people who do not have HIV should be taking drugs to prevent getting it. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a similar guideline earlier in the year. The preventative treatment is known a PrEP - that stands for pre-exposure prophylaxis. But as Jim Burress reports for member station WABE some PrEP users are worried the medical community is not up to speed on the current recommendations.  Eric McCulley is 40 - he is gay - he is HIV negative. Outside an Atlanta coffee shop he pulls out a Ziploc baggie with a few blue pills.  They are a decent size actually. Some people might call this a horse pill.  The pill is Truvada a combination of two drugs used to treat HIV. Despite Eric's negative HIV status he takes the pill daily. After hearing about the treatments and doing extensive research on his own McCulley made an appointment with his primary care doctor.  He was very supportive about it - encouraged me to do it gave me a lot of stuff to read gave me a lot of stuff to think about and told me that I was a good candidate for it - so off we went.  A few months into treatment McCulley says the only change has been in his attitude.  I have what I was looking for - I have peace of mind. I feel like I have taken responsibility for my health.  Although Truvada is been on the market for a decade only recently have prescribing guidelines been available. Not every doctor is as familiar with PrEP as McCulley's is. Dylan West who also identifies as gay recently found that out first hand.  I have some pre-existing GI issues and I choked on an antibiotic - that is something that is happened before.  That led West to the ER. He would recently started PrEP after beginning a relationship with someone who is HIV-positive. One of the doctors noticed he listed Truvada as medication he regularly takes.  She immediately without asking any questions just said well we should probably just go ahead and test for gonorrhea syphilis HIV AIDS and the list.  West feels the ER physician made a rash assumption about his sexual practices because he was on Truvada. West knew stigma was something he might face. Some within the lesbian gay bisexual and transgender communities have gone as far as to label those on PrEP as Truvada whores.  The assumption being you are Truvada so you run probably you know run around having sex with whoever you can.  I am not surprised to hear that. I have heard it before.  That is Dr. Melanie Thompson. She is the principal investigator of the AIDS Consortium of Atlanta and has long worked in HIV research. She is encountered reluctance from some healthcare providers to prescribe PrEP because of a lack of knowledge about it.  This is an interesting thing to me because doctors who say you know I do not want to prescribe PrEP to somebody who might be at risk for HIV because they might not use condoms. You know it is an approach we would not take in other areas of medicine.  Thompson says no doctor would refuse to prescribe cholesterol-lowering statins to patients because they are overweight but somehow the conversation around PrEP is different.  So I think it is a very interesting moralistic attitude that soon will be outdated. But I do think that this is a barrier for some patients - they feel stigmatized. And honestly healthcare providers need to step up their game and do better than that.  A CDC spokeswoman said via e-mail that lack of awareness and knowledge among healthcare providers is one of the primary challenges to PrEP's success. But both Dr. Thompson and the CDC officials hope that newly issued treatment guidelines will help overcome any barriers. For NPR News I am Jim Burress in Atlanta.  This story is part an important partnership of NPR WABE and Kaiser Health News. 