 Just months after COVID-19 was officially declared a pandemic there are already 10 vaccines being tested in humans. This is not the first virus that has sent scientists racing to develop a vaccine. In the mid-1950s the polio virus was the target. And the scientist Jonas Salk had just developed a promising vaccine to fight it.   Finally April 12 1955 - Salk vaccine safe effective. The next challenge - commercial production of the polio vaccine in quantity.  That next step is where the problems began. In the Journal of the American Medical Association Dr. Brit Trogen writes about what happened next and what it means today. That is where we start our conversation right after Salk's successful clinical trials for a polio vaccine.  As soon as the results of this trial were reported there was this intense public and political pressure to try to bring the vaccine to market very quickly. And in this rush one of the biggest biomedical disasters in American history ultimately occurred which was called the Cutter incident. One of the private companies that was distributing the vaccine actually distributed lots that were contaminated with live polio virus which resulted in tens of thousands of children actually developing polio from the vaccine. And as a result of this you know first of all Jonas Salk wrote that this was the first time in his life that he felt suicidal even though he had nothing to do with the error. And on a broader scale it really destroyed faith in the scientific community and for the vaccine you know production process itself. There was a huge loss of public support and it took a lot of time to recover.  Have those problems been solved? Or do you worry that the same kinds of shortcuts could lead to problems with the development of a COVID-19 vaccine?  So we are definitely a little concerned because of the emphasis on speed. I think it is understandable. There has been so much devastation from this illness. But you know if we are not careful about the way we go about producing and distributing the vaccine particularly if political forces sort of intervene before the science is really set I think there is definitely a few different risks that could occur. The most notable is that there could be you know negative side effects from the vaccine itself. You know another risk is if the vaccine itself is not effective. But again the broader you know societal risk is that any big errors in this process could contribute to a loss of trust in the medical and scientific communities and increased skepticism around vaccination overall.  And so when you hear the White House announce this task force to develop a vaccine that they are calling Operation Warp Speed what comes to mind for you as a doctor?  Typically anything that is happening at warp speed you are not really noticing any kind of warning signs that are showing up on the side of the road. You - it means you are moving so quickly that you are - everything blurs. And that is really counter to how scientists typically like to work which is you know going through the process stepwise going through the clinical trials very carefully being aware of our biases being aware of any kind of risks that are starting to hint that they may be there. And so I think that naming it that was a bit unfortunate.  As a doctor who believes firmly in the value of vaccines do you feel like when you are saying this you have to add but vaccines are good and vaccines should not be skipped and vaccines keep kids from getting sick?  Absolutely. I am a huge - I love vaccines. They are the greatest tool that we have in our arsenal. And you know we often say that vaccines are just the victim of their own success. They have been so hugely successful in wiping out these devastating diseases like polio that many people just do not even recognize the risks of not vaccinating relative to the risks of getting the vaccine. Historically anytime there are high-profile outbreaks of these illnesses we are sort of reminded of how essential vaccines are.  Dr. Brit Trogen is a pediatrics resident at NYU Langone in New York City and her piece about the dangers of rushing vaccine development appears in the Journal of the American Medical Association. Dr. Trogen thanks for talking with us today.  Thanks so much. 