 And we are going to head now to southwest Missouri to check in on how this summer's spike in COVID-19 is playing out there. We know the combination of the delta variant and low vaccination rates is proving deadly. We know hospitals are struggling to cope. So we reached out to Erik Frederick chief administrative officer at Mercy Hospital Springfield in Missouri. He told us compared to last year that this summer a higher percentage of his ICU patients with coronavirus are on ventilators. They are sicker than last year. More are dying.  As we got through the initial surge in June what came in July that followed was a pretty significant number of deaths - in fact 78 in the month of July which put us at about 2 12 a day. And we have started off August even higher at about 3 12 a day. It is unfortunate. I think since July 1 about 17 of our patients that have been admitted for COVID have died. And that is just - it is remarkable and not in a good way.  Is what is going on here - patients who are sick enough to have to be on a ventilator and in the ICU are sicker than ones that you were seeing in past. That is what is going on?  Correct. Yeah we definitely see...  OK.  As we talk to our physician colleagues they are definitely telling us that they are seeing younger and sicker patients in ICUs. Last year we probably - around 40 of our ICU patients on ventilators. And now again we are typically in the 80s and on days like today even up in the lower 90s of our ICU patients on ventilators.  Yeah. What kind of patients are coming in? These are vaccinated people unvaccinated young old?  So what we are seeing is largely unvaccinated patients. Probably about 92 of our admitted patients with COVID are unvaccinated. We are seeing a decrease in the average age especially in the ICUs and stepdown units. We are seeing folks in their 20s and 30s and 40s whereas last year it was typically much older and with co-morbidities or other health issues. And then the ones that are admitted who are vaccinated are not typically found in the ICU or on ventilators unless they are much older and have other health conditions. So you know large percentage of the patients are unvaccinated.  And what are you hearing from people about why they are unvaccinated why they have not gotten the vaccine?  We are definitely still hearing people that are saying you know that the vaccine's not safe. They do not think COVID is as serious as folks like I am reporting. It is very often we will put a - like today I put a tweet out about you know the number of deaths that we would seen that it was pretty significant you know? And inevitably I will get someone comes back and go what is the percentage of the total? And they will - you know they try to explain it away I think and say well if it was less than this percent and this percent or if it is - and you are just like these are people. It is 78 people that live in our community that died last month. It can be very frustrating for those of us who kind of deal with this every day or support the people that are trying to provide this care to say I am - you are trying to reason with someone or trying to kind of call on their humanity a little bit. And it is hard to get through some people.  Yeah. Oh I can imagine it is frustrating because so much of this is preventable.  Yeah without a doubt. I think we estimate probably about 89 of the deaths that we have seen from COVID over the last couple months were likely preventable if someone had gotten the vaccine.  How about personally? Are you feeling hopeful? Are you feeling kind of scared looking at what might be coming down the road?  Yeah that is a good question. I would like to think that I am a perpetual optimist. I am a little concerned about what is going to happen in the fall. I am concerned for our kids. I am - I have four children. Only one is vaccine-eligible at this time. He is 12 and he is vaccinated. My daughter will be eligible here another month and she will get vaccinated as well. My two youngest are not. And I am concerned about that so - just as a parent. I am hopeful though in that you know we are learning as we move. We are learning how to better care for people. We are learning the things that need to be done or things that can be prevented. So I would like to think that we can continue to manage this although what we are managing is a very serious situation. And it is a very real situation. And I sort of wish that people outside of the walls of the hospital share that viewpoint with us. There is plenty of people in our community that are vaccinated. And they are supportive and they are doing what they can to help get the word out and encourage people. But we are still well below 50 vaccinated in this community. And so you know you take that. And you look forward and say well you know I worry that the next variant - I just worry that they will come faster than we can get the vaccination rates up. So I am hopeful that we are going to get through it at some point. I am just worried about the toll it is going to take on the journey to get there.  Yeah I hear you. That is Erik Frederick chief administrative officer at Mercy Hospital in Springfield Mo. Thank you so much for joining us.  Thank you so much. I appreciate your time. 