 The cost of health insurance keeps rising. One way companies can minimize the damage to their bottom lines is by offering employees health insurance with high deductibles - a thousand dollars or more. A new survey shows more employers are doing that. It comes from the Kaiser Family Foundation which also supports coverage of health on NPR. NPR's Alison Kodjak has more on the survey.  Covenant Care provides hospice and palliative care to people in Florida and Alabama. A couple of years ago the company switched most of its 600 workers from traditional health insurance to a high-deductible health plan. Pat Holtman is senior manager of human resources.  At Covenant we pay 80 percent of the cost of the plan and even at that point you know there is some business decisions that need to be made regarding what we can afford to do.  The company puts cash into employee accounts to help workers meet their deductibles. And if employees participate in wellness programs they get points to pay even more of the cost.  If they go online and do a wellness assessment they can accrue points that way. If they are non-tobacco users there are a certain number of points that are accrued there.  Shifting more of the burden to their employees is something a growing number of companies large and small are doing to cut health care costs. The Kaiser survey shows that more than half of workers now have health plans with deductibles of a thousand dollars or more. Kaiser president Drew Altman says companies like Covenant are getting creative.  Your typical employer is using everything in the toolkit to control their premiums.  They use those wellness programs. They also try to help workers manage their chronic illnesses. But...  If you want to bring down the premium increase quickly in any given year the immediate step you can take is to increase deductibles or other forms of cost sharing.  And that is redefining health insurance.  There is been a gradual sea change in what insurance is for most Americans for more comprehensive coverage to skimpier coverage.  The study shows that a family health plan costs companies and workers together about 18000. By raising deductibles from 200 to 1000 employers can lop about 20 percent off that bill says Dave Anderson. He is the CEO of HealthNow which runs Blue Cross and Blue Shield of western New York. Anderson says companies do think hard before they bump up deductibles because employees do not like it.  I would say no one goes there lightly. Many employers have just felt like they had to go in that direction because they had to fix premium costs in some way.  His company offers its own employees a high-deductible plan and like Covenant in Florida it encourages its workers to participate in wellness programs to knock down their share of the cost. The company will pay half the deductible for people who do a health risk assessment each year. But Anderson says high deductibles raise some troubling issues.  And that is whether it is inherently disadvantaged to lower-income employees. And we struggle with that. A thousand-dollar deductible if you are making a hundred thousand dollars a year is no big deal. If you are making 30000 a year a thousand-dollar deductible is a big deal.  Anderson says in the future employers will probably link deductibles to workers' wages to keep costs more fair. Alison Kodjak NPR News. 