 It is the time of year when thoughts turn to vacation. Maybe it is a dive trip to Belize a cruise in the Caribbean or the Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. The threat of Zika hangs over all these tropical getaways. The mosquito-borne virus is making its way north from South America. So if you are actually traveling to any of these places there are some precautions you should take. NPR's Michaeleen Doucleff explains.  So the first question is should you take this trip at all? This is really a question for couples pregnant or planning to have a baby. The real danger from Zika is birth defects and getting infected at any time during pregnancy can be dangerous. So Dr. Marty Cetron at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says if you are pregnant do not go.  The most important message and I think it is really really key to get this out and it amplify it is that pregnant women should avoid traveling to Zika-affected areas whenever possible.  And even if you are not pregnant now but trying Cetron says couples might want to cancel their trip.  If it were my daughter and they were actively trying to conceive I would probably counsel them to avoid the risk of being in a Zika area simply because you do not always really know when you are pregnant until you are maybe pretty far along.  The CDC also recommends waiting to get pregnant after you get back from a Zika-infected area. If you did not get sick still wait at least eight weeks before trying. And if a man gets Zika symptoms like a rash or a fever the couple should wait six months.  Because the virus can persist in semen as long as 62 days and perhaps longer.  Zika can cause neurological complications in people other than pregnant women. These are rare and health experts say you just need to take two precautions to lower your risk. First off...  Avoid sexual transmission particularly from a male partner to a female partner.  That is Dr. Peter Hotez at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. He said scientists first thought Zika was spread almost exclusively by mosquitoes but...  We are seeing more and more cases of sexual transmission so I think we have to continue to take that route very seriously.  So use condoms. The second precaution is obvious - do not get bitten by mosquitoes. And the best way to do that Hotez says is pick the right hotel or resort.  You want to make certain that you are in a place that understands the risks of Zika and that practices mosquito control at the hotel or resort.  And that has air-conditioning.  Preferentially central air-conditioning where you do not have to worry about those box-like air-conditioners that are often porous on the sides to mosquitoes.  Hotez says you can also stop mosquitoes by wearing long sleeves long pants and socks and by using bug spray. Dr. Karin Nielsen at the University of California Los Angeles says the key is long-acting bug spray. She recommends one with a compound in it called picaridin.  There is a lot of experience now with this in Brazil. That is what we are - people are recommending in Brazil for pregnant women. It lasts for about 10 hours.  And it is less toxic than DEET. If you do go with DEET make sure it has at least 20 percent DEET in it. Then it will last about five hours. And keep using that bug spray when you get home. The CDC's Martin Cetron says many people catch Zika but do not know it. And they could pass it on to mosquitoes back here in the States.  Nobody wants to be the one who is introduced Zika virus into their local community.  Or be responsible for starting a whole new outbreak. Michaeleen Doucleff NPR News. 