 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. Health officials in California continue to battle what is on pace to be the worst outbreak of whooping cough in 50 years. Six California infants have died of the highly contagious respiratory infection this year. There is a whooping cough vaccine but a number of children are not getting it and that is not just because some parents are opting out. As Kelley Weiss reports an increasing number of doctors in private practice cannot afford the vaccine particularly in rural areas.  Marsha McKay is a family doctor in a small Sierra foothills town. She says she is used to doing it all at her rural practice in Twain Harte California but this is something new.   Oof.  McKay is on the phone with a loan officer trying to get a 25000 line of credit.  So part of what you do is that you make a business plan for me right?  She says she needs the extra cash so she can buy vaccines of all things.  I am fairly allergic to high debt and I really would rather not do this.  McKay negotiated a contract with Blue Cross insurance to determine her vaccine reimbursement rates. But she says she does not get paid for the full price of the vaccines like for whooping cough.  Costs me 46.90 and Blue Cross will pay me 28 for it.  In other words she will lose money. So for now she is not giving the shots. She is worried though. There have been a few whooping cough cases in Twain Harte and McKay is afraid infants in her community could die without the vaccine.  The biggest issue for me is I just do not feel like I am doing everything that I am supposed to be doing for my patients. And that just makes me feel kind of inadequate as a doctor.  So now along with trying to get a loan she is shopping online for discounted vaccines. In the meantime one of McKay's patients Erica Gianbruno has three kids who need the vaccines right now. Gianbruno says she will have to drive 30 minutes to the nearest community clinic to get them. The whooping cough shots are 10 a piece and only available one afternoon a week. Gianbruno says this is frustrating because she has private health insurance.  It is definitely an inconvenience on the drive. And you know then you got to stand in line behind everyone else and it is only between like one and four on Tuesdays.  Plus she is says she is reluctant to get vaccines from someone other than her trusted doctor.  But if I go to the clinic and I do not really know them and it is kind of a rush job it is easier for me to go maybe I am not going to do this.  Doctors like Marsha McKay in rural areas are one of the groups most likely to drop childhood immunizations. That is according to Gary Freed a physician at the University of Michigan Health System. In a 2008 article he published in the journal Pediatrics he found that about 25 percent of family doctors were seriously considering no longer giving vaccines. Freed says many were losing money on immunizations.  The issue is often that physicians are not good businesspeople.  But beyond that he identified some other surprising issues.  We found interestingly that there was quite a broad range of what physicians were paying for vaccines. We also found remarkable differences with regard to reimbursement. Some physicians were being reimbursed more than twice as much as other physicians were by their most common insurer again for the same vaccine.  California Association of Health Plans president Patrick Johnston says the private insurance market is a largely unregulated competitive place. So he says doctors have to find good deals on vaccines. And Johnston says that can be difficult if you are in a solo practice in a rural area.  Individual doctors may not have the bargaining power of a big group but it is their choice to be in a big group or be an individual.  Researcher Gary Freed says family doctors need to band together and negotiate better vaccine rates. But for Marsha McKay in Twain Harte she says it is not that easy. So she is supporting a state bill sponsored by the California Academy of Family Physicians. If it is passed the law would make health insurers reimburse doctors for more of their vaccine costs. For NPR News I am Kelley Weiss in Sacramento. 