 COVID-19 has now killed more than 149000 people in this country. And in the past week an average of a thousand people have died every day. And yet the psychologist Elke Weber says these ever-growing statistics can dull our collective sense of outrage. So I asked her why does not the daily U.S. death toll from COVID-19 which is now equivalent to three large passenger jets crashing every single day - why does not that COVID death toll provoke the same emotional response a plane crash would?  I think with any kind of consistent danger people get used to situations like that. You know when you live in a war zone after a while sort of your everyday risk becomes just baseline. Our neurons are wired in such a way that we only respond to change. And you know any state that is constant you know basically sort of gets washed out. And I think what is happening right now with the COVID pandemic is people have just gotten used to being in this new state of danger adapting to it and therefore not taking enough precaution anymore.  But when I am thinking about say a war zone - the example that you brought up - during a war it is clearer who the enemy is who the humans are that we are fighting against. But during a pandemic is the sense of the enemy vaguer and therefore the toll that that enemy is taking on a society is not as clear-cut?  Absolutely. I think that what you said is so true in so many different ways.  Yes.  One of them is you know that with dealing with a small virus. This tiny enemy is also something that we as individuals cannot really fight until we have a vaccine. And so we have to fight it with science. And so our usual protection mechanisms do not kick in. And then on top of that also if you think about who is the enemy in terms of actions you know that bring about death in many ways this is in that sense very similar to climate change. The enemy is us. So absolutely I think it is very different from other situations where we might want to kick into protective action because it is not quite - we are not quite sure what we want to protect ourselves against.  So then how do we make these just astronomical statistics - more than 140000 deaths already - how do we make them resonate more with people?  Well one thing is just that we do not discriminate between 150000 or 300000 or 3 million. And so to put it into a context where people again can imagine what it means like 1 in 2000 Americans has died already. Most of us know 2000 people.  Yeah.  Or we live in towns that are multiples of 2000. We can imagine how many people would have died in our town in our sort of acquaintances. That is one very good way of doing it. The other one would be to say well what towns and cities in the U.S. has COVID wiped out at this point? And if you live in New Jersey that would be the - Patterson N.J. is gone. It is a population of 145000. Syracuse N.Y. if you want to put it into New York context - Syracuse N.Y. is gone wiped out. The whole town city wiped out by the virus. For you Pasadena Calif. is gone.  Wow.  Dayton Ohio Waco Texas - yeah so depending on where you are making it local and making it concrete I think can really help.  You have drawn parallels I understand between how people are responding to the current pandemic and also how they have been responding to climate change. Tell us what are the similarities you see in those two responses?  So if you think about both COVID and climate change and the fact that our current behavior has lasting consequences in both cases we do not experience the consequences of our current actions right now. There is a significant delay. One thing that is nice is that in the case of ly the delays are a week or two. That is still manageable. In the case of climate change it is a matter of years or decades. And so there is a chance that we might actually sort of learn some lessons from COVID that it makes sense on the one hand to pay attention to science yeah. The science is telling us sort of that early action matters. Our personal experience does not do so but science does - learning from science but then also seeing that sort of government intervention is not necessarily a bad thing when we talk about paternalism. Paternalism is not necessarily a dirty word. You know governments are there to protect us from exactly circumstances like that. And you know one potential hope is that there might be a positive takeaway in what we learn from COVID that can be applied to greater willingness to do something about climate change.  Elke Weber is a professor of psychology and a professor of energy and the environment at Princeton University. Thanks very much.  You are very welcome. Thank you. 