 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. There has been a long-running debate over whether organic food is more nutritious. A new study in the British Journal of Nutrition comes to the conclusion that organic food may not be superior across the board but it does have an advantage when it comes to those valuable compounds antioxidants. NPR's Dan Charles reports.  This new study is a kind of formal reply to another one published two years ago. That paper reviewed a couple of hundred studies of organic and conventional food and concluded that organic foods do not really offer any significant nutritional benefit. But this new analysis from another group of scientists collected data from an even bigger pile of studies - 343 in all carried out over the past 20 years. Charles Benbrook from Washington State University's Center for Sustaining Agriculture and Natural Resources is one of the co-authors. He says they found that indeed in many ways organic and conventional veggies are not very different. They saw no difference in things like minerals vitamin C vitamin E. But there were fewer pesticide residues as you would expect and there was a significant difference in the amount of special compounds called antioxidants.  Across the important antioxidant compounds of fruits and vegetables organic fruits and vegetables deliver between 20 and 40 percent higher antioxidant activity.  These compounds - they go by names like flavonoids and carotenoids - are getting a lot of attention lately. Scientists say they can protect cells from the effects of aging or from the sort of damage that can lead to cancer. Benbrook says they are a big reason why public health experts want us all to eat more fruits and vegetables. And it looks like you will get more of them from organic food.  We think that that is a big deal.  Benbrook thinks there are a couple of reasons why they are seeing this result. First plants make these compounds to protect themselves when they run into challenges like insects or diseases. And organic crops because they are not getting much help from chemical pesticides have to fight off more hungry bugs.  Plants in an organic field - they are getting chewed on some.  The second reason Benbrook says is that organic crops usually get less fertilizer. Conventional crops may grow faster and get bigger but it may be that their nutrients get diluted.  That is why you know when you buy these great big juicy apples that are just sweet as sin it is that extra moisture and carbohydrate that dilutes the vitamin C and the anthocyanins.  This latest analysis though probably is not going to end the debate over whether organic food is really more nutritious. Jeffrey Blumberg who is a professor of nutrition at Tufts University says one big problem is you do not really know what you are comparing. Organic crops are grown under many different conditions. Some get lots of organic fertilizer - some do not. Some are protected with lots of natural pesticides - some are not. Conventional practices vary widely too. So the food in these studies may not be the same as the food you are buying in the store. And in any case he says the difference in nutritional quality between organic and nonorganic fruits and vegetables is not really that big especially when you consider what Americans actually are eating.  Most Americans are only getting a couple servings of fruits and vegetables every day whereas we are recommending they get up to nine servings.  That is what really will make a difference in people's health he says - just eating more fruits and vegetables and whole grains. If you eat plenty of them whether they are organic or not you will get plenty of antioxidants. Dan Charles NPR News. 