 For months scientists in Colombia have been tracking the health of thousands of pregnant women. The goal is to answer key questions about the Zika virus and the damage it causes to babies. Now the team has some good news. NPR's Michaeleen Doucleff explains.  When Zika hit Colombia last fall there were already fears that the virus could cause birth defects. As the first infection started showing up in Colombia scientists saw this as a chance to follow women throughout their pregnancy and to answer pressing questions like at which point in pregnancy is an infection most dangerous? Now the team has its first major findings and they rushed to publish them.  Because this is critical public health information that we want to make sure we are delivering as quickly as possible.  That is Dr. Margaret Honein at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. She helped lead the project in Colombia. For the first part they followed nearly 600 women who all caught Zika in the third trimester.  And in that group we did not find any infants with birth defects or any cases of microcephaly.  These findings published in the New England Journal of Medicine suggest that infection late in pregnancy does not cause microcephaly.  I think that it is good news but I want to be sure that we understand there is a lot more we need to know.  Like whether a Zika infection late in pregnancy raises the risk for other complications such as low birth weight or problems later in life. So Honein and her colleagues are tracking the babies to see how they do. Dr. Catherine Spong is the acting director of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. She says scientists have learned from other viruses that infections during pregnancy can cause hidden problems.  Even simply having influenza during pregnancy increases risk of lifelong issues such as a higher rate of schizophrenia later in life.  That means it could be years before we know the full impact Zika has on babies even if an infection happens during the third trimester. So the CDC's Honein says...  It is critically important to protect pregnant women from this infection throughout their pregnancy.  She and her team are still waiting to get results from women infected during the first and second trimesters. Hopefully this will give them an idea about how common Zika-related birth defects are. Michaeleen Doucleff NPR News. 