 Greg O'Brien was diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's in 2009. As he is lost his memory he is also lost his appetite which complicates pretty much everything about putting food on the table. Greg took an audio recorder on a recent trip to the grocery store when things did not quite go as planned.  GREG O' In Alzheimer's now I am losing my sense of smell and my sense of taste. And I used to relish fresh fish and you know summertime on Cape Cod right off the dock the swordfish. But now it all tastes the same. It kind of tastes like rolled-up newspaper to me. I am in the car now a little reluctant to go inside this big supermarket because last time I saw a good friend of mine in there and I had something hidden behind my back in a bag. It was a case of Depends because at times I lose my continence. And good buddy he saw it. He was trying to laugh it through and said Greg you have got a problem? I said eh depends. It is OK to laugh. You have got to have a sense of humor in Alzheimer's. It is OK to laugh. All right first thing over to the salad place because I do not taste anything. I used to love tomatoes - tastes like toilet paper sometimes. All right what next? You know none of it looks good - not disparaging the supermarket just my brain - threw a few cookies in when no one's looking. Now I get Diet Coke or Diet Sprite. I usually have a few swigs during the six or seven times I am up at night. One thing I can kind of taste only 'ecause it is cold are these fruit bars. And I really cannot taste them but they feel cold and that is good. I think I am done I think.  G. O' Hey Conor. CONOR O' Did you get my text? G. O' No. What was your text? C. O' Get some chicken breasts. Get some Advil PM. Get some good salsa and good chips and that is it and then a little thing of ketchup. G. O' Ketchup condiments OK - all right - love you. OK bye.  Oh  I just forgot what he told me. All I remember now is the ketchup. Maybe I will get two bottles. You know that is the nice thing about Cape Cod. Everybody knows everybody.  Thanks Greg. G. O' OK take care. How you doing? Good to see you. Sometimes it kind of sucks 'ecause everyone knows everybody else's business. And everybody knows I am slowly losing my marbles but they care. How you doing Conor? I kind of forgot a little bit of what you told me. But I got stuff so - I got the ketchup. All right where did I put the spatula? All right let us see what we have got here. We are done. The grill is a - somewhat of a success.  G. O' There goes the fire alarm.  G. O' I think we - nice way to end the night with a good Cape Cod summer rain to put the fire out in the house that I almost started trying to cook the buns sitting on the back deck a little late - 30. Nobody else is here. Conor's watching the Red Sox. My wife and daughter are on their way back from Baltimore. And I am kind of in my element which actually makes me feel pretty good.  That is Greg O'Brien. He was diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's disease in 2009. You can hear previous stories from the series Inside Alzheimer's at our website npr.org. 