 When writer Mara Altman was 19 attending college at UCLA she learned something about herself. It happened one night while she was flirting with a server at a Mexican restaurant. His name was Gustavo. She says he said five words she will never forget.  I like your blond mustache.  Now she knew about this blond mustache all too well but she did not know the world could actually see this blond mustache. This story begins the first chapter of her new book Gross Anatomy. It is an honest often hilarious look at women's bodies how we think of them our practices questions embarrassments. It is all on display and Mara Altman is not shy about any of it. So there is your warning. We are going to talk about the female body for the next several minutes with Mara. Welcome.  Hey great to be here.  So you could have started this book off with any number of regions of the body. But why did you start where you did with your upper lip?  I mean that was pretty traumatic. Come on.   It was a bad moment for me.  I felt for you. I really did in that moment. You thought he was about to like ask for your number or something.  I know. I was really excited for a great hot night but no no.  .  It just like awoke this gigantic bit of shame in me. But it also really fed into all my body hair and especially as of late my chin hair issues I have had with Dave my husband. And before we got married I really wanted to come out as a chin hair-er  like that I had a goatee.   Like you needed him to know the truth.  I needed him to know that I had a goatee that he was marrying a woman with a goatee. I just did not want him one to find out later and be upset and two to just have to hide it anymore. I was just so tired.  So how did that go when you confessed?  It was crazy. You know after all this angst and all this stuff which I needed to go through and I am so glad I did because you know I got to - I wrote this great thing that I can share with people. But we were sitting there watching SVU - Victims Unit.  The perfect time to bring up anything painfully truthful.  Yeah. Like I told him - I said you know I have chin hair. And I told him all the stuff that I do to try and get rid of it. And then he just like looked at me like I was nuts. He went it is just hair. And then he just stopped and he like went back to watching the TV.  He could not have cared less.  He could not have cared less.  I mean this was a deep dark secret you had for most of your adult life. And I am curious. How did this self-consciousness about what you look like - how did it develop? Because you know that seems like no-duh question but in your case you had two parents who really tried hard to free you of having any hang-ups about your appearance.  Yeah. Because I still had the experiences of - at school where I did not feel like I totally fit in. I was trying so hard to be authentic to be natural like my parents said. But you still have the friends on the schoolyard that are like oh she is hairy gross. So I found myself in a place where I did not fit into either world and finally just trying to figure out why. Why do we have to behave in this certain way on either side?  Can you tell me about that time when other girls at school pointed out the hair on your legs? You were in eighth grade right?  Yeah. I was in junior high and I was in PE class just you know getting ready to play dodgeball or something. And a girl just pointed at my legs and she is like ew gross you are hairy. And I just felt totally seen and ashamed and wanted nothing more than to just rip out every single hair on my body. And yet that went against everything in our household kind of about being natural. And then I actually had to confront my mom about it and finally ask her if I could shave.  And where did this pressure come from this idea that women should not have hair anywhere except their heads and maybe their arms?  There is a lot of different ways to look at it. So you know we know that ancient Romans and Grecians removed hair and why exactly it is hard to tell. Then when women came to the United States in the early 1900s they were fine being hairy. But then I talked to this professor Jennifer Scanlon who said that advertisers came on strong in like the 1930s. They said that having armpit hair was dirty and gross being clean-shaven was respectable feminine. And then you also look at another kind of theory that we are all so afraid of our mortality that we cover up anything that kind of hints us being beasts or animals. You know we put on perfumes. We cover up our holes. Anything that excretes or is moist we really do not want to have anything to do with. That also is like sweat you know?  All the natural repercussions of being human of being mortal we try to erase.  Exactly.  Yeah on that idea of trying to repress or erase the human stuff that is happening beneath the surface I want to talk about your chapter on PMS. You take this on fully in the book. You even called up a psychology professor and you asked her whether PMS is a real thing. Tell me what she told you.  Yeah. She told me it was so interesting because she really just turned the whole thing on its head. She said that when we say that PMS made us do something that we are using it as a scapegoat and kind of discount it.  Totally.  And she also said you know hormones do not create moods but they can exacerbate moods. And she had this very funny thing. She said you know I have all this PMS paraphernalia in my office and one thing says I am afraid that PMS does not exist because that means this is actually who I am.   Right. Her version is that maybe PMS exaggerates how we express those feelings but those feelings are genuinely happening.  Exactly. They are very legitimate. We should pay attention to them not only pay attention to them but I have talked to other women who think we should pay attention to them even more that we do not have the buffer to kind of be like everything's fine you know duh duh duh . But we are really feeling things and these things can be a headlight to show us what is going on in our lives.  Yeah. So you meander through so many topics and neuroses that women have about their bodies from like body hair to sweat to sounds we make during sex to vaginal odor to the shape of our vaginas. And I am just curious. After writing this entire book what surprised you the most about how women think about their bodies?  I think it is just how much anxiety we all have about such wonderful working parts and functions of our bodies. I mean it should not be surprising because I feel the same way but it is just really shared you know?  That we could have so much shame for things that happen naturally to the body.  Yeah. Like when you just really look at it you are like you know these things are also helpful to us. And if we can kind of reframe it in that way - you see sweat and the sweat researcher that I talked to said that if we were overheating and we could not sweat we would basically die in like 20 to 30 minutes. So when I see my own sweat stains now on my pits which is probably daily...   ...I try to appreciate that that is where we have come from. That is how we are human.  That is my body working hard to keep me alive.  Yeah. And I think that researching or learning about our bodies can also lessen the shame around it.  Mara Altman is author of the new book  Dispatches From The Front . Thank you very much. This was a lot of fun.  Thank you so much. It was wonderful.  