 Coronavirus tests are usually free to patients in the U.S. but how much should an insurance company pay for these tests? That is the question at the heart of our latest medical bill of the month. Dr. Elisabeth Rosenthal is the editor-in-chief of our partner Kaiser Health News and she is brought us this bill. Welcome back.  Good to be here again.  So who are we meeting today?  We are meeting Travis Warner. He is a 36-year-old IT professional from Dallas Texas and he wrote to us about what happened after he got a COVID test early in the pandemic.  OK. Kaiser Health News reporter Aneri Pattani spoke with Travis. Let us listen.  Travis Warner runs his own company in Dallas setting up internet video and other systems in homes and offices. In the early days of the pandemic they were busy.  Obviously there was a lot of service calls at the time because everybody's on the internet. Everybody's wanting more TVs. OK we are not going into the office so I need a better home office setup.  He and his employees were careful about ey were in people's homes constantly. In June 2020 Travis got a call that one of his employees tested positive. That sent Travis and his wife on the hunt for a test.  That time was not very easy to find a place to get COVID tests. It was a scary time because it was just so much unknown.  They ended up driving about 30 minutes to a free-standing emergency room. That is basically an ER that is not attached to a hospital.  It was a little doc-in-a-box as people call them.  This one was owned by SignatureCare which has more than a dozen facilities across Texas.  They tell us you know there is different tests that we should do. We should do two different tests. One's quick. One's long term.  So they got the rapid test and the more extensive PCR one with the long swab.  It is where they tickle your brain and everything. And it was fine. We - the rapid tests came back within 15 minutes. And they said it was a negative and we felt relieved.  Eventually everything came back negative so Travis went back to work. And he did not think about that ER visit until a month later.  Well the first thing that happened was my wife has great health insurance. She got her bill well before me. We saw some pricing on there that was like 2000.  Travis remembers thinking...  Wow that was pretty pricey for a test.  And then Travis got his own bill.  There is a lot of numbers and a lot of stuff on there a lot of jargon and a lot of things that are like I do not know what this is but it said 54000.  Yes more than 50 grand for a COVID test.  I was like OK well somebody I felt like should have questioned that. And then what also blew my mind was insurance paid it all. They sent them the money. They paid.  His insurer settled the claim for about 17000. Travis did not have to pay anything.  But it bothered me that there was a 54000 charge for something that was a COVID test. I just could not believe it.  Travis called his insurance company. They reviewed the charge and said it was an error. So they took back most of the 17 grand. Travis still owed nothing which is great he says. But how did no one else catch the mistake?  And then my question is are they doing that to a lot of people? Are they sending these codes out getting paid nobody caring nobody really doing questioning oversight?  So that was Travis Warner speaking with Kaiser Health News reporter Aneri Pattani. Dr. Elisabeth Rosenthal is still here with us to talk this through. Fifty-four thousand dollars for a COVID test - I cannot even get my head around that number. So let us get to his big question. How often is this happening? Do we even know?  Yeah. Like wow. And the short answer is we do not know how often or how much this is happening. There is a law saying that patients should get these tests without copays during the pandemic but there is nothing in the law that says how much can be charged. And that is weirdly enabled some really eye-popping bills because when patients hear you do not have to pay anything out of pocket most patients do not even really question these huge bills.  I mean yeah I mean I rarely look at my - if I am not paying it I do not look at what I am being charged .  Yeah. Of course.  What should insurers be paying for a COVID test? What is a reasonable amount?  Well Medicare pays about 100 for that gold-standard PCR test the swab way up the nose. Many walk-in clinics will charge a couple of hundred because getting a test includes a medical visit. But researchers have looked at this and 1 in 5 prices for a COVID test is more than 300. And that makes a good profit. But 17 grand that the insurer paid that is just absurd.  So what if the patient had not said wait a minute so that the insurer could get that money back? What would have happened if he did not ask a follow-up question?  Well that is why I like active patients. The stand-alone ER might well have just kept the 17000. It would take a deeper investigation to see if this was truly a fluke or a pattern for this particular provider. And that is really the question - is this a mistake or an attempt to see if a provider can get away with a really high charge? The company says it has a low rate of billing errors and has a robust audit process but you know this was a really big bill.  So what should patients be aware of? What should they do if they need a coronavirus test?  First of all note that you should not be charged as long as we are in a public health emergency. And as always try to avoid an ER even these so-called free-standing ERS. It may look like an urgent care center but if there is ER in the name it most likely means big bills. Your local health department might be a better option a city-run testing program or a pharmacy chain's minute clinics. Those will be kind of reasonable. And you can ask the price beforehand and wherever you go check your bill. Check your insurance statement. You might just catch a really crazy charge too like Travis did.  Dr. Elisabeth Rosenthal editor-in-chief of our partner Kaiser Health News thanks for being here.  Thanks for having me.  And if you have a bill that is confusing or eye-popping please send it to us. Go to NPR's Shots blog and tell us what is going on.  