 This is ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR.  I grew up in a multigenerational household as we say  LaTasha Barnes was raised in Winterpock Va. just outside of Richmond.  It was my mom my grandmother and my great-grandmother and myself all in the same house.  Growing up LaTasha spent most of her time with her great-grandmother.  My great-grandmother was a cook. One of the few cooks few Black cooks especially that ran her own kitchen in the city of Richmond.  She ran the family home too.  Absolutely . She was usually the one that was in charge of planning a lot of the family gatherings.  And LaTasha has this one early memory.  I feel like it was an Easter Sunday because I remember having on a poofy dress.  She is just shy of 4 years old. A crowd of family and friends have gathered in the fancy living room.  I do not know what song was playing but my great-grandmother loved Louis Armstrong.   She sees her great-grandmother dancing with a friend and LaTasha cannot help herself.  And I was just bouncing around jumping at her. I remember her taking my hand and I remember feeling the lead away from her. But it was not a shoving. It was just kind of - she was bouncing in you know in concert with how I was moving. She said OK hold on tight and I want you to run and then jump and squat. And I was just revved up and I started to go. And she is like wait wait wait . And then she kind of sat away from me a little bit. She says OK go. And I ran and she held my hand and we kind of went up and she lifted it up just a little bit. And then she kind of brought me down to the ground and then we both squatted. And then we bounced a little bit and she pushed me away just a little bit and she said OK go. And I ran past her and I jumped and she kind of lifted me a little bit higher which was really cool.  LaTasha still remembers the feeling of being swung around the room following along with her grandmother's lead.  And she said OK hold on to me. And so then I held her hand tighter.  The way her great-grandmother pushed her way and then just as suddenly pulled her in close.  I do not remember any other bits of it. Just this in and out essence. It was just the release of the happiness and relief of being together.   We just went on like that for a while and then she would pick me up and throw me around. She was like that is how we danced. This is how we danced growing up. And she called it fast dancing.   In her 20s LaTasha would become a professional dancer of house and hip-hop. But those were not partnered dances in the same way not the same feeling of leading and following someone else. It was not until her early 30s that LaTasha decided that this dance was something she needed to know part of her own creative journey and a way to reconnect to her past. But by the time LaTasha decided to learn fast dancing the place to go study it was halfway around the world at a dance camp in Sweden.  It was a simultaneous moment of like this is so cool. Wait I am going where for a dance that was founded in Harlem?   I do not understand - how did it get over there?  This is ROUGH TRANSLATION with far-off stories that hit close to home. I am Gregory Warner. Today on the show what happens when a piece of your cultural heritage has been adopted by another country and not just adopted but embraced and loved with a fervor that is hard to shake off? How do you find your way back to a family tradition that has started to feel like a foreign language? ROUGH TRANSLATION will be back after this break.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. Our producer Justine Yan has been digging into this story for about a year now.  Hey Gregory.  Hey Justine.  So I have been watching all these videos on YouTube and dancing around in my apartment.  I too have been doing a lot of dancing working on this story. So just before I pass the mic to you I just want to let people know there are one or two or maybe three curse words in this story which we have left unbeeped. And we are going to get back to LaTasha. But first we are going to take a trip to Sweden.  To meet a young blonde Swedish boy with too many feelings to share.  Because I would say everything. I would not have - hold anything in.  Felix Berghall is from a small town called Axvall where he never felt like he fit in. On the soccer field he might burst into tears and he was an oversharer. Once he asked the coach his dad if he could go to the bathroom.  And then I turned around and was like everybody I will be back. I just have to poop. It is very not Swedish to do that.  In a culture that was about not standing out Felix was too much. But then when he was 8 years old he discovered swing dancing in his PE class.  Like step step step step step.  He started going to dance lessons after school meeting new friends and soon he was performing at local events.  One thing that I do remember very vividly is that I felt very welcomed.  It felt like a space where he could be himself.  I was accepted for being that person that was loud and expressive and so like you know very outgoing.   And then in 2004 at 12 years old he attended his first Swedish national dance championships.  There was this couple that danced to this song.  Do you remember what song it was?  Yeah yeah yeah. Absolutely.    Opportunity opportunity.  It is called Snatch And Grab It from Julia Lee.    Grab it in the night. Grab it in the day. Grab it right now. It will get away. You better snatch and grab it snatch and grab it.  The couple started dancing a routine that was so much more acrobatic than what Felix had learned in PE.  I remember that I was so amazed and I wanted to figure out how can they do this stuff?  The whole dance was packed with explosive energy. Like if they let go of each other they might actually go flying. The footwork was incredibly fast.  They were hitting everything in the music. They were so musical.  They were swinging each other around sliding across the floor doing splits and flips pushing away from each other and then pulling in close.  Some kind of call and response or conversation while they were dancing. And I just thought how can they do it? How are they able to understand each other?  This was the kind of dancing that LaTasha Barnes and her great-grandmother did on Easter Sunday what they called fast dancing. Felix was seeing it on stage in Sweden and this dance was born in Harlem back in the 1920s and '30s. It was called Lindy Hop.   So if you are a Swedish kid who wants to be a swing dancer there is a path for you.  And Sweden is all about systems going with a system.  It is kind of like if you are a kid in the U.S. who aspires to be a professional baseball player you might start with T-ball...  And then it was divided by letters. You started in this E E level.  ...Then join a little league team.  And then when you went to the kids the Cs...  And all of this is administered by the Swedish Dancesport Federation.  And then you will go to the youth.  Sweden invests in its dancers.  And then you go to the adults. And then it is this same thing. Yeah.  And Felix was all in.  I think the focus was just to become what I thought at that point the best in Sweden.   Felix started to compete more won some regional competitions...  Step step step.  ...Then some national ones.  Step step step.   By the time he was 21 Felix had snagged a spot on the Swedish national team. And in 2013 as part of the team he went to the International Lindy Hop Championships in Washington D.C. He and his partner won first place in their division.   Felix Berghall and Eleonor Kollberg from Sweden everybody.   The Swedes were the team that everyone was trying to beat. And Felix was a part of that dominance. Well you were like elite. You were like VIPs .  Yeah exactly. Yeah exactly. Like we are like come on. Like we are the national team.  Just walking into a competition as a Swede seemed to put other teams on edge.  And people like hated us. Like there was - they were not - people did not like us at all.  LaTasha Barnes who first danced the Lindy Hop with her great-grandmother...  I do not think I ever heard the term Lindy Hop.  ...Her path was very different. Unlike Felix LaTasha was not taught swing dancing in elementary school. There was no local club that she could have joined to train in Lindy Hop. There were not youth leagues funded by the Dancesport Federation. And her family they did not want LaTasha to pursue dance professionally.  Well I wanted to but everyone else was talking about it in terms of the only way to exist as a dancer was to struggle. So wanting to be an artist wanting to be a dancer of styles that were not in institutions was resigning your life to just struggle.  So she joined the military out of high school rose through the ranks. By her late 20s she was a telecommunications and communication security specialist at the White House for the Obama administration. LaTasha was dancing on the side.   Please welcome LaTasha Barnes.   And she started training in house and hip hop. And she was competing.   Tasha Barnes everybody.   Give it up for LaTasha Barnes.  She won the World Championship in house dance in Paris in 2011...   LaTasha is the winner.   ...Which gave her the courage to finally quit her White House job.   LaTasha goes to the next round.   That same year her great-grandmother passed away.  And I realized that I had an elder at my fingertips who I maybe had not gleaned enough from.  Because fast dancing jazz dance was at the root of the Black dance styles she would been competing and performing in.  There was some understanding that was missing that was lacking for me personally because I did not have that underlying personal relationship with jazz jazz music and jazz dance.  She contacted some New York-based Lindy Hoppers - they were mostly white - to start learning the steps. And then in 2016 at the age of 36 LaTasha won a scholarship to study Lindy Hop in Sweden.  If the elders are there then that is where I need to go.  This is where some of the original dancers would go and teach in the summers...  Ms. Norma Miller and Barbara Billups and Sugar Sullivan Chester Whitmore.  ...At a dance camp called Herrang.    Seven.  Herrang is a Swedish coastal town of several hundred people. But every summer it swells to host thousands of Lindy Hoppers from all over the world.   .  LaTasha got to Herrang Dance Camp in the summer of 2016.  Step step step step.  She loaded up her schedule with workshops.  Step step triple step. Focus.  And for the most part...  Focus. Focus.  It was eat...  Step step triple step.  ...Sleep...  Step step triple step.  ...Dance...  Step step triple step.  ...And repeat.  Focus.   The two winners of this quarterfinal - they are going to move on to...  LaTasha stayed up late for social dances.   .  There were theme nights. It felt like a carnival sometimes with people walking around in vintage dresses suits and elaborate costumes.   Welcome all you cool cats and kittens out to the bebop night at the Midnight Ramble.  It is a place that feels frozen in time.   It is my distinct pleasure to introduce this fine swinging band. Rhythms so hot they will smother your brother and blister your sister.   And this camp celebrates the legacy of one man.   I remember going in. I bought some records. And I would take a chair a broom and I would dance to this chair or broom in my room you know trying to do the same steps that I had seen my mother and all them doing it.  This is Frankie Manning a Lindy Hop legend telling his story to the Smithsonian archives. Frankie grew up dancing Lindy Hop at the height of its popularity in the 1930s. He once said his only formal training came from dancing at the famous Savoy Ballroom which took up an entire city block in Harlem.   When you first come into the Savoy Ballroom you start walking up the steps man and you hear that music. Before you get to the top of the stairs you are dancing already.  Frankie was a member of the Whitey's Lindy Hoppers a groundbreaking troupe of Harlem dancers who traveled internationally and appeared in Hollywood films. He was the one who choreographed the most spectacular Lindy Hop sequence ever captured on film. It is in a 1941 movie called Hellzapoppin'.    Oh man do not stop now. We jumpin'.   You see savoy dancers and they are doing these incredible moves - so fast and acrobatic.   People are sliding across the floor. Dance partners are being flung through the air.   This scene has become like a sacred text for modern Lindy Hoppers. It is a perennial favorite at Herrang. And remember LaTasha came to Herrang on a scholarship. She was a Frankie Manning ambassador. And a big reason why she had come here was to watch films like this with teachers who could help her break down the mechanics of Lindy Hop.  Some nights it was just good footage. And it was like OK great awesome.  But they also played some clips that LaTasha had not seen before.  I cannot remember the name of the clip but there was one that was about - supposedly quote unquote about the beauty of Southern life. I just remember it being introduced as the film that is supposed to be a representation of the beauty of Southern life. I was like I know you fucking lying. In the 1840s like the beauty of Southern life for Black people? OK. All right. Cool.   Felix was also at camp that year and he would been coming to Herrang almost every year since 2009. He would recently started working as a staff instructor. One year he was asked to be a part of a panel with two Black dancers from the U.S.  In this conversation I said that if I would be able to I will go back to Savoy for one night.  The Savoy Ballroom where Frankie Manning had made his name.  In my mind I was like that will be incredible to see and to hear the music and to see the bands.  This sounded to some of the Black attendees like Felix a white man was saying he wanted to go back in time to an era of segregation. Shortly after the panel Herrang organizers began to discuss an idea for a special skit that they wanted performed for the whole camp.  Literally create a time machine on stage where I would enter and then come out at a party a house - like a house rent party.  Rent parties were held by Black residents facing discriminatory rental rates in Harlem. It was a way to make ends meet. They would hold a house party and charge admission.  They wanted to have a police come arrest someone on stage. And there were so many things with this situation that happened because I said this comment in this meeting.   After a while  I think maybe after about four days or so it became a game with the other Black attendees especially the Black American attendees like all right what bullshit are we going to have to scream about today?  I called it cosplaying Jim Crow.  This is Breai Mason-Campbell another Frankie Manning scholar.  A cosplay experience - like everybody you know they have - the hairstyles and the outfits and it is like you could go live in 1930. Like you could only hear jazz everywhere you go and only be around people who want to make music and want to dance and want to stay up all night and dance. But you know it is like did we deal with the issues that race stuff?  There were not a lot of Black dancers at Herrang and LaTasha felt like she stood out.  Yeah constantly on display.  One night LaTasha was waiting for an event to start when she saw a dancer arrive in blackface. She walked out...  Because I was in a moment of rage.  ...And confronted one of the organizers.  They were trying to put forth that it is not something that is as easily understood from their lens as it is from a Black American perspective. And I was like that is true. I guess though if I just ran around and punched everybody in the face then they would understand the level of hurt and frustration that goes along with this moment. You say people do not get it so let me help you get it. And of course that is not the way to help people get it but the fear of having to experience that did convey just a little bit more the sense of urgency because that is what it felt like. It felt like being punched in the face repeatedly every night.  I reached out to Herrang organizers about the experiences Black dancers had over the years while in the camp. I cannot read the entire response here but organizers wrote that due to the size of Herrang Dance Camp and the number of activities it was difficult for the core team to be informed of all incidents. They said they were quote saddened to hear that some individuals had bad experiences and that quote our general policy for the camp is that everyone is welcome and is treated equally. There have never been any limitations about who can attend. They added quote our aim is to unite people from all over the world with a common interest in jazz culture. And we have no intention of politicizing the camp. Several Black dancers I spoke to told me that their frustrations went beyond Herrang. Being the sole Black participants in a largely white scene often meant doing the work of educating other dancers about race. And with this burden came a certain kind of fatigue. MARIE N' I wanted to quit basically every summer. I was like I am done.  Marie N'diaye is a French dancer who lived in Sweden for almost 10 years. N' I was like why am I here? What is the point of me feeling weird in this scene?  Marie told me when she first started dancing she would be on the dance floor feeling where the music was taking her while her leader was pulling her in a different direction. N' Who do I listen to? Do I listen to music? Or do I listen to the person that I am dancing with?  But if she followed the music the way she heard it people would tell her she was doing it wrong accuse her of being a bad follower. N' Like you bounce too much and you need to listen more and all those things. And then it is like you need to be less. There is this you need to be less idea which a lot of Black dancers probably share. You need to be less. You are too much. This is not how we do things here.   Coming up after the break how did a Swedish dance camp become the authority on a dance created in Harlem? Well there is two versions of that history.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Justine Yan. Let me tell you the abridged version of how Lindy Hop traveled from Harlem to Sweden as that history is known by most Lindy Hoppers around the world.   In 1943 Frankie Manning was drafted to fight in World War II.   President Roosevelt delivers his war message.   When he got back from the war his performance group the Whitey's Lindy Hoppers had dissolved. And the music was not the same.   Like they was playing bebop all over the place . I was hearing all this music and I did not understand nothing man . I went to a jazz club and they was playing this kind of music. I said what the heck is this? What is going on you know?  In the 1950s the big ballrooms in Harlem were closed. Even the Savoy was torn down.   So I came back and tried to get a job like the regular people. So I put in applications for the sanitation department the police department and the post office.  Three decades passed with Lindy Hop's greatest choreographer stamping mail. And then one day in 1986 Frankie got a phone call from two American dancers who knew his work.   So then they was looking for any dancer from that era and I just happened to be around .  This is Frankie in 2006 telling the story to a room full of students in Sweden.   And they looked it up. Somebody told them - said well why do not you call Frankie Manning? So they looked in the telephone book and started calling the Frankie Mannings. And then they called me up and say are you Frankie Manning the dancer? At the time I was working in a post office. I said no I am Frankie Manning the postal worker.   And so they said well do you dance? And I said eh.   When he got this call Frankie was already in his 70s.   I said yeah. So they said well would you teach us? So I said well listen I do not - I was not a teacher. I did not - I said well you know I do not do that. I do not dance anymore. But they were kind of insistent.   So I said OK.  After that first phone call Frankie got more calls including an invitation from some Swedish dancers who asked would he come to Sweden to teach classes there? So in 1987 Frankie flew from New York to Sweden for the first time and he would go back every year for almost 20 years.   Everybody a big round of applause for Mr. Frankie Manning.   In those early years of teaching Frankie's students worked with him to break down his moves. They even made instructional videos. And this first generation of students they would become Frankie Manning evangelists. After he died in 2009 the village of Herrang even named a street after him.   Thank you. Thank you ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very very much. And thank you for giving me this life.  Yes thank you.  Thank you.  The story of Lindy Hop's revival that was told in Herrang that story said that Lindy Hop faded away until it was revived and relocated to Sweden. A whole generation of Lindy Hoppers saw Frankie's way as the authentic way of doing the Lindy Hop and this is the style that is prized at Herrang.  People took everything as the absolute gospel and then ran with it. Like this is the way to do the thing. It is like no this was Frankie's way of doing the thing.  But there is another version of the story.  No you do not know everything there is to know because you are not of this. You have not lived this. And even once you have gotten to a point that you have lived it if you have lived it well enough you recognize that you are still a guest.  Lindy Hop was always being passed around from person to person. That is the way Frankie learned it. He would see something then try it out himself. Lindy Hop lived on in the continuum of Black dance forms in the living room fast dancing LaTasha did with her great-grandmother in the house and waacking and hip-hop the street dancing that she won awards for. Swedish dancers codified Lindy Hop as a series of steps that you can master which meant you could dominate in competitions. The founders of Herrang valued authenticity. They discouraged dancers from changing the dance by bringing in steps and figures from modern styles. At Herrang LaTasha felt like an outsider.  For all intents and purposes I was a guest in my own culture. I did not know Lindy Hop in that way.  LaTasha was in Sweden to learn to reconnect with her great-grandmother's dance.  Like I really - I did not know the rock step triple steps. I did not know tuck turns. I did not know - like I could do it but I did not understand what I was doing.  But now she wondered was she wrong to come here to travel so far from home?  I have been taught for so long not to show up where there is too many white people because it is just going to be such a headache and such a frustration. That was from my great-grandmother. That was from my grandmother. That was from my mom. That is a Southern protective practice. If you see too many white people go the other way.  But LaTasha did not quit. She stayed at the camp. One night in Herrang she is on the camp's main dance floor. The band is playing on stage and the lights are turned down low. It is late past 1 a.m. when the seasoned dancers are waking up from their evening naps to dance the rest of the night through.  And there was like a little bit of a lull in between. And I had went and sat on the stage and was just kind of checking out watching everybody like pair up and get ready to dance.  LaTasha does not remember what songs were played that night and there is no recording of this moment. But she does remember a friend suggesting she dance with someone new.  They were like have you danced with Felix yet? And I was like no.  And introduces her to this tall cheerful 24-year-old who is already a fixture in the Herrang scene. All she could think was...  Oh he is one of the Swedes. Like oh he is one of them. Like oh.  But everyone starts partnering up for the next tune.  I think the song was beginning to start.  And I think literally it is just one of those moments where...  I looked at you and then you looked at me and was like...  Hey. Do you want to dance? And then you kind of just go.   Step.  Step step triple step.  Step.  Step step triple step.  Step.  Step step triple step.  Step step.  The artist and athlete in me were like resisting asking him every step that I took like did I do that right?  Step step.  Step step triple step.  Holy shit. We are trying to hang on with each other.  Step step triple step.  LaTasha starts to improvise throwing in steps from house and hip-hop.  And recognizing OK my feet are executing. Is there a way in this that I can ?  Whoa.  .  Whoa.  Oh yeah. OK. I hit that one.  She just do what she wants.  And Felix will take note that I had that capability of hitting that rhythm so...  I better hang on. So then when we started speaking through our movement...  If I wanted to drop down and swing out a little bit harder he would be there.  Imagine like you have a conversation and you get the most surprising comment.  If I wanted to take this rhythmic exploration that might not normally come off of this thing I felt like he was still there with me.  Yeah yeah. I hear you. Keep talking.  Then he would throw something in and it was just like oh that was so cool.  Whoa. OK here we go. Here we go. You know?  .   It was like - I am sorry for my vegans out there. It was like perfectly prepared tomahawk ribeye with corn on the cob and sauteed kale with a perfect glass of red wine and a perfect creme brulee.  This dance - it helped her think differently about leading and following.  You look where you want your follower to go. In order for your follower to get there you have to make that space.  Felix was leading but not forcing LaTasha in any particular direction.  He was already grooving without me. Like he was not waiting to see what I was going to do. He was already grooving. And I feel him putting me into the space that he just made and backing out. I could relax. It restored my sense of safety.  Like did it change your experience of the rest of Herrang after that dance?  It did because it resituated me with what I was there for.   Sadly yeah the BS was present. But I was there for the dance. I was there for the culture. But I think it just allowed me to sit in a place of resolve that - if that is the tradeoff for dealing with the BS then OK. I will take that.  Coming up after the break Felix and LaTasha become dance partners. But what happens when the music stops?  Honestly I did not know if we were going to survive some of those conversations. They were a little challenging.  Hey. It is Gregory from ROUGH TRANSLATION with a question for you. This holiday season as many of us spend time with family and friends how do you remain neutral during these gatherings? How do you handle that one table where you do not know who has a beef with whom where you know something's going to get said that is going to pull you in? What does neutrality mean to you? Have you tried to remain neutral in a family dispute or in a bigger conflict in your community or your country? Send us a voice memo to roughtranslationnpr.org on this neutrality theme and we might feature it in an upcoming episode.  We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Justine Yan.   After Herrang LaTasha and Felix found ways to keep dancing together even though they lived on different continents. And in 2019 Felix and LaTasha competed in the International Lindy Hop Championships in Washington D.C. as dance partners at the same competition that Felix's team used to dominate.   Felix Berghall and LaTasha Barnes Sweden and the United States representing.   I sat down with Felix and LaTasha recently on Zoom. LaTasha says that Felix is still one of the best dance partners she is ever danced with. But I had a question about that. He is a - you know he is a white dude from Sweden. Like did you ever have to get over that in your mind a little bit to talk to him about certain things?  In my mind no I did not have to get over it. I had to berate him about it .  In general speaking terms I would say I was the happy Lindy Hopper.  The happy Lindy Hopper did not want history to get in the way of dancing.  You just want to go there and dance and go home again and do not worry about anything.  Felix was still a part of the Herrang inner circle. And he knew a lot of happy Lindy Hoppers people who felt like the beauty of Lindy Hop was that it was not political. But LaTasha pushed him to speak up.  I felt extremely uncomfortable. Like whew this was a level of our friendship that has not been scratched before like touched on before. So now we are in this situation.  Felix worried about being seen as an activist in his workshops.  If I start speaking up about values and being strong about certain things maybe people do not want to hire me anymore.  But dancing together had opened up a space between them. And LaTasha knew he felt differently.  I was like oh no. You do not get to run from me and act like you do not get this s. I have seen you - I have danced with you. I have listened to music with you. I have seen you react to this. I know you get it. I am not going to let you act like you do not know that you get it.  LaTasha and Felix had big plans for 2020. They were going to teach in Brazil together and South Korea. Then the pandemic happened. Classes and social dances around the world were cancelled. Herrang was canceled. Dance teachers were worried about their livelihoods. How do you teach a partner dance if you cannot even be in the same room as your partner?   Lindy Hoppers were trying to keep their spirits up. One of the planned events in 2020 was a virtual celebration of Frankie Manning on what would have been his 106th birthday May 26 2020. On May 25 George Floyd was murdered. Marie N'diaye the French dancer we heard from earlier is processing the news. N' Devastated. And I was following it through the news. And I was just feeling so bad and angry.  She logged onto Facebook where her feed was full of Lindy Hoppers. N' They are ignoring the death of George Floyd. They are ignoring the deaths of Ahmaud Arbery and celebrating whatever it is that they are doing. It is like cognitive dissonance. Let us celebrate Frankie Manning. Happy happy shim sham. And you are like are you effing kidding me for real?  Yeah. N' Like is this really the world that we live in?  That June Marie started an organization called CVFC - or Collective Voices for Change. Their mission is to start the hard conversations like the ones Felix and LaTasha were having. N' Black dances are political. So if you want to do this dance without being political then you will never be able to do this dance.   I spoke to a Lindy Hopper who was attending Marie's lectures through CVFC. And she started asking herself...  Am I the right person to be teaching this dance? I am not American. I do not - I am not African American. I am not from New York. Am I supposed to do this? Is it OK that I am doing this?  Katie Latter is a Lindy Hop teacher. She is from Hong Kong. Her mom is Chinese. And her dad's British. And like Felix she found a sense of belonging in Lindy Hop. I started reporting this story because she is a ROUGH TRANSLATION listener. And she told me she would taken a workshop with Felix.  He did an advanced course in Madrid while I was still living there. And I went to it. And the last class of the course he just sat us down. We did not do any dancing. And we just talked about our responsibility as dancers in the scene. And like before that I kind of had an inkling that like I should be putting more history in my classes. I should know a little bit more. I should do a little more reading. Or - but it was not - like there was not like one crystal-clear moment until this conversation that we had with Felix.  Felix told me he was thinking about what LaTasha had told him.  Tasha said this to me. She said you have to acknowledge that you are carrying on a tradition. But it is not yours.  LaTasha calls herself a tradition-bearer. And she wanted Felix to see himself as that too - not a silent ally or a passive follower but an active partner in helping to carry Lindy Hop forward. Gradually Felix found new ways to participate. He is deepened his practice of improvisation. Latasha has shown him how to bring more of himself and his own style into his dancing. He is also recently decided to end his involvement with Herrang. For me I am thinking back to how LaTasha described the dance how...  Yeah.  ...As a leader you are making - you are carving out these spaces for both o