 Hey. It is Gregory from ROUGH TRANSLATION. Just before we start the show today I want you to think about an episode from our program that has been meaningful for you - maybe the story of Pakistani women using Jane Austen as a survival guide to arranged marriage French workers turning slogans from McDonald's into a quasi-religious social movement Somali prisoners tapping a super long Russian novel one letter at a time through a concrete wall to survive solitary confinement our episodes about casteism in Silicon Valley or the civilian-military divide in the United States. We scan the globe for these stories that will surprise you with how relevant they feel. And then you know one month a year we ask you to help support that work by donating to your local public radio member station. That link is donate.npr.orgtranslation. And of course I do not need to tell you this but when you support your station using that link you are helping them support our team of producers editors engineers interpreters storytellers from around the world. You are also sending a message that you came there from this show. When you use that link you are saying you value these kinds of stories in your lives. If you have ever recommended us to a friend or online thank you. This is another way of recommending us and in a way that will be heard by your station and help us stay there for you. Go to donate.npr.orgtranslation and thanks. OK so here's the show. You are listening to ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. I am Gregory Warner. We are doing a little miniseries of stories this month on themes that will resonate with the holiday season - stories about food and tradition and homecoming. Today's episode - coming home where you least expect it.  I cannot believe I am telling you this really because it might sound silly to people.  So this is a story that Cathy Grieve does not tell a lot of people even her family and her closest friends.  'ecause they would just like go - oh my God. Is she off her tablets? She is completely bonkers.   The whistle sounds and they have got the point.   It starts in 2002.   Ireland are on their way to the Far East.  Ireland has qualified for the World Cup.  And that was a very rare thing. And my son was into soccer at the time and I decided that I would get us tickets and we would go to the World Cup.  Which was hosted that year by South Korea - but then almost as soon as Cathy and her son arrived there...  I just felt almost like have I been here before? I felt this - I had like a - I was coming back here.   I had not been there before. I would never been anywhere in this part of the world before. But there was almost a you know a recognition of something or a feeling of a sense of something.  And this feeling it kept happening - that she would walk down some street and think...  Oh I have seen that before.  She would taste something new in a restaurant and wonder...  Where did I eat that dish before? And then I thought I have never eaten that dish before anywhere. And it was like I feel like I have eaten this you know every day. That was all part of that sense of belonging then.  A more mystically inclined person might have considered the possibility of past lives. That was not Cathy's response.  It was more bemusing I would say. I was bemused then.  Cathy was working at the time for the BBC as a producer and editor work which had not allowed her to get comfortable in any one place for long. She would lived in London in Washington D.C. and even when she was home in Ireland she was based in Belfast during the sectarian conflict of the '90s known as the Troubles.  You know thinking you were coming home or arriving in Dublin and getting a call to say there would been a bomb there would been something else and having to just get in the car and go straight back to Belfast - so I always felt a sense of guilt at that time but I had to do the job I was doing.  She was a single mom. Her son lived in Dublin with his grandparents.  And so I was a mum from afar at times or on the phone.  This trip to South Korea was not just about cheering on the boys in green. It was a chance to reconnect with her son. I asked Cathy if maybe one reason that she felt like she belonged in South Korea was because she was finally spending all this quality mom-son time. But no she said. The two of them had taken other summer trips.  We would gone to France Italy California Spain.  She would never before felt this feeling of cultural deja vu. Besides her son was definitely not feeling the same way.  He was this little blond boy and he had loads of freckles. So every time we left the hotel there was a lot of people sitting on the road. They all wanted to take pictures with him . So he was like Mum I am not having my picture taken again today.  Her son felt like a tourist. Cathy felt like a returnee. And there was this moment near the end of the trip.   They were on a hike in the hills and they stopped at an old stone temple. They went inside just to cool off in the heat.  And I was sitting there and was looking out and just thinking about nothing really just calm. And my son he just walked over to me and he said Mum I think this is where you belong. I think you have come home. And I thought it was a really profound thing for him to say and he just walked away again.   When Cathy arrived at the airport to fly back home to Ireland she was filled with sadness.  And I felt like I was leaving something behind that was you know an important part of me. I could not leave my only child behind. That just was not an option.  But 20 years later Cathy's never been back to South Korea and she still does not know what happened.  It is still with me whatever that experience was about.  Finding home far from home it is complicated if you feel like you belong in a place that your family does not.   Today on y for you from an American mom on a military base a listener who told us how her 6-year-old son decided he belonged to a different country.  He could not verbalize it but I kind of got the feeling that he wanted to be with the kids who look like him.  And then that country wholly embraced him which left his mom wondering where did she belong in his life?  Like I just - I cannot explain to you the amount of fear I had.  That story with an update when ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   Hey. It is Gregory from ROUGH TRANSLATION with a question for you. This holiday season as many of us spend time with family and friends how do you remain neutral during these gatherings? How do you handle that one table where you do not know who has a beef with whom where you know something's going to get said that is going to pull you in? What does neutrality mean to you? Have you tried to remain neutral in a family dispute or in a bigger conflict in your community or your country? Send us a voice memo to roughtranslationnpr.org on this neutrality theme and we might feature it in an upcoming episode. We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. Our story today is about a mother and a son Nicole and Rieden. We are not using their last names for security reasons involving a minor in a military family stationed overseas. This is an episode we first aired in 2019 but we have got an update at the end. Here's the show.   Wait. I have this...  At 9 years old Rieden has moved around a lot.  It has like what I call treasure in it.  Rieden keeps the stuff from his travels...  I got this red container.  ...In this little plastic treasure box.  It has lots of coins and...  There is a seashell.  From the Philippines.  That is where his dad is from. There is a pen where you can click different colors of ink.  This pen it used to be really nice.  His teacher took away the pen.  But then I stole it back. Hopefully she is not listening to this 'ecause she will be so mad.   Rieden was born in Germany. Then he moved to North Carolina then Japan then Kansas. Now he is back on the East Coast. His dad is in the U.S. Army and they move from base to base. He is lanky with a swoop of brown hair covering his eyes. He is a middle child with three siblings but he can seem more like an only child. Interacting with other kids - that is always been hard for Rieden.  I did not care if anybody did not play with me.  His earliest memories are being in a school playground making up games that did not need another player like trying to dribble a basketball closer and closer to the ground until it stopped.  And I would just dribble the basketball for the whole...  He could fill a whole recess period that way.  I was never really good.  Never good at fitting in.  It was hard to do.  Rieden is just really aware of the world around him in a way that my other kids are not.  Rieden's mom Nicole dreaded this thing that would happen anytime she and Rieden were out in public together like recently when she brought cupcakes to his class for his birthday.  We walk in and this kid says oh that is your mom? And I was like yeah I am his mom. And he goes oh. Oh I do not know. I just thought she would look different. And I am like you know I know what he meant.  Rieden looks a lot more like his dad who is from the Philippines. While his mom...  I am a basic white girl .  Blond hair. Green eyes.  Your average pumpkin spice latte kind of girl.  One time in a store her younger son was physically taken from her.  The store manager would not return him to me because they did not think he was mine. I get asked a lot where I adopted them from.  And what made you think that Rieden noticed it more or that it affected him more?  He is said some things to me. He would ask me to dye my hair. He asked me to dye it black. And I said why? And he said so we can look alike.  Rieden was asking this when he was 4.  You know and stuff like that - like that hurts. You know I wanted to go somewhere where they would not be different.  When Rieden was 5 years old the family got word that they were moving again - this time to Japan.  I was really excited to go to Japan mostly though because I knew what it would mean to my husband and the kids. I would be the one different and standing out not them.  She packed up the family to go overseas ready and even looking forward to being the one in the family who was seen most as the outsider. The house that they were assigned to on the U.S. base in Tokyo - it happened to be right on the edge of the compound next to this chain-link fence.  So the Japanese people can see inside 'ecause it is just a chain-link fence and we can see outside.  On their side of the fence was the American base.  We all had yards and grass.  Little America.  You know we had a pool and like these beautiful playgrounds everywhere.  But 5-year-old Rieden seemed a lot more interested in looking through the fence at the Japanese kids.  He would see them playing and like the freedom that they had going everywhere by themselves  In Japan it is pretty common practice that kids will walk to school alone without parents or teachers just in a line of other kids.  Small children all walking together in unison.  In their colored caps and backpacks.  This huge procession.  And Rieden one day tells his mom I want to go to school with them. She tells him Rieden you do not speak Japanese. And by the way neither do I.  And he just really kept harassing me to go and I kept asking him why. And he could not verbalize it but I kind of got the feeling that it was - he wanted to be with the kids who looked like him.  If you ask Rieden why he wanted to go to the Japanese school he says he was not paying attention so much to how those kids looked. It was something else...  I have always been different.  ...Something deeper he saw.  I just started noticing it.  He had this feeling he would belong better...  I liked it.  ...With them out there. For Nicole it was so much easier to stay on this side of the fence.  I do not want to deal with not reading the language. And I knew the homework would be tough and I could not help him.  But this is what her son seemed to need.  Like OK let us do this.  So she called city hall. They told her as a foreigner she needed to do an interview.  The interview with the school principal.  She shows up at the school with her translator and also Rieden and her two younger kids.  Two toddlers...  And the teacher gives Rieden some paper to draw a picture off in the corner while the principal starts asking questions to Nicole. Why does she want to join this school?  And it was just very much him leaned back legs crossed nodding his head. I am like we will work hard. And we are dedicated and we are committed to doing this. And my two toddlers - they are like I want snacks and - you know screaming and throwing Cheerios. And Japanese children - for the life of me I do not know how they do it - but they are quiet and they are well-behaved. You absolutely cannot make a mess. So I am on my hands and knees on the floor picking up these Cheerios and sweeping them with my hands out of the Berber carpet.  Above the horizon of the desk she can just make out the nodding head of the school principal still firing questions to her translator.  And I had to tell them too. They are like why do you want to be here? I was like well my son really wants to learn Japanese. And they say well he can just take Japanese lessons. I said well he wants to learn the culture and be a part of the society. And they are like oh OK. So he wants to be Japanese. I was like yes.  And it works. Rieden and his mom are in.  Which felt like getting accepted into Harvard.  When school begins mornings fall into this rhythm. Rieden and his mom leave their house on the base and walk to the meeting spot half a mile from the school. Rieden will line up with the other kids. The oldest child at the front of the line will put her arm up - 45.  Seven forty-five she will have her arm up - 46 arm down. All right. . Then we all have to say in unison . And the kids respond in something like thank you mother. I am off to a good day. And then they all walk.  Nicole is not exactly a free-range mom. She is more the type to worry.  All my friends tell me - they say how are we going to die today Nicole you know? .  So watching him go...  You know it was hard.  He looked so small in his little yellow cap walking through the streets of Tokyo.  They walk home by themselves too. And so I would give it 20 minutes after he is supposed to be home and then I would start freaking out.  She would call the school. They could not tell her where he was except somewhere between school and home. And then Rieden would stride in.  It would be like they found a bug on the sidewalk and they were playing with that.  Walking group was already a challenge for Nicole. And then she noticed this one kid.  This one boy who leaves after everybody else - he had been kicked out for so long so he would just walk by himself.  Nicole never found out what rule he would broken. For her it was just one more thing to worry about - that her son would be also ostracized.  If you stand out it is bad.  And there were so many ways to go wrong at this new school - things that she as a mother needed to be on top of.  School shoes outside shoes gym shoes walking-to-school hat.  You needed to buy a special set of crayons...  It is like individual crayons...  ...In the right metal box.  ...For 60 cents each.  If one crayon breaks you have to replace that one color.  I have to wash the crayon box. I would have to wash the pencil box.  A reflective cover for his backpack cloth hat for gym class - red on one side white on the other. Flip it depending on what team you are on that day. But it was just another thing that Nicole had not known to buy until Rieden came home in a panic.  He came home like I did not have my hat. You know and I am like I did not know Rieden. And so then I would you know have to drop everything and bike to the store and get him whatever supply I did not know that everybody else had.  Sometimes fitting in was not a matter of something that she could buy at the store like every time the school cafeteria served fish.  They served us huge fish.  Whole fish - like scales and eyeballs and fins and everything.  And I hated fish. I had a dream that I was at school and it was lunchtime. And I saw the fish. I was like fish again. And then I fell asleep. And then when I blinked my eye open the dead fish was looking at me. And then I looked somewhere else and there was another dead fish looking at me. And then when I closed my eyes and then blinked opened my eyes all of them were looking at me. That was the most freakiest dream ever.  So he was not eating lunch. And so I asked - I said can I pack his lunch? And they were like does he have a food allergy? I said no he just does not like everything. And they were like well then he does not eat. In America I would just be like no I am packing his lunch. But in Japan I just did not know how to behave. Even my husband though would be like you need to chill out woman - hey this is what we eat.  By we she heard it as we Filipinos we Asians not you.  He almost would accuse me of whitewashing the children.  Nicole had come to Japan knowing full well that she would be in the minority. She looked forward to the change.  I would be the one different not them.  Except she had never really been in the minority and she did not expect that being an outsider in this foreign country would make her feel like an outsider in her own family.  I was just really torn and I did not want to lose the respect of my husband.  And Nicole started to wonder what impression of her Rieden was getting in this new school. Like she remembers before Rieden's first class field trip she had to pack a lunch - a bento box.  And they sent home a letter in English like do not pack soda in the bento box. And I was like OK I am not going to pack my kindergartener soda in his lunch to begin with. Then I get a phone call like oh just to make sure you do not pack soda. That is not very healthy. And I was like got it - not packing soda.  Day before the field trip Rieden comes home.  Mom please do not pack soda. She said tea or water. I would be like Rieden you never drink soda so why would I send you soda to school suddenly? And it was only the kids with white moms who got that note. And that was about - there was like three of us. I chose to you know shut up and take it 'ecause this was important to my son.  Rieden never did learn to enjoy fish for lunch and he still often missed supplies. His mom misread or mistranslated the letters home. None of this though seemed to faze him. He loved school.  This - it makes sounds .   He loved music class where they played melodicas. It is like a keyboard that you blow into. He loved the vending machines and the rainbow lizards that ran around the school grounds.  I caught a lizard put it in my pocket. After school I checked my pocket and it was gone.  And most of all...  I liked recess.  The kid who once dribbled a basketball alone on a U.S. base - he found it so much easier to make friends here.  Easier. Yeah it is like I was Japanese sort of. It is like I was meant to be there.   .  Etsuko Ogawa was one of Rieden's teachers.  .  And she says he was really shy at first not the kind of kid who would ask someone to play with him or join his game. But the kids really liked him and they included him. And as she put it...  .  ...Rieden was a wonderful match for Japanese society. But just one problem - he never learned to stay quiet.  He kept talking talking talking...  In the morning walking group line.  Like disturb other students.  She says this was a problem for safety if one of the kids is always turning around and trying to chat with the kid in line behind him.  So I asked Rieden to stop . Please be good boy in the morning group. And it - yeah I asked so many times to Rieden. But he was not .  She told him I am just going to give you three warnings.  After three times I will ask your parents to come.  The teacher called me and she told me that Rieden was suspended from the walking group line and so I needed to take him to school. And I was like I will just drive him. It is not a big deal. And she said oh no. That is not possible. You must walk him. And I said I cannot. You know I was like I have two small kids. I cannot walk him to school every day. And she is like well perhaps when he sees your struggle he will understand how his behavior is affecting his family. And then once he sees how hard it is for you he will decide to change so that he is not inflicting hardship on his mother.   And in my head I am thinking yeah right. My kid does not care. You know? .  Next day she and Rieden head off to school together. Rieden's out in front. She is behind him pushing the stroller with a baby in one hand holding Rieden's younger brother with her other hand so no hands free for an umbrella. And it is monsoon season.  Yeah. So it was not just like rain. This was pouring downpour rain. My hair is like stuck to my face 'ecause it is coming into my raincoat. And the rain is hitting the stroller too and soaking through the top of it. And then of course my toddler wants to jump in every rain puddle. And Rieden just thinks this is great. He is like I get to walk with my mom and  all this. So he kept trying to just talk. Like is titanium stronger than adamantium? And if Iron Man got into a fight with Wolverine who would win? Because Iron Man's made out of this. And I would - and I am like I do not know. OK? Shut your mouth and walk. You got in trouble because you cannot keep your mouth shut so now we are going to practice and you will be silent. And you will look straight ahead and you are going to walk to school. And I was just - I was mean to him.  Rieden was behaving like a ordinary American first-grader talking about superheroes. But Nicole found herself disciplining him the way she would seen other Japanese moms do. She saw this public walk of shame as a shaming of her.  I felt really like what am I doing wrong? Why is my son the only one that is - cannot behave? And I just felt like I was failing.  The most embarrassing part she says was arriving at the gate and seeing the teacher Ogawa Sensei waiting for them watching them. And she was there the next day too. When we talked to Ogawa Sensei she told us that Nicole was not wrong to see this walk as a test of her.  It is not easy. .  Just as the entrance interview she says is really more about judging the parents' commitment than the kids' this walk she told us was partly to embarrass Rieden to get him to change but also to see if Nicole was willing to enforce the school's rules rules of behavior that she had not grown up with. And then on the third morning the teacher was there at the gate again waiting for them.  And she literally just said I think he can rejoin the walking group tomorrow. Thank you. And I was like OK I guess we passed.  After that Rieden did manage to stay quiet in walking group.  And it really did surprise me. Like maybe their way is right. And we need to expect more out of our children and we need them to see the repercussions for others.  Rieden finished first grade loved second grade even more at the Japanese school. And then as they expected the orders came down from the U.S. military. Rieden's dad was being relocated again and it was time to say goodbye. When ROUGH TRANSLATION returns the long way home. We are back with NPR's ROUGH TRANSLATION.  OK. Hopefully I get this right.  One of the mementos that Ryan has from Japan is this calligraphy set. He will sit there and practice his Japanese letters.  I taught myself.  Nicole says he spent that first year about as depressed as a third-grader can get.   When a school assignment asked him to draw the flag of his native country he drew a red circle against white the flag of Japan. Then the school had an international day where you could set up a booth about your country.  You could set up a table from your country. And he really wanted to do Japan which is basically me doing Japan.  .  And I was just like Rieden I do not think that is - I was like I do not know how that would look if I did the booth for Japan. And he is like oh it will be fine. You know you just wear your dress and stand there and we will make food. And I am like you do not understand. If real Japanese people show up to this they are going to go what you know?  Like who is this white lady doing the Japanese booth? And so I did not do it. You know I probably just should have. I just should have sucked it up and done it.  Those two years that they spent in Japan they were supposed to give her shy son more confidence a sense of fitting in. But it seemed like ever since they got back to the States Nicole says she feels like now he knows the person he wants to be and she is the one getting in the way of that.  I think he feels like he can fully pass until I show up. You know this idea of who he is cannot go on if you have got a white mom.  One day Rieden got a big packet in the mail from his Japanese school.  Each child wrote Rieden an individual letter. They like drew pictures. Some of them were just like Rieden where did you go? I hope you feel better soon. We miss you. Like they thought he was sick and coming back. It just broke my heart. But...  Why?  You know you love people who love your children.  Yeah.  And just how his heart like - sorry it is - I get so emotional - but like his heart hurt to go back to this place where he felt like he fit in and he felt like he belonged. And they missed him and they wanted him back. It is just the pain of a military child of never getting to have a home. You know or if you are lucky enough to live in a place that you feel like is home you have to leave it. And he has no control. It just hurt...  Yeah.  ...That like I had to take him from that.   Despite the pain of leaving Japan there is another way Nicole says that Japan has helped Rieden and their whole family. It is changed her as a parent.  I give them a lot more freedom things that most people would not do like ...  She will let her 5-year-old wander off alone outside.  I will be like OK go outside and I am going to trust you to come back you know at 5 oclock. And you need to figure out when it is 5 oclock.  She will even let her 4-year-old daughter walk home alone from school. She had to sign a special form for that.  And I will even recite statistics in my head of the probability of them getting kidnapped is so low. You know it is going to be OK.  Nicole is still a worrying type. That has not changed. But she forces herself to let go she says just like the Japanese school taught her to. It seems to work better for Rieden and it even makes her more in sync with her husband. It is weird she says but it feels to her like the kind of parent she is now is just a better fit with her own family even if that means letting Rieden stray farther than she expected. Rieden's Japanese teacher Ogawa Sensei who still talks to Rieden regularly on the phone recently told him she would be happy to host Rieden this summer in Japan.  We definitely want to send him next summer to go back to Japan.  Yeah like so Ogawa said she would take me for the year...  Yeah.  ...Like couple years.  Ogawa Sensei said she would take him for the summer. So we will -  we...  I wish she could take me for like a couple years.  A couple years? I do not know about that. I kind of - I would kind of miss you.  You would?  Yeah . Yeah.   And it is going to be cold in the classrooms again and you will have to clean it and eat rice and fish for lunch. You are willing to do all that?  Yes.  I do not know. I think I like the colorful American school where you sing and everybody's happy.  It is too colorful.  It is too colorful? It is too bright and happy huh? .  Yes.   So that is how we left this family in October 2019 when we first aired this story. Rieden's summer trip to Japan never happened. Pandemic lockdowns got in the way. But the clock on Rieden's homecoming was ticking. It was only a matter of time before the military informed his dad where the family was moving to next.  Oh they were ecstatic. Rieden was really happy. He was...  All the kids.  Yeah they all were. And Rieden I do not remember exactly how he phrased it but he was just like oh thank goodness. You know I am going back to school where - people who take school serious. And I was like what does that mean you know? .  Nicole asked us not to reveal the name of the country they are moving to in the interest of the family's safety. I can tell you it is a different Asian country not Japan. And how are you feeling about the move?  Well it brings back a lot of uncertainty feelings again. You know just - am I ready to go through that? So I am nervous. I am nervous about it. But...  I mean what are you most nervous about or what are you most apprehensive about?  Just going to the grocery store. Will they have the same ingredients that I want? You know just silly things that should not matter. And I have been getting really concerned about hair color products because I remember in Japan it was really hard to find hair color for a blonde. And so this time I have bought probably six months' worth of supply of hair color .  Well see that is what is interesting because you would think that because you have been through this already you know the ropes. You know you know what to expect. You know to pack the hair products in the suitcase because you are not going to find them. So do you feel like the fact that you have been through this once already makes you feel more prepared or does it make you more apprehensive?  I - honestly I think it is making me have more anxiety  because I know - when I went to Japan I had not - I was just like oh this will be great. It will be fun. I have no idea what is going to happen. Well now I kind of do.  She knows she will have to suspend her new career as an EMT. She is steeling herself to be criticized as a mom in a country where she is worried she will not be able to read the milk cartons.  I am American. I love this country. I am giving - I would not say I am giving it up but you know I am not going to be here. I love being in America.  But Nicole says that even if she could stay in the U.S. right now she would be afraid to. As an EMT she answers a lot of distress calls and hears a lot of anti-Asian sentiment from strangers.  You would not believe the stuff that they say in front of me thinking that like oh it is fine. You know like oh she is cool. She is white. No  you know? It is like that is not cool. We are not going to say that.  This conversation with Nicole happened in early 2021 before the shootings in Atlanta that sparked a national conversation around anti-Asian violence. Nicole though was already worried to let her husband or her kids go out alone.  Somebody might attack you on the street because of how you look. Like I would never tell them that because I do not want them to live with that fear. But inside that is what I am thinking. Like I take them out somewhere or anywhere I am looking around anxious because I know it is out there.  It was getting harder to be a free-range mom.  You know and I am fortunate that I am able to take my children away from it.   All right sit right here.  After I talked to Nicole Rieden gets on the phone.  Can you hear him OK?  Yeah I can.  He is 11 years old now.  Can you hear me?  You got to speak up honey.  Can you hear me now?  Taller still has that swoop of brown hair across his eyes.  I have been in America for a long time now. So...  Yeah.  For a long time.  Too long?  Mmm hmm.  I ask him if he still feels Japanese even now so many years out of Japan. His answer is careful.  I mean kind of. I mean I know I am not Japanese but maybe I am a little bit. But...  Well what part of you is Japanese?  Probably from the Asian family or something.  I am not going to play much more of these several awkward minutes when Rieden and I went back and forth on this topic. I gathered he was not interested in talking more about his identity or his Japanese-ness. What he was very excited to talk about was a gift that he would sent to Ogawa Sensei his former Japanese teacher.  I do not know if you already knew but I knitted her a hat.  I did not know that. I did not even know you knew how to knit.  I do not think we have any pictures of it. But it was like - do you know what purl is?  What is the word again?  Purl like a - you know if you look at your clothes like your sleeve. You - look.  So Rieden starts explaining what a purl stitch is by pointing through the Zoom call at my sweater which is a great way to explain things. I though am slow to understand it. You mean...  N