  Dear Asian women living in America until this week though I had often tried I was not able to bring myself to tell my parents to watch out for the upsurge in anti-Asian attacks in part because I cannot bear it that they moved to this country mostly for my brothers and my sake.  This is ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. I am Gregory Warner. What you just heard was from an essay in Vanity Fair read by the writer R.O. Kwon entitled A Letter to My Fellow Asian Women Whose Hearts Are Still Breaking. It is about the shooting in Atlanta last week where a 21-year-old white man killed eight people six of them women of Korean and Chinese descent. And it is an essay that explains how that shooting compelled her to break a silence with her own parents. Our producer Justine Yan shared this essay with our team and how much she related to being a translator in her own family and her parents' first line of defense against the outside world and how confusing that role had become at a time of increased anti-Asian attacks when the stakes of not speaking feel so high. Justine had lots of questions about the silences of people around her that she hoped the writer could unpack and so Justine called her up. And we present you this interview. I can say that even though the interview is about violence - and a warning they discuss racist attacks this content will not be suitable for all listeners - it is also an interview that is filled with warmth and joy and even tips I would say - you know like hard and fast tips to break the silences. So Justine will take the show when ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. This is Justine Yan. R.O. Kwon's essay was the first thing I would read in the days after the shootings in Atlanta that put words to what I was feeling. My usual coping mechanisms were not working. I was extremely anxious and unable to control the feelings of grief shame and anger that came up for me as I absorbed the news. But when I read R.O. Kwon's essay something in me was able to rest. She declared at the beginning that she would not advocate for Asian women in America. She would speak directly to us. And so it felt like receiving a letter from a friend. The first thing R.O. and I talked about was her connection with her mother. A year into the pandemic and far from home she says she and her mom usually talk every week.  For me at least - I do not know if this was for you. And I know this does not apply to all Asian people by any means. For me as an immigrant as a child of an immigrant something I realized fairly recently is I have been used to sort of being a line of defense between my parents and the world because my English is better than theirs because I am more - much more at home in this country than they are with their - the way I think about it is their tongues have been quite physically - like physically shaped in other lands. And so I have been the translator you know? I have been the interpreter. I have been the one who first notices and flares up with rage when there is racism and rudeness directed at my parents because I see it first. I can hear it first. And so in this case during a pandemic when - whew . During a pandemic when I have felt so terrible about not being able to physically take care of my parents because I live far away from them I could not protect them from a pandemic and I cannot quite protect them from the anti-Asian violence and - all of this was like a weight on my tongue and keeping me from saying anything to my parents until last week.  Do you remember the first moment or maybe an early moment when you wanted to talk to your mom your parents but then decided you know I cannot?  Yeah I think it really might have been the first day that the previous president started calling the virus the Chinese virus. And that day I remember I talked to my parents. I talked to my mother. And my father was right there. And I was thinking I need to tell them. I need to tell them this is going to be a bigger and bigger problem most likely. And instead you know they asked how my day was. They asked what I would eaten which is like a standard Korean elder greeting is have you eaten? What have you eaten? And I asked them how they were doing. I told them I missed them. I told them to be careful about the pandemic. But I could not bring myself to say the words the country just got even more dangerous for Asian people. Can you please take care of yourselves? I could not bring myself to say that.  When you made that decision to not warn them explicitly was it because you imagined that - that you imagined how the conversation would go that they would say something specific back to you?  I just did not want to add to their fear you know. And with the pandemic there is been so much fear already. There still is so much fear of course with the pandemic. And in a time of such you know just daily terror and confusion I could not bring myself to add to their terror. To be honest too it helped that during this pandemic they were less out in the world. I think that helped me delay saying something.  Yeah. Do you think about her perspective sometimes when you are having these conversations like how she grew up and how that informs the way she talks about or does not talk about anti-Asian racism?  I mean she does of course have the experience of having grown up in Korea so that for - you know until we moved here she did not really have the experience of - I think she pretty much never had the experience of being in a racial minority of being marginalized for her race. And it is also true that you know I grew up in LA - in a town outside of LA where there were so many Asian people that Asian people were in the great majority at my public junior high at my public high school.  Yeah me too - in the Bay Area. I grew up in the Bay so same. My high school was like I think 75 Asian.  Yeah. Exactly. Like there were so many Kims and Lees .  Kevin Chens. Lots of Kevin Chens in my high school .  Oh yes. Lots of Chens lots of Chos. So I did not really know until junior high which is when I started reading a lot more news and being more conscious of the larger world outside of the world of you know my school my friends and all the books I read it was not until then that I even knew Asian people were in any kind of minority in this country. And then there was such a surprise to me to learn that that was not the case.  Yeah. So what were some of the things you talked about in the meantime to your mom your parents instead of avoiding calling?  I started having Zoom - I started having sort of long Zoom video interviews. I started holding long interviews with my parents separately asking them to just start at the beginning with like their first memories of childhood. Because I realized you know before this they had told me very little about their lives. If I asked them questions about their childhood if I asked them questions about the difficulties of migrating they often said you know especially my mother she would often say oh you know I do not even remember. Why worry about those things? And I think in a lot of ways - and I see this in a lot of my Asian American friends' relationships with their parents - that sort of forgetting I think has been instrumental to their survival and to their thriving sort of shoving away the trauma shoving away what is been hard at least in front of their children.  I want to go back to the feelings that you know I have to check on my mom make sure she is safe. How often would you say you felt that this year?  To be honest every single time I have read about or heard about or encountered like just a fresh incident of anti-Asian hatred I have wanted to reach out. And maybe - I do not think this is as clear to everyone. It feels nearly daily the incidence of hatred the reports I see from people I follow online. You know there was that - there was the Atlanta shooting last Tuesday. That next day on Wednesday two elders were attacked in San Francisco. Two Asian elders were attacked in San Francisco on Market Street a street I know very well. And on Friday a 70-year-old man was kicked on his - in his head. His hand was stepped on. On Saturday a disabled Asian man's car was set on fire. On Sunday a 54-year-old woman was hit in the face with a metal pipe by a stranger on a Chinatown street a very crowded Chinatown street before nightfall who yelled I came here to F up Asians. He said the full version. It was on Grand Street. You know again I know Grand Street. It is a really crowded street. And so it has felt nearly daily. There are so many ways in which Asian people are being failed people of color are being failed.   When ROUGH TRANSLATION returns R.O. Kwon breaks the silence.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. This is Justine Yan. Authorities have not yet named the shooting in Atlanta as a hate crime. Most states have different laws defining what a hate crime is and is not the federal government as well. Activists have argued that the Georgia law defining hate crimes is too narrow because for someone to be convicted they have to state their intention.  It was so heartbreaking that starting Wednesday before we learned any of the victims' names before we really learned anything else media outlets just started merrily repeating the killer's words saying that it was not racism. Meanwhile this is a 21-year-old white man who drove to one Asian massage business shot people then drove half an hour to shoot people at two more Asians spas. Six of the eight victims were Asian women living in America. What about this is not racism? Like how could this not be racism and sexism? Of course this is so intersectional. And going back to the hate crime part I mean yes like as a hate crimes are defined by the dictionary this is a hate crime. Here is where I do have a little bit of hesitation - because I know that the term - I know that the categorization of hate crime is used in these carceral ways. Local governments one of their first reactions has been to increase policing to up policing in Asian American areas while Asian American activists and community leaders are saying the last thing we need is more policing.  I have been most lifted up by the way you talk about friendship and the intimate conversations you have had that have given you clarity and strength. Do you want to talk about that a little bit?  Yeah of course. I have been so grateful to the fact that I have so many Asian woman friends in my life. I have so many Asian friends. I have so many friends of color in general. And these are the people I have really felt held by and supported by in this past impossible week. Almost every Asian person I know was feeling this so deeply. And of course you know we are in an outside circle of pain. I do want to say that. There are eight people who died. And their friends and family members the amount of pain that they must be in is great. And my pain is not as great as theirs. Andbut this hits very close to home. I think it hits every Asian woman I know like deeply personally. And I have felt so grateful to the spaces in which I can talk with my Asian American friends which is every day. I felt so grateful to my friends of color. I have also felt grateful to the close white friends who have reached out. And I have also felt extremely disheartened by all the stories I hear from people about how their white friend - their best white friends have not said one word have not posted one thing. Their white family members - can you imagine white siblings white parents white grandparents white in-laws who have not said one word have not reached out? And I guess what I will say about that is when part of the problem is silence - when silence actually helps feed these violent anti-Asian attacks because there is a widespread denial that it is even happening and it is everywhere this denial that is even happening we see it in the initial reaction to these shootings. Is it - it is not even racism you know. Like it was not racism. It is definitely not racism. That is part of the denial. Then the silence helps feed that denial.  Mm hmm. Yeah for sure. I think there is a fear of being perceived as the angry woman like the angry Asian woman. I had a very - I had - I came out with it yesterday with a group of mostly white women that I am in an artist residency with. And it was just so silent. And there was then so much like apology - like oh I did not know. I did not want to assume you know. But that was not even so bad. Like I could get that off my chest. And you know - and it was not hard for me to just say hey like your silence is not just a part of the problem it is is what underlies the problem you know. But the harder thing which I have not yet done which I am thinking about right now is talking to my own family talking to my mom. I have not called her in almost two weeks.  I am so sorry.  And I do not really know why. But I really admire your courage that you shared in this letter. And I wondered if I could ask you a little bit more about how you approached that conversation with your mom so that I could learn something from you.  Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah. Oh I am so sorry. That is just so hard. I know I had been crying all day because that is pretty much what  I have been doing for the past week. I had been crying all day. And then finally I was just like OK I need to tell my mother because the logic I had in my head - and this is such grim logic but that this is what pushed me. The grim logic was if my mother - if my mother is attacked when she goes to the grocery store and I have not said anything to tell her to be extra careful I know I will then even while I know it will logically not be the case I know I will believe with my full body for the rest of my life that I caused it by not telling her to be careful by prioritizing the wrong thing by prioritizing her feelings over her safety. And I think that was the extremely grim logic train and the ways in which I personally tend to - like the way my anxiety works I tend to sort of assume fault. I think the more I think about it - I think it is a way for me to feel a little bit more in control in an environments in which I am not in control. And so OK if I just tell her to be careful that'ill be a charm. You know? That will be almost a charm to keep on her. And that was the moment when I just picked up the phone and called her. I had not been crying for at least you know 10 minutes. I was like OK I am going to hold on. I am going to keep a grip on myself. I know if I start crying I will worry her further. And instead of course the minute she picked up I started sobbing. And she just was like what is going on? Why are you crying? . And then I got out what I needed to say. And then so of course that was also part of why my mother immediately turned to try to reassure me and try to protect me is that I came to her as like a daughter in pain. When I did finally say to her can you please be careful when you leave the house because there is a lot of anti-Asian violence especially against elders she had a list ready of all the reasons why it was OK for her to go to the store. Of course she would thought this through. Like of course that is not a surprise. She thought this through. She had a series of reasons why it was OK for her. And then immediately - and this is again an of course - she started reassuring - not just reassuring me she started telling me to stop leaving the house . And she was like well you live in San Francisco. I live in LA. There are a lot more Koreans here. There are a lot more Asian people. And I was like no no no no. These are like elder-focused. These attacks are very much focused on elders. Let us return to you. . And she was like no no no. You are the one who needs to not leave the house. And then again it broke my heart a little further when she said if you do have to leave speak English loudly so that people know you belong as though perfect English is a prerequisite to belong in this country.  That line in your letter really hit me - the advice to speak loudly in English so that they can hear your accent and know that you belong.  Right? Because in that statement there is an admission.  Yeah.  I keep getting tearful but I guess there is no way not to get tearful. In that statement there is an admission that my mother knows she is less safe because her English is accented.  Some of it is also for me language. I talk to my mom in Cantonese which is not the language where I feel the most you know level. I never fully feel prepared when I am talking to my mom. And in Cantonese especially I think I am brought to this low you know closer-to-the-ground kind of place where I am totally unadorned childlike simple. And it is really difficult then - right? - to speak to something that has so many layers to it. I wonder if it - you feel similarly - or if you are speaking to your mother in Korean if you felt similarly.  Yeah. Even though Korean was my first language maybe like you I am less good at sort of more formal registers of Korean. And I still use the most informal diction with my parents. And yeah my Korean often has English words sprinkled through. So OK let me try to figure out and try to think back to exactly the first sentence I said to my mother which might have been in Korean and English. I think you know through tears - this was not very eloquent and this was not like - and this was not what I would initially really planned to first say. I think I said something like in Korean  Asian . And so I said - she said why are you crying? And I said because of white people a lot of Korean people are dying . Or not Korean people - I mean I said Asian people are dying. And my mother was just like oh that. .  Oh that.   Yeah. And I think that was - my phrasing was as clumsy and as simple as that. Just - and I said . And the translation would be because of that you have to be more careful when you go to the store. And that was when she sort of launched into her - again like this just really broke my heart. Her prepared list you know of like six different reasons she felt good going to the store why it was OK. Yeah.  Yeah yeah. Can you say what was on that list?  My mother said reasons include she mostly goes to the Korean store. And yes she knows that a lot of people are being attacked in Asian areas and in Chinatowns. Yes she knows that but she mostly shops the Korean store. And she lives in a town that does have just like so many Asian people including so many Korean people. And she still does not feel unsafe. She is looking around. She feels just fine. She is also in a mask. She is also in a mask. And she often wore sunglasses. And she is like how Asian do I look anyway?   I man a disguise basically when I leave the house.  Classic Asian auntie disguise.  Exactly .  Visor.   And I have sent her visors. You know they help protect against her enemy the sun. She said she usually goes with my father. And she said that they can protect each other. My 60-something-year-old mother and father. And then yeah that was when she started turning to wait. But you are in San Francisco - fewer Asians. You are in more danger. And I just was like that is not true. There are so many Asians here . Also like I am not - our elders are being the most targeted. Like we need to focus on you.   That is so funny that she - yeah you both were trying to redirect the conversation.  Yeah. And she mentioned - and again like further heartbreak and yet another like wave of love. My mother had not been bringing this up either. Like she has been worried too from the start. And what was clear was she would been worried this whole time. And she too did not want to say anything because she did not want to worry me more than I already am. And so we had just both been staying quiet with each other and not bringing this up while wanting to bring this up because we did not want to further trouble each other and add to each other's pain which is like a very - you know that is a very consistent dynamic in my relationship with my parents and my mother. And I feel also it can never speak for all Asian Americans - it is not possible - but it feels like that is a very common dynamic this profound unwillingness to worry each other I think especially when things are hard. My family definitely tries very hard not to worry one another. And it is one of the ways in which we show love to one another.  And also yeah it is not weak to be able to talk about these things.  And the fear of being weak in front of one another thereby adding to everyone else's worry.   Oh no. This keeps going.   The cycle - the sort of like interlocking cycle really never ends.  Right exactly.   Thank you Reese.  No thank you.   Thanks to Justine Yan for that interview. Today's show was produced by Rhaina Cohen. Our editor is Luis Trelles. Our team includes Jess Jiang Matt Ozug and Carolyn McCusker. We have links for you in the show notes to R.O. Kwon's writing and more articles on the subject she touched on. And before you go we are working on an episode about how people use English around the globe especially how those who did not grow up speaking English converse with those who did. We would love to hear your stories from either side of this conversation whether you are a non-native English speaker who has felt maybe self-conscious or intimidated by the grammar policing of others. Or are you like the translator in your family? Have you taught English abroad? We want to know your takeaways and your stories. You can send us a voice memo or an email to roughtranslationnpr.org. The ROUGH TRANSLATION High Council includes Neal Carruth Didi Schanche and Anya Grundmann. Our supervising senior producer is Nicole Beemsterboer. Our theme music was composed by John Ellis . Additional music from Blue Dot Sessions mastering by Isaac Rodrigues. I am Gregory Warner. Back in two weeks with more ROUGH TRANSLATION. 