 This is ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. I am Gregory Warner. My friend Jake Halpern wears a lot of hats. He is written investigative nonfiction for The New York Times and The New Yorker. He is a podcaster. And he writes young adult novels. He also teaches people how to write YA.  On the very first class I make everyone sit on the floor. And I just had them like look around and see what underneath the table looks like. And it is because I - as a kid I always remember like hiding under the dining room table and thinking that it was such an amazing world of all the people's legs and their feet and the carpet. And it was just a completely different way to see your house and to think about what an adventure could be.  In the kind of adventures that Jake imagines in his novels those table legs become the trunks of giant redwoods with a canopy of leaves so thick you cannot see the sky. The carpet becomes a mossy forest floor. And the grown-ups' legs under the table become monsters lurking.  Yeah. The kind of veneer of childhood kind of falls away at this idea that life is good and society is there and parents are there. The kids are left to fend for themselves and figure it out for themselves.   In 2016 Jake started working on a new book about a kid left to fend for himself in a war zone dodging bullets scrapping for metal all while trying to protect his younger siblings from being killed. Only the kid in this story was a real boy named Naji who had lived through a war in Syria before arriving to the U.S.  OK Naji tell me where we are right now.  Well I mean we are in West Hartford Conn. and we are sitting outside in the nice weather.  The interview you are hearing took place this year. Naji is 19 years old now. But when Jake first met him Naji had just arrived to the States and he was just a kid - skinny quiet did not yet speak English. What struck Jake immediately was that when Naji's parents told these really violent stories of the war they would fled in Syria they sent the other kids out of the room but not Naji. They let Naji stay.  They were not concerned about sheltering Naji from the story and his mom and dad seemed to treat him like he is one of the adults. And so I am kind of thinking what is the deal here? What is going on with Naji?   And then he asked him.  I said so why did not you want to sit with the other kids when they were getting their lessons prepared for school? And he said yeah but the thing is Jake is that they wanted me to sit with the kids in the kitchen but I am not a kid and I have not been a kid since I was 10 years old.   Ten years old on the streets of Homs Syria.  All what I cared about is you know oh I am going to go outside to my friends play soccer. Oh I hope my mom lets me go.  That year 2011 protests across Syria were met with government crackdowns and arrests.  And as the city descends into fighting one day the security forces come pound on the door ask for his father by name and say we need to take you in for questioning. We - you will not be long.  And that night was the worst night in my life. You know I asked my mom where is Dad? She does not know. She said he will be back but I know she does not know.  Naji says that he is like in his bedroom. He is actually curled up in a ball because his mom had told him if the soldiers come again and they think you are a kid they will not take you.  That is his mom's strategy - make him appear like an even littler kid. And then they go over to Naji's grandmother's house and she takes Naji aside.  And she basically says to him Naji I know you are 10 years old but you are the man of the house now.  You are responsible. You are the man of the house. And you have to make sure you get food to those kids and those families in the house.  She says I need you to go out to the local shop and see if you can find some bread and some milk.  In an area where you know you can get killed at any time. I myself ran through the streets where I saw bodies on the ground and I had to just walk away like it was not there. I tried to not even think about it. I tried to focus on the purpose that I was going to that shop and coming back with the food.  Naji succeeds. He brings back the bread and the milk and he goes out again on other days. One day he tells the story of scrapping copper from a power line selling the metal. That augments their spending money. Naji said during this whole period he felt this constant pressure that he was the family's protector. It was all on him. Weeks pass. Then a month. His father and uncles are still locked away. And he would have this recurring dream that troops stormed his house and he would have to grab a knife from the kitchen counter to defend his grandmother his mom and his little siblings.  And one day as Naji tells it he is getting ready to go out and his sister Ammal  who is a year younger than him says hey you always get to be the one that gets to go out. How come I do not get to go along? And he says it is not for you. He kind of like tries to brush her off. But Ammal is very persistent. So Naji Ammal and their older cousin set off and they see this bread queue which usually means like oh there is a line there must be bread.  It was a pretty long line. Everyone looked nervous and afraid.  And all of a sudden gunshots.  That is when that lady in front of me got shot and fell on the ground and everyone just started running and jumping over her. I was in shock. The first thing I was looking for was my sister. I was looking for Ammal.  And his only thought is his sister. Where is Ammal? Where is my sister?  And as Ammal tells what happens next a woman a stranger picks her up and holds her to her chest as if Ammal says she was trying to block the bullets with the body of this 9-year-old girl.  Like a human shield or something like that had kind of picked her up. And Ammal was flailing. And somehow Ammal gets back to - onto her feet and she reunites with Naji.  They race back home having learned that adults in this world were not necessarily there to protect you. They could not be relied upon.  Somehow I stopped feeling my age. Those days changed me changed my whole perspective of life took away the childhood that was not me and you know put in a responsible person for kids and for my mom.   Jake had pictured situations very similar to this one. In his novels there are many scenes where kids realize that their fate or the world's fate depends on them. And of course it is not just Jake's books. So many books written for young adults are stories of orphans or kids who battle off threat after threat without parental protection. And they learn independence and wisdom and they realize just what they are capable of doing on their own.   But Naji's dad - he comes back.  You know like what happens if Harry Potter's mom and dad come back you know? OK so maybe if they come back for a scene or two at the end you are like oh is not that happy? What happens if they come back for a whole book? Yeah well you are going to have some issues.   The graphic novel that Jake wrote about Naji's life is called Welcome To The New World. The artist is Michael Sloan. A serialized version in The New York Times won a Pulitzer. And today on the show we dig into Naji's story after his father's homecoming and what Jake learned about how writing fantasy novels could teach you something about surviving a real war. That is when ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner picking up the story of Naji Aldabaan who was 10 years old when his father Ibrahim was arrested by Syrian security forces. And not only was Ibrahim taken but many of his brothers Naji's uncles were too. And they were held in prison for 40 days until Naji's mother Adeebah finally managed through this very dangerous and complicated process to get them released. And Naji remembers watching his dad come into the house.  I looked at my dad and he looked so different. I have never seen anything like this before. He had a long beard. I know his face was tired. His body was so different. Like you know he was thinner and you know I could not really look at him for too long. I just jumped right at him and I hugged him.  Why could not you look at him?  I missed him so much. Like I - like you will need your father when you are in a situation. And I would been through so much that when I saw my dad I felt like you know I am safe again. Like you feel like you are in the middle of the ocean and suddenly there is a boat. That is how it felt.   It was a great feeling. I never felt it again.  You never felt that way again?  No no no.  In your whole life you never felt that way again?  Never before never after. It was a different time.   That sense of safety that Naji felt in that moment like he was being rescued - it did not last long because the return of his father he would realize had not relieved him of his role as the family's alternate protector.  Yeah yeah.  Naji's father Ibrahim tells Jake about this bus ride they took from Syria to Jordan.  When we just start to think to go out of Syria we go into Jordan.  But the bus keeps stopping at checkpoints.  We stop at too many police stop or security or...  And the dad leans over to Naji and says I might be pulled off this bus. I might be arrested again.  We kind of - guys go ahead. Continue.  Without you.  Yeah. Go to Jordan.  At every checkpoint Naji felt it - the hot air entering the open bus door. Soldiers board and Naji steels himself for his father to be taken away. And though his father is never arrested the whole family does make it to Jordan Naji still felt this burden as if it were still on him to keep the family safe.  I just - suddenly my brain got to be like whatever my family wants to pick a decision I have to interfere. I have to say what I think is right. So like in Jordan picking a house same thing you know and then thinking of where we are going to make money from.  Naji tried to go to school in Jordan but he was so badly bullied there - there is so much anti-refugee sentiment - that his father had to pull him out. His little sister Ammal went to school. Naji was spending every day at home idle. And then one day a wounded pigeon falls into their backyard. Naji carefully builds it a house with rocks and feeds it. And his father watching this remembers when he was a boy in Kuwait raising pigeons. It was a kind of sport where you would raise the pigeons and then release them. They would fly off hopefully to return with more pigeons to add to your nest which gives Ibrahim an idea.  So we got the scraps from the outside - you know a piece of wood there a piece of wood there. And you know he made it up to a pigeon house.  Naji's pigeon was too sick to fly but he loved taking care of it.  And that is when I really felt like you know there are some good stuff in life that you can live for. They made me feel like I can wake up every day have something to do.   While Naji took care of his pigeons he dreamed himself of flying away to the United States. The family had applied to come to the U.S. as refugees.  We were hoping for it every day. You know it became something that I pray every day for I wake up every day thinking about.  Did you think oh when I get to America I am going to be a kid again?  Oh yeah. That was like my goal to go to America you know do the things that I missed when I was younger - play outside have toys you know think like a kid again.  I mean I have heard him describe it in a few different ways. Some of it is more like kind of classic kid stuff like I want a Batman poster and the room's going to be painted blue and you know I am going to have my own room with a bed. But I also heard him describe it as modestly as there'ill be a room with a window.  Yeah with a window that looks - you know that you can open it and look at things.  And what was out the window in your mind in your imagination?  In my imagination you know I always thought about the grass the trees the animals and the streets. It was like heaven.   Naji gets a step closer to his goal in early fall of 2016 when his family's cleared to enter the U.S. There is a problem though. Some of Naji's uncles and cousins who are there with them in Jordan - their applications are still under review.  And the mom the grandmother Ibrahim's mother who is the kind of matriarch of the family makes it be known I am not going to go if everyone is not given the green light.  And everyone is not given the green light.  Which puts Ibrahim in a really difficult situation - right? - because on the one hand he is got Naji asking him two or three times a day Dad we got to go to America. Dad we got to go to America.  What do you think? Like you are going to leave me here for the rest of life just for you to stay with your family?  Naji - he said no I cannot. I do not have school here. I do not - I have no future here. Please please Dad. Please Dad.  I deserve this Dad.  Especially after all what I did. That would definitely mean something to me.  It was hard for me.  Ibrahim the dad says there were times he even scolded his son.  I tell him you are not thinking about me about my family your grandma your uncle. You just want to do what you need to.  Like he was being selfish.  Yeah selfish.  He got to a point where he said you know you are just a kid. You do not know what you are talking about.  I tell him it is my responsibility. I will do that. You do not worry. I will take care of it.  Like kind of butt out. Like let me deal with this.  Like you are not the dad here.  Yeah yeah yeah. Like that. I got to make this call. This is my mother. And meanwhile just to put you in kind of context of time here it is the fall of 2016. Trump is making a campaign publicly talking about cutting back on immigration not letting refugees in.   Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what the hell is going on.  It is only at the very last possible moment that the grandmother finally gives her blessing. And Naji's family arrives in the U.S. by plane on November 8 2016 Election Day.  I - at that time I was hoping they do not stop the plane. I was thinking about it.  You thought that they might actually stop the plane?  That is how bad I want to go to the - I want to go to the U.S. that I was hoping they do not stop the plane. Just fly .   So they arrive and they are taken to a house in Manchester Conn. that is been set up for them by volunteers.  And it is that night early the next morning that Trump wins. And of course they all know what that means.  They get a text from Naji's grandma who has stayed behind in Jordan with her other children.  She said I hope I see you in heaven because I am not sure if we going to be together again especially after Trump won.  I hope I see you in heaven because I am not sure we are ever going to be together again.  It was very scary that it took my happiness of coming to the U.S.  And sure enough when Trump takes office he bans entry to the U.S. for citizens from Syria and six other Muslim countries. And yet Naji's family discovers that despite these messages coming from the president or maybe because of them there are more volunteers than ever trying to help the refugees that are here jump-start their American life. Naji's family is inundated with assistance.  It is like they have - people are constantly coming in and out the door nonstop - driver's license Social Security card immunization shots dental work blood work allergies registration for school lesson on how to use everything in the house English lessons. It is - I mean it is around-the-clock.  Their co-sponsor even coaches Naji and a sister what to wear on their first day of school which they join midsemester. And they are trying their best to blend in so they have got new winter coats and backpacks. And then they arrive at school and they find the kids in the hallway wearing fluffy animal slippers and bathrobes. Their first day it turns out had coincided with that odd American tradition known as Pajama Day.   This was likely not the return to childhood that Naji had pictured for himself when he was back in Jordan dreaming of the U.S. And Naji says that while he liked his new school he did not yet fit in. He barely spoke English and he mostly kept to himself.  We went to school we had homework we came home we ate. And you know we sit - every night we sit together you know we talk and then we drink tea and then we go to sleep.  Months pass in this way. And then one winter evening Naji is in his room finishing his homework and he senses something's wrong.  By 6 p.m. you know I felt the house was quiet unusual. So I went and I saw my sister Ammal and my other sister Hala  standing outside of my mom and dad's room. And I got scared. I thought you know something big happened. I knock at the door of my parents' room and I say what is going on? And then my dad - my mom said oh nothing. It is all OK. But I knew like from their faces I know something's going on.  And then finally his dad said I got a message on my voicemail. And he plays the message for him. And the message is a death threat.   You have seven saved messages. Saved message...  Hey you  Muslim what the  you doing in the United States of America?  It said hey you are Muslim with the you know the F word you are Muslim. I am going to come to your house and this is your address. He said our address. He said my dad's name.  I know you live at this address. He has the exact house number. America is only for white people. We are going to kill you. We are going to chop your head off.   Just get the hell out of - America is for white people and not for you Black and brownies OK you  Muslim.  And he said you are from Syria. You have 24 hours to leave the United States or I am going to come and kill you.   I am giving you 24 hours to leave America OK? You hear that? You understand me? You understand me?  They do not know anything about this caller. He is spouting white nationalist threats but they do not even know if he is white. The family calls their sponsoring agency and their sponsor calls the police. The police call in the FBI. They are taking it very seriously. And there is this moment when Ammal Naji's little sister turns to Naji and she says are you happy?  She says so is this what you were talking about this is the future the United States the good dream they were talking about? And I really did not have anything to tell her.  I said what do you mean nothing? You said nothing back to her? And he said she was right there was nothing for me to say.  Yeah yeah. She was blaming me. She was you know - made me feel like I was responsible for it. And I actually did feel responsible for it.  His father even told us if Naji had not pushed so hard to come to the U.S. they might still be in Jordan.  I felt like my parents were feeling that way you know but they did not say anything.  I never got the sense that they actually blamed you. I wonder if it - part of it is also just like you feeling guilty maybe.  I think it was guilty. And you know I do not know if that is what they were thinking but I can imagine it and I do not blame them for it.  The one thing that Naji felt sure of - it was again up to him to protect the family when ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. In the days after the Aldabaan family received a threat to kill them in their home in Manchester Conn. Naji found himself thinking back to Syria and those 40 days when his father and his uncles were locked up and he used to imagine troops coming into their house and having to grab a knife from the kitchen to defend his family. Now a similar survival instinct kicks in.  I started thinking what am I going to do if they come into the house? Our knife would not help. I am not that strong. Then at that moment I asked my dad how old do you have to be to get a licensed gun in the United States? And I tried to convince him to get one.   His dad tries to reassure him.  He is saying you know well we have informed the police and the FBI. And Naji says to him well you know how the old saying goes.  By the time the police come the killers would have - would kill us and leave.  And what did your dad say to that?  He - you know he would always try to not respond to me like acting like he did not hear me.  It is kind of like they are back to square one. Naji's talking about getting a gun to protect the family. You know from a psychological standpoint he was still in that war zone mentality of we cannot rely on anyone. Things are going to fall apart. Danger is knocking on our door.   And Ibrahim says no. We are not getting a gun.  I was mad. I was mad because I was not feeling good. I wanted to be protected. I wanted to be ready.   In the genre of novel that Jake writes the genre sometimes known as young adult fantasy or young adult horror there is this general rule about the role that parents are allowed to play. Jake learned this when he and his writing partner Peter Kujawinski were finishing Nightfall their book about three kids that get abandoned on an island.  At the end of the book there is this really cool scene where the ocean has receded because there is this 500-mile tide. But there is still a river that runs from the island. And it runs along the bottom of the dried-out ocean floor. And the kids are sailing in this boat on this river. And they are slowly making their way south to meet up with the parents. And in the - one of the versions of the book that was near final the last image was they look up and they see this lone figure making their way along the shore of the river. And as he comes into view they realize it is the dad. And he is come back for them. And our editor said to us - our very smart editor Ari Lewen  said to us no.    She said I know why you guys put that in there. You are dads. And you like the idea that you come back for your kids but no.  She said that they were breaking a major rule.  So the rule that we broke was that the parent to some extent came back and helped them achieve the last part of their escape from this island and therefore deprive the kids of succeeding entirely on their own power and by their own agency. The fantasy is the story of extreme empowerment of a kid who is thrust into the role of a hero adult and must do the superhuman adult task. And so we cut the dad at the end of the book.   I wonder if there is a psychological truth here that if you are a kid and you realize the world is unsafe that you are on your own you cannot unrealize that. You cannot have a dad show up and think oh great things are back to normal because there is no going back. And so in a novel you have to take that truth to its psychological conclusion. You have to have the kid the hero of the story make it through to the other side on their own. But in the real-life story of Naji and his family Naji is trying to find safety with his family by his side. From Syria to Jordan and then from Jordan to America he is trying his hardest to find a place where they can feel safe and then he can feel like a kid again. But the death threat changes that.  I felt like we will never be safe again. There is no place on this Earth that is safe for us or we will ever feel like we belong again like how we were in Syria. I just - you know I just felt whatever we are going to do wherever we are going to go we are never safe again.  When Naji asked his dad to buy a gun to protect them Naji's dad gives him this speech.  .  Ibrahim says in Arabic that he explained to Naji there are a hundred ways to be safe and a gun does not need to be one of them. You are not going to shoot somebody. That is not who we are. It is not what we do.  And what is interesting about this situation is this time Naji backs down. He does not try to fight his dad on this like he did about coming to America. He says OK.   In the subsequent years that Jake followed Naji and his family he never saw him quite get the return to childhood that he would imagined for himself in America. Naji was always watchful ready to leap in in an emergency and emergencies kept happening. There was one time when the house caught fire and Naji made two trips into the smoke to wake an upstairs neighbor lead her outside and maybe save her life. There was another time when Naji turned down the chance at a scholarship to a summer program at Wesleyan to spend the summer working. He helped his family buy their first house.  And his income and his employment history I think is part of what got them the mortgage. So yes he is still very much a kind of partial provider for the family.  But Naji has found time to be a teenager. After the death threat the sponsoring agency moved them to a motel for a few months. And Naji remembers loving the continental buffet and the downstairs gym.  The breakfast in the morning was nice and that was the first time I see a gym downstairs. I really liked it. I started working out the first day and then I started showing my dad my muscles . I said look I have muscles now.  In school Naji joined a weightlifting club. He now looks nothing like the skinny kid that Jake first met. And Naji got a job at Dunkin' Donuts which was about making money but he also really loved it. It was like a masterclass in dating from his favorite co-worker.  Rusty  was my favorite friend. We both were shy talking to girls so we would always stay away.  And Rusty is like Naji's Gandalf like you know...  That is from Lord Of The Rings right?  Yeah yeah yeah. The wise sage the old wise sage who speaks only truth and who knows all secrets of the mystic realm who also tells him like you are not going to see so many beautiful girls working at Dunkin' Donuts but Starbucks - now that is a different - like Starbucks was like the promised land.   Naji how are you? Salaam alaikum . Oh look you cut your hair.  Yeah yeah.  I actually really like it. So the last time that I was visiting the Aldabaans they had the American flag flying up front which is something that Ibrahim said is the first thing he was going to do when they finally owned a home. Just going back here. Hey Naji. Whoa look at your - oh my gosh.  I built this.  You built this?  Yeah.  While the dad's first action as a homeowner was to put up an American flag the first thing that Naji decided to do in their home was build himself a pigeon coop.  I had the little house for them that was closed. But then you know I thought they were walking around the grass and so I decided to make a cage outside.  It is more than a cage. It is like a whole screened-in porch for - I mean it is big. It is got a roof.  Yeah.  It is not only way bigger than the one his dad built for him in Jordan. He is built this and stocked it himself.  So I just got those couple fancy pigeons. Yeah.  They are beautiful.  Yeah. I never had those back home. They were so expensive.  Just like back in Jordan Naji does not let his pigeons fly. He did try it but two birds got eaten by hawks. He learned it is better to keep them in their birdhouse where they will be safe.  Look at that. He is just sitting on your arm.  It is my favorite pigeon. I do not have names for them 'ecause you know it makes me sad when they die. And I do not want to feel sad. But you know I still kind of feel sad when they die but it feels a little bit better if they do not have names.  He is protecting the birds but he is also doing his best to protect himself.   Jake Halpern's book with artist Michael Sloan is called Welcome To The New World. We will have a link to it in our show notes. Today's show was produced by Tina Antolini. Lu Olkowski is our editor. The ROUGH TRANSLATION team includes Jess Jiang Derek Arthur and Justine Yan. Robert Krulwich and Sana Krasikov listened to this piece and made it so much better. Fact-checking and Arabic interpretation help from Mohammed Kadalah. The ROUGH TRANSLATION executive team is Neal Carruth Didi Schanche Chris Turpin and Anya Grundmann. Nicole Beemsterboer is our supervising producer. Mastering by Isaac Rodrigues. John Ellis  composed music for our show other scoring from Blue Dot Sessions. If you would like more stories like this in your podcast feed you know what to do. Give us a rating and a review on Apple Podcasts or tell a friend about the show. Drop us your thoughts and your stories at roughtranslationnpr.org or on Twitter at Roughly. I am Gregory Warner. Back in two weeks with more ROUGH TRANSLATION.  