 All righty. This is ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. I am Gregory Warner. And today's story begins with a cat.   But she is a cat with a really bad habit. She eats string.   This is my friend Elizabeth Senja Spackman a playwright and professor in New York City. The cat was dumped on her by a roommate who fled town. The cat's name is Indiana.  Or Indy.  OK.  And our solution to get her to not eat string is to let her have as much dry food as she wants. I have never thought of myself particularly as a cat person. I like them. But I have been so grateful to have another creature in the house with me especially when I was sick.  When Elizabeth got COVID-19 in mid-March and she could gasp for breath just from lying on the couch the obligation of having to get up and feed Indy became a kind of comfort. Elizabeth could not leave her apartment so she ordered cat food online. But cat food was one of the things that Americans were hoarding. And in the nights between the days of waiting for that order to arrive she would have stress dreams.   I think the equivalent of like showing up naked dreams but in my dreams I show up and I have forgotten my mask. And I am breathing on people and they are getting sick. It was mortifying to me. I do not want to get anybody sick with this. It is a horrible feeling that you could be a vector for this miserable thing. So I guess I was in my third week of being sick.  The cat food order had still not arrived.  It was getting dark and I thought I had another bag of dry cat food. And we were out.   The CDC if you are curious says that people can stop self-isolating 72 hours after having no fever. And her fever had abated. But other countries use different guidelines and Elizabeth did not have a test to know if she was still contagious. So she puts on fresh clothes and an N95 mask and then washes her hands again and grabs a packet of wipes to disinfect every door handle she passes. Then she goes outside to the bodega.   And wait so this is like your first foray out into the world?   Yeah.  OK.  It is been me and the cat. When I first walked into the bodega across the street I really panicked. I was just like there is too many people in here. It is too small. I cannot find anything.  She races back to the sidewalk empty-handed.  And I am like OK I am going to - I will walk all the way to Safehow .  The grocery store.  It is normally like not far at all. I just do not know how far I can go.  She is been holed up in her apartment for the last three weeks weeks in which New York City has really changed.  I do not know anything about shopping in this new world because I have gotten grocery delivery. And I do not know like how do stores have policies? Like what are the new customs?  At the grocery store she finds out the employees are wearing masks but most shoppers are still not. So keeping her distance from fellow shoppers it is like a game of dodging weaving.  It did sort of feel like floor is lava . And like I wanted to tell people like I am trying to take care of all of you but I need your cooperation.  Finally she obtains the cat food makes it to the cashier line and feels something warm and wet on her leg.  And I look down and there is this Shiba Inu.  It is a dog.  Right. There is a dog poking my leg.  And the dog is attached to a woman.  She is in athleisure clothes and I guess she is in her 20s.  And Elizabeth is trying to figure out can dogs pass it on even as she is trying to get the woman's attention.  And she is paying no attention to her dog because she is chatting with the guys behind her who are both - they really seem kind of like bros also in their 20s. They are buying beer and paper towels. And the bros are having this loud conversation about how their friend was paranoid and would not leave the house without a mask. And I mean they can see that I am in front of them in line wearing a mask so I assume that they were including me in the like paranoid people. I want to say something to them but then I also really do not want to engage this conversation. But then I feel a breath on the back of my neck and I am like that does not make sense. The dog is not that big.  .  And I turn my head and as the line had turned the corner this woman had come and stood so close to me that I could feel her breathing on my neck. And I tried to give her like the meanest glare  but I do not know how to project that yet  with just the top half of my face.  Elizabeth goes from feeling shame to trying to convey shame but no one seems to be noticing.  I felt amazingly invisible to these people. And the guys are still having their loud conversation about beer and how they are invincible. And I have this moment where I just kind of want to rip off my mask and tell them that I have corona and breathe on them.  .  But I would not and I did not .  And why does it involve ripping off your mask? Like why not just say I have corona?  I mean maybe partly it is just that I am originally from Minnesota and we are so compulsively polite. But I did not want to shame them but I really did want them to take this seriously.  What do you mean you did not want to shame them?   I do not think you get people to change behavior by shaming them publicly but I do wish I had spoken up.   This is ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. I am Gregory Warner. At this point in the pandemic I find myself paying a lot more attention to how people around me are behaving. Are they standing too close? Is that bandana tight enough around their nostrils? Should I say something and what would I say? Even with these masks on our faces we have our noses a lot more in each other's business. So is that scrutiny the new normal?   Today - two stories about public shame how it is used and who is using it. We look at shame that is very high tech and some old-school ridicule. And we ask is it working? And how far does it get you? ROUGH TRANSLATION back after this break.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. I am Gregory Warner. Of the 17 correspondents we have around the world who are now hunkering down under quarantine and watching fellow expats flee to their home countries it seems that our own Anthony Kuhn may have it the easiest.  Well let us put it this way - of all the places an American correspondent could be reporting from I think we feel safest being in South Korea.  Anthony is based in South Korea where there have not been the lockdowns that we see in China or the United States.  Even at the height of the epidemic not even the epicenter was locked down.  One reason for this is testing. And this part of the story you may already know. South Korea's testing was early and widespread. But there is another piece of the South Korean strategy that is just as important and maybe even more relevant to why people are still free to move. For Anthony this part of the strategy has a particular sound...   ...On his phone.   Now we cannot legally play you the sound because this is not an emergency but Anthony gets these on his phone all the time.   It is an electronic sound but there is something to me that is very menacing about them.  Do you have one on your phone right now?  Yeah. The last one I got was like four hours ago and it says that anyone who is been to Jack's Bar which is a couple of subway stops away from me anyone who is been there in the past few weeks needs to self-isolate. And if they show symptoms then they need to go get tested for the disease.  This is not a warning that comes through an app. It is more like hurricane warnings or an Amber Alert that comes uninvited on our phones. Anthony has not signed up to receive these warnings. The government knows that he lives within a close radius of Jack's Bar.  On average I get about say four to six of these emergency alerts a day. I click on a link in that emergency alert and it takes me to my district government site.  Each case of COVID-19 in Anthony's district is assigned a number.  And this was about case No. 15. OK. So I go look up patient 15. Patient 15 is a Korean national female in her 20s and she works at this place called Jack's Bar in Itaewon. She goes to work at about 5 in the afternoon. She gets off at about 3 or 4 in the morning. So on this website on the government website you can see that she is been tracked from these data points. We see her going to markets into drugstores into hospitals.  You see her trail.  Yeah. We know when she walks. We know when she drives. We know when she is wearing a mask or not.  Wait. You know when she is wearing a mask or not?  Yeah. OK. Some of this they get from interviewing her. Some of this they get from surveillance camera footage. So we know that for example on the 27 of March she got off work a few hours early because she was feeling aches and pains.  So she feels sick enough to leave work early on March 27 but she does not get tested.  On March 30 she goes up to a pork restaurant just up the street from my apartment and she eats there from 6 p.m. to 50 p.m.  On April 3 she goes and gets tested.  The next day the results come back. She is positive. That afternoon she goes straight into quarantine. And then this afternoon four hours ago I get this message saying if I have been in Jack's - Jack's Bar in Itaewon - then I need to self-isolate. So that is how it works.  Do you know her name?  No.  But really how many bartenders at Jack's Bar are women in their 20s living in that particular district and working that particular shift. We are not told her name but people talk. Her neighbors can figure it out. And the details we know about her they get pretty personal.  We know that at a certain time she went to stay with an acquaintance nearby. That may set people speculating about who that acquaintance was.  People will screenshot this info off of the government site and then repost it with commentary like who was that acquaintance? How does she know that person? And why did she wait a week after symptoms to get tested?  Most of these comments seem to be posted on online forums in a very popular portal called Naver.  Naver - it is like the Google of South Korea. It is also like Reddit.  And this is often used to stigmatize people saying why were you out there when you should have been staying at home?  Kind of like we are now.  People storify this information and they make a narrative out of it. People who are stigmatized say they are made to feel that they are the disease themselves. And even after they get better they are still shunned by society. And if the stigma is worse than the disease itself then people are not going to want to get tested. They may hide their symptoms. And they may get more people sick. So it is something that the government takes very seriously. They have instructed the public to be sympathetic and not discriminate towards victims.  But how does it keep me safe? How does it help me avoid the virus to know that patient 15 is in her 20s or to know that she is a she? And if the government really does not want people commenting on the details of people's lives and their choices then why are they exposing all of these tidbits to make a story out of? Well Anthony says to understand why the government publicizes so much personal data you have to go back five years to another contagious respiratory virus.   The dangerous respiratory disease known as MERS continues spreading in South Korea.   Middle East Respiratory Syndrome...  The outbreak has sparked fear across the country and generated anger...  MERS cases more than doubled in a week.   Four people have now died from the virus and more than 40...  The disease has now killed seven people and infected nearly a hundred. And in the scramble...   People are now quarantined...   And more than 2000 schools are closed.  South Korea had the biggest MERS outbreak in Asia.  And once cases started to multiply the government's response was seen to be vastly inadequate.  People wanted to know the names of the hospitals where MERS patients were being treated and the government at that time in 2015 said no. That is private.  That is correct. Doctors or hospitals might refuse to treat patients with MERS symptoms because they fear that the information might leak out and then their hospitals might be shunned by the public. The topic became very hot in the news. And also opinion polls started to come out. One of them showed that 86 of respondents wanted these hospitals identified.  Eighty-six percent - that is a huge demand.  And that demand was met by netizens who basically crowdsourced information on these hospitals and put together a website map with the locations of the hospitals.  And Anthony says this crowdsourcing site it was pretty accurate but it was also kind of mean. People would accuse a hospital of keeping MERS patients and then other people would rush to deny those same rumors.  Yeah. And after about a week they decided to release the information. So they reformed their whole system - their government bureaucracy their health care system - to give authorities the power to use cell phone data credit card records and surveillance camera footage to track the route of infections.   So if you remember patient 15 the bartender at Jack's Bar the reason we all can follow her movements and her choices like a fluorescent dye tracking a cell through the body is because of a lesson the government learned fighting MERS. But why do I need to know that patient 15 is in her 20s or that she is a she? Why do I need to create that story? Anthony says that these stories actually help the warning stick. And they encourage people to share stories of their own like oh I know that bartender. She was talking to my friend. And then I maybe call that friend and the friend gets tested. The more they tell me the safer I feel and the more I am willing to trust the government's directives. We think of shame as a tool of enforcement. But Anthony says that shame around the coronavirus in South Korea is like the byproduct of a system that is meant to foster trust and community and mutual compliance with the rules.  Yeah. I think they are proud of the fact that they have been able to achieve what they have done without the use of any lockdowns. And they are plugging the South Korean model very hard. The World Health Organization chief has invited President Moon Jae-in to give the keynote speech at the World Health Assembly. Officials have been touting their experience in media interviews and the things they have done are being copied.  The world has already copied a lot from South Korea like drive-through testing sites. And in the U.S. this past week Apple and Google announced that they are developing a contact-tracing technology. It will help us know if we were near a potentially infected person. Now unlike the South Korean model you will not know anything about that person but it is not hard to imagine what happened in South Korea happening in the United States - people demanding more information. And if the government does not tell them they might try to deduce it themselves - to take this data about when you might have been exposed and figure out more about who might have exposed you to it. This is ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. A lot of countries of course do not have the technological capacity to monitor people in the way that South Korea has.  No one follows us here with our data to check on the coronavirus. No one's looking at my phone to check my movements to see whether I am obeying a curfew.  Diaa Hadid is the NPR correspondent in Pakistan which has been on lockdown - no non-essential movements allowed. But how do you keep everyone following the rules?  I can leave my house get in my car drive down a highway and as long as I am not leaving the city limits I will largely be left alone.  And in the absence of technological surveillance what Diaa has seen is old-fashioned shame tactics which if you are wealthy looks like the police basically rolling up and yelling at you.  Over the loudspeakers like you are acting like it is normal. You are not taking this seriously. There is a pandemic. It will kill you. And if you die they are going to wrap you in plastic and roll you into a ditch and there'ill be no one to pray for you. So stand apart. Stand apart.  But if you are poor the same police tactics feel much more aggressive.  Typically they were stopping buses and they would make all the men get out. And they would have to crouch by the road and stick their hands under their legs. And it looks like they are assuming a chicken pose. And they would have to sit like that for a long time.  And what is the purpose of that move?  Well it is what you do to anyone when you are trying to humiliate them whether it is a school kid or a laborer who is like trying to sneak home on a bus.  Were those same tactics working? Well for a few weeks anyway Islamabad became a ghost town - maybe less because of the harassment than there were just no more jobs for those laborers to take the bus to. Everything had been closed. But then Diaa noticed something curious.  You know with the shutdown they sort of disappeared from the streets. But then I began noticing they were actually sort of popping back up. And they are not there to work because there is no work.  Those laborers were gathering in their usual spots though the market was closed.   Do you want to sanitize?  I have already used.  We drove - Satar  my colleague and I we drove to the Jinnah market. And it is a place where before the virus dozens of laborers and traders would gather. And they would hold their tools so you knew what they did. So you know painters would sit with a paintbrush and a tin of paint.   OK. Look at all these guys.  A landscaper carries a shovel.  Yes. It is a visual signal of what this person can do.  But why were they bringing their tools now when there were no jobs to join? Diaa walks up with her hand sanitizer and her boom pole for her mic so she can keep the 6-foot distance. Immediately a crowd surrounds her.  This crowd of laborers stood around us and this is really typical in Pakistan. One person will speak and a crowd will sort of gather. But they also stood at this respectful distance from us because they are aware that a rich person would care about social distancing. If you want to record you can come closer. That is OK. It is OK.  You mean they are standing close to each other but far from you.  Yes. Yeah. If you had taken a bird's eye picture it would have been I was standing in the middle and Satar was standing about 6 feet to my left. And the person we were interviewing was between us both at a distance literally in a triangle formation and then a big circle of people around us at about a 6 feet distance.  .  The men here tell her that even to stand here with their tools they have to evade the police.  They hide and then they wait for the police to pass. And sometimes they get caught and sometimes they get scolded. Do not you know there is a pandemic? Get off the street. Socially distance. Stand away from the other person. What are you doing here? Go back home. Do not you know there is a disease? Of course they know there is a disease.  So the police are acting like they do not know the rules but the way they are keeping their distance from you it sounds like they do know the rules. They just do not feel like it applies to them.  It tells you something about the privilege embedded in the idea of staying home and socially isolating. A lot of the laborers who are sitting out in the streets live you know often nine to 10 people in a room in a crowded house in a crowded slum on a crowded street. Some of these alleys they are so narrow that you can stretch out both arms and like touch houses on either side. And it is not like staying home is any safer than being out on the street. And so all these people are standing. And then there is one fellow and he is like sitting on the curb. And the way he gets our attention is by shouting in English.  The tubby guy in grimy clothes shouts out to them from the curb.   sent into your homes.  One second one second. Which does get our attention. We are not used to laborers speaking to us in English. And he really won the respect you could see of the laborers around him because he was speaking this language. So everyone just sort of like quieted down to let him speak. OK sir OK sir. Come. Stand with the microphone. What is your name?  My name is Ibrahim .  Ibrahim is 48 years old and he is a mason.  When corona started we cannot earn our money honestly.  They are not here for work. They are here for charity.  Nowadays we are waiting for the money-having people the rich people who come here and they bring some food for these neighbor people.  Wow. Wow. What I realized was going on is that a lot of these tradees  were standing with their tools as a signal to passersby that they were not just professional beggars that they were like hard-on-their-luck laborers and they needed help. That is hard.  Hard - too much hard.  These tools that before the pandemic signaled the work they could do now they were new a signal of the jobs they were banned from doing.  Yes. Before these conditions they were not waiting for other people money. They were earning with their hands - becoming in people's eyes as beggars.  And he kept saying like we feel ashamed. We are not beggars. And I had not even considered that aspect of it of like the shame that people must feel that you know they used to take pride in their ability to work and provide for their families and - you know and they have been rendered destitute.  Talking to Diaa I thought back to what Anthony in South Korea told me about patient 15 how she or people like her felt humiliated like their dignity was taken but that that public shaming was also part of a tradeoff where everyone agrees to follow the same rules for the common good. In Pakistan that same balance between shame and community trust seemed to be flipped on its head. Most people in Islamabad live more like Ibrahim does in close quarters where the rules of social distancing are almost impossible to practice. And this lockdown leaves them with very little feelings of safety but with all of the shame. And so what are they supposed to do?  Think about this - the first response of Pakistani tradesmen who suddenly found their work dry up was to stand on the street and wait for other people to give them money and food. And you can see in that a shared communal expectation of what should be done in a crisis.  The expectation is that even though this lockdown affects us all so differently we are all in this together that somehow we will help each other.  I am worried that I sound a bit like Pollyanna here like oh everything will be fine and you know let us not worry. No. I mean a lot of people will suffer.   This week the government announced that it was loosening the lockdown. It would allow Pakistan's construction industry to reopen immediately along with about a dozen other industries. The prime minister Imran Khan explained we are facing corona challenge on one hand on the other we have hunger.   Today's show is produced by Jess Jiang with help from Derek Arthur. Our editor was Lu Olkowski. Thanks also to Robert Krulwich and Sana Krasikov. Didi Schanche is NPR's chief international editor. The ROUGH TRANSLATION executive team is Neal Carruth Chris Turpin and Anya Grundmann. John Ellis composed our theme music additional Music from Blue Dot Sessions and mastering by Isaac Rodrigues.   If you would like more stories like this in your podcast feed tell a friend about the show and tell us about your ROUGH TRANSLATION moments. You can email us at roughtranslationnpr.org or find us on Twitter - roughly. I am Gregory Warner back in two weeks with more ROUGH TRANSLATION. 