 We have a survey. This is our chance to know who you are and how you listen why you listen. It really helps us make this a better experience for you for other people like you. So the link is npr.orgpodcastsurvey. Thanks for filling it out. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON 1  If you heard last week's episode then you know something of the story of the Iraqi photographer Kamaran Najm who went missing on a battlefield and the efforts to find him. This is Part II of that story. So if you did not yet hear Part I we would highly recommend you go back and listen to that first episode to get the full experience. And it is an experience. But if you only listen to this episode do not worry - we will catch you up along the way. And just a quick warning before we get started - there is the sound of gunfire and some cursing in this episode.  When Kamaran went missing one of the people most desperate to find him was a 27-year-old woman from Holland.  So my name is Jantine van Herwijnen.  Jantine had met Kamaran in 2009 and the first thing she would noticed about him was his laugh.  Yes. Happy times.  It was a laugh that made you feel safe...  .  ...Which she knows sounds weird but that is just how it felt. They started talking at a conference. And when she told him that she was making a work trip to Baghdad he said oh maybe I will be there. And he was.  We spent a week together in Baghdad and he showed me everything there. And whenever something happens in Baghdad like a bombing...   Dozens are dead.  I would be really scared and react to it even when it was far away. But then he said like yeah but you cannot react to everything that is happening around you because then you cannot laugh .  Kamaran seemed fearless in so many ways. He would lived through a lot of wars. He would become a photojournalist against the wishes of his conservative family. And now he had started an agency in Iraq to train local photographers to tell a deeper more nuanced story about the country stories beyond just bombs and battles. He called his agency Metrography and he invited Jantine to visit his office which was also his apartment. She met all these interesting friends - journalists and artists and filmmakers.  It was such a nice place. Everyone would be there. Like people could just be free there. They could talk about everything. Women felt safe to come there. It was like really a family feeling.   .  It was an odd sort of family. He had an American co-founder Sebastian Meyer. He had his little brother Ahmed helping out the one brother who believed in what he was doing. Metrography was this bubble where the usual rules of Iraq did not seem to apply. After dinner the dishes were often washed by the men not the women and no topic of conversation was taboo.  Kamaran always knew he was doing controversial things. But he would always know how far he could go.  Jantine and Kamaran started spending a lot of time together and then she moved in with him. But in public Kamaran would never introduce Jantine as his girlfriend even when they would been dating for years.  To be accepted as a couple you need to be married.  Kamaran told her he did not believe in marriage - not the traditional Iraqi kind.  I just said like I just see marriage as shouting to the world that you love each other.   There is this sculpture in a park near their apartment it is called the Statue of Love. It shows a man and a woman fashioned of steel and cloth and they are kissing. It is pretty chaste as art goes. But it was repeatedly vandalized and finally torched by religious hard-liners.  There was nothing left to be very honest like ash.  A short time after that Jantine and Kamaran were walking through that park with some friends. And they passed the statue which was now just a pedestal of black ash. And Kamaran gives her this look. And they both climb up on the pedestal and he puts his arm around her waist.  And I said - I remember that I said OK let us wait because there is a family passing by. So let us wait till the family is gone . And then we kissed.  Was it a very long kiss?  Maybe four seconds.  Four seconds.   It was an intense one. It felt really like OK this is like real. That he does that in public does mean a lot because you would not take that risk if that is not the feeling.  A friend snaps a photograph.  And then he went back to the office and I went somewhere else. And then he called me like hey I want to post this on Facebook. Are you OK with it? I think I said you are so crazy. I am not sure if this is a good idea. But you probably know better.  . And then he quoted the words that she would said to him.  So now we shouted to the world that we love each other.   Kamaran later proposed for real with a ring and everything. But that Facebook photo went viral.  And this has made a really big conflict in our family.  Ahmed is Kamaran's little brother.  Even my brothers they were saying you have to publish a letter and say I apologize for what I did.  Ahmed had been religious like his family until Kamaran had pulled him into this world of journalism and photography.  So when this is published so many people said you are from Muslim family. You are not allowed to do this kind of picture.  And then Kamaran started getting death threats.  From conservative people.  A prosecutor threatened to sue Kamaran for - and this is the actual charge - behaving outside social norms. But Kamaran did not seem worried. He gave interviews to local and international press. This was not just a kiss he told them. This was a protest. And then couples started going to the statue and posting their own kiss photos.  I really trusted him in making the right decisions and not going too far.  This is exactly what Jantine loved about him. He could step into these dicey situations and walk out unharmed.  I felt very safe.  He would get arrested at a demonstration and then send her a photo of him drinking tea with the prison guards. So when ISIS invaded and Kamaran went to cover the battle Jantine did not worry too much. Even when she heard that something bad had happened she just told herself...  Let us not stress out because this has gone on  and he is fine.  I am Gregory Warner and this is ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR the show that takes you to faraway places with stories that hit close to home. Last week we learned what happened to Kamaran on that battlefield after he was shot and kidnapped by ISIS.   .  We took you through the critical hours and days that followed and how that kidnapping brought together the two sides of Kamaran's life.   Hello.  Two sides that had always clashed...   Kamaran.  ...His journalist friends and his religious brothers who now had to work together to run a rescue mission. They learned how to scan a lead...  A doctor who said I treated this Kurdish journalist who came in his name was Kamaran.  ...How to win the support of a tribal leader.  He touched my hand and he asked me to sit beside him.  But the pressures of a search that stretches into weeks and months are different because in the first few days you do not have time to think about the risks of going full throttle or the costs of holding out hope. As the search continues the team will start to confront the wider game that they are now a part of - where searching for their friend means people will get hurt. Karen Duffin has been reporting this story with Kamaran's friend Sebastian Meyer. Here's Karen.  In almost any hostage negotiation your goal is to prove to the kidnappers that the person they are holding is not that important so you do not drive up the price of their release. But when you are negotiating with ISIS there is another factor.  They do not kidnap people like a Somali pirate would because they want a ransom you know they kidnap people because they want to make it a public statement want to kill them.  The search team has to prove that Kamaran is not what ISIS would call an infidel like not someone who would throw raucous parties...   ...Or date a Dutch woman...  ...Was very charming.  ...Or drink alcohol or hang out with Westerners.  Oh God. No no no no no.  So it does not help that Kamaran's best friend and the guy who co-founded the photo agency with him is an American - Sebastian Meyer.  Because they are going to be like oh s this guy's Western. He is an infidel. Like we should kill him and videotape it and put it online. We needed to make him as anonymous and ordinary as possible.  They are trying to make Kamaran look like somebody he is not. Like they made a video to send to ing work that Kamaran did that ISIS might appreciate. Like Kamaran photographed an Iraqi journalist who was killed by American soldiers. They put that in the video.   We need to move time  now.  And while they are trying to rewrite Kamaran's story this thing keeps popping up that is making it so much harder - that kiss photo the one he posted on Facebook of him and Jantine kissing on a pedestal.  Shouting to the world that we love each other.  If you google Kamaran's name after the kidnapping it is the first thing that comes up. And the photo is all over Facebook. Everyone is posting it as a tribute to this charismatic rebel they love.  And you are thinking if this photo goes to ISIS they will kill Kamaran. We were talking with people please delete this photo.  Jantine was getting on the phone and begging people to take it down. Sebastian is threatening news editors Kamaran's blood will be on your hands. One person would take it down another would post it. And at the same time Ahmed is getting furious phone calls from his brother Najat saying can you get your friends to stop posting that kiss photo? And Ahmed also wants this photo taken down but the difference is Najat wants it to have never existed in the first place. For him that photo is a symbol of Kamaran's rebellion that his friends had encouraged.   Kamaran had the worst friends. He always chose the wrong friends.  Najat has a catalogue of the friends' betrayals from the great to the petty. He still talks about this one time before Kamaran was kidnapped his mom made a pot of dolma for Kamaran.   I took it to Kamaran's office. Everyone was there but Kamaran. They called Kamaran and told him about the dolma but they ate it before Kamaran comes back. And I always told him the people around you are using you and stabbing you in the back. The nature of fire is when you touch it it will burn you. We warned him not to do it.  For Najat and his other brothers Kamaran's kidnapping has become this horrible version of I told you so.  They thought that because of Kamaran's friends and because of Metrography that is why Kamaran disappeared.  And then little by little the tension the underlying tension that we would sort of plastered over that started to crack.  What had been one team became two. The family set up their own command center in the family home. They stopped sharing their intel with Sebastian who was coordinating all their leads on this massive spreadsheet. So now the friends team does not know who is called whom. They are missing details. Only one person knows everything.  I was in a really really bad situation.  As the team unravels...  I wanted to connect them.  Ahmed is literally driving between the office and the family home again...  To the family...  ...And again...  ...And back to the friends.  ...Trying to sew the two sides back together.  Let us try to be a team.  A team that needs both friends and family. The family has religious contacts and as Kamaran's family they have a lot more sway when the government or tribal leaders ask for help. And the friends they are journalists. They know how to investigate things. They have a ton of on-the-ground sources. But at this point there is so little trust that for Ahmed to stay on both teams he has to lie to both sides. He gets back from meeting with his family and has to say oh I was just at the grocery store. Or he meets Sebastian in places that he knows his family will not see him.  Everyone was trying to hide stuff from each other.  The brothers have started spreading rumors...  False information.  ...Hinting that there are double agents on the friends team.  All this spy s.  And now Sebastian starts withholding things from Ahmed.  That made me second-guess myself made me start second-guessing Ahmed. And just like without even knowing how and when we were almost at war with each other.  One night about six weeks into the search Sebastian arrives at Metrography - and he cannot get in. There is a bike lock on the gates. Kamaran's brothers Najat and Ari have locked up the agency.  And they said if you try to break that lock we will call the cops and say that you are trespassing on private property.  No one can get into the office the command center that they are using to coordinate the search. And something about this escalation the absurdity of this bike lock pulls things into focus for Ahmed. Like what are we doing? The only thing that matters right now is that we find Kamaran. This is ridiculous - enough. So he sits down with Sebastian.  I never talked about this but...  And says I have not been telling you everything. And Sebastian says yeah I have not either.  All I am going to ask that you do not lie again.  They share all of their intel now and they pledged that from now on they will be honest with each other.  Sing me a beautiful song a beautiful Kurdish song.   .  That night Ahmed goes to the other team to the family home. They have asked him to come.  Najat called me said Ahmed come home we are going to have a family meeting.  And he is thinking I fixed one side maybe now I can fix the other.   .  Ahmed drives to the family home. And it is the night before Eid starts which is the biggest Muslim holiday of the year. It is a day for families to be together. He walks slowly up the concrete steps. He is preparing his speech - like let us put aside our differences and just focus on the thing that we all want.  And when I went in my father was sitting. And two of my sisters...  His mom is not there just his dad two sisters and his two religious brothers.  Najat and Ari they were all angry-faced.  Ahmed sits down. But before he can say anything Ari the bodybuilder brother starts in on him. He says Metrography is going to stay closed. Also...  You are not allowed to work with the friends team. You have to respect our family and you have to be in this group.  They are telling Ahmed you have to pick a side. And Ahmed wants to say this is not about sides family or friends this is about the best way to bring Kamaran back which is everyone working together. And Metrography that was Kamaran's life. Ahmed takes a breath turns to the brothers and he says...  For closing Metrography I am not letting you do that because Kamaran sacrificed himself - and I wanted to finish it - sacrificed himself for Metrography.  Ahmed does not get to finish his sentence.  My older brother Ari came and he kicked my hips  twice and he was just pushing me like crazy.  His sisters jump in to try to separate the fight. But Ari goes to the kitchen and tries to grab a knife. His sister has wisely locked the kitchen in advance. And at this point the whole family is shouting except for one person.  The strange thing was my father was not moving. He was just staring at me.  His father says nothing - the one person in this room who had the authority to just say the word and stop this beating.  I do not think that he was enjoying but he was thinking that yeah this is a time that I have to be beaten by the older brother.  Ahmed scrambles to get out of there. And he makes it out the front door back to the top of the stairs when Ari gets in one last kick.  He pushed me down all the stairs. And when I arrived in the last stair I was bleeding and everyone thought that I am dead.  Upstairs he can hear Najat yelling at Ari you killed him.  I was just trying to put my hands in my pockets just...  Ahmed is trying to get to his car but cannot walk so he crawls to his car. And when he gets there it will not start.  It was like a scary movie. I was just checking the window if my older brother's coming in again and my sister was crying. It was really - it was so bad.  Ahmed's family wanted the same thing from him that they had demanded but never got from Kamaran - the only version of Ahmed that would satisfy his family was that young obedient Salafi boy working at the driving school with his older brother Najat. But that was the life Kamaran had pulled him out of. He was not going back.  This is my duty now. I have to finish what Kamaran started.   When ROUGH TRANSLATION returns Ahmed steps defiantly into Kamaran's shoes and an encounter with ISIS does not at all go as planned. That is after this.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. I am Gregory Warner. At the same time that Ahmed was diving more fearlessly into the search for his brother and also stepping into run his photo agency Sebastian was yanked out of all this. He was called back suddenly to New York. And Ahmed and the headquarters of the search were now 9000 miles away. Karen Duffin continues her story.  I met Sebastian about a year into the search for Kamaran. He had just moved home to New York to take care of his mother she had been diagnosed with cancer. He was living with her taking her to doctor's appointments. When do you think you will go back? Like in the summer or...  I do not know. It really depends on my mom's chemo schedule.  He struck me then as a guy carrying around a lot of anger just beneath the surface. He was really chill really funny but then something would set him off and he would get mad like madder than the moment deserved.  I used to ride the subway hoping that someone would you know brush my shoulder something like that. I was like if someone bumped me right now I would vent all my spleen on them.  Sebastian was living in New York.  So it is Tuesday.  But every morning he would wake up to Kamaran.  I spent the morning fielding a ton of calls about Kamaran.  He talked to journalists he still knew in Iraq.  You know what have you heard? What have you heard?  Afternoons were for his mom.  Day after tomorrow Thursday she is going to see the doctor.  Then late into the night in the darkness of the Internet...  ...Execution video...  ISIS released videos of people they executed people they beheaded or drowned in cages. And he would watch every video he could just to make sure this one was not Kamaran. And then he would get up and do it all again. It was hard for me to gauge how close or how far Sebastian was from finding Kamaran. Sebastian.  Yeah.  This is exciting. He would stop me.  Well let me - I am going to stop you right there.  OK.  Because we have had bits of news even better than this and they have come to nothing. I do not have high hopes. I do not have low hopes. I am so neutral.  I watched Sebastian train himself to just stay neutral even when shocking news came in.  You hear stuff like oh ISIS is using you to weed out informants.  Planting false intel with people they suspected were leaking information.  You hear that contacts that have given you information have been executed by ISIS.  Wow. Like the doctor who had treated Kamaran's bullet wounds and then told them about it - they heard he would been killed.  You would hear that it was actually being turned back on you and you were a pawn in somebody else's game.  Oh my God. In searching for Kamaran they were helping ISIS.  So the level of guilt that you can start to feel potentially is enormous. And you become a little bit hardhearted.  Even if people were getting hurt they had to keep up their search.  You just have to say if that is true that is the way it is. Kamaran being released is still my only priority.   There was only one person in the world who really understood what Sebastian was going through.  Ahmed?  Hello Seb.  Hello. Can you hear me?  They were on the phone constantly.  Let us talk now. You can tell me everything.  Just one second.  Talking through the latest leads and then checking in with each other.  Tell me quickly - how is your mom doing?  Ahmed's mom had also been diagnosed with cancer.  She is fine. She is sitting here beside me. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Thank you for this call. Now let me open the door  for her and I will call you back.  At this point the search team in Iraq has dwindled. Kamaran's fiancee Jantine has moved back to Holland. His brothers have returned to their families and jobs. Most of Kamaran's friends have too. So when Sebastian comes to town...  You sound exhausted.  .  There is no longer a big team sitting around a whiteboard putting pins on a map it is just him and Ahmed.  .  Sebastian can see Ahmed has changed. Now he has a Rolodex of sources. He is the one tracking down leads.  Sit down. I will get my laptop. We will go through the whole thing.  He is also taken over the reins of Kamaran's photo agency.  Well thank God you are doing it because I do not do it anymore so.  .  Someone's doing it.  On this visit Ahmed has some big news.  Tell me what happened in Kirkuk .  It is not Kamaran's address. He is not coming home tomorrow.  I am not coming with the good news. I am not coming with the bad news.  But it is something they can act on.  I really want...  Ahmed has met with a new source - an intelligence adviser to the prime minister. And the guy asked to listen to this recording Ahmed has of the phone call Kamaran made with his ISIS captor...   Hello.  ...The day after he disappeared.   Kamaran.  Said let me listen to it.  When it got to the part where Kamaran's captor took the phone...   .  He stopped like freezed. He said again again - for eight times.   .  The guy said to Ahmed I know who this is.  This guy before ISIS was a head of the mafia group it is like a mafia.  He has identified Kamaran's captor.  Holy s.  I found out that this is our man . And...  Holy s.  Yeah.  When Sebastian first met Ahmed he was Kamaran's little brother...  You spoke to Hamid ...  ...Someone who would help out at the agency now and then.  You recognize the voice.  Now Ahmed is telling him he has won the confidence of a high-ranking intelligence official who has given him this really important information that he has double- triple-checked. He played the recording for other people and they confirmed the name.  I was so superb . It was Kamaran style.  Kamaran style.  We know exactly who he is. .  .  .  .   .  . Try again.   That night as Sebastian tried to settle in for bed he just could not sleep not from excitement about the captor's name - it was something else Ahmed had learned. That same security adviser had told him I think your brother is probably alive. When ISIS gets a hostage with skills they put them to work. I think they might be using Kamaran as a photographer.  When I got that news I had a terrible night.  Sebastian called me from Iraq to tell me about this.  What I have managed to do from the very beginning was not to project myself into the possibilities of what Kamaran's going through. Whenever my mind goes to that place I just shut it down. But that was not - I did the best I could that night but it was rough. If you are forced to shoot video and photos of horrendous executions like the thought that Kamaran's going through that just really upset me. I am going to actually - if you do not mind I am going to stop talking about this right now because I am feeling it coming back so.  OK no problem.   One thing that oddly gave Sebastian solace was his job as a journalist. This was when ISIS was at its peak taking over swathes of Syria and Iraq. And he wanted to tell the story of the people that took his friend. He felt like he owed that to Kamaran.  I was not there for a vendetta but I was going to show the world what monsters they really are.  Sebastian went to interview Kurdish soldiers preparing to fight ISIS. He also interviewed people who would been held captive by them.  I interviewed a 15-year-old Yazidi girl who had been taken prisoner and managed to escape.   Can she tell us like what does it say? And...   What does it say?  She rolled up her sleeve and she would tattooed on herself while she was being kept prisoner by ISIS...   .  ...Mom and Dad I love you. It was...   She made that when she was with the men ?  I mean - I do not know.   Sebastian wanted to talk to the men who had done these things the men who had taken Kamaran. And Ahmed had prison contacts.   All the phones off.  So he arranged interviews with some captured ISIS prisoners.  And we were told you know you are going to have the worst fighters. You are going to have the nastiest people. In Kurdish they use the word dirty. Like -  - and they call them  which means like the dirtiest. We are going to have the dirtiest fighter for you.  Sebastian pitched a feature to Channel 4 News in the U.K. Sebastian would interview Ahmed would translate. They drive to the secret location where the fighters are being held. They set up their camera.   .  . It is fine. It is fine. It is fine. And they take off this blanket and there is this like kid sitting in front of me. And he is not just a kid but he is like really baby-faced.   .  They interview him. He does not have much to say. And the next prisoner they bring in is even younger.  He sits down and he is shaking - I mean visibly visibly shaking. And as I am sitting there I am thinking s. S. This is a kid. Is he being coerced into doing this interview? Has he been tortured? If the original idea of the interview was to get in the head of a murderer of a psychopath and of a monster. Now I was trying to get in the head of a 15-year-old or a 14-year-old boy. And I say...   I am going to change the direction of this interview. He is 16. Were there are a lot of other people his age working as soldiers for ISIS? I wanted to - I needed to turn the cameras off and go home and think about it is what I needed to do.  But they had promised Channel 4 ISIS monsters. So they dig in and this is when they meet Ali  an ISIS assassin. He started when he was just 13 years old.  This is a guy who had beheaded people. So I had found my monster. And that is when it got really complicated.   .  So he describes pushing this Kurdish soldier forward onto his belly and cutting his head off. And then there is a pause. And I ask him how do you feel?   How does he feel? And he goes totally silent. And then he starts to whisper.   .  I cannot tell if he is praying. The guy has just pitched forward handcuffed headfirst onto the floor. As he is pitching forward Ahmed is actually already out of his chair and trying to throw himself under Ali to break his fall.  He would just finished telling you that he would beheaded people.  I know.  And here you are like...  I know.  ...I do not want him to bump his head.  Yeah. I know. That is Ahmed that is not me. Now I do not wish any particular harm on Ali but my instinct was not to break his fall. My concern was can I take the camera off the tripod and continue filming him or not?  I assumed the interview was over. They were not even sure they wanted to continue. But Ali said no I want to keep going. So they gave him some water and turned the camera back on.   We are recording. So... And then he starts denying everything.   .  Then he said I did not do it. You know why are you making me say these things?   .  And the guy in charge of the counterterrorism unit is telling me like this is all like an act. This is all BS.   .  The prison official is saying do not believe that guy. He is an assassin. And Ali is saying no I was faking it the whole time. They made me say this.  And I - you know what - who do you believe in a situation like that?   .  The strangest thing is if you look at the video of this right before Ali passes out frothing at the mouth he turned to the camera - it is quick - but he gives this unmistakable look.  Like the way a kid will you know stop crying halfway through make sure that the parents are watching them cry. You got this right? You are recording? OK I will fall on the floor now.  But if he is putting on a performance who is the performance for? What does it even mean?  So you - I just kept going forward with the interview. And then at the end I said what would your message be to the families...   ...Of the Peshmerga that he killed? What would he tell them?  .  He tells them again he did not do it.   .  He starts to cry.   .  When Ahmed and I left the interview afterwards I barely spoke. Totally totally totally shocked. And we went and we changed the brake pads on my car as like just I - we could not go home. Like we just needed to do something anything.   Sebastian sent the footage of these interviews to Channel 4. They said we cannot run these.   Sebastian had gotten what he wanted. He got to sit in a room with ISIS fighters and ask them all his questions. But...  No questions are answered. There is no satisfaction. There is no catharsis.  Instead Sebastian is surprised to find himself feeling sorry for the ISIS prisoners. Was there any part of you that felt like this was a betrayal to feel this way about people that were holding him?  That is a question that sat with me for quite a while. And...  He thought about Kamaran and the work he had done trying to see beyond the black and white way that people portrayed Iraq.  And I know 100 that he would have felt and done the exact same thing.  After these interviews I watched Sebastian change. It is like he had been carrying this sword and he could finally put it down.  Those interviews have actually allowed me to suffer less. If I had not met them rage would have destroyed me. I think I would have been consumed by it.  Sebastian started doing things that he could not let himself do before. He found a therapist. He asked his girlfriend to marry him. And he did one other thing.  When ROUGH TRANSLATION returns Sebastian sits down to talk with Kamaran's brother Najat the one who used a bike lock to keep them out of the search. And he learns a very different reason things went so wrong.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. Except for the first week or so of the search when the team of friends and family were still united Kamaran's older brother Najat had been mostly an impediment to the rescue - at least that is how Sebastian and Ahmed saw it. And Najat is not the one who threw Ahmed down the stairs but he did throw a bike lock on the gates of Kamaran's agency so determined was he to shut out that side of Kamaran's life. Of all the family Najat always seemed to Sebastian like the most cold and uncaring.   When I do not cry - so it does not mean I am not affected by the situation. But I am a kind of person that they cannot cry.  When Najat was a kid his teachers would beat him harder because he would not give them the satisfaction of public tears.  .  He says even onions do not make him cry.   I dream about Kamaran more than I dream about anything else.  Not long ago Sebastian and Ahmed went to speak with Najat.  This - I cannot tell you how happy I am that after five years we have the opportunity to sit down and talk about this.  They wanted to ask him about that split in the team. How did things get so bad that the family was hiding intel and making the search harder?  Can you describe from your perspective from your side why that happened why we ended up dividing into two groups?   We took so many risky steps - to talking to so many dangerous people talking to people from inside of ISIS organization.  The problem Najat says was Kamaran's friends. Not just that they were eating all of his mom's dolma and drinking whiskey and turning Kamaran into a heathen they were doing something worse - they were making public what needed to be kept secret.  .  The family would collect sensitive intel and the friends would post it on Facebook.   So we were afraid of Kamaran's friends putting us in danger because of the information they would put out there. So whatever we did it was so confidential.  Because ISIS was punishing people who crossed them and the Kurdish forces were jailing people with ISIS contacts.  .  He says after my friend and his wife helped us out they got put in jail. And when we went back to them they said we are not going to risk talking to you again.  .  Sebastian had always told himself he would continue the search even if people got hurt.  Kamaran being released is still my only priority.  But the people at risk were Najat's neighbors his friends his family in a country Najat still had to live in.  I can understand because lives were at risk those guys were like you know what? Let us not tell those other guys about what we are doing because this could get us thrown in jail could