 Hey Gregory here. Before we get started just a few things - if you are enjoying this latest season please tell people you know. Maybe write a review. It really helps the show get the word out. And second this next story - it is about addiction how people talk about it to their friends and to their family. It is a topic that may be sensitive for some listeners. And we are not using the names of people in AA programs to respect that group's desire for their members to remain anonymous. For Julia Simon this all started with the birthday cakes.  The birthday cakes - they are a part of Alcoholics Anonymous in LA.  Specifically.  Southern California yes. So every year you are sober you get a birthday cake to celebrate how many years of sobriety you have.  They have a pianist who plays Happy Birthday when you get a birthday cake.  This is my mom.  It is just you know Hollywood - kiss kiss on each cheek.  I remember when I was in high school she was going to AA. And she would invite my dad and my brother and me to go to these celebrations.  There are lots of sober celebrities. They have a buffet. And the rest of AA makes fun of Southern California for it.  Yeah. So we went and gave her a birthday cake. And this was something that we did a few years. And then for me it just became something that I resented doing and I did not exactly know why.  You did not know why you resented it at the time.  No I did not. So this is through my 20s.  Right. So were you living with her?  I was not living at - with her. But when I would visit her - say my dad and I were watching TV downstairs - we would hear things crashing above us. Is it just that my mom's really really clumsy? Is it that she is really tired? We all thought it might be a medical condition and we brought her to doctors.  Julia could not figure it out. And then one night her mom did go to the emergency room. Her dad brought her in after she was thrashing around in her sleep. The doctors did all these neurological tests. It took hours. But the only problem they found was the alcohol in her blood.  The reality was that she was secretly drinking. For seven years she was drinking and lying about it.  So I have to say thank you so much for talking to me in the first place and...  It was about a year later that my mom and I sat down to talk about this.  Where did it take place?  It took place in my uncle's study.  I do not want you - this chair to squeak.  I brought my microphone. Yeah.  Do you mind if I sit on the floor?  Oh OK. We ended up sitting on the floor 'ecause the chairs were squeaking.  Maybe it would be easier if there was a microphone in my face.  Oh OK. Well I...  Do you need...  Yeah. I need this for me. If...  OK.  So can...  OK well...  She said OK. I am not going to put anything out there without consulting you. I am curious how it felt to receive the cake when you were drinking.  It felt - I - you know I met your dad auditioning for a play. There is a part of me that is an actress. I was acting sober.  I have always kind of thought of my mom as a really terrible actress - you know just like kind of a lot of like hand movements and like big facial expressions. And so I made a joke about this. I was like... You have never been a very good actress  - no offense.  I know. I know. That is why I gave it up a long time ago. I know. I know.  Yeah. But then I was talking to her about the fact that when we would go out to dinner and there would be something on the menu that had rum in it like some dessert... You know if you accidentally had a bite it was this whole production and...  And you say I am not a good actress? Sorry. I mean I did that to look like I was sober Julia.  Yeah. So you really - oh OK. You were pretty good then .  I mean it was very disingenuous.  But why did not you tell anyone? We could have helped you.  Because it was more important to me to keep up the illusion that I was sober. I was committed to looking like I was OK.  I guess I just - I guess - I am just trying to see if I wrote a question that might help me phrase this. I mean did it bother you that I did not want to go to the cake things?  I do not know Julia.  If you - if it did it is OK.  I really do not know.  My mom keeps saying that she does not know.  Now Julia I really...  She does not remember.  Because the alcohol impaired my memory.  I am trying to ask her basic questions and I am not hiding my impatience. Same thing.  I do not know what you are angry with me about. If you would like to explode at me go ahead.  I am not angry at specific things. I am angry at the lying which is just one humongous seven-year period you know?  I know that I lied to myself.  You lied to me.  I lied to everybody Julia. But I lied to...   Honesty is a big part of AA - honesty with yourself honesty with others. And as Julia struggled with her mom's lies she started to feel frustrated at AA. She wondered if those birthday cakes those public celebrations of success had somehow trapped her mom in a place where she felt like she needed to lie. Now this is not I should say how her mom sees it. She does not blame anyone in AA but herself. Looking back Julia thinks she became a journalist in part because of a feeling that it was hard to get the full truth from her mom. And so with her mom in recovery and her reporter's notebook in her hand...  First do you mind telling me...  Julia started calling up rehab programs around the world...  My name is...  ...To find a place that might have actually detected her mom's lies.  This place.  The first time we talked on the phone you said something to me that - I was like oh yeah I definitely want to talk more to this guy. You were like you know how Indonesians smile and they are not really smiling?  Yeah because the cultures tells us we have to be polite. When we do not know the answer then we have to smile. When we feel threatened we have to smile. I mean lying is part of the business .  I am Gregory Warner. And this is ow where we go to far-off places with stories that hit close to home. So much of the way we in the U.S. talk about addiction treatment starts with coming clean about your past. Admitting you have a problem is the first step to solving the problem. So Julia Simon wanted to know what might addiction treatment look like in a place where the culture is telling you to put a rosy face on things? Today she takes us to Indonesia to seek out some answers for her American mom. We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. And if we started this story with Julia's mom in LA lying to make herself look like she was fine the first person Julia's going to introduce us to in Indonesia is someone whose whole neighborhood is conspiring to lie for him.   Ridwan  is addicted to heroin. He is been in and out of jail. He is HIV-positive. He tells me he is slept on train tracks. But before any of this Ridwan was a kid growing up in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta. So we are walking down a very skinny street and there are all these flags a bunch of...   ...Birds in cages - oh another motorbike. These narrow narrow streets - they actually call them jalan tikus which means street of the mouse. Everybody's very close together. Oh they live in here? Hello.  .  . Ridwan's family lived in houses side by side - six brothers and sisters. Hello. . Ridwan's big sister Aini  says when Ridwan was a kid...  .  ...He was always with a book. He was a nerd. You said he was very smart.  .  And then he entered middle school. She says that is when he went a wild way. When Ridwan was a teenager he went to what he calls a prison for children like juvie.  .  But then he would get home leave.   Every time I got a free time to go back to my home with my mother my neighbors always asking me like how is your school?  How is your studying going the neighbors would ask...   How is your ?  ...In the pesantren your boarding school?   So I realized that wow my mother tried to keep secret what happened about me.  Yeah. Why? .   My family - my grandfather - he is a role model in my neighborhood.  Ridwan's grandfather was an Islamic scholar. His father was a leader at their local mosque. So part of their house is the mosque. It is like you come in with green and carpets.   That is why my neighborhood tried to keep it secretly. They are afraid they humiliate my father and grandfather. .  You are saying they actually knew.   Everybody notice it.  Ridwan's neighborhood is kind of known for all these printing shops. And when Ridwan's addiction got worse Ridwan was stealing the equipment from them.   I sell it to someone else and the money - I use it to buy drugs. And one day the owners of the printing agency come to my home.  The owners gathered to talk to his dad.   They told my father if your son needs some money why do not he just work with me? I can give him a job.  So even when you stole from them they did not say it. I am translating and he is saying...  .  ...Everything has to look good. Everything has to look like everything's OK.  Yeah.  In Indonesia there is this one word that captures this idea.  It is more like malu.  The word is malu.  Like if you do not want to feel ashamed stay away from trouble.  There are a lot of definitions for the Indonesian word malu. But malu - the word malu also means shy does not it? My interpreter Barmin and I would go back and forth about it.  Malu - like shy - like...  Wait. Malu malu and malu are different words? There are even instructional videos aimed at Western businesspeople on how to deal with malu culture.  Conflict avoidance - most Indonesians value maintaining the appearance of harmony at all costs saying yes when they mean no.  On Java which is the most populous island in the world you have all these different languages and ethnicities and religions. This is extremely useful you know? Like you can keep things chill with malu. When I lived in Indonesia I felt like malu was sort of this glue that helped stick people together especially living in tight quarters. But Ridwan says when it came to his addiction he found malu confusing.  .  He uses a word - bingung - that means confused bewildered at sea because it almost did not seem to matter to people if he was sober or not as long as he pretended to be sober.  Ridwan and his family were not alone in this. Actually around the time that he was struggling in the '90s there was a flood of drugs into Indonesia from different parts of Southeast Asia. And the country's response was mostly either mental hospitals or jail. Indonesia still has some of the harshest drug policies in the world - death sentences for dealing or producing drugs. And at first one of the only places that offered anything like rehab was a program founded by Joyce Djaelani Gordon. She translated the Big Blue Book of AA into Indonesian.  .  And she struggled to interpret some of the Christian concepts of 12 Steps for Indonesia's Muslims and Hindus and Buddhists.  I did not want the 12 Steps to be too much of a certain religion.  She and her husband an American - David Gordon - felt like they were doing something new in Indonesia encouraging people to speak openly and honestly about their addiction.  David as an addict and - can say you know I am an addict so there is no point in lying with us.  At that time there was only one government recovery center in the whole country.  So when people like Ridwan landed in Joyce and David's program with its confessional approach that was also confusing and bewildering.  We call it American culture.  Sam Nugraha is the guy I called up in Indonesia before my trip and he went to Joyce and David's program.  Because it is very American when people saying out loud their feelings to strangers.  He still remembers the shock of going to his first group meeting.  They always introduced themself by telling hi my name is X and I am an addict. And the group immediately respond hi X. Like what is going on? .  Was this just like kind of mind-boggling to just...  Absolutely. I was scared to be honest because it is twisting everything that you believe. In our culture we are not supposed to expose our shortcomings to other people. We are not supposed to tell our feelings.  All his life Sam had been taught that his individual pain - it is not so important to talk about.  Just man up .  And this guy tells him...  You are as sick as your secrets.  You are as sick as your secrets.  Yeah.  So Sam finally stands up in one of the meetings says hi I am Sam. They say hi Sam. It felt good to say it out loud. And Sam embraced this approach. He made it through the 12 Steps. He graduated from client to peer counselor. Looking back Sam does remember some things that did not work. Like this one time he told this painful story about his father. The other Indonesians in the group - they started taking what Sam said in the meetings and throwing it back at him.  When it is here that means it is become publics...  Oof .  ...Domain. Sometimes they use that when they talk to me. Like you have dad issues something like that.  He had daddy issues.  The concept of group therapy is new with our culture.  It broke the rules about malu - these rules about staying discreet.  It is quite difficult to practice sharing honesty open mind and willingness - you know those things those slogans they have in 12 Steps. It is really difficult.  Yeah.  That is when I think yeah the traditions the regulations of the meeting is confidentiality. But in practice it is up to the people who hear the stories.  It was when Sam was working as a counselor that he really started questioning the program. He had this one client who did everything he was supposed to do. When he relapsed he admitted it. He came back. He talked about his flaws. And Sam would try to help him.  By help means to get him out of drugs. That is what I have in my thought.  And he did help him. The guy graduated the program. He went out into the world. And then he overdosed.  And that is actually give me - get me thinking what was wrong? I mean what can prevent him from dying?  Sam wondered what if preventing people from dying was more important than keeping them honest and sober? So Sam started his own program with a different approach to sobriety and a different approach to lying.   OK.  And then we go inside.   It is so beautiful. Like you can see the mountains and it is... So Sam's program is called Rumah Singgah PEKA. Their motto is when the world rejects you come here. The rehab is run out of this peach-colored house in the mountains of Bogor an hour south of Jakarta. Look at - who are these dogs?  These are also addicts.   What are they addicted to?  Human I suppose. These are the grandma...  Some clients do cognitive behavioral therapy others methadone. There is job training.  We do not decide what is best for our clients. The client have to decide what is best for them.  Do some of them keep doing heroin just like once a week or something?  Yeah. Some of them are still using.  They cannot use on the premises but Sam does allow patients to use drugs or drink alcohol while still in the program. It is the first rehab like this in Indonesia but it is part of this school of thought called harm reduction. Harm reduction can mean lots of different things. It can mean giving people clean needles to do drugs. It can mean prenatal clinics designed for people addicted to drugs or even in some places supplying you with small amounts of the drugs that you are addicted to. And these programs do provoke strong reactions. When Sam's clinic opened up his neighbors attacked him for his approach.  You just keep people using drugs. You are a new dealer in town.  You are a new dealer in town?  I am the new drug dealer in town. That is what he said. You are just you know helping people to keep using drugs.  The way Sam sees it - the way a lot of harm reduction people see it - addiction is a disease like diabetes or anything else.  There is a change in the brain's structures even the brain's function.  You know part of - well maybe the main reason why I am interested in addiction is 'ecause of my mom. And... I told Sam about my mom - how she was in AA and sober but then how she started drinking again and lied about it. Like how do you see that?  It is very humane. I mean human are fragile right?  Do you think AA is forgiving enough to people who are sober for 10 years and then suddenly are back to square one?  I think the program - yeah. The people - it is depend - depend on the group of that people. People who are in the group could think like oh he is a loser. You know many people feel ashamed when they slip and they use again. And then they do not want to admit because it gives that feelings of I am being a failure. It should be like I still need more help.  Why did the 12-step program not work for you? Remember Ridwan the guy who grew up on those narrow streets whose neighbors lied on his behalf?  .  When I asked him about his experience in AA... Why did it not work?  .  He does not blame AA. He says he is the one who failed the program.   I myself who do want - did not follow the rules - I always tried to not following what my mentor said to me.  In the end he felt he could not be honest with his sponsor just like my mom. Now Ridwan's in Sam's program.   My ultimate goal - to be a clean person.  Ridwan's coming to him with feelings of failure and shame.   Guilt to myself.  And Sam needs to get past all that in order to reach him as a client.  .  Ridwan says Sam once saw one of his photos on Instagram - a photo of him with a girl.   Sam look in it. And Sam asked me is that your girlfriend? I said no it is not my girlfriend. Actually it is my girlfriend. She is my girlfriend. But I would try to keep it secretly.  He lied. He thought Sam would tell him to break up with his girlfriend because there are rules about relationships in recovery. So you lied to him. Did he know you were lying?  .  He knew. You think he knew. Ridwan says Sam tells his clients if you start with a lie you are stuck with it. But when Sam says this stuff he is gentle about it.  Of course . That is part of our job.  He calls it teasing.   Here in PEKA is - everybody knows when you are lying to other person. They call you you are playing a game. If you start playing - if you start the game you are the one who going to finish the game.  Sam is like OK I will play the game with you. And whenever you want to end it I am here. A few months after I went to Indonesia I called up Sam to hear how he was doing. OK so I am recording. Is Ridwan still with you?  No he is not.  He told me Ridwan was back to using drugs. He was back to his old business.  I heard that - I think he is - might be in trouble again.  Oh no. Do you - do - who - where did you hear that from? A part of me hoped as the daughter of an alcoholic that maybe Sam did have the solution that maybe in the mountains of Java I would find a program that just figured it all out.   It is not like that.  When it comes to relapse Sam's results are pretty much the same as everywhere else.  Absolutely. I mean...  But he measures not on whether people get sober but on their quality of life.  Their opinion about their lives.  Whether they are holding down jobs whether they are healthy how their relationships are going.  It is 26 questions.  Not only is Sam's program growing but he is consulting with the Indonesian government. He is doing trainings across the Asia-Pacific region. When I got back to the U.S. I thought a lot about what I learned from Sam. Of course I wanted my mom to have a program like Sam's. And in fact she is seeking different kinds of help now. She is in a relapse prevention program. She is learning about the science of her addiction. She is taking a low dose of an antidepressant. But I realized there was something I learned from Sam that was not even about my mom. It was more about what I could do - a new way to talk to her. So yeah. So basically with Sam there is this... First I wanted to tell her about malu. People want everything to look OK. Yeah. Do you have a thought?  I - well in certain families it is also a malu culture.  My mom basically jumped in and was like oh yes yes. I know this culture. Do you think a little bit like your family?  Right. No everything was fine.  And I am coming back giving her a book report. And she is like yeah I know. And then I told her what Sam's doing with malu this way of talking to people. Not be like you are lying to me - like I know that you repeated a lie but kind of - you are shaking your head.  Rather than confront them about being dishonest let them kind of weave their tale and being patient with them to help them understand what is going to happen if you tell the truth. It is not - it is going to help you. It is not going to hurt you. I am not going to judge you. That is how I - he probably gains their trust so that they can be honest. Is that true?  Yeah you nailed it. So I am wondering if anyone did that for you.  No. I - sadly I - no one did.  My mom's still in AA. She will not miss a meeting. She feels like she really needs that support to stay on track. But now she realizes that some of the AA teachings do not work for her.  There is a prayer about character defects. Do you want to hear that corny one?   Sure. Sure.  My creator I pray that you now remove from me every single defective character which stands in the way of my usefulness to you and my fellows. You know it was helpful till it was not helpful anymore.  Yeah. They felt a little punishing.  It feels - especially when we talk about character defects - it feels like that is all I am. Like there is a character in Peanuts - Pigpen - and you never really saw him. It was just like a giant tumbleweed of dust and Pigpen was underneath there. And saying that prayer - you know take away my - you know my character defects - that it felt like I am such a flawed human being.  A friend of mine from Indonesia told me that malu is being afraid to take off your mask. Even though everyone knows what is underneath it you still do not take it off. And my mom has this instinct to keep her mask on even with me.  And how do you feel knowing that?  You know what? Actually - it is actually - it is a relief really.  Really?  I mean I am not going to say I do not have any more anger. I still do have anger. Like I asked her about that moment where I am like you lied to me. Yeah. In the interview I said you were lying to me and you said you were lying to everyone. But you know you were lying to me. I know you were lying to everyone but you were lying to me. And I am not quite over it.  Whatever I can do to make that better I would Julia. I am deeply sorry. All I can say is that I was lying to myself very deeply. Can I talk to you a little bit about something that I learned in my relapse prevention group?  Sure.  Well we were talking about the relapse cycle and...  You know last time she started telling me about her classes and kind of changing the conversation from the questions that I was trying to engage her with you could hear the impatience in my voice. I was trying to confront her. And this time...  I was in the grips of a disease.  ...I just listened.  And that can sound like - maybe that is sounding like a cop-out to you. I - that I was lying to continue my disease to continue my right to drink. And I do not know how to apologize for that.  It is OK. I think the thing that is - it is - I hear you. I really do hear you.  Julia...  I do hear you.  You know what? Take as long as you need.  No. But you know I really do hear you. I am working on getting to - no I am...  I feel it. I feel you working hard. I really feel...  Good.   Today's show was produced by Jess Jiang. Marianne McCune is our editor. And thanks to all of those who lent their ears and their minds to this episode - Laura Starecheski Lu Olkowski Sally Helm Noel King Yowei Shaw Michael May Sana Krasikov Prodita Sabarini and Nadia Woodhouse . Thanks also to interpreter Barmin Simantupung  Siti Farhana  Ferri Kahmil  Laurel McLauren  Gavin Bart  Anna Lemke  Dan Chicarrone  Daniel Fuster Marti  Benjamin Chin  Margaret Scott  Anastasia Tsioulcas Megan Reid  Bobby Allyn and Aubrey Belford. The ROUGH TRANSLATION high council is Neal Carruth Will Dobson and Anya Grundmann. Jane Gilvin fact-checked this episode. Greta Pittenger and Katie Daugert helped with research mastering by Isaac Rodrigues. John Ellis composed music for our show. Mike Crews  scored the episode. Drop us your thoughts or your stories at roughtranslationnpr.org or find us on Twitter roughly. I am Gregory Warner back in two weeks with more ROUGH TRANSLATION. 