 I am Gregory Warner. This is ow about how something familiar in the United States might get translated in some other part of the world.   Last winter NPR Pakistan correspondent Diaa Hadid who more often is covering terrorism and the Taliban and Malala paid a visit to an afternoon tea party in the Pakistani city of Lahore.  Hi.  Hello.  Sorry. Everybody tends to be very late in Lahore.  ...A tea party hosted by the Jane Austen Society of Pakistan.  Imagine stepping off a noisy Pakistani street into an 18th-century British drawing room.   The teacups of white bone china - the bookshelves are lined with leather volumes. Women are in period costume.  Should we matchmake for you guys?  A maid wheels out a trolley that is filled with delights from Jane Austen's time.  These are some scones with clotted cream.  And because this is Pakistan Pakistani high tea there is some like fried chicken and like some salty-spicy tidbits to also snack on.  Just for a little zing. I was like please no no no.  The founder of this society is Laaleen Sukhera. She is hovering over the trolley fanning her long hair with a black lace fan.  You want to go in the other room now?  She is keeping one eye on the guests and another on her three children.  What is that?  There is Misha.  Misha.  Isha and Amal.  Amal.  Misha's studying opera.  .  OK ladies.  And Laaleen holds a Jane Austen-themed quiz.  Yeah. Everybody here has to take part. What formal event is the turning point in Elizabeth Bennet and Darcy's romance? Is it Mansfield  ball Netherfield ball...  I know Jane Austen.  ...Or Longbourn ball?  I have read some of her books and I have seen some adaptations. But this...  Anyone - does anyone know?  This is like Jeopardy! championship-level Austen fandom.  ...Mr. Darcy's grandmother...  Jane Austen has a surprisingly intense following in this former British colony. Laaleen and her big sister would travel to the U.K. to visit the landscapes and towns of Jane Austen novels.  We would go to all these things where we would not only be the only brown people but we would be the only people under - what? - 60. So it would be like elderly white people everywhere and it would just be her and me. And tell me about yourself. Are you a Lizzy?  I have not read enough Jane Austen to know what a Lizzy is. Afterwards I am talking to Laaleen's older sister Mahlia Lone. I am from Australia. She is got perfectly arched eyebrows big black eyes. I do not tell Mahlia that I am a little skeptical of this gospel of Jane Austen.  Come on let us relate Jane Austen to...  Yeah. That is the whole point.  Then she says something that I find intriguing.  What resonates with us is that she taught us how to navigate the world.  Jane Austen helped them figure out how to live as women in present-day Pakistan.  She said it is OK it is OK you have constraints. But then she teaches you how to remain in the system and yet do something for yourself.  Over the next couple of months this little story I was reporting about a literary club would get so much more dramatic than I ever expected. These kids running around here at the tea party - they would be taken away from their mother. My own engagement would nearly rip my family apart. And Jane Austen - she would play a strange role in all of it.  Coming up on the show matches will be made. Cops will be called. Decorum will be broken. And a seasoned war correspondent might be persuaded of the power of drawing room comedy to understand even her own life. Call it Pride And Prejudice the Islamabad edition or call it ROUGH TRANSLATION - back after a break.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION and our story from Diaa Hadid. We are going to start this story way back before the tea parties when the two sisters were children.  Tell me more about the mushroom house.  So I always felt like Alice and Alice In Wonderland because I lived in a mushroom.  The sisters grew up in a mushroom-shaped house in Lahore. Lahore's the cultural capital of Pakistan. And this is a house unlike any other. It has a shade instead of a roof.  It was painted in that style that is dripping.  So it was a mushroom that was melting. It had a bridge.  This house is built by their father.  My dad - he is like that.  He is a magazine publisher. He is eclectic. He is bohemian. And he is also incredibly wealthy.  My mom was the practical one the doctor the gynecologist. She is like this is such an impractical house. But it was like we loved it.  But on this night it is the scene of an argument.  There was this big commotion family commotion. And we were all crying. All the girls are crying because they are all been caught.  Mahlia's 17 years old. Her boyfriend Ahmad was sending her gifts through her little sister Laaleen.  Very conspicuous items like teddy bears and like perfume and love letters and...  One of the love letters had been found.  There was a hue and cry.  What do you mean by hue and cry? What would happen?  Well my mom would freak out. She would say what is this? You are not allowed to do this you know? You cannot have like this guy's things here.  A girl like Mahlia cannot be seen as having boyfriends. It would ruin her reputation and it might even ruin the reputation of her sisters. They did not want you to date this guy. Why?  Well this is the '80s. Before this my parents' generation was much more liberal as in they had cabarets in Lahore and there were actually places where you could go and buy booze. And in the '80s when we grew up it is called the confused generation.  It was the harshest years of a military dictator who was ruling Pakistan. Alcohol was forbidden. Gambling was shut down.  So it was really really conservative at that time. Of course you did not want your daughter talked about.  Families like Mahlia's were under suspicion. They were bourgeoisie. They were rich. They were liberal. They could not afford to be seen as that kind of family of the old regime. They had to behave. And so Mahlia's parents forced her to make the decision of her life at 17. She either marries this boy or she continues her applications and goes to college in the United States where she would always wanted to go to an Ivy League school. But she cannot have both. It is either marriage or college.  Maybe not surprising for someone who grew up in a mushroom house Mahlia comes from the kind of family where in times of hard choices you turned to literature.  That is all I had was books.  But at first it is not Jane Austen she is reading.  Anna Karenina Madame Bovary - I mean I read them as a little girl. And the one thing that was always hammered home was that if you are a bad woman if you you know transgress then you die.  Wow. That is such an interesting lesson to be taken from that considering you are in a house where like...  ...Where anything is possible and yet I picked up the what is-not-possible part .  But Mahlia will discover another book Pride And Prejudice by Jane Austen. And she feels like this book provides more practical advice on her situation.    For a single man in possession of good fortune must be in want of a wife.   And who better than one of our five girls?  .   Lydia.   What a fine joke if he were to choose me.   Or me.  So the plot of Pride And Prejudice which has been made into films and adaptations is that there is five daughters from the Bennet family. There is no sons. And so the property that they live in is going to be bequeathed to their distant cousin once their father dies.  The law of primogeniture which is if there is no son then father's estate goes intact to his next male relative - we actually have a law like that here. If you do not have any sons a part of your estate a man's estate goes to his brothers.    How can it affect them?   Oh Mr. Bennet how can you be so...  Mrs. Bennet is very worried because when her husband passes away her daughters will be left penniless and they will be out on the street unless they are married.  They are under a deadline to get married. And they must be married off well.    A young man of large fortune from the north of England...  They were so limited. They had limited options. And they had limited freedom. And they had limited financial control over their lives which is exactly what we go through.    And he has 5000 a year. What a fine thing for our girls.  I mean my mom was not exactly like Mrs. Bennet. But my mom always worried oh who am I going to get my daughters married to? So they have to have this impeccable reputation reputation is most important. In our culture even now it is the same as during Jane Austen's time.  So Mahlia kind of has her own reckoning about this and she realizes that - what are her choices? She is not going to inherit a lot of money from her family. She could either marry now to this boy who is chasing her and who spoils her or she could go to college in the States come back and then maybe get married off to somebody else who maybe she will not like so much maybe she will not really have a say in it.  In the Pakistani high society that Mahlia's part of just as in Jane Austen's England matchmaking is a community activity. Men and women do not get to know each other by going on dates. That is not allowed. So courtship unfolds in these public arenas of balls and weddings.  In Pakistan there is these older women who turn up at weddings rishta aunties - relationship aunties. They are there to try and match up men and women together.  At the wedding.  At the wedding. Think of it like an IRL like in real life like Tinder profile that you are just like swiping through. If a rishta auntie like sees a woman at one of these weddings she will go up to her and - you know and ask her like how old are you? How much do you weigh? Is that your real skin color?  Is that your real skin color?  Yeah. Yeah because women here use skin-bleaching products to make themselves look paler.  Oh.  The thing is - is that I was used to that coming from an Arab family.  Diaa's family lives in Canberra the capital of Australia. They are immigrants from Lebanon and Egypt.  When I was growing up one of my cousins got married at 14. And my auntie looked at me and you know and she said it is best that she got married at 14 because after that a girl's looks start to fade.   What are these rishta aunties looking for?  They want a woman who is tall but not too tall slim but not skinny. You know if she is professionally accomplished that is even better. Think about it like accomplishments from Jane Austen's time.    Oh certainly. No woman can be really esteemed accomplished who does not also possess a certain something in her air - in the manner of walking in the tone of her voice.   And to all this you must yet add something more substantial - in the improvement of her mind by extensive reading.  It is not that anyone wants her to work but it is nice to have a professionally accomplished wife in the house. That is why so many Pakistani women who graduate as doctors do not ever work as doctors.    I am no longer surprised at you knowing only six accomplished women Mr. Darcy.  Lizzy Bennett from Pride And Prejudice one of the Bennet girls resents having to rack up accomplishments just to prove that you know she is ready for marriage. And so does Mahlia. So in the choice between going to college or picking a guy who already adores her she knows what she is going to do.  Ahmad was not allowed to come until they had decided to accept him. So you know how in the West you get to know each other over drinks? We get to know each other over tea. My cousins Sonya played a prank and she put red chilies in Ahmad's teacup. And then he drank that tea.   And he drank it with a straight face.  Yes.  And then what happens? You start your new life with Ahmad?  I was happy that I did not have a curfew and I could - I was not allowed to wear sleeveless before I got married. And I could wear sleeveless. And we went on a honeymoon and Ahmad let me buy a bustier Madonna-style. I could go to parties. Please I was in paradise.  You are describing this life that was exactly how my cousins were in the '90s. They get married and then they would get to like do things that they wanted. And they would go out to parties.  Exactly.  It is very liberating.   Yeah. You get it.  The one person who did not get it was Laaleen Mahlia's little sister.  It affected me a lot. Such a smart girl - she was a valedictorian. And she did not finish college to get married. I mean she did it over a boy.  That marriage that her older sister made to have more freedoms and more control over her life - Laaleen saw that same choice as a surrender.  I was like I am not letting that happen to me. I am am going to conquer the world. I am going to want to do whatever I want. I am not going to let these dumb local boys - no offense to my brother-in-laws whatever - I am not going to let them like take away my freedom.  So when Laaleen turns 17 she goes to the United States for college. When she graduates she moves to Manhattan where she starts working as an intern for Merchant Ivory films - that does period dramas.  I had Vanessa Redgrave on the phone. I had Hugh Grant's phone number. I went to Liam Neeson's house.  But Laaleen was very protective of her reputation even when she was like a fun 20-something in New York because she had to think about the society she was returning back to.  I did not even let anyone kiss me. And there were many many opportunities.  During like the great era of Sex And The City.  A lot of the places on Sex And The City were places where we would be hanging out.  And...  I called it Abstinence and the City . It is like when you have a season in London 200 years ago.    Our position as a family our very respectability is called into question by Lydia's wild behavior.  Do you sneak out and go to a masquerade ball? Or do you you know go properly to a debutante ball? You know do you try to meet people on the sly or do you just keep kosher.  It is saving your get-out-of-jail-free card in a way.  You know hearing you describe Laaleen's life and her choices it sounds like you get the dilemmas that she was facing.  I really empathize. I really empathize. I left home at about the age of 22. My parents were really protective of me. And they are also quite conservative. And for years we did not really talk to each other. But I always made a point of going home every year and visiting my parents. And when I would go home I would respect their rules. So I would dress modestly I would not you know talk about boyfriends or parties or drinking alcohol or any of that. I would be a compromised version of their good daughter in their house and be my own person outside of their house.  Diaa's approach was different from Laaleen or Mahlia. It was not freedom through marriage and it was not having a chaste single life. She put up a firewall. As long as her parents back in Australia did not know anything about her private life she could keep her family and her independence.  I think Laaleen in New York was walking a similar tightrope.  Abstinence and the City.  But there is two things that bring the Laaleen back to Pakistan in a hurry. The first is 911 and that makes it so much harder for Pakistanis to get work visas in the United States.  I lost my job because they did not want to sponsor my work visa.  And the second is her mother.  Mommy said to me - she said listen Lolly come home for a little while. Spend some time with us. I did not know what she meant but I know now. She was obviously sick and was not telling me.  Her mother knew that she had breast cancer and she knew that she was going to die soon.  And my mom was really worried about me. She was like she needs to get married. Who is going to take care of her? What is going to happen to her? What is going to happen to her when we all go?  So Laaleen decides that she is going to get married.  I wanted her to feel OK about me. I wanted her to be happy that I was settled.  But she does not want to do it the Pakistani way - no rishta aunties no stuffy living rooms filled with prospective grooms.  Yeah I did pretty much refuse to be introduced to people flat out. I said no. Please no. Ugh.  She is holding out for a Mr. Darcy. And on cue enters a single man in possession of a good fortune. We will call him Mr. Z.    I think if he continues so she is in a fair way to be very much in love with him.  When I looked at him I was surprised. I was like oh he is not unattractive.  Was he handsome?  I was not like wow he is hot because I never used to do that. But I guess he was.  And he was rich. And he was always traveling for business. Mahlia her oldest sister was way more cautious.  This is a guy who was very eligible. He was very like sought after in Islam mothers . So we had heard at that time. But we did not know who he was.  He had not been vetted by the family.  He then came to the ball that we had organized. He went to Karachi to our friend's wedding. Always he was there in the background.  She would look around and he would be there.  Like stalking her.  Laaleen finds this terribly romantic.    She should show more affection even than she feels not less if she is to secure him.   Secure him?  But she cannot get to know him because in Pakistan you could not just date a guy.    Before she is sure of his character? Before she is even certain of her own regard for him?   But of course.  She had to do what would be familiar to any Jane Austen heroine. She had to kind of figure out who he was during these dances these weddings and these balls.  Over here there is an expression - paet mi daarhi which means like there is a beard in your stomach.  Laaleen tells me this expression I would never heard before - a beard in your stomach.  It means a guy who appears progressive but inside he is like an inner fundo which is like short for a fundamentalist. He appears really progressive to you and then all of a sudden he will be like why are you doing this? You are not allowed to do this. You cannot wear this.  We used to call them MMID.  What is that?  My Mohammed is different.  Whoa . We have so many names for the same person do not we? .  Yeah that is you. You still do not - I mean I am like - I am sorry but I mean it is not my fault if a man is treating me badly. It is not my fault.  Mahlia's advice to her little sister is...  We have limited options.  You have got kids. You just cannot walk out.  Your daughters will be judged. You know oh her mother is divorcee. It is a tough life for a single woman in Pakistan. Everything is difficult here as you can see. I do not have electricity. I do not have gas. You know you have to know someone to get everything done. And on top of that you are a single mom and then you have to basically restart your career...  After the argument I am sitting with Laaleen alone. And yeah she concedes she was really naive about marriage.  I wanted a dashing hero who would be everything that I had waited for and saved myself for my whole life. But that is not real life is it? It is just the books you read and the movies you watch.  Do we have tissues?  No no. It is fine.  At the low point of her marriage that is when she broke up with Jane Austen.  I stopped reading and watching.  She cannot read the books. She cannot watch the movies.  I feel very bitter afterwards.  Why?  Because I did not have that. Because mine was a failed romance. It was a failed marriage. They all found happiness - did not they? - no matter what their lot. And they all found companionship. And I did not.   Laaleen's journey back to Jane Austen would begin with a move. Her husband moved them out of his mother's dark country estate into a bright house in the city where Laaleen had friends.  And there she kind of starts following her sister's advice carving out her freedom where she can find it.  We had a meetup.  One day when her husband is not around she organizes a tea party.  We had a little tea party and it was very cute.  The women turn up in costumes that would have been worn in Jane Austen's time.  In our Regency-inspired outfits feeling like utter fools.  They have curls in their hair flouncy skirts.  What the hell are we doing?  Laaleen gives it a name the Jane Austen Society of Pakistan which is how I came to meet her.  For the first time in years I was doing something on my own. Netherfield ball or Longbourn ball? Anyone? Does anyone know? And I was not just going out and doing it. I was doing it with so many restrictions. Listen to this. It is better to know as little as possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your life. Whose opinion is this? This slight ambition came back and I just started feeling a little more alive and a little more hopeful. And so this teeny tiny casual literary club which was really nothing more than a few women getting together and talking meant a lot to me. It is the only time. Who was Mrs. Hill? It is literally the only time housekeepers are ever mentioned except for Pemberley.  Gradually Laaleen's real life and her fangirl life they start to merge. She goes from dressing up as a Jane Austen character to writing a Jane Austen-themed story about Pakistan governed by the same social conventions and restrictions. She calls her story On The Verge.   I knew another prince would come my way I thought trying not to get too excited about it. My story On The Verge is about a young blogger inspired by Jane Austen. She lives in Lahore. She gets engaged to a very eligible man.  A dastardly heir to a halaal burger franchise even while fending off pressure from the rishta aunties.   You are a lovely girl Roya Beta. But do you know how many girls with decent backgrounds anorexia and designer clothes are waiting to pounce on him? And before their wedding she finds out that he is cheating on her. So she makes a lucky escape.  Sounds like you are writing about yourself but intervening in the process so that you do not end up marrying him.  Have you even read it? I mean this is all fiction is not it? It is not like I am writing a memoir.  Laaleen keeps insisting to me that she is definitely not that fictional character...  It is not me.  ...Because that fictional character was smart enough to leave the guy. She was not smarter than you. You just gave her the benefit of hindsight.  There were signs I should have understood. I think people who cared about me thought that I would have canceled the wedding. And I was actually on the verge of canceling it. Oh my God. The story's called On The Verge.  .   There are two curious things to point out about this moment. The first is that after three decades of seeing her own life reflected in Jane Austen stories Laaleen had now started using Austen in a very different way as a kind of alternate universe where she could work out problems that were too painful or just too embarrassing to face directly. But perhaps the most curious thing for me is that our reporter Diaa had such a strong reaction to all this. It really bugged her that Laaleen was still so faithful to this author an author whose heroines ultimately accept a world that vastly curtails their own freedom.  And yet every time I would suggest to Laaleen that you know what Jane Austen represented was actually a really dark system something that had really constrained and held women back and that is what really was reflected 200 years later in Pakistan there was just constant pushback. And you know like as a reporter I should not be imposing my worldview on anyone else. But I kind of wanted her to say  you Jane Austen.   Why? 'ecause...  That we should not be celebrating the gilded cage.  Diaa had lived her life avoiding that cage.  You know one day when this is all over and there is a bottle of wine between us I can tell you like the crazy story of how I ended up getting married. This is nuts.  Really?  Yeah. Getting married so we can date. .   When we get back from the break we get Diaa to tell us her own crazy story. She kept a firewall between her personal life and her family. But what happens when that firewall collapses?   This is 're back with our story from Diaa Hadid. It turned out that as Diaa was reporting this story when she was first invited to that tea party in Lahore she had recently met a guy.  That sounds nice. Where here?  Thank you.  Come on let us relate Jane Austen to him.  Yeah that is the whole point.  And her boyfriend Mem - he just so happened to be a major Jane Austen fan.  He is a Pride And Prejudice obsessive.  What?  Oh my God.  And his favorite thing...  You are so lucky.   I am taping this for you Mem.  He reads books. That is - I mean seriously...  And so before we get back to the Pakistani sisters we are going to spend a moment on Diaa's love life.  Right. I am going to try to tell it as briefly as possible. A week before I started the job at NPR I was on OkCupid and I saw a profile of a guy. His picture was kind of crap but he looked funny and warm and engaging. He was a professional soldier. He would been in the military for eight years. And you know one tea turned into two teas and a baked cheesecake. And we must have just been chatting about literature one day so he tells me that every year he and his sister sit down and they watch the 1995 BBC adaptation of Pride And Prejudice but they recite the lines out together because they have memorized every single word.    Country manners? I think they are charming.  And I really liked him. He was funny and smart and has this really odd laugh. My preference was to just not involve my family at all and to happily date this man. And he asked me if I was going to tell my family that we were seeing each other. And I would tell him like lets quietly date each other for a year or two and see if it works out. But he actually wanted it to be known to my family that we were seeing each other. He is very much a family person.  Him being from his family he totally does not get what kind of family you come from.  Oh I told him he did not get it. Oh I told him and I tried to explain to him.  Diaa had lived her life knowing that she could not mention a boyfriend to her parents.  For instance I took a selfie with a guy in Spain and my father saw it and that you know was like a few days of calling and apologizing and explaining and trying to brush it off and waiting for Dad to answer the phone. I was trying to lay it out for a Mem - like the drama that is going to happen once I tell my parents that I am seeing a guy who is not Muslim. But I did want to respect his decision that he wanted the relationship to be public. That is when I realized that I could date him and risk my family's like anger and sadness and face a whole lot of rejection or we would fast-track to getting married and that would bring my parents around sooner.  You would been - you have been dating him for...  Four weeks.  Wow.  We would been dating for about four weeks.  That is quite a plunge.  So I did propose. In fact I got down on one knee but it was you know will you accept my intention to one day marry you?   Five months after that proposal...  Mem meets my parents every week just about for tea. And they like him. My mother thinks that he is just such a charming wonderful person. And it struck me today that maybe one of the reasons why Mem has been so OK with this fundamentally different cultural context he is walked into why he is been OK wooing my parents and why he has not freaked out is because he is read Jane Austen. I think it gave him this instinctive playbook for me for my parents.  Does it change how you see Austen or Austen's role in today's time?  You know it is funny that you are doing exactly the same thing to me that I have done to Laaleen which is...  .  It is only when I stand here that I kind of realize what is happened. And at this very moment Greg I am actually quite grateful for Jane Austen. I possibly should put down a rose on Jane Austen's grave and say thank you.   To her own surprise Diaa had come to admire the very thing about Jane Austen that she would always hated - that the heroines accept these oppressive rules. Now she and Mem were taking advantage of those same rules of decorum to try and get what they wanted. But there is also the contrasting theme in Jane Austen. In Pride And Prejudice one of the Bennett sisters Lizzy despite her mother's wishes turns down a marriage proposal...    You cannot be serious in your rejection.  ...From a very eligible suitor.    I thank you for the honor of your proposals but to accept them is absolutely impossible. My feelings forbid it in every respect.  This scene of defiance it happens again and again in Austen books where a heroine stands up for principles despite everyone telling her that to do so is imprudent. And it happens also in Laaleen's fan fiction story.  She is let her heroine avoid the ending that she so miserably blundered into which was this unhappy marriage. She needed Jane Austen. She needed that prism to help her understand her own life as it was. And I think that gave her the confidence to do what she did next which was ask her husband for a separation.  Do you think we should have separate houses adjoining houses and share the children? And then he came to me and he said - he came back. I had locked the door and he pretty much broke it down. And he said I have taken the kids. And I said I do not give you permission to take them away. He said I am taking them away. So I went to the police station. And I said I want to report something. And they said what is your name? What is your phone number? What is your husband's name? And when I was writing it down they just looked at me and they picked up the phone. They were calling him up to take me.  To come and pick her up from the station - that is what she thought was happening. She goes to court. She gets custody. But even though the court orders the children to be returned to her she says that he keeps taking them and not returning the kids. And she silently endures. And then she says one day she decides to fight.   It is not an easy thing but it is not impossible.  She records this video.   Just because it did not work today does not mean it is not going to work. I have faith that I will get them back. He is been doing this all year. This is not the first time. It is only the first time that I have gone public.  She posts the video on Facebook. And her sister Mahlia immediately calls her and tells her to take it down.   ...With nothing no penalties.  Anything is possible in this country. And why put yourself out there? I kept telling her wait wait wait wait.  Laaleen had married a really powerful person.  Be cautious.  Laaleen actually disregards Mahlia's advice and she ramps it off. She crashes through the limits of convention.   I am here at Beni Gala police station. I am here to file a complaint against the father of my children.  She posts another video on Facebook. And this time she is confronting the police.   .  She is demanding that they enforce the court order.   .  They keep telling her put the camera away. They offer her tea. She says I do not want tea I just want my children. And they say give madam some water. And she says I do not want water I only want justice.   See. I have a court order in front of you which says that I have legal custody of my daughters.  Laaleen's Facebook post gets thousands of views. And despite her sister's warning the comments are almost all positive. She also gets her kids back - though it is not clear whether it was the pressure from the video or just the legal process doing its thing. What is clear is that Laaleen herself has changed.  I have completely rejected certain social codes. I have rejected them from my life. . What will people think? I have rejected it from my life. And keeping up appearances I reject that completely now.  On Diaa's last reporting trip she encountered an entirely different Laaleen.  Hi. How are you?  Laaleen's holding a press conference for the launch of her book. It is a collection of stories. She is convinced six other Pakistani women to contribute their own Jane Austen-themed stories based on their lives.  Hello. Oh how nice to meet you.  Even her older sister Mahlia has written one.  I asked my husband for permission to make it more racy. He said go for it.  And the book's called Austenistan.  Thank you. And congratulations to us all.  Laaleen is celebrated at the British embassy in Lahore.  Camera ready please.  It is a cool evening. You can hear a fountain in the background. There is a swing chair that is adorned with roses. She and her sister Mahlia are posing in front of large posters of the book. People are taking selfies with them.  One more.  After Diaa's repor