 Hey. I am Gregory Warner. You are listening to ow about how the conversations we are having here in the United States might be playing out in some other corner of the world. Today we are going to Buenos Aires Argentina. It is where our reporter Jasmine Garsd comes from. And if you are listening with small kids there are some instances of offensive language maybe some taboo topics. This story is a collaboration with This American Life and a version will appear there this weekend. OK here's Jasmine.  I watched a lot of television when I was a kid. My grandmother Iaia would pick me up at school and bring me back to her place. Her apartment was dark and humid. It smelled like French bread and the exhaust from the buses on the avenue down below. My grandfather was never around. Iaia would make tea and then we would go to her bedroom and turn the TV on. And suddenly color sound and sex would pour into the world. It was the early afternoon. It was time for the talk shows.   .  Argentine talk shows are extreme even for Latin American television. The women are pumped up with silicone and Botox and sometimes show up wearing almost nothing. The conversation is not just double entendres but straight-up entendres full-on vulgar language. When I was growing up it was a parade of pasties stilettos feather boas. One of the most popular shows back then was hosted by a guy named Jorge Rial. He is still on TV. He is kind of the Argentine everyman - charming and a little bit of a hustler. These days his TV show is called in Intrusos or Intruders. It takes place on a set that is just seizure-inducing - neon colors walls lined with giant video screens. Jorge Rial likes to stir up fights among his voluptuous guests. Every time something shocking is said ominous music rolls out.   .  .  Once in a while a woman is so sexy that Jorge Rial bites his lower lip and mugs for the camera. This has been Rial's style for years. Back in the day Iaia would bring the tea and cookies and lie down next to me in her patent leather platform shoes which she never took off not even in bed. My grandmother was the target audience for Rial's show what is commonly known as a dona rosa a housewife. She loved to hate the show to look disapprovingly at the women and comment how much surgery she is had una prostituta - a prostitute - una loca. And they give her expensive gifts cars vacations. And I would look around me at my grandmother's lonely apartment and think to myself wow that sounds pretty amazing. I knew I did not want to be a dona rosa when I grew up.   When I was a teenager I moved to the U.S. and eventually became a journalist. I have lived here for 15 years. Sometimes when I get homesick I stream Intrusos on YouTube. I leave it on when I cook and clean. When I watch it I am not 5000 miles away. Iaia is alive. Nothing has changed much. Nothing ever changes on Argentine daytime TV until suddenly a few months ago it did.   .  One night in February I was at home in New York cleaning my kitchen. Intrusos was on in the background and I heard this woman with a raspy Lauren Bacall voice. I turned around soapy sponge in hand and squinted at the screen - a tattooed heavyset woman wearing sneakers. I recognized this woman - a comedian named Senorita Bimbo. The stage name Bimbo is ironic. She is anything but. In fact the very next thing she did was look directly into the camera and offer a statistic about illegal abortion.   .  Five hundred thousand women in Argentina have illegal abortions every year she said. She was wearing a bright green handkerchief around her neck a provocative symbol everyone in Argentina knows a symbol of the fight to legalize abortion. For years activists have been pushing to get Congress to vote on it. When I was growing up abortion was something you just did not talk about in Argentina a Catholic country. It is still not something that comes up on daytime TV. Reproductive rights - that is just not Intrusos material. Though here was Jorge Rial the host looking intently at Senorita Bimbo.   A few hours later one of my best friends texted me. Did you watch Intrusos today? I sat down at my laptop and started scrolling through the descriptions of the last few episodes. The guests were names I knew - academics writers comedians. What they had in common was they were all feminists people who have been on the fringes for years criticizing sexism in Argentina and demanding women's rights. I started binge-watching. In each episode there was a nuanced conversation about feminism. Rial looked kind of meek but not in his usual I have been overpowered by sexy ladies way. He kept delivering these really impassioned monologues saying I do not want to be a misogynist a machista. I am a recovering machista.   .   The Argentine everyman now appeared to be an earnest feminist. This was not the Rial I grew up with. This was not the TV I grew up with. What happened? Could this possibly be sincere? I flew to Argentina to find out.   When ROUGH TRANSLATION returns - Argentina.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION and our story from Jasmine Garsd who returned to Argentina for the first time in seven years.   We are going to take a really long walk to my aunt's house. Wait my aunt just sent a message.  .  She is joking about like do you even remember where I live?  .  It is summer in New York winter in Buenos Aires. After years of living with snow I do not feel cold but I bundle up like everyone else walk through the city arms crossed smelling barbecue and tobacco through my thick wool scarf. That bus stop right there - that is the one I used to take. I would just wait for the 42 yeah. I ring my aunt's doorbell. I have dreamt this . Aunt Silvia opens the door...  Hola.  ...Hugs me and starts sobbing.  .  We go up to her cozy apartment. It is filled with plants and books the Koran the biography of Sigmund Freud a history of great Latin American women. Almost as soon as I walk in she pops in a new Pavarotti CD for me to listen to.  .  . And then I ruin the mood telling her I have come to interview Jorge Rial the host of Intrusos. . She looks perplexed but humors me.  .  She says like he has a good attitude. He is simpatico. . And then she adds...  .  ...I would sleep with him. She mocks me for blushing. She is 79 years old.  .  And then she goes on to mock me for doing a story about Jorge Rial.  .  She says it is such a secondary topic because people are dying of hunger. Like I do not know why you picked him. He is an idiot.  .  But she says maybe in the U.S. this is important to you.   .  I heard this from a lot of my friends. Why was I coming all the way from the U.S. to do a story about this daytime TV host? And it is not because they do not watch the show - the opposite. Intrusos is a show that people watch without telling. You just do not cop to it. And it is embarrassing to my aunt to me even that this is now the side of Argentina I am showing you.   The next day I went to the studios where Intrusos is taped. I met Ana Laura Guevara one of the show is executive producers.   Being live involves a lot of adrenaline. I really really love the adrenaline there.  To be honest I was not expecting an Intrusos executive producer to be a woman especially not one like Ana Laura a self-proclaimed feminist. I had a really hard time wrapping my head around the fact that for 18 years she had been behind this totally trashy and objectifying show. Ana Laura told me it is just a job one she is good at. It is intensely competitive.  Cuatro tres dos uno musica.  In the control room her face shines from the light of the monitor she is hunched over like in a casino a monitor that minute by minute tracks the ratings for Intrusos and every other show that is on the air at the same time. I had no idea this was possible. Right now on Intrusos there is a fight between a former cabaret dancer and a potential candidate for president. This like skyrocketed. The ratings are going up with this segment. It is like 4 points. It went from 4.0 to 4.6. This is doing better than the news. Next segment a fashion model from the '80s says she has her suspicions about a designer's recent death. It dipped to 3.4. The ratings plummet. Nobody cares. Ana Laura orders them to end the segment early. Interest lags for an instant and Intrusos moves on.   The story of how the feminists intruded into Intrusos is its own soap opera. There are a gazillion gossip shows in Argentina. It is like this whole universe. Back in January one of the shows interviewed this famous singer a leathery guy in a tropical shirt. In the middle of the interview the singer casually repeats this awful saying I used to hear as a kid - if someone wants to rape you relax and enjoy it.   .  The first time I heard that was when I was 9 years old. I was in the locker room and a girl blurted it out. I thought it was advice. A lot of my friends did too. So the singer says this offensive thing. A few days later on another talk show a soap opera star blows up about it. Her name is Araceli Gonzalez. When I was a kid her soap opera was huge. She played a mute. A hunk with feathered hair would talk at her while she listened tearfully. But now she was not mute. She said the singer's remark made her sick.   .  It was kind of beautiful seeing her get angry after so many years of playing a character literally defined by silence. Ana Laura from Intrusos saw the fight happening on TV and she wanted to get a piece of it. She booked Araceli to come on the show.   .   It was a typical day on Intrusos. Jorge Rial talked about how much granny panties used to turn him on as a kid. Two former showgirls argued. And then it was Araceli's turn. And just because Araceli had gotten mad about the rape comment one of the panelists introduces her as a feminist. As soon as Araceli got a chance she corrected him.   .  She says I heard you refer to me as a feminist just now. And I am not a feminist. She is vehemently wagging her finger as she says this.   .  I have a wonderful husband and a lovely son whom I love very much. And I respect men. This set off another firestorm. Here's Ana Laura.   So people started tweeting about it. And we saw that feminists started to respond. So everything exploded.  There were the kinds of tweets you would expect like quote what the  does loving your husband and son have to do with being a feminist you moron? And here it was - feminists versus the soap opera star a fight made for daytime television. And Ana Laura knew it. And she also knew Jorge Rial the host of the show something had been changing with him lately. Like he would been saying to anyone who would listen...   I am a machista in recovery. I am trying to find myself.  So she approached him in the dressing room. And they started talking. Maybe we should have a feminist on the show to explain what feminism is.   We had not discussed that beforehand. But this day on the dressing room I think that he was really into it  They decided on a well-known feminist academic Flor Freijo. And even she will tell you she is a safe bet for a show like Intrusos. She is thin and blonde. So Flor gets invited to Intrusos.   And you are behind the scenes where the cameras are. And the host starts saying and now Florencia Freijo is coming to talk about feminism. And I was thinking like this guy is introducing me as if I were a celebrity. And people are thinking probably who in the world is  Florencia Freijo? And they were showing me. They had taken my pictures from a social media without asking for permission. And all of a sudden I saw this huge picture - puckering my lips touching my hair those things that we do you know in the selfie culture. But you are not expecting them to be shown on TV on prime time. And maybe somebody thought OK maybe it is a previous lover of Araceli's husband. And just a regular woman came all covered up and talked about feminism .  And the very first question Jorge Rial asks her is what is feminism?   .  .   I did not prepare anything. I did not prepare a speech. I did not have time. So I went open to listen to the questions and explain things just as I do to my students in a class.  Of all the strange things I have seen on Argentine TV this might be one of the oddest. Against a neon fizz background Flor Freijo does a Feminism 101. At the bottom of the screen a banner in bold letters reads feminism - it is a movement for women's rights. Flor starts explaining. Feminism is a movement for women's rights. It started in the 19th century. It has to do with the division of labor child-rearing. Jorge Rial is listening completely mesmerized his little eyebrows furrowed scratching his beard. And while all this is happening Ana Laura is sitting in the control room upstairs watching everything of course and also keeping her eye on the ratings monitor. The control room is usually a chaotic mess of yelling. But now with Flor speaking...  And when we were watching her talking - Flor - the control room went quiet. We were all paying attention to what she was saying. But we were all quiet and we were really like silently watching and learning from her.  And then the spell is broken because the phone rings in the control room. It is Araceli the soap opera star who is the whole reason Flor's here. She wants to talk to Flor live right now. Everyone in the control room is geared up for a good old-fashioned Intrusos spat.   .  .  Flor was kind of shocked.   I did not know that Araceli was going to call. I had no idea of what was going to happen.  But it was not an ambush. Araceli was not calling to fight. Instead she told Flor I have been listening really well to what you are saying. And she wanted the audience to know that she did not know what feminism was until just now when she was watching TV and saw Flor explain it.   .  She starts telling the story of her life through various generations of women - her own single mother and herself. She talks about how she would been sexually abused as a child and emotionally abused as an adult. And Araceli told Flor I know what you are talking about. And I agree with you. If this means being a feminist then I am a feminist.   .  Flor nods and gives a thumbs-up. By the way this is never how Intrusos finishes. People do not just listen to each other and change their minds. And the ratings - Ana Laura says the ratings were great strong enough that she decided let us do this again tomorrow. And so it began.   Over the next few days some of the most famous feminists in Argentina came on to Intrusos - comedians authors professors. Audiences were stunned. Someone tweeted my ideology is starting to converge with Jorge Rial's and that terrifies me. It was pretty strange for everyone. This very misogynistic show had suddenly become like the public town hall on feminism in Argentina. And the ratings were not just good - Ana Laura says they were higher than normal. She was delighted that she could keep this going.   There is a journalist called Luciana Peker. She is also very important in feminism. And she is an old friend from college and she came to our show. And when we met backstage we were like not even in our wildest dreams we could have dreamed about this you being here in this type of show.  Midway through all of this is when I tuned in when I started streaming in New York. The show was like going through hundreds of years of feminism in a couple of days. They passed through topics like LGBT rights workplace harassment income inequality and then the most taboo thing of all abortion. Jorge Rial tied the green handkerchief around his wrist the one activists who want to legalize abortion wear. And then he invited the large woman with the gravelly voice who I saw at home in New York City Senorita Bimbo. Right off the bat she said the fact that there is a fat girl on Argentine TV is already a victory.   .  She told me she was actually pretty nervous.   The first thing I thought was what they are all going to say is like what is this fat girl doing here this fat girl feminazi?  But she powered through. She had a mission.   I knew I wanted to talk about abortion. My plan was to at least mention it. And I just sat down and started talking. I felt like I was going to a battle where I had to use words as arrows because abortion is something that you do not say is something that you talk about in hushed tones if you had one.   On Intrusos Senorita Bimbo talked about how abortion is so taboo you do not even talk about it in fiction. In Argentine TV and film unwanted pregnancy is solved by a villain pushing you down the stairs and causing you to miscarry.   .  And then about 30 seconds before they cut to commercial and moved to the next guest Senorita Bimbo said something about abortion that surprised even her.   .  Misoprostol - she says I want girls to know about Misoprostol. This is a really big deal. Officially Misoprostol is a drug used to treat stomach ulcers. But it can also be used to induce labor. So in a continent where abortion is mostly banned women take it if they want to miscarry. People call it the DIY abortion. She is talking about doing something illegal on Argentina's most popular daytime show watched by housewives. That same day Misoprostol was one of the most Googled words in the country. I think you are underestimating your audience Senorita Bimbo said on the show. Dona Rosa is dead - Dona Rosa that stereotypical Argentine housewife.   So the woman that is in front of the TV and who needs her world to be explained to her through daytime TV - she just does not exist anymore.   Of course none of this would have happened on Intrusos if the ratings had been bad. And the ratings were great for reasons that Jorge Rial and Ana Laura can claim no credit for at all. Feminism has been gaining critical mass in Argentina for the last couple of years. The movement was triggered by these brutal murders of young women often by boyfriends husbands and fathers. Women started protesting. A whole crusade was born. It was called Ni Una Menos - not one less woman. And since 2015 this has grown to the point where it is impossible to ignore and has expanded to abortion rights street harassment and equal pay. It is young people on social media comedians on YouTube pop stars on Instagram gigantic demonstrations. It just was not a topic for daytime talk shows until Jorge Ana Laura and Intrusos.   During that week on Intrusos there was this explosion of tweets from young girls perplexed but ecstatic to see feminism on daytime TV. This one girl Anita Ocampo tweeted I showed my dad the Intrusos episode with Senorita Bimbo. I dropped by her house and she told me these feminists were explaining to Jorge Rial all the things she tried to explain but could not get her parents to understand. So one night she approached her dad.  .  And she told him if you watch this episode of Intrusos on YouTube with me I will massage your feet. She ended up getting the whole family to watch. She showed them Senorita Bimbo. She pointed to Jorge Rial wearing the same green handkerchief she wears and said look it is just like mine.  .  It opened up a conversation which he says they have been having ever since. Anita's mom says she saw Jorge Rial talk about how he is a recovering chauvinist. And she says so is she.  .  I am at like 70 percent feminism she says. I still have 30 percent left to go.   During my week in Argentina I kept trying to talk to Jorge Rial and he kept blowing me off. Had he really converted to feminism? Everyone I asked rolled their eyes and pointed to the last few decades of his career. They pointed to his recent vicious public fight with one of his daughters. They pointed to how late he is to the whole feminism thing. He is a Johnny-come-lately. He is only doing this because it will make him more popular. After days of giving me the runaround he told me to just send my questions. And finally on my very last night in Argentina my phone lit up. It was voice memos from Jorge Rial.  We will be back with more ROUGH TRANSLATION right after this break.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION in our collaboration episode with This American Life. Here are those voicemails from the man himself.  .  What happened to me? Rial says. What made me bring all these feminists onto Intrusos?  .  He talks about his 18-year-old daughter Rocio and how she is a feminist. We have these very interesting talks over dinner he says. And she started opening this world up to me. I am 56 years old. I was raised in a completely sexist culture. I did not get it. That is why I say I am a recovering chauvinist thanks to my daughter. My daughter made me change. Jorge Rial knows that I think Intrusos is stupid. He knows most people do. That is the show is superpower.  .  Frivolo. We are frivolous. We are a show about showbiz. No one suspected that this is where feminism could win. We eluded the firewalls that kept feminism off of TV. There was this wall. You could not talk about these things on TV. And suddenly it happened on Intrusos. But to be honest he said it is all because of feminists. They knew any place is good if you have a strong message.  .  After the week of feminism Intrusos was left with a split personality. These days it is a mix of fighting starlets and women's rights activists. Jorge Rial's social media is a mix of World Cup woes celebrity gossip and then these really earnest feminist tweets like this one a few weeks ago. They came to make things better for the coming generations for our daughters and their daughters and also for men. The men who come after us must be better than us. We did everything wrong.   The day after he tweeted that on June 14 Argentina's lower house of Congress approved a bill to legalize abortion. After an all-night debate it barely passed by only four votes. And it yet has to pass the upper house. Still outside Congress thousands of women and activists who would gathered to wait for the results celebrated wildly.   Every time I spoke to those women about what role television like Intrusos played in all this they got uncomfortable. On my last day in Argentina I grabbed a coffee with an old friend from high school Jordana Timmerman. She recently wrote an op-ed for The New York Times about the push to legalize abortion in Argentina. We talked about the role pop culture played in that.  You need to have people like Rial or pop culture Dona Rosa understanding that this is a necessary right because if not it is not going to happen.  In other words the message needs to go into homes in the most remote locations of the country. And TV is one of the only ways to do that. Jordana was saying Intrusos helped. But when I ask her about whether we should thank Jorge Rial she just laughs.   Not going on record for that. Are you crazy? I have a name .  I know what she means. After so many years of awful television and this guy's shenanigans I just do not want to tip my hat to him. And maybe that is part of his penance. He did something good and no one will ever thank him for it.   There is one last thing I want to tell you about. One of the highlights of my week in Argentina was getting to actually stand on the set of Intrusos where they tape the show.  Oh my God. I was embarrassingly thrilled.  Everyone in the backstage is dressed like normal people and it is dark. And onstage it is super colorful. Everyone's wearing like extremely tall shiny stilettos and like blown-out hair. Even the guy's hair is blown out.    On the other side of a street I knew...  On walks this stunning woman in lace-up turquoise thigh-high boots. The giant TV screens on the wall show huge pictures of her. It is just her making duck lips with sunglasses - her in a completely transparent dress. Sorry. They are going really fast. Her in a bikini in a fur coat. Her making out with a giant inflatable swan. She is here to promote her children's album. But the panelists start prodding her about her recent very public fight with her sister.  She was not invited to the wedding. I think her sister hit her. The prodding works. She covers her face and starts sobbing silently. Behind me someone snickers I think I see a little pussycat. That is slang for prostitute. I look at her crying. I stop listening to what she is saying. I think a bunch of really mean things about her - things I am ashamed to repeat. I surprise myself. That is the stuff I heard growing up from my grandma and so many others. And just like that Dona Rosa is in my head. I did not even know she lived there. They are all gathering around her and being like do not cry. Your boots are beautiful. When I was little I wanted to be that woman in the turquoise boots - glamorous towering dolled-up fabulous. I wanted to wear thigh-highs and the glitter to live in that world of color sound and sex. But instead I learned to mock her. You can change a TV show. You can sometimes change a law. But the hardest thing to change is that voice inside yourself.   Today's show was a collaboration with This American Life. The piece was produced by Nadia Reiman and Marianne McCune edited by Susan Burton with Robyn Semien and Ira Glass. Help from Zoe Chace and Dana Chivvis. Thanks also to fixer Paz Saravia  and interpreters Laura Rochman  Barbara Boddie  and Naomi Daremblum. Joanna Broder  helped out. And thanks to Malena Pichot Gabrielle Ortiz  Marcela Tauro and Diana Drake  for helping us understand this story. ROUGH TRANSLATION is produced by Jess Jiang. Our editor is Marianne McCune. The ROUGH TRANSLATION advisory team is Mathilde Piard Neal Carruth and Anya Grundmann. We would love to hear from you. Tell us your travel story. We are at roughtranslationnpr.org or on Twitter at Roughly. I am Gregory Warner. We are back next week with more ROUGH TRANSLATION. 