 So talk to me about dating. Have you tried to date in Germany in...  Have I tried to date in Germany?  This is Aktham Abulhusn. He is a Syrian refugee living in Berlin.  It happened once last year. I met a nice girl. And - yeah.  And our story begins with this one chance encounter. This was a year ago. He was chasing down a room for rent.  It is always difficult to find a room here in Berlin.  This one was in a flat with four German guys.  They have some sort of team. Their common hobby is sword fighting. Well...  The rent was cheap.  Yeah.  Anyway while he was there staring at the swords made of foam - mind you he would only recently arrived from the Syrian war - he started chatting with a woman who was there with a friend who was also looking at the place. She was in med school. Her name was Stine . They liked the same football club and she had a ton of questions about Syria. And she was so friendly and nice that when she asked him about his life he told her the truth.  I kind of went through talking about I do not have any friends yet I am new in Berlin and so on. And she was just OK then just give me your number and we can do other things. So I was - OK that is really nice.  Unlike most refugees who recently arrived in Germany Aktham is highly educated. He came on a plane legally. He enrolled in a master's program for electrical engineering. And he is also not Muslim. He is Druze. It is a minority religious group in Syria.  In our community it is a little bit open-minded. I mean we had girls as friends. We used to go to cafes together and we used to go partying and so on.  Though it was always very chaste. Even kissing on the cheek that was for...  After engagement. Not the mouth the cheek. And - yeah.  So what shocked him about his encounter with this German med student was not the fact of talking to a woman. It was that she seemed so trusting and open.  Actually she was the one to make the first move and ask me for my number. And it was like a few months after what happened in Cologne.   The news of what happened in the city of Cologne on New Year's Eve has electrified Germans.  On that mass assault...  More than a thousand men...  The vast majority of the suspects are believed to be migrants or refugees.  People had ideas about refugees.    I was touched from behind my back and I was touched under my skirt.  A few days later this German med student she surprised him again. She texted him an invitation to go swimming.   Public swimming baths closed its doors on men from the local refugee center.  Swimming pools have become a kind of symbol of a space in Germany where refugee men are seen as intruders.   Five schoolgirls complained that they had been groped by a group of...  I just responded with a really dumb response. I just said I would love to go but I actually cannot swim. And that is always embarrassing for me to be 36 and not able to swim. Yeah. But then...  She does not respond for days and Aktham's beating himself up. But finally she does invite him out to a bar to watch a soccer game.  Yeah. There were a couple of friends of her as well. We watched the game.  They talked about her studies. They talked more about the war. They stayed for hours even after the game had ended.  We had few drinks.  Aktham drinks beer. They had several.  And until the last moment everything - we were talking and laughing and so normal. And I mean we hugged each other...  Just a safe culturally appropriate hug. He was sure of that.  ...As the usual goodbye saying here in Germany. And we will see each other. Yeah we will see each other and so on.  Except they never did. He would write her texts.  And she just did not respond.  A few weeks later he texted again.  Yeah I tried later but no response. So yeah it is obviously - she does not want to. That is it.  And that was a year ago his only date since he arrived in Germany. And really he has been deconstructing it ever since.  What did I do wrong? What went wrong? What is the reason?  Was it that stupid text about the swimming?  Does it have to do with refugees thing? Is it - does it have to do with being an electrical engineer? Sometimes that can be scary. I do not know why.  Was it that hug that last goodbye hug? Did he just do it wrong?  Why am I single?   This is ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. We are a show from NPR where we look at how a conversation playing out in one place is sounding very different somewhere else. The conversation around sex and dating when it comes to Syrian refugees - we have all heard a version of that story. Refugee men arrive in Europe with incompatible views of women and sex and social norms. But in the shadow of that story there are of course people like Akthem desperate not to seem like the refugee stereotype not to come off as predators but still trying to figure out a way to fall in love and date. The reason we are focusing on Akfem is because he got a rare opportunity. He got someone who would scroll through his texts watch his hugs break down his flirt from start to finish and tell him exactly where he would gone wrong and how to fix it. He got a flirt coach.  Yeah flirt coaching. Yes why not?  When ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   We are back with a ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. Aktham lives in a neat little single room in a shabby dormitory in former East Berlin.   That is Luisa Beck. She is a journalist based in Berlin. We reported this story together.  Is that a metal poster? No. WOA - what is that?  Wacken Open Air.  Aktham is a major heavy metal fan.  Have you ever heard of Wacken?  No.  You never heard of Wacken?  No.  Oh my god.  .  Aktham's love of heavy metal began in high school. In Syria the heavy metal music scene was targeted by the regime and bands got arrested. Aktham hated the government for that. He hated them for a lot of things so he was excited when the revolution came.   .  Afkem's region called As-Suywada is mostly Druze the minority group that at the time was very loyal to President Bashar al-Assad. So these small anti-government demonstrations that were happening in his region they were big deal. But he noticed something that the government was not just paying attention to the protesters.  They were so much focusing on who was broadcasting them to the world.  So Syrians from the diaspora started sending them...  ...Cameras.  ...Hidden cameras.  Hidden cameras....  ...Inside pens and watches.  Not only in the watch like we had - like the car keys...  ...The thing on the car keys - beep beep.  Yeah. We had one as well with a camera.  And among these revolutionary circles Aktham got a nickname.  Abu Techno.  Abu Techno.  Techno comes from technology.  The guy would secretly film rallies and then set up proxy servers to upload the photos.  This was dangerous work. Aktham had several close calls. He was searched detained. He says if they would found the camera hidden inside his car keys...  ...I would not be alive now. Of course but - yeah.  And so during this time Aktham says he made a decision about his love life.  I just refused to have any real relationship.  He would seen his friends arrested while their families suffered. Then the reverse families arrested to pressure someone to turn himself in. And even if that person did surrender...  ...Most of the times they kept both.  Both revolutionary and his family.  Yeah. They did not release the family.  So staying single - back then it seemed the right thing to do.  It was so horrible seeing their families getting this torture.  You mean the torture of separation?  The torture of separation. Yeah. Yeah.  Now he is in Germany and feeling lonelier than ever. Now he is got no one. And every time he Skypes with his parents back in Syria...  ...And every and each call my mom and my father as well - they have to bring up the come on get a girlfriend. Go engage. You should get married. We want to see your kids and - yeah.  So what do you say?  I say that I - I am trying to.   Aktham is trying. He bartends at the dorm each Friday night. He is downloaded all the dating apps. He is done meetups on this Facebook group meant to introduce refugees and locals. And it was actually on that group that Aktham saw a note for something called Improv Without Borders.   So that Thursday afternoon he found himself in a hipster rent-a-studio sort of place which is where reporter Luisa Beck first met him.  Aktham starts his arms crossed but you cannot do that from in improv theater. People play icebreaker games with a lot of yelling and then skits.  .  Tell a childhood story...  .  in a made-up up language called gramalo .  .  It is awkward especially awkward because this group is half Europeans half refugees.  There are these cultural differences that everyone is trying to feel out.  .  Sophia Lierenfeld is the workshop teacher.  And I was not sure how I would be able to deal with it.  She is tall with long hair black eyeglasses.  I like to look sexy.  She loves wearing low-cut tops and dresses. But on the first day of class...  Honestly I was wearing the most unattractive outfit that I was wearing this whole year .  Was that on purpose?  Yes definitely. I was wearing a - just a black shirt which did not show any part of my boobs. And I was wearing like black loose jeans. I was not really sure how men from Arabic countries would react on me because there is this whole idea that was spread by media that Arabic men see women who are dressed in a dress for example as whores. It was just the whole different culture and I did not know it yet. The next week I was like oh come on. Seriously I am just going to wear what I like. And it did not change a thing.   When people walk into improv Sophia hugs everyone. She dances around. And if someone hesitates for too long they have to run around the circle shouting...  I am so sexy.  Some people are yelling it out.  I am so sexy.  Others kind of whisper it.  I am so sexy.  And Aktham - Aktham loves improv.  In a workshop about theater you just can go wild.  He says he is here to be less shy. And you can hear him trying out this new self. At one point he is doing a scene with one of the women in the workshop.  .  So she is playing a hairdresser and she is upset because Aktham's got a shaved head. And how is she supposed to style a shaved head? So Aktham says...  .  To tell you the truth I am not here for the hair. I am here for you. Could we - no she says. I am just a hairdresser. Oh but you are a woman too he says. He is being really playful and charming. Not for you she says. Not for me? No. OK - so no chance? Just one coffee with me? - he asks. No. Beer? No. Food? No. It is almost painful to watch. And Sophia ends the scene.  When Aktham lets wild when he lets his hair down so to speak he verges right up close to that stereotype that he is trying so hard to avoid - that obnoxiously persistent flirter who cannot take a hint. But Aktham is not doing this in real life hair salons or bars. And for him he says just getting to test out this new self it is kind of helpful because this is what he is trying to figure out in Germany. What is the line between flirting and hassling? Aktham is not the only one trying on a different version of himself. While Luisa Beck was coming here week after week to report she started noticing another Syrian refugee 19-year-old Raghd Hadid.  .  She is been in the country for two years but does not have any German friends her age.  Raghd's got a lot on her plate since she and her dad left Damascus. Her mom is still in Syria. She is got to help her dad deal with all these bureaucratic things in her limited German. Unlike Aktham Raghd does not come to this improv class to learn to flirt. But she does find herself facing a similar dilemma in Germany which is how do you express yourself in a new country when your status is so uncertain and the stakes for being misunderstood are so high?  The first few times she comes she is shy. She is got those polite little chuckle. When I ask her why she chose improv theater she says...  .  She imagines a future where she is a strong person not weak not shy.  .  Raghd speaks German reluctantly. She often slips back into Arabic and lets her friends translate.  .  She is afraid that when she is in public places that she says something wrong and that people will laugh - says she is afraid of being seen as a stranger that they will think that she does not know what her rights are.  Someone they can take advantage of.  Or that she she knows nothing about about this place.   There are all these moments an improv theater in which the world's awkwardness and language barriers all that stuff just falls away. But then there is this one day when Raghd does not show up. It is weird. And then in the last 10 minutes of class the door opens and it is Raghd. But instead of jumping into the circle she sits in a chair off by the side of the room. I go over and talk to her after class. And it is clear by her face that she is really upset. Her polite chuckle is back. I ask if everything is OK. Yeah she says and kisses me on the cheek. I ask her again. And she looks off to the side takes a breath and then tells me she is shaken up. She took the subway here the U-Bahn. And while inside a man with a small dog stood behind her. And suddenly he yelled at her and he shoved her from behind. And she did not know why. She did not know what was happening. She was worried that he would hit her so she got out. And that is why she is late. Raghd tells me she wants to know what went wrong. Her friends Judy and Kinna  come over.  .  And we try to figure it out. Does she have any idea why he did it? No. Did she accidentally step on his dog? No. Maybe because of the headscarf. She is not sure. She tells me she wants to talk to Sophia. She will know what to do. And so we find Sophia. And Sophia listens to the story of the guy on the U-Bahn. She asks none of the why questions that we did. Instead she tells Raghd to push her like the guy just pushed her away. And then...   Hello? Are you crazy or what? Do not touch me.  Sophia tells Raghd your turn to try it.  OK?  Raghd looks at her with these big eyes.  .  Sophia says yes yes. Turn around.   .  Defend yourself. Do it. Do it again. And Sophia tells her you can even yell at him in Arabic.  .  Raghd looks shocked at this. She is come to Sophia the German coach to give her the right German response to this confusing German situation. And Sophia is telling her it does not matter what language she says it in.  .  She can even answer in grommelo the nonsense language.  .  She tells Raghd to repeat after her.  .  . Leave me alone.  .  .  Sophia tells Raghd when I push you again that is your cue.  .  .  Very good Sophia tells her. We can sit down now.   Sophia's actually had a lot of practice helping people express their feelings. She is worked in theater. She is taught acting to kids. And five years ago...  I kind of coincidentally became a flirt coach.  A flirt coach.  Or I think in English you would more say dating coach.  Now when Aktham through Facebook learned about this other job of his improv teacher his first thought was what?  Because I felt that it is silly. How can you teach someone to go flirting with anyone else?  The answer...  Let me show you around.  We are in Sophia's apartment. On her bookshelf are manuals on flirting.  The perfect seducteror . Yes. I do not know.  To explain how Sophia ended up with this particular library we have to go back to her childhood.  We traveled a lot.  Her parents were traveling musicians.  I got to know all those different cultures.  She grew up the kind of kid who traveled places and studied other people.  And the connections between people. But...  But her stepdad was pretty abusive.  We were fighting a lot. And he would tell me on a daily basis that I was a loser that I was too fat that I was ugly.  And then she was 17.  Sitting there thinking OK that is enough. Like this cannot be how life is supposed to be.  She was not just going to watch life from the sidelines. And for her that meant being more bold.  I started to dress more beautifully and...  Started loving her body.  ...Men were hitting on me on the street.  And then she met a guy.  Let us call him Max.  Max is blond. He is tall.  And I madly fell in love with him.  They were both people watchers people studiers. And that is when Max told her about pickup.  Also we had like...  He said he did something called pickup? What do you mean?  Well I mean he was like hey I have those two friends. And you know pickup - it is like...  But did pickup - would that word have meant anything to you at that time?  No not at all. And we would go out with his friends and seduce women and have threesomes and crazy orgy parties. And it was so great. Like to me that was finally - I was good at it. You know I was so good in seducing women and like making them come with us. And I was having so much fun.  So when that relationship ended...  It was not only my big love who was gone. Also this lifestyle was gone.  So that is when she thought back to pickup. And so she googled it a bit. She found a pickup meetup in her neighborhood.  With the belief that I would meet a bunch of guys who know how to seduce women.  That is not what she found at all.  They were mostly shy guys who tried to get better with women. But they did not meet because they were already great with women. No they met because they had a real pain there. They did not know how to deal with it.  The pickup scene - it calls itself a community. And they have their own jargon. Women are called targets. The neg  - that is a backhanded compliment meant to make her feel insecure and thus more open to sleeping with you. There is a sub-school of pickup that talks about hypnosis techniques. It gets really manipulative. Sophia looked at this scene and saw men who just did not know how to connect. And she discovered she was pretty good at helping them.  And they started to ask me for advice. And slowly it happened that someone just believed I was a coach and asked me if I could give him a coaching. And then I got invited to this conference as a speaker. And I started to travel around. I developed my own seminar which was called Seduction on the Dance Floor.  She would go on to develop other workshops with titles like Authentic Dating and How to Flirt with Her Not Against Her. In improv class Sophia had noticed that Aktham was loosening up and becoming more confident. And she and Aktham had talked about his trouble applying this new workshop self to his real life.  Yeah. I mean this should not be just in the improv or in the theater. This should be something that I can get in life.  So Sophia made him an offer. She would give him a flirt coaching session.  OK.  And after the break things are going to get blunt.  I am going to say that in a little bit of a mean way. Are you aware of your arrogance here?   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. Luisa Beck and I are in a cab with Aktham heading downtown.  Yeah. We are in the cab on our way to this flirt coaching thing.  So what is on your mind as you are heading into this?  Well if it is beneficial then by the end of this year I should be with a girlfriend.  You have given yourself six months.  Yeah. And it is like...  His big fear it turns out is that the flirt coaching session will work that he will learn what is wrong with him and still not actually be able to act on it.  And still did not work out.  That'ill prove he is a hopeless case.  It is not magic. I know.  Do you think there is any cultural difference between you and the girls you want to date that is getting in the way - do you think?  No. I would not think so because a lot of things.  Aktham says the longer he stays in Germany the closer he feels culturally.  I think - I do believe that I am so much closer to the cultural thinking of relationships and openness and stuff like that here - more than what I used to have there.  I think that is surprising because I kind of went into this story thinking this was about cultural - trying to cross a cultural divide. You are saying that is not the problem.  I believe no.  Aktham talks about cultural differences - like the ones they talk about on German TV. And he says he does not have any of those.  I actually come from a community that also respects women's rights. Our community...  As equals.  Yeah. And I am raised this way actually thanks to mom and my father.  Let us go meet Sophia.  Yeah.   We get to the coffee shop that Sophia has chosen.  A really tiny cafe. This is Sophia's like neighborhood cafe. She always comes here. She takes Aktham there.  Sophia says that she likes to keep her flirt sessions as close to real-life dates as possible.  They sit in these kind of like loungey  chairs.  Yeah.  All right. Now tell me more about this person that you met.  Aktham tell her about really his only semi-romantic experience in Germany that date with the German med student Stina .  Do you still have the texts?  I still have the texts yes.  Can I see them?  Yeah.  He pulls out his phone starts scrolling through the texts. OK. While you are looking for that this is an interesting question for me because I think there could be some cultural difference. How about the whole sex stuff? Like I mean do you have some one-night stands here in Berlin? Do you have...  I never had.  You never had one-night stands. You never had sex?  Never no one-night stands no sex no...  So you are still a virgin.  Yeah.  OK.  Also by kissing.  What by kissing? You never kissed a girl?  Never kissed a girl on the mouth.  OK. Yeah we can like...  On the lips.  At this point Aktham has now found the texts the text exchange that he has been trying to figure out himself for a whole year. He hands it over to Sophia so she can try to decode it for him. And as she stares at the phone Aktham is watching her face.   It is so charming and cute. Wow she is like straightforward. She wants to cook together. She wanted to. That is very nice.  Sophia turns to Aktham's texts and actually reads one of his texts out loud which totally mortifies him.   But I am in for the game. Smiley. Also I am ready for other plans. Smiley. Tell me when and where and I am going to be there. Smiley. That is so cute. That was really cute. It is - look at your face. You look embarrassed but it is really - it is charming.  Aktham's arms are now crossed and he is saying you can punch me. But Sophia's leaning toward him. She is about to tell him something about this interaction that he totally missed.  So from her messages she seems to be really interested or she she seemed to be really interested in sex with you. Like that is obvious to me because - wait a second - oh no no that is another message. Here Stine. She is writing we can cook together which means you are already at the place you know? And she seems to be interested in sex. And the change happens after you met the second time after this date at the game. So my guess is that at this date you probably did nothing wrong but maybe you just did not do a move. You know what I mean?  But truthfully I would feel scared to suggest such a thing if she does not want to and if she sees that oh God he is trying to get me to bed and I am just trying to be nice because - maybe because he is a refugee. Or because he is a nice guy and I am trying to know him. Or I am trying - I am just trying to be friends with him and he just thinks - this is one of the ideas that...  But there is - OK I am going to say it in a little bit of a mean way. Are you aware of your arrogance here? I get the whole thing. I understand your feelings.  OK.  But there is also one part in it that is really arrogant. And that is the part where you think that you have to think and decide for her. She is a grown-up person. When you tell her that you are interested in her she is totally fine with saying no I am not because she is grown-up too. You are not a dating 15-year-old kid. You are dating a grown-up or you are seeing a grown-up woman. And if she does not want something she is capable of saying it. And you should give her that choice. You know what I mean?  Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah.  You get I am talking about?  Yeah but .  Yeah that is why I said it so - in such a strange way.  Sometimes when you are in a foreign country it is hard to know how to read other people's signals or how to respond to them without crossing a line. And for that reason there are workshops now for refugees across Europe focusing on countering aggressive behavior teaching that no means no and miniskirts are not an invitation. But for Aktham the problem is different. He is being too protective.  I am really now surprised how I never think about it this way. It is a two-side story. It is accepting what is coming from the other side and interacting with it and...  Oh yeah because...  We move to another spot because some kids sat nearby. Sophia does not like to talk about sex next to kids. Also she is got an exercise for Aktham.  OK so let us practice the sexual tension for a moment.  She gets up scoots her chair close to his.  All I am going to do now is sit beside you and create like a really intense sexual tension with the one goal that you try to bear it.  OK.  Because as we already said or as I already said tension can sometimes feel unbearable and uncomfortable and weird. So when you start to like just let it happen and be OK with it it will be so much easier for you to actually have the sexual stuff and to flirt as well. OK let us go.  And then all of a sudden she gets quiet.  All right.  And she starts putting her fingers through her hair and leaning back. And she takes off her glasses and just looks at him.  It started with taking off the...  Yes that is actually what I always do in my coachings. I put off the glasses when I do a bit of role play so there is a separation between role play and did you just - do you realize that you just looked away?  I do.  Yes. And this is exactly what I mean. It is getting more complicated to keep the eye contact right?  Yeah once again .  Yes.  Second try - again. Deep eye contact. And this time he is holding her gaze. He is not looking away.  So as I said I tried to get rid of this class separation for all place. Try to stay with me because now you keep the eye contact. But I can see that you are leaning back inside. Do you feel that?  Yeah.  Try to still stay with me...  OK.  ...Because you can have eye contact and actually look into each other's eyes. And you can also have eye contact but actually not being really there.  You are right.  Do not go away.  You are right. OK.  Tip number three she literally tells him make yourself comfortable.  Look at how you sit. You are like so closed up. Hello.  Hello.  And Aktham is doing better. His arms are not crossed. And he is smiling back at her.  How you doing?   In that last bit Aktham is imitating Joey from the TV show Friends. But Sophia tells him you are not supposed to get goofy at this moment. Stay with me.  OK. Can you feel the tension now?  Wow.  Nice. What wow ? That was actually quite nice right now.  It is kind of - yeah. When I get heated up just...  Now you have it. Do you see it? Do you feel it? Yeah. OK. Well I think for now I am going to put my glasses on . For now it was a good start.  Sophia tells Aktham just try to follow your gut in these kind of situations. Of course in a new place with new rules your gut could be wrong. So Aktham is trying to change at least how he comes across in these kinds of situations. Just recently he went to a party. He told himself the whole time do not cross your arms. Do not cross your arms.  I try. I try. Yeah. Yesterday I did cross my arms lots of the time. But...   Raghd the Syrian woman has been coming to improv class less often. Her mom just joined the family from Syria. They have been busy trying to extend their visa. But Sophia told me that when Raghd did come to class a few weeks ago she gave her first monologue in front of the group. She gave it while Sophia was crouched between her legs growling with rage playing her anger translator.  Aktham is now two months into his six-month deadline. He is not yet asked out anyone on a date. But he told us he has this particular fantasy where one day he will be riding his bike and a girl will pass on her bike.  Because I drive with hands free side. So just go and do this.  He forms his two hands into a heart shape against his chest.  But I never do it - the hard thing. I mean why not? Just like a flirt passing by.   That was episode 7 of ROUGH TRANSLATION. And it is a wrap on our first season. We are now hitting the field booking flights looking into some of the story ideas that you have sent us. Thank you for those. Please keep them coming. If there is anywhere you think we should go next reach us on Twitter at Roughly. I am radiogrego. Or send us an email - roughtranslationnpr.org. If this is your first episode welcome. We have got a lot more for you in the feed at npr.orgroughtranslation. And if you have heard our whole season and you are thinking to yourself hey you know I want me some more ROUGH TRANSLATION. I want more of these global perspectives on familiar conversations. There is something that you can do. It only takes a minute. Write us a review or give us a rating on Apple Podcasts. We actually have a link on our Facebook page and Twitter to walk you through the steps. It does make a huge difference to the show. I want to thank a few people who have made this podcast possible - Mike Oreskes an early champion of the show Neal Carruth our humble and fearless shepherd and my wife the novelist Sana Krasikov. She helped conceive of this podcast idea and has made every episode better. Thank you. This episode of ROUGH TRANSLATION was produced by Jess Jiang and edited by Marianne McCune. I am incredibly lucky to work with this team. Thanks to NPR correspondents Ruth Sherlock and Deb Amos and to interpreter Dina Salah ElDin. Thanks to the Improv Without Borders workshop for letting us record week after week. And we should add that Sophia says that despite her rocky childhood she has patched things up with her stepdad and has the best relationship with him now. Today's episode was fact-checked by Greta Pettinger and Mary Glendinning. They are part of the research archives and data strategy team. We are so lucky to have them on board. Mastering by Andy Huether. ROUGH TRANSLATION theme music as always by John Ellis. Check out his music either live or on his website. Additional music for this episode by the German band Holzig and from Blue Dot Sessions. I am Gregory Warner. See you on the road.  