  Hey. It is Gregory here. And before we start the show we want to know who you are what stories you want to hear and what you like about the show. So please go to npr.orgpodcastsurvey to complete a short survey. We want to hear from everyone even if you are a brand-new listener. So that is npr.orgpodcastsurvey all one word. And thanks.   You are listening to ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. A warning - this episode contains graphic descriptions of violence and it mentions self-harm. It may not be appropriate for everyone.   That is when I remember all the traffic civilian traffic next to us screeched to a halt. And then boom.  Last time on ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront.   And they are like Sergeant Lammers can you wiggle your toes? And  I chuckled and I said with all due respect sir if I could wiggle my toes we would not be in this predicament.  I was so impressed with his determination. He was very positive.  I had to use some of my best lines on Alicia. I told her I would die for her.  He said I will die for you. It is like you are a soldier. You will die for anyone.   And then he started to train me. Now I have to drive around with a military vest with ceramic plates on. We got a lot of looks  - a lot of looks. I did not marry this man to go - to just be like that. I wanted stability. And I asked Matt what are we doing? Like why?   This is HomeFront from ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. We are continuing the story of Alicia and Matt Lammers. And if you do not know who I am talking about you might want to go back and listen to the previous episode called Battle Rattle. That episode tells the story of how Matt at age 25 became a triple amputee in an explosion in Iraq. His wife Alicia hoped to help him reenter civilian life. Instead she found herself pulled into Matt's vigilante patrols. She ended that by getting them both out of Houston. In this episode we find Matt and Alicia back in Tucson where Alicia starts to notice a pattern. And it leads her to wonder what if you are the only one who sees a pattern in the behavior of the person you love but talking about that pattern feels like betrayal? Here's Quil Lawrence.  We are going to rejoin Matt and Alicia on the edge of a swimming pool in Tucson Ariz. Matt Lammers Army veteran is in his wheelchair looking down at the water.  I was just trying to come up with a strategy of how I was going to do it. I did not want to die. I did not want to drown.  Because that was a possibility.  I am here with ROUGH TRANSLATION producer Jess Jiang.  I guess realistically it was. But I knew I was not going to let that happen.  He is just like let me see if I can swim. And I am like please do not do that. If something happens to you I cannot jump in the water and get you. Like I cannot do that.  .  I cannot swim.  In typical Matt style he is going in without a life jacket or really any kind of plan.  He is like no nothing's going to happen to me.  You would never tried. I mean you rolled up and then scrambled down in? Or how did you get in?  I think I jumped from the wheelchair that night.  Yeah he jumped from the wheelchair.  She held my wheelchair. I just dove my...  He said screw the wheelchair and put it right on the edge. And he just jumped - poom .  And he sinks.  I was like . Please God. Please God.  Do not try this at home.  Yup so...  Oh my God. But then he figures out some way to use his one arm and he just swims.  You are swimming like a dolphin.   Woo. Beautiful.  There is this video of Matt that Alicia took a few months later and it is really something to watch. That bubbling sound is because Alicia is sitting in the hot tub recording while Matt's at the edge of the pool. Matt's looking down at the water with this focused expression like a gymnast about to do a tough move like a triple backflip. First he drops and spins on his arm down from his wheelchair to the concrete deck another twirl over the edge of the pool. And on the third turn...   ...He is in.  Not too shabby.  You are awesome.  I love you.  I love you.   Just going up and down up and down for two hours straight nonstop no breaks.  It was fun. What I love about swimming I do not rely on any prosthetics or wheelchairs or any assistive devices. And it feels so freeing just to be able to move myself from point A to point B. I get in the zone and just think about oh what should we watch for a movie tonight? And what is for dinner? Just swim back-and-forth and before I know it I am done.  I took him to swim every day even though I do not know how to swim. It does not matter.  Yeah.  I train him because it help us both. If he is physically active and it is helping his mental health it helps the family. That is how I see it.   How is everybody feeling out there?   Everybody happy to be here?  Matt eventually got trained up enough to compete in the Warrior Games.   Our athletes today are classified into one of seven divisions based on their body's functionality. Come on folks. Make some noise. We are about to kick...   And he wins a bunch of medals.   And the No. 1 position Matt Lammers from the Army.   Yeah Matt. Go Matt. Good job Matt.   I sit there on the deck and I count all the laps and the time. And I do that in 110 degrees in Arizona. I did it in the winter in 20-degree weather and with my coat just counting laps. His goals became my goals.   When Alicia was a kid growing up in Sonora Mexico her mom was the person in her neighborhood who knew how to give injections. So people would buy their medicine. They would bring it to her mom and she would give them the jab. Her mom never charged a penny. And she told Alicia getting the opportunity to help someone is a blessing. When Alicia came to the U.S. she trained as a certified nurse's assistant and started working with terminally ill patients. She burned out on that work so she ended up in retail. But helping Matt felt like she was back in that spirit of service something she could be proud of. And then the Department of Veterans Affairs gave her an official title. Tell me when did you first hear about the caregiver program?  I heard about the caregiver program through Matt's social worker in Houston Texas. They let him know that he could have a caregiver and it could be anyone he wanted. And so he said well I want Alicia.  The VA launched this caregiver program in 2011 and it was a way to pay caregivers really for the work they were already doing. This way Alicia does not have to worry about trying to hold down a full-time job while she is taking care of Matt.  They asked me what I do for him and how he needed help. We signed some paperwork and that was pretty much it.  With the caregiver stipend from the VA Alicia did not have to juggle shifts at the Bed Bath  Beyond anymore. She could focus on Matt's needs and do things like take him to the pool every morning which is great for his physical health but also his mental health - except Matt seemed to be taking it to extremes.  He was swimming every day. He was swimming a mile to three miles five miles in one day. And it was all about swimming swimming swimming swimming. And he is thinking that this is his life. The way he was a soldier now he is a swimmer. And it was making me uncomfortable.  Matt would get mad if he would glance up from his swimming and see her reading a book instead of counting his laps.  So he thought that I was missing count. And he would be very angry and frustrated. So I was like wait a second he wants me to just look at him while he is swimming for three hours? Can you imagine every day three hours just looking at the pool just so you can click every single time he does a lap?  It reminded her of sitting in the passenger seat for hours on those armed patrols he would take her on in Houston.  So one day it was driving to nowhere patrolling the city. And then the next year it is just swim swim swim swim. It was too much.  There were other behaviors too that worried her. He was not sleeping. He would forget things like what he had for dinner the night before. And he would go on spending sprees.  Matt go into a gas station and in 15 minutes he will spend 300. It is three aisles and he will spend 300 there.  One day she took Matt to a neurologist for his insomnia.  And then the doctor said certain things like insomnia are very common in patients with brain injury.   And I am like brain injury - like this is the first time I heard of that.  So she goes home and looks up the VA paperwork that marks all of Matt's disabilities.  And on the first page you have he is a burn victim and it tells you how much percentage of burns on his body. It tells you he has PTSD. It tells you 100 disability for both legs above the knee and then the arm above the elbow. And his brain injury is not on the list. So I was like why a brain injury's not here?  While Matt was deployed neither the military nor the VA were on top of just how many thousands of troops were coming home with undiagnosed traumatic brain injuries TBIs. But by 2014 when Alicia's finding this out TBIs were all over the news. The VA and the military were studying it.  So I asked the VA and they told me well he is not going to get more than 100. He is already 100.  She says the VA told her he already had the maximum benefit.  But that is not the point. The point is it is not on the list of diagnoses.  The person she is talking with at the VA thinks she is trying to claim more benefits. But Alicia just wants to get Matt the right treatment.   I was so desperate. I was just buying every book that would say brain injury or how to reset your brain or how to make your brain better how to change your diet to improve your memory. I have all kinds of books around.   But if the veteran is not willing to do what the book said it is just a book that you went through. You do not know if it is going to work or not because they did not do it.  She would try to get Matt to go to therapy but he said that was too much of a trigger. She wanted him to get a brain scan but he said he was afraid of hospitals. Every three months Alicia would get a call from the VA caregiver program. The coordinator would ask her a set of questions - always the same questions. It was a survey. Do you feel safe? Are you taking care of yourself? Do you have any immediate goals? What are the veteran's short-term goals? She told them about these symptoms - the loss of memory the binge spending the excessive workouts.  They are telling me make sure you schedule him for a psychiatrist appointment. But I cannot just schedule the veteran to a place that he does not want to go.  It is interesting - Alicia does not say she cannot schedule Matt for an appointment. She says I cannot schedule the veteran.  Well I think I am calling him the veteran because I know that there is way more veterans that are going through the same thing so it is a veteran issue. It is - this happened and my experience happened to be Matt.   She would remind herself Matt's not alone. Thousands of veterans were wounded in these wars and many of them needed their loved ones to help them. She wanted to do her part.  I did not want to be the quitter. I did not want to be the one who just looked for an easy way out. I did not want to be that person.   ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront back after this break.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront. I am Quil Lawrence. While Alicia's been telling us about her struggles with Matt Matt is sitting right next to her listening. What is your memory of that time like?  I know she is always working behind the scenes but I did not know that all that was going on. I am learning stuff today. It was shortly after the Warrior Games and it was approaching my first alive day which was around September - 8 September.  An alive day is the anniversary of the day that you almost died in war. So it was right before the first time he almost died in Iraq.  I got a phone call that two of my friends had committed suicide the same day. And so I just immediately broke down. I started crying. And I was kind of in limbo. I did not want to be here at the time anymore but I was not ready to pass on. So I was just going back and forth like a pingpong. But I knew that suicide is a final option. There is no backing out of that.  Matt's spells of sadness would often turn into anger.  He broke a glass - a very thick glass - on his own head and he was bleeding because you know our heads have so many vessels that they bleed and bleed. So I thought that he was in danger at that point. I called the police because I thought he was out of control.  She did the right thing. She was calling for the police. They have people that come out not to arrest you. They have people to come out and just talk you through an episode or a hard time.  Matt says this now but at the time he was angry that she had told anyone about his behavior. He felt betrayed. And they were still arguing when the cops showed up.  They asked Matt to stay in the house and asked me to leave the house for the night. And I did not have any money. Where am I going to go? So I had to sleep in the cold weather in the car. And this happened three times.  Each time Alicia called the cops their response was a cooling-off period.  But because he is a disabled veteran he is the one who stayed on the apartment and I had to sleep in the car. So I learned from that too. I was like well every time I call the cops they just ask me to leave the house. I do not want to do that.   When the three months rolled around and Alicia got a call from the coordinator at the VA caregiver program Alicia did not tell them about Matt's suicidal thoughts. She felt it should be up to him to share that. And Matt's still refusing to get therapy.  So I start doing a one-on-one. And one-on-one is the care you do with someone that is suicidal so they assign one health care provider to be with this person 247. Every 15 minutes you have to write down what that person's doing 'ecause that person may kill themselves in a blink of an eye. So it is called one-on-one care.  Alicia had done this work as a certified nurse's assistant though usually it is done in shifts by a whole team of health care providers. Alicia decided to take it on alone.  So I was doing a one-on-one for 24 hours three days straight.  So when were you sleeping?  I was not sleeping. I would be just sitting up and like kind of drifting off. And when it - I notice that he would try to sleep then I try to sleep a little bit. Then I - we had a water bed so if the water bed moved then I would be up again. Yeah I drink a lot of water because you drink a lot of water during the night like drink 12 ounces of water straight in an hour when I wake up because your bladder will wake you up.  That is how you are keeping yourself from sleeping too long.  So I did that for like three four days when he was worse. And then it start getting better 'ecause it goes in cycles. And he feel guilty about trying to attempt suicide and then things get better and then back to suicidal mode. It was just a whole horrible cycle.  Alicia wanted to know what was triggering the angry outbursts the thoughts of suicide.  Is it the time of the year the weather? You know is it the pain? Because pain will make you cranky.  She started to keep a journal. At first she wrote in Spanish but Matt got mad and said you are writing about me. So she came up with a system he would not notice.  I created a calendar which I started to put a little tiny mark. It was a little star whenever he did something that was out of the ordinary.  At the end of the month she would look at all the little stars and she would try to find clues.  I just thought in my mind maybe there is a pattern. And if I find the pattern you know bingo. I will know which days were good  and which days were not.  And Alicia did find patterns.  I noticed that the week before his adoption day when he came to America like few days before and a few days after that day those days he act up the most.  Another trigger was his birthday in March and his two alive days in June and September and then the whole period between Thanksgiving and Valentine's Day. Alicia called that the winter blues.  He also has external triggers - rude people people looking at him weird pointing at him traffic - that is another trigger - being a passenger.  In Iraq the two times he was almost killed Matt was in a passenger seat. So Alicia thought that might be why riding as a passenger gave him such anxiety such anger. At the time Alicia kept this journal of Matt's triggers a secret from him. And there were lots of things he wanted her to keep secret from everyone. But now...  How much can we talk everything?  Whatever you want to be in .  Yeah?  Yeah.  Matt gives his permission. It is OK for her to tell everything but it is still not easy for him to hear this stuff. While Alicia is telling this story Matt keeps going out for cigarette breaks. At one point he goes out on the porch and stays there. I go out there with him. Jess stays back with Alicia.  When Matt's out of the room her stories take a darker edge. Alicia tells me about a rescue dog that she and Matt adopted.  She was a sweetheart Ginger. And then - so Matt went through that depression. And right after that depression he became more violent and start yelling at Ginger. And Ginger was old. So it will take Ginger an extra effort to go and get us a little snack. And he will snap because she did not came fast or she - he snap because Ginger did not want to get on the truck you know and things like that. Her and I went through a lot. And every time Matt snap we both lock ourselves in a closet. And we were both like oh my God I hope this pass quick 'ecause he was just like throwing things around the house punching holes on the walls. He was just like a caged animal just angry.   And at the very beginning of this episodes he will tell me I am not angry of you I just see everything red. I am just angry. And - so one day he was not sleeping too good so he started to hit Ginger. And so I get up early in the morning and I grab Ginger because he told me the night before that he will kill her the next day. So I took her to the doggy shelter. And I cry a lot. I cry a lot.  Were you afraid of Matt at that point?  Yes I was. Yes because I was kind of blaming on myself. I did not know how I am going to trigger this man next and how he is going to react because every time was so different. And it was escalating. So yes Ginger was afraid of Matt and I was afraid of Matt.   This whole time we have been talking Alicia has been knitting. You can hear the sound of her needles. She is making these red white and blue American flag shawls which she sells on Etsy. And at first I think it is just a hobby to earn some extra money. But she tells me no.  I need something to distract my mind. So some people meditate. I do not know how to meditate but I will be like  I am knitting and trying to think of something that makes you happy think of my childhood. I had a good childhood. I had a good stepdad. I had a great dad. You are distracting your brain. You are keeping your hands busy with anxiety is very useful 'ecause you are feel like - you know you have got to do something or - you know 'ecause if you go outside and you get involved in that war then you are trapped then you are - just end up losing yourself. And I was very close to losing myself many times.  She says that with Ginger gone Matt started throwing things at her. He pointed a gun at her. She did not tell anybody. She did not tell the VA caregiver coordinator or her siblings not even her mom.  I felt like I should not talk to anyone about these things.  Why?  Because talking to a civilian would it be like talking to the Alicia before Matt? So I would not understand.  She thought civilians would tell her to take care of herself get out of this relationship which she says is exactly the advice she would have given before she met Matt.  If someone comes to me and says I am married to a veteran and this is what it is doing to me. I will tell her what are you doing there? Run Forrest you know? It is like why? Why would you let anyone take advantage of you? No girl. Leave. But I felt like someone in the military with military background will understand.  Over the years I have talked to maybe a dozen military spouses in this sort of situation. Not many want to talk publicly about it but some have broken the silence.  That resonates with me quite a bit.  Kayla Williams is the assistant secretary for public affairs at the VA. She is an Iraq vet so is her husband. And she is written a book about being his caregiver after his brain injury.  It was significantly harder to feel like I could share what was happening inside my marriage with civilians who did not understand.  Her husband was abusive and he could get violent. She was frightened.  It is very hard to admit that you may be angry or afraid or frustrated when you are caring for a hero.  Was this harder to explain to civilians like why one would stay?  Yeah. All I had to say to other veterans is you know oh yeah we were always trained to never leave a fallen comrade behind. You would never leave someone behind on the battlefield. And this is an extension of that. And they are like oh yeah I get that.  What look did you get if you said that to a civilian?  They look at you like you are crazy.  Alicia felt the same way.  They will not understand because they are just civilians. They do not know. They just do not know what a veteran does.  But Alicia herself is a civilian.  Yes yes. We family civilians do not really know you know? We are not the ones who were engaged in war in fights and things like that.  Alicia had no one to reach out to. She does not have comrades no friends who are veterans except the ones she is met through Matt. And they were not around anymore. So she is doubly isolated. She is cut off from the civilian world and from the military world. She is in Matt's war and she is not sure if he is a friend or an enemy.   ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront back after this break.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront. I am Quil Lawrence. When Alicia first moved in with Matt she imagined a lot of cozy nights spent at home watching movies on the couch doing homey kind of things. But Matt is restless. He is always taking her on the road which is stressful because traffic sets him off. And now he is more and more turning that anger against Alicia.  One day they are driving back home to Tucson after a trip to California to visit friends.  It is only eight hours drive but I was not that used to driving back then. So it was very tiring. I was in a bad mood. He was angry already. I just wanted to go home and rest. We were out for a month already. I wanted to go home and just stay home.  Matt's hungry though so they make one last stop at a Subway sandwich place. It is just across the street from their home.  And I usually - I do not mind going and get his food but he was calling me names. Like he asked me to go and get the Subway. But he called me names like you bitch or something like that. So I started complaining because in the past I would be kind of quiet. This time I started to talk back. And I was like you know what? If you are going to treat me that way if you want it you go and get it.   And he was hurt. He was in a lot of pain. So I walk home. I got home and I knew he was going to do something to me. Like I knew it.   So I look around and try to make a backpack like an emergency backpack with stuff - underwear socks you know something...   ...And grab the keys of my car. And then I was - like in case I cannot run on time I got a Sharpie and I wrote my son's phone number on me with a Sharpie in case he does something to me so someone will notify my family. So yeah.  You wrote it - where did...  On my belly so he would not see it. So I wrote son and then I put my son's phone number. And then I was packing up my stuff when he walked into the house and started calling me names. So I run to the spare room. And he came and started hitting - the doors are so like thin you know? It is not like strong doors like main doors. The room doors are different. So they are very weak. So he knocked the door over. And so he kind of jumped on me and he got on top of me.  Wait he had jumped on top of you? How?  So he was using his stubbies. And he just jumped. With his stubbies he is 5'3 and I am 5'5.  And stubbies are his prosthetics.  His prosthetics. It is a short version of prosthetics with no knees. It is just training legs.  Mmm hmm.  And so he started choking me. And with his limb what he has left he started pushing the other side. And it was like having a piece of wood stuck because it is not a hand. It is just something very sharp the bone - right? - going into it.  You could feel the bone of his limb.  Right on my neck. It keeps choking me choking me.   I fight at first. And then I got scared. Because I know if I do something to him if I hurt him they are going to take me to jail. If I am trying to defend myself and I do something to him I am going to be in trouble because he is a triple amputee. So people think he is vulnerable I am stronger than him because I have advantage. I have legs. I have both arms. He used to threaten me saying that if I call the cops he is going to change the story and say that I am the one abusing him and they will believe him not me.   If I do something to him if I hurt him they are going to take me to jail.   So I just let go. I was like if he kills me he kills me. That is it. And I started seeing everything dark. And then he noticed that I stopped fighting so he thought he killed me. So he stopped and started calling my name - Alicia Alicia Alicia. So I heard my name like far away and then like more close and close. And when I realized he is yelling at me he stopped choking me I just push him aside got up and went to our room. And I locked myself in the closet for a little bit. And yeah. It is hard to remember still. Yeah.   He came knocked the door a thousand times. Please forgive me. Please forgive me. The only thing I wanted is a sandwich. I am sorry I treated you that way. And I started thinking he is not sorry. He is going to do it again. He is going to do it again. And so I open the door but I did not say a word. And he said forgive me and this this and that. And I am like OK anything else? Anything else? And I was just looking at him.   And how many times I went to a room and I just put - locked myself in that room. And every time he needed me I came out of the room do what he asked me to do came back inside the room. It was just your food is ready and no love no compassion no scared no nothing nothing. Oh my God I made an extra row .  All this while Alicia's been knitting her American flag shawl and she is made an extra row blue. I am sorry I feel like I am distracting you.  No. It is OK.  Alicia says that during this period she felt empty. She hardly recognized herself. Life had gone so differently than she would expected when she moved in with Matt. She did not know who he was to her anymore or what she meant to him except she was his caregiver. She could still be that. She would open his water bottles drive him to his doctor's appointments clip his nails and then go back to her room and knit.  So he noticed that I was different. And then one day he asked me what was going on and if I was planning to leave him. And I said well I have been thinking about it. You are not the same person I married and you are supposed to protect me. You are supposed to love me and you are not doing any of that. And he apologized again. And then I told him what would you do if something does that to your girls? You have three daughters. And then his answer was well I will ask them if their spouse is a veteran like as if there is a just some - justifying you know if it is a veteran then it is OK. And I said no it is not OK. I said that is not excuses. And I was like I figure I need to make a plan to leave.  But making a plan to leave was not easy.  At that point I did not have a job anymore because I was his caregiver only. I did not have any income. I do not have family in Tucson. I do not have a place to go. So I just feel trapped completely trapped.   Every three months when Alicia's caregiver coordinator would call for their seasonal check in and ask the same survey questions - do you feel safe? Are you taking care of yourself? Do you have any immediate goals? What are the veteran's short-term goals? - Alicia would answer as best she could stopping short of the abuse. She would talk about Matt's anger his compulsions his triggers and his need for control but not about the violence directed at her. She knew that the things he would done to her were bad enough that if the VA found out about them they might decide to kick her off the caregiver program for her own protection at which point Matt would be a danger to himself and she would not be there to protect him. And so she felt trapped by her sense of duty and by the role that the VA had given her. And it turns out the VA knew all about that trap.  Everybody thinks that oh you are in the hands of the VA? You are going to be well taken care of. I beg to differ to the T.  That is next time on HomeFront.   If you or someone you know is experiencing domestic abuse or has thoughts of self-harm here are some resources for you. The National Domestic Violence Hotline is 1-800-799-7233 or thehotline.org. The National Suicide Prevention Line is 800-273-8255. Today's episode was produced by Jess Jiang. Our editor is Lu Olkowski. The ROUGH TRANSLATION team includes Luis Trelles Matt Ozug and Justine Yan. Our new intern is Alicia Chan . The ROUGH TRANSLATION executive team is Neal Carruth Didi Schanche Anya Grundmann. Special thanks to Chris Turpin and Vickie Walton-James. Nicole Beemsterboer is our senior supervising producer. Brin Winterbottom fact-checked this episode. Mastering by Isaac Rodrigues. Retired Army Captain Kimo Williams composed HomeFront's theme song. Additional music from John Ellis. I am Gregory Warner back next week with more HomeFront from ROUGH TRANSLATION. 