 Polls show Americans do not trust information coming from President Trump about the pandemic.  Which is especially good news this week as he continues to riff on treatments as scientists work on a vaccine.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News. We have got the latest reaction on the daily coronavirus briefings.  Also Georgia's step to reopen this weekend.   I would tell you that I imagine there'ill be people in gyms that will be a lot safer than they would be going to the grocery store or some of the other places of business that are part of the critical infrastructure that is been designated at the federal level.  Many of the state's local officials disagree with the governor.  And we have some new tips for making face masks more effective so please stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your weekend.  President Trump has come under fire from medical professionals scientists and sometimes his own allies for his comments during his daily coronavirus task force briefings briefings that at times have stretched on for hours.  But not the most recent one. The president cut Friday's short after only 22 minutes.  NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe was in the briefing room and she joins us now to give us some context. Good morning.  Good morning.  So was everyone surprised at how short this briefing was?  It was surprising because for weeks now you know as you said President Trump has been taking questions. And sometimes these briefings have gone on for more than two hours. And that is really been kind of standard now. And so for him to leave abruptly immediately after the vice president spoke it was unusual. During the time that they did speak Trump and Vice President Pence seemed focused on celebrating the positive - the increase in testing the additional funding passed that is meant to help people struggling because of the outbreak and the damage to the economy. But you know I think at this point there is a question with all of these briefings of whether the administration's intended messages are even resonating. And there are some reports that maybe the president is thinking about you know pulling back on these briefings or his attending the briefing so much. A poll from APNORC released this week found that most Americans do not trust Trump for coronavirus information and even about 22 of Republicans have little trust in his information about the virus.  The president though did take questions earlier on Friday in the Oval Office and you were there for that too. Let us listen to a bit of that.   Mr. President 50000 people have died today. You are saying that you want credit for what the government has done. Do you take any responsibility for these 50000 deaths that have happened?  I think we have done a great job. As you know minimal numbers were going to be a hundred thousand people. Minimal numbers were going to be a hundred thousand people. And we are going to be hopefully far below that.  That was you there asking the president about the numbers of dead in this country. Tell us about that exchange.  You know his response talking about keeping the number of deaths way under a hundred thousand - we do not really know that that is going to be the case. Earlier this week he had even talked about deaths topping out at 60000 and that seems really unlikely to happen even with you know fatalities now slowing. And if there is a second wave in the fall as Dr. Fauci of the Coronavirus Task Force has said is likely those numbers will likely go up.  OK. Friday's unusually brief briefing comes after a doozy of a briefing on Thursday night which everyone is talking about where the president suggested that sunlight and bleach might cure the coronavirus. Can you run us through what happened?  Yeah so on Thursday President Trump asked medical officials to look into the idea of using disinfectants in people to fight off the virus. At one point he used the word injecting. After he said that companies that make disinfectants issued strong warnings saying never ingest these products. On Friday Trump said he was just kidding. Here's more from him on that.   But I was asking a sarcastic - and a very sarcastic question to the reporters in the room about disinfectant on the inside. But it does kill it and it would kill it on the hands. And that would make things much better.  But on Thursday he actually was talking to the medical officials in the room. He was not talking to reporters. He was not  - he was not laughing or anything like that. And he was asking his...  And it is all on tape.  It is all on tape. He was asking his officials to look into this. Medical professionals have advised people to wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water frequently. And they say that is effective.  That is White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe. Thank you very much.  Thank you.  And for more coverage of the White House and the 2020 election be sure to download the NPR Politics Podcast. When the president talked about sunlight in the White House briefing room he was referring to ultraviolet light.  Let us set aside for a moment how to get ultraviolet light to shine on one's internal organs and instead look at what science tells us about how it disinfects.  And for that we have NPR science correspondent Maria Godoy. Thanks very much for being with us.  Good morning Scott.  Maria is ultraviolet light any possible way to kill the virus?  Not in the way the president was musing about. UV light has actually been used for years to disinfect surfaces in hospitals and labs. But you have to use it in a specific wavelength spectrum known as UVC light. And this kind of UV light is really harmful to the eyes and skin. So when they use it they only use it to disinfect surfaces when people are not around. You would definitely not want to try UVC light as a way to treat or disinfect a person.  So to be absolutely specific about it stay away from UV light to disinfect your body.  Yeah please do not do it.  All right. Well thank you for indulging our interest because I understand the real scientific reason that you are here today is to talk to us about pantyhose.  Yeah exactly. There is actually some really interesting research into nylon pantyhose out there. And it has to do with using stockings to make more effective face masks at home.  Please tell me we do not have to wear them over our heads at home and look like bank robbers on top of everything else.  No not exactly. Actually scientists started looking at pantyhose as face protection back in the early '80s. After the Three Mile Island nuclear accident researchers were basically looking to see what kind of household items you could use at home to protect yourself against breathing in nuclear fallout. Here's scientist Loretta Fernandez of Northeastern University.  What they found in the '80s was that if you just put a section of pantyhose over your face and stuffed anything in there that would do a pretty good job of keeping the fallout particles out.  So Fernandez heard about this research from a colleague. And she was really intrigued because she is been trying to figure out how to make better homemade masks during this pandemic. And she is actually been testing the masks that people are making to donate to hospitals. And she found when you add an outer layer made from pantyhose to the top of one of these homemade masks it makes them really way more effective at filtering out particles.  But is it worth really adding that extra layer to the masks that we already have to wear?  If you are worried about health yeah because the researchers found that just this extra nylon layer can make a homemade mask as much as 50 more effective. And when they added that extra nylon layer some of the masks performed as well or better than a surgical mask. And even the surgical masks they were testing performed better with that nylon layer.  But do you have to be an expert crafter to make it at home?  No no no no. It is really easy. You basically take the leg on a pair of pantyhose. And then you cut a section about 8 to 10 inches deep from top to bottom so that it looks like a ring. And then you take this ring and you put it on top of your homemade cloth mask because the goal is really to create a tighter seal between the mask and your face because how well a mask works is a function not just of what material it is made out of but just how well it is sealed to your face. And I should say that this research has not been peer-reviewed yet but I ran it by several top infectious disease experts who studied masks. And they thought it was really ingenious a great way to make cloth masks more protective. But I should say if you want to try this at home Fernandez does have a tip.  You know having done this I would recommend a perhaps a queen size  just to make breathing easier.  And by the way in case anyone's wondering she says tights should work too.  Truly news you can use. NPR science correspondent Maria Godoy thanks so much for being with us.  My pleasure Scott.  Some businesses are reopening in Georgia this weekend after Governor Brian Kemp loosened restrictions.  Restrictions that included barbers tattoo parlors and health clubs. But public health experts and some local governments say it is too soon to relax social distancing guidelines.  Grant Blankenship of Georgia Public Broadcasting has been following all these developments and joins us now. Grant thanks for being with us.  Yeah thanks for having me.  Georgia's one of the first states to begin allowing some businesses to reopen. Why did state authorities think it is OK?  Well so federal guidance suggests that states need 14 days of either flat or negative growth in coronavirus cases before taking steps to reopen the economy. The head of Georgia's Department of Public Health Kathleen Toomey says that is the case right now in Georgia.   And what you can see is that in terms of COVID cases particularly when you look at the rolling total which smooths out that curve it makes it easier to analyze. We definitely have a plateauing and what appears to be now a decline.  But when you look at the data that Toomey's department publishes every day that plateau is not actually there. The graph - that rolling total that she described - it is not even current within the two-week window. And on the last complete day of reporting the 10 of April the graph of new infections is definitely still trending up.  Grant we have been hearing a lot about contact tracing where health officials try to find anyone who may have come in contact with an infected person. How is that program going in Georgia?  Well there is not much big-picture information about that from the state. Michael Hawkinson  who represents the 13-county health district in the middle of Georgia - he says his office is able to do contact tracing when frontline workers like nurses doctors or staff and long-term care homes are found to be COVID-19 positive. But they only have enough capacity to track those people. Hawkinson says that is a really massive hole in contact tracing.  It is a huge gap. And we recognize that gap from the outset. And we have always had an issue with two things. And those two things are funding and manpower. And that one feeds into the other. And with this we are really seeing the impact of a lack of manpower.  So a bright spot - the Georgia National Guard is aggressively rolling out free testing for anyone regardless of symptoms. That is just not everywhere yet. And at the same time the number of Georgia residents tested is just about 1 of the population. So it is still really hard to know what the true infection rate is at the moment.  Grant for those who can go back to work do they strike you as eager or anxious?  Well we have definitely found more of these hands-on workers like barbers and gym owners who say they are not opening up and who say they will. Regina Ellis  is in the staying-closed camp. She is a cosmetologist in Albany Ga. That is down in the region of the state where we have the highest per capita COVID-19 death rates in the country.  You have close friends that we just saw in January and some of them are dead now. I was not pleased with you know the decision to open this back up.  And so Ellis says she is not gonna open up until mid-May at the earliest. But of course she realizes not everyone has that luxury and cannot really wait. So yesterday in Macon I met a barber who had full set of chairs and people in the waiting area.  Grant what is next in Georgia's plan?  So the state says they are hiring and training more contact tracers. Testing capacity is expanding and the governor has published a 26-page plan for reopening the state. But most immediately Monday restaurant dining rooms will be opened with new health guidelines. What is unclear is whether people will feel safe enough to show up at these restaurants to sit down and eat.  Grant Blankenship of Georgia Public Broadcasting thanks so much for being with us.  Yeah I appreciate the time.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday April 25.  Our podcast is produced and edited by Hiba Ahmad Samantha Balaban Sophia Boyd Ian Stewart Melissa Gray Ed McNulty and D. Parvaz.  Director Ned Wharton is in the studio with engineers Stu Rushfield Patrick Boyd and Jay Sizz .  Evie Stone is our supervising editor and our executive producer is Sarah Lucy Oliver.  And Jim Kane is our deputy managing editor. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST back Monday with news to start your week. And you can follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter. Do not be surprised to find a special episode in this podcast feed.  And of course there is always something special on your radio. Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. 