 Another deadly attack at the U.S. Capitol after a man rammed his vehicle into two Capitol Police officers at a checkpoint.  This incident comes less than three months after the siege of the Capitol building.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.  A shocking scene in Washington D.C. and one of the officers struck in the attack died of his injuries. We will look at the security implications.  And we will have the latest from the trial of the former Minneapolis Police officer Derek Chauvin. He is charged in the killing of George Floyd last week.  Plus a meeting - kind of - between the U.S. and Iran. Could this be a path to a new nuclear deal?  So stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   And it is with a very very heavy heart that I announce one of our officers has succumbed to his injuries.  That is acting Capitol Police Chief Yogananda Pittman yesterday as she announced the death of officer William Evans an 18-year veteran of the force. Another officer is still in the hospital but is stable and has non-life-threatening injuries.  The suspect was killed following his attack on the officers at the Capitol. Several news organizations have reported that unnamed law enforcement sources say the suspect was a 25-year-old man from Indiana. NPR has not confirmed those reports. Joining us now to discuss a very difficult three months for the Capitol Police is NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales. Claudia thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me Scott.  This has been trying and sad times for the Capitol Police. And that was acknowledged by the chief was not it?  Yes. Capitol Police have lost two officers after the January 6 insurrection. And now you have the loss of a new officer that you mentioned there in this new tragedy. You could hear it in Pittman's voice as she talked to a reporter. Let us take a listen.   I just ask that the public continue to keep U.S. Capitol Police and their families and in your prayers. This has been an extremely difficult time for U.S. Capitol Police.  The Capitol has seen security installed after the insurrection scaled back in recent weeks so this will shape current talks on this and how lawmakers can better support these officers.  Claudia as authorities have been able to piece things together what exactly happened yesterday?  Pittman said that shortly after 1 p.m. local time this suspect entered the north barricade of the Capitol. Normally this is a busy entrance to the Senate but Congress was in recess so it was supposed to be a quiet day. Pittman said the suspect rammed his car into two of their officers struck a barricade and then exited his vehicle lunging at officers with a knife at which time they opened fire. The suspect was pronounced dead while one of those officers as we mentioned at the top there William Evans who was known as Billy died. As you mentioned he was an 18-year veteran. And we know he was a father to two children Logan and Abigail . This is - the other officer remains in the hospital but he is in stable condition with non-life-threatening injuries.  And what response have we had so far from President Biden and congressional leaders?  Biden said he will continue to be briefed on this incident and that he and the first lady Jill Biden share their condolences and gratitude for the Capitol Police. Congressional members struck a similar note. Both Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said they both spoke with the Evans family and shared their condolences with his mother and children. Ohio Democratic Congressman Tim Ryan - his subcommittee oversees the Capitol Police - told reporters that this incident ripped off the scab if you will that was left after the January 6 insurrection. It hits hard for this family of lawmakers police and others that have grown closer since the riot.  And what is ahead after this incident Claudia?  So acting D.C. Police Chief Robert Contee said his department's homicide and internal affairs divisions will investigate the death of the officer and the suspect. Here's what he said.   Clearly this was someone who was actively trying to just get at whoever or whatever. We just do not know right now. So we have a responsibility to investigate that to get to the bottom of this.  He also told reporters there was no indication the suspect was known to area law enforcement or that this is terrorism related. But we are expecting this to add to the layers of investigations already ongoing in the aftermath of the insurrection.  NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales thank you so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.   In Minneapolis this week videos showed key moments before George Floyd died. The often startling and compelling images were presented during the murder trial of former police officer Derek Chauvin.  Chauvin who pressed his knee on George Floyd's neck for more than nine minutes faces charges of murder and manslaughter. The first week of testimony wrapped up and the trial resumes Monday. NPR's Cheryl Corley is in Minneapolis has been covering the trial. Cheryl thanks so much for being with us.  You are quite welcome Scott.  Many of the witnesses testifying of course were bystanders at the scene of George Floyd's arrest. One of them was Darnella Frazier who recorded the video that became so well-known and led to massive demonstrations. What did she have to say?  Well Frazier who was 17 years old at the time - she and three other minors testified during the trial. And she talked about walking her 9-year-old cousin to the grocery store and seeing Floyd pinned to the ground pleading for his life. So she ushered her cousin into the store - she did not really want her to see that - and then came back to videotape what she was seeing. And in the courtroom she just cried tears streaming down her face as she talked about it.   It is been nights I stayed up apologizing and apologizing to George Floyd for not doing more and not physically interacting and not saving his life.  You know this week was just so emotional for many of those bystanders who were testifying including 19-year-old Christopher Martin. He was a cashier who took the 20 fake bill that Floyd gave him which led to Floyd's arrest. And Martin said when he saw what was happening he just felt disbelief and guilt and wished he had never taken that bill.  Cheryl of course that video of George Floyd lying on the ground is so well-known around the world at this point. Prosecutors tried to fill in some of the human personality of that hearing testimony from his girlfriend Courteney Ross. What did her story provide?  Well she presented what is called kind of spark-of-life testimony letting people know that a person - what a person was really like. And she talked about how she met Floyd at a Salvation Army while he was a security guard during a time when she was really feeling distressed.   I like to say his voice dropped like two levels even though it was deep already. And he asked me if he could get my number. And we had our first kiss in the lobby. And that is when our relationship started.  You know and Ross said George Floyd loved working out lifting weights playing sports with kids. But she also talked about their dependency on prescription drugs and she called it a classic story of how many people get addicted to opioids.   We both suffered from chronic pain. Mine was in my neck and his was in his back. We got addicted and tried really hard to break that addiction many times.  And an effort by prosecutors just to kind of get ahead of what they expect to come from the defense - them talking about George Floyd's drug addiction.  Cheryl what stood out for you during this first week of the trial?  Well two things - the first the testimony of police officers against their own. We heard from them talking about police use of force and the department's policy. And we heard from Chauvin's supervisor now retired Sergeant David Pleoger who testified there really was not any justification for keeping Floyd in that position for so long.   When Mr. Floyd was no longer offering up any resistance to the officers they could have ended the restraint.  And that was after he was handcuffed and on the ground and no longer resisting.  Correct.  And I think the second thing that was just so surprising was the really overwhelming amount of video that is - become a part of this trial showing George Floyd as a customer and multiple versions of his arrest and takedown by officers from their police body-worn cameras.  NPR's Cheryl Corley in Minneapolis thanks so much.  You are welcome.   They do not plan to be in the same room together but the U.S. and Iran have agreed to a new effort next week to try and revive the 2015 nuclear deal.  The meetings start Tuesday in Vienna and will be mediated by the other countries that signed on to that agreement. Former President Donald Trump of course pulled the U.S. out in 2018 saying that the agreement was not tough enough.  But the Biden White House wants a reboot saying the accord keeps Iran from building nuclear weapons. NPR's diplomatic correspondent Michele Kelemen joins us now. Good morning.  Good morning.  All right Michele the U.S. and Iran both say they want to rejoin the deal. So why is it so hard to do?  Because no one wants to go first. The Biden administration says it does not want to make concessions just to get back to talks. The Iranians do not want to talk with the U.S. first because they think the U.S. is trying to change the deal that they and other world powers agreed to back in 2015. So you know both sides really have politics at home. And diplomats need to come up with a plan to kind of get them back into compliance with this deal at the same time. For the U.S. it means letting Iran get back to some business with the rest of the world easing up on sanctions. And for the Iranians it means adhering to the caps on its nuclear program again.  This has been such a fraught process. From the American perspective can you remind us what the arguments are for and against the U.S. getting back into the deal?  Well critics of the deal said that you know it never addressed Iran's missile program Iran's support for militant groups. And they think that if the U.S. eases up on sanctions now Iran gets more money and it will just spend it on those kinds of activities. So Mark Dubowitz of the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is in that camp. He says this is just a redux of the Obama administration's approach. And on Twitter he wrote - and this is a quote - the Biden administration's capitulation is on its way. Kelsey Davenport of another Washington think tank the Arms Control Association has a very different perspective. She says the deal was effective when both sides were complying. So just take a listen to her.   There is no better way to restore the limits and enhanced monitoring on Iran's nuclear program. I mean restoring the deal heads off a nuclear crisis that the United States in the region you know cannot afford and it paves the way for further talks with Iran on a broader range of issues.  Issues like some of those other things there is other areas of concerns - the missiles the militant support those kinds of things.  OK so what should we expect from this round of talks next week? Is any major movement possible?  Well all the countries that signed the deal will be involved so the U.K. France Germany Russia and China. But they are going to meet separately with Iran and with the U.S. so lots of shuttling around. The European Union's also setting up working groups to deal with some of the technical issues you know things like when does the U.S. start allowing Iran to sell more oil or when does Iran dismantle its nuclear equipment that is outside the deal? So the Europeans are hoping they can come up with a concrete plan to get both the U.S. and Iran back into compliance. The Americans are kind of portraying this as the start of some really tough diplomacy ahead and not raising expectations of a big breakthrough. I would like to mention a separate issue. This weekend U.S. citizen Siamak Namazi marks a grim milestone that is 2000 days in an Iranian prison. His father also cannot leave Iran even though his father's sentence was commuted. The U.S. has been working through back channels to try to resolve those and other cases. The families of those detained are clearly hoping for any kind of movement on that front.  That is important to remember. That is NPR diplomatic correspondent Michele Kelemen. Thank you very much.  Thank you.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday April 3 2021. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon.  UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week.  But for now there is more smart reporting compelling guests stuff that is just plain interesting and fun on the radio.  On Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. 