 Decades of war at least a quarter of a million people dead trillions of dollars spent. And now as the U.S. leaves Afghanistan the Taliban takes over.  The U.S. hoped Afghan forces could protect the country. So what happened? We have a report from Kabul.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Tamara Keith. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.  As Kabul braces for a Taliban takeover 3000 U.S. troops are headed there to try to help evacuate Americans. What will President Biden do next?  And is the delta variant drives a new wave of COVID infections the CDC says some vaccinated Americans with weak immune systems should get a third shot. We will tell you who should roll up their sleeves.  So stay with us for all the news you need to start your weekend.   The list of cities that Taliban have captured grows by the day and almost by the hour. And earlier today there were reports that they are essentially on the outskirts of Kabul which many think might fall soon.  Meanwhile growing fears of a humanitarian crisis - a quarter million people have been forced from their homes by fighting since May. The U.N. says that half of Afghan children under the age of 5 are severely malnourished.  We are joined now from Kabul by reporter Lynne O'Donnell. Lynne thanks so much for being with us. LYNNE O' Hello there.  And please let us begin on what is the latest you know about where the Taliban offensive is? O' The latest reports put the number of provincial capitals to have fallen at 18. This means probably more than two thirds of the country is now under Taliban control. You are right. They are very very close to Kabul. And the conditions here are deteriorating by the hour as people are flooding into the capital from all parts of the country to escape the prospect of a Taliban takeover the fighting to try and keep them out of some places and indeed the Taliban control and what it means for them.  And we have been hearing from many Afghans about what they fear it will mean. This is a clip from an Afghan citizen Rangina Hamidi  who spoke with NPR yesterday.   I have a young daughter who is in fifth grade. And we have other kids living with us. You know they are oblivious to what is happening in Afghanistan. But it struck me to think and look at them and say God forbid but something can happen any minute. And these joyous little girls' playing may end in a second.  And can you tell us what you have been hearing from Afghans? O' This uncertainty is just agonizing. People who are resident in Kabul and have their homes and their jobs many are trying to get out. There is a rapidly worsening shortage of air tickets to get out of the country. A lot of the embassies that were issuing visas to Afghans quite easily up until very recently are no longer doing so. It is very difficult for Afghan people to find a way out of the country at all. The Taliban long ago took control of the border points. So even escaping by road is now no longer possible. As you know people here are armed. And that could very easily lead to armed fighting in the streets in the capital of the country.  Lynne I think a question that is occurring to a lot of people in Afghanistan and in America today as as they know the terrible prospects ahead - the U.S. has spent more than 80 billion supporting building up fighting with Afghan forces. Why has the Afghan military failed to put up a fight? O' The Afghan army and the police have just been melting away in the face of hot battle. And nobody can understand why some of those 18 provincial cities that have fallen in the past week have fallen without a shot being fired. The government of Ashraf Ghani has shown no leadership has been incapable of coming up with a strategy. So the question has to be asked of President Ghani. I do not know what the answer would be. But one of the answers has got to be corruption. A lot of that money has been pilfered. Police have not been paid for three months. The soldiers are the same. They are going without food supply of ammunition arms. They sit on the front lines calling for air strikes that do not come in. And none of them have faith in the government. If you do not believe in what you are fighting for why fight?  In the face of these momentous events President Ashraf Ghani finally issued a statement but it was prerecorded. Did that raise public confidence? O' I do not think it is raised public confidence. There may be a sigh of relief that he has not resigned as had been widely expected. At least there is some consistency with President Ghani staying in office. People do not have to worry who is going to take over and what is going to be the political playout? But there has not been anything that President Ghani has said that will change the situation on the battlefield or make people feel confident that he is come up with a strategy and is going to become the leader that their country needs.  Reporter Lynne O'Donnell in Kabul thanks so much. Take care. O' Thank you.   President Biden promised that the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan would be quote responsible deliberate and safe.  He did not seem to anticipate the speed with which Afghan forces would collapse. Here's the president on July 8.   The jury is still out. But the likelihood there is going to be the Taliban overrunning everything and owning the whole country is highly unlikely.  But as we have been hearing a month later that appears to be exactly what is happening.  NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez joins us now. Good morning Franco. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Good morning Tam.  Franco first tell us the latest on what the American government is doing at this point. ORDO Yeah what I can tell you is the first group of U.S. forces arrived in Kabul yesterday but the bulk of the 3000 troops going will get there by the end of the weekend to help evacuate most of the American embassy and Afghan civilians who supported the U.S. Basically there is increased concern of the government in Kabul collapsing. The Taliban has now taken over two-thirds of the country. And Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said there is no question that the Taliban is trying the same tactics it used to isolate and take control over other provincial capitals now on Kabul.  Biden is in some risky political waters here and Republicans are obviously blasting him. Any sign that the White House may rethink its plans as this situation escalates? ORDO Well certainly plans are changing. The Biden administration would not be sending even a temporary military force in if it was confident that the Afghans could handle a bit of security. But it is very unlikely that the United States is going to return to combat operations. As one former ambassador for Afghanistan Ryan Crocker told me you cannot rewind this film. It is an entirely different Taliban - much stronger - and they are feeding off the momentum that they have. Could the United States go back? Yes. And is there really any question about the outcome against the United States? No. But Crocker says the costs the likelihood of human casualties is not something that Biden or frankly the American people is ready for at this point.  It would destroy his presidency not least because they would have to fight their way back in. And they would clearly take casualties doing it. ORDO And recent polls show that the American public largely supports Biden here in withdrawing U.S. forces from Afghanistan.  What about the argument that many critics have made that the United States could have kept a smaller force a few thousand troops there to keep things stable? ORDO Yeah the Biden administration is probably pushing back hardest against that one. They say it is a false argument and that there is no way that 2500 or 3000 U.S. troops could have done what obviously the Afghan army of 300000 could not do. There is also the view that after 20 years nothing much more could be done. Ivo Daalder who served as a U.S. ambassador to NATO says the United States has already invested trillions of dollars into the training and resources trying to build Afghan security forces so it could defend the country.  For his critics who say oh if we had just stayed a little longer we would have avoided the situation if you were not able to do what needs to be done in 20 years why do you think 21 or 22 years would have done the trick? ORDO But others argue that this crisis was avoidable and that the United States is running out on the people of Afghanistan. Of course the administration says they are doing everything they can to help Afghans who supported the United States. That said for much of the other over 30 million Afghans their future might rest more in the hands of the Taliban.  NPR's Franco Ordoez thanks so much. ORDO Thank you.  And for the latest on the White House and Capitol Hill from Franco and our colleagues in D.C. including me just search for the NPR Politics Podcast wherever you listen.   Millions of people should get a third dose of the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine if they have a condition that suppresses their immune system.  That is the advice coming from two federal health agencies this week. But what if you got the Johnson  Johnson vaccine? And what about boosters for everyone?  NPR health reporter Pien Huang has some answers and joins us now. Pien thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  Let us start with that recommendation from the CDC and the FDA. Who specifically are they saying ought to get a third dose?  It applies to about 7 million people in the U.S. that are strongly immunocompromised. These could be people who have had an organ transplant and are on drugs to prevent organ rejection to people getting chemotherapy for cancer. Some chronic diseases like advanced HIV or kidney disease can also suppress the immune system. In many cases people with very weak immune systems did not have a strong response to their initial COVID shots. And some studies are showing that a third dose could help. Valen Keefer who is had a liver and kidney transplant is thrilled at the news.  This is amazing and such an important step and needed for a while for our transplant community. And this has been so hard for us through the entire time of COVID to try and stay safe.  So this is a big step. But doctors say even if people with weakened immune systems get a third shot they are still at high risk especially with the delta variant. And they should still protect themselves with masks and social distancing.  What about loved ones friends and family around them?  Well those around them should be fully vaccinated but not with an additional dose at least not yet.  Well Pien what is the science behind these new recommendations?  Well public health officials are always on the lookout for waning immunity to any vaccine. And right now of course the focus is on COVID. But what happened here is while studies of two-dose vaccines show that they work well for most people they have not worked for many with seriously suppressed immune systems. These people are still getting infections sometimes very seriously. And some studies show they account for about 40 of people that are vaccinated but still getting sick enough to get hospitalized for COVID. This third dose looks like it could bring some of them into the same protective range as healthier people. Now this recommendation is not for people who are not severely immunosuppressed. It does not cover people with diabetes or heart disease. They are not recommending it for people in nursing homes either. For those groups the vaccines have mostly worked as intended. And I should also add that people who got the Johnson  Johnson single-dose vaccine are not part of this recommendation either because the FDA and CDC say there just is not enough data yet.  Let me voice a question millions of Americans might have today. Is my vaccine wearing off? Do I need another dose?  The CDC's vaccine advisory committee met yesterday. And they looked at the latest data on the need for boosters overall. Israel and Germany have actually already started giving boosters to some people. But the CDC told its advisers that there is not enough evidence to support them yet. Immunity seems to persist at high levels for at least six to eight months. And the vaccines are still doing a good job at keeping people from getting very sick from the coronavirus and its variants. What is more important they said is getting more people in the U.S. their first and second shots right now.  What is ahead with these vaccines?  Well the FDA is still considering a few important applications. Both Pfizer and Moderna have applied for full approval for their vaccines. And soon when the data is available they will consider vaccines for young children from ages 6 months through 11. And health officials say they are keeping a close eye on whether boosters are needed for the general population over the next couple of months. It will depend on how the pandemic develops.  NPR health reporter Pien Huang thanks so much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday August 14 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Tamara Keith. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  What a crazy concept - Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings - find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  