 Pencils papers notebooks masks - back-to-school season delta edition.  And with most children still unvaccinated we have got tips for how to tell if it is just a runny nose or time to get tested.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   As U.S. troops withdraw and the Taliban advances there is fear and despair in Afghanistan.   We are no longer talking about preserving the progress and the rights we have gained. We are talking about mere survival.  A United Nations official conveys what she hears from Afghan women.  And we will hear from Capitol Hill where a trillion dollars of infrastructure investment faces the yeas and nays of the Senate today. Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Early in this pandemic it seemed that children were being spared the worst of the coronavirus. Now as the delta variant spreads across the United States doctors are seeing more sick kids.  Of course children younger than 12 are not yet eligible for a vaccine but millions of students are going back to school this month and rules for things like masking and testing vary widely.  So NPR's Pien Huang is here to talk to us about how to keep kids safe. Good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  I gather you spoke with a bunch of public health experts who are also parents. I mean I have got an 8-year-old myself so I know that any time kids get together germs are going to spread. But first of all what should I do if my daughter wakes up with say the sniffles?  Well the doctors I spoke with all said the sniffles can mean a lot of things like colds allergies or of course it could be COVID. Seema Lakdawala a flu researcher at the University of Pittsburgh went through this recently. Her 8-year-old woke up with a runny nose. Step one she says was to keep her home. And step two...  I will call the pediatrician and just talk through where we have been. If we were traveling I think I would be more concerned. If we would been on a plane recently then I would you know definitely want to try to go get her tested.  In this case she and the doctor thought it was allergies. And sure enough the kid took some allergy meds and she stopped sneezing.  So no COVID test in that case. But what would prompt doctors to suggest there is a reason to get tested?  Well it could be the symptoms if your child has a fever or a loss of taste and smell. It could be the situation if your kid has been exposed. And what they said is that it helps to do some research now to know where you could get tested quickly. Maybe your pediatrician has walk-in hours. Maybe your local health department runs a site nearby. And some of these places can give results in 12 to 24 hours. That is for a PCR test which is still considered to be the gold standard. Another option is to keep some antigen tests at home. You can now get these 15-minute rapid tests from many pharmacies. And they can add up. They generally cost about 25 but they are considered fairly reliable for people with symptoms. So if someone has the sniffles it could give you a pretty good read.  And what if my kid tests positive? What do I do then?  Well for starters do not panic. Dr. Cassandra Pierre an epidemiologist at Boston Medical Center with young twins says that kids are very resilient.  Yes with the delta variant we are hearing about more cases of infections significant infection in children hospitalization in children. But still we know that children are less likely to get those severe complications.  Now before it happens come up with a household plan. Is there a room and bathroom they can have to themselves? Lakdawala and her husband have two young kids so their plan is to split into parent-child pairs. One cares for the sick kid the other for the not. They would stay in different parts of the house take turns in the kitchen. But if space is tight there are other things you can do. Everyone should wear masks except when eating or sleeping. Open the windows run some fans use an air filter. And after a few days test to see if anyone else is sick. And if you think you might need backup you can come up with a list of family and friends and neighbors that are fully vaccinated.  What if a classmate tests positive for COVID? I mean would my kid then need to quarantine?  The CDC definition of a close contact at school is actually pretty limited. So if your kid was at least 3 feet away from that person who tests positive and they were both fully masked your kid is not exposed. But if one of them was not masked your child would probably need to quarantine assuming that they are not vaccinated. Well the experts I talked with said just be reasonable. Keep some distance especially from vulnerable or unvaccinated people in the house. Wear masks if you can. But the child does not necessarily have to go to their room and stay there. And the rest of the family can generally go about their essential business. One expert said that she would feel comfortable sending the rest of the family to school and work and the grocery store with masks but she would cancel nonessential things like play dates and dinners out.  That is NPR's Pien Huang. Thank you very much.  Thank you.   The top U.N. official in Afghanistan says that the conflict there is entering a deadlier and more destructive phase.   This is now a different kind of war reminiscent of Syria recently or Sarajevo in the not-so-distant past.  Deborah Lyons offered that grim report to the U.N. Security Council Friday as the Taliban gain more ground.  This comes less than a month before America's military mission in Afghanistan officially ends. NPR's Michele Kelemen is tracking all this for us. Hi there.  Good morning.  I mean really bad news out of Afghanistan. Where do things stand?  Yeah. I mean the Taliban offensive is ramping up. They gained control of a provincial capital near the border of Iran on Friday. They also assassinated the head of the Afghan government media and information center. And earlier this week they tried to kill the acting defense minister. Now there are mounting reports of atrocities in areas now controlled by the Taliban a lot of concern both inside and outside the country. The U.S. Embassy just today is telling Americans that they should leave immediately.  And so what more was said at that U.N. Security Council meeting?  So that U.N. special representative Deborah Lyons is trying to get the Security Council to put more pressure on the Taliban to stop fighting and actually negotiate. She said there is a mood of dread in the country and she described some of the really heartbreaking conversations that she is been having. Just take a listen.   As one Afghan put it to us recently we are no longer talking about preserving the progress and the rights we have gained. We are talking about mere survival. Another woman told us that she sometimes regrets that she had educated her daughter as that had put her daughter in a more vulnerable position.  So you hear just you know a lot of fear particularly among women about the Taliban regaining control. And U.N. officials are expecting lots of Afghans to try to flee and that creates a refugee crisis. So there is concern in the region about that.  And this is happening also very very quickly. The White House is condemning these assassinations the ongoing fighting. But are they offering a way out?  Well you know the White House says after 20 years of war U.S. troops are coming home. There is no change in that. They are helping to bring Afghans who worked with the U.S. here. They are expanding the category of Afghans who can apply for visas and eventually move to the U.S. It was initially just for those who worked with the military. Now Afghans who worked with the U.S. media or with aid groups can also apply. But as for peace talks things really seem stuck. You know the Taliban feel emboldened by their military gains on the ground. And it is quite jarring really for many to see this fighting on the ground while the Taliban negotiators sit in fancy hotels in Doha Qatar where peace talks have stalled. The State Department says it is not ready to throw in the towel on those talks. And they think that the Taliban understand that they will not have international legitimacy if they take over the country by force. But it is really hard to see any sign that that message is sinking in.  That is NPR's Michele Kelemen. Thank you very much.  Thank you.   One step forward two steps - well it is hard to tell really. But the Senate's 1 trillion infrastructure bill is up for a kind of vote today.  Yeah it is a procedural step for the legislation and a way to kind of see just how much support it actually has after months of bipartisan wrangling and haggling.  NPR congressional correspondent Kelsey Snell has been following this and joins us now. Kelsey thanks so much for being with us.  Always glad to be here.  I think we have talked about infrastructure before have not we?   Just a few times.  But maybe we should remind ourselves what infrastructure means.  You know in this case it is all about traditional infrastructure basically how Americans physically get around and move goods around. President Biden called on Republicans and Democrats to find at least some common ground on infrastructure and this is the result of that. You know it is a major part of his agenda. And he is right that infrastructure has traditionally been an area where the two parties agree. Now in the case of this bill there was an agreement on about a trillion dollars in spending. About half of that money is new investments things above and beyond what Congress was already on track to spend. The negotiators focused on funding areas they you know all count as infrastructure so largely stuff that is known as hard infrastructure - roads bridges airports waterways things like that. It also includes some broadband and some water reserves for drought-prone areas and some electric vehicle funding but really not a lot else beyond that. A lot of Republicans and Democrats agree that the country does need to spend more money on these kinds of things but Democrats say the current definition of infrastructure is just lacking.  So this vote today is not exactly about that is it?  No this is just a procedural vote that is necessary to end debate and move ahead with the legislation. But it really does let us know how much support there is. It is common practice for most legislation to have this kind of procedural vote. It is - we talk about the filibuster a lot. This is kind of where that comes into play. They need at least 60 votes for this bill to clear the Senate and to move forward to a final vote. Negotiators believe they have those votes to make that happen. All 50 Democrats are expected to support the bill and a sufficient number of Republicans are on board. There was a little bit of a dust-up earlier this week when the Congressional Budget Office released their analysis of the bill. They estimate the legislation would add about 250 billion to the deficit. But supporters more or less dismissed that saying you know CBO did not count all of the elements that they themselves count. The top two negotiators which includes Democrat Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona and Republican Rob Portman of Ohio - you know they said they expected this estimate would be different than their projections because you know CBO is limited in what they can include in their scoring. And they are moving ahead.  Should we expect a final vote in the coming days?  In the coming days yes - maybe today maybe tomorrow. The timing is really kind of unclear in part because senators want to move things along. If they were just going to follow the regular order of things the way that the Senate rules are set up it could happen sometime on Monday or Tuesday. But senators really want to get this over with and there might be some sort of an agreement to move things forward. But after that we do not really know what is going to happen. Senate Democrats plan to move quickly to a budget resolution that would pave the way for as much as 3.5 trillion in new spending. And the budget rules allow them to do this without the support of any Republicans. And they plan to use a feature of the budget process - we have talked about this before - it is known as reconciliation. And they want to use it to pass more of Biden's goals things like free community college paid family leave and some climate change provisions. But that might take months largely because they do not agree amongst themselves on how much money they should spend and what should be included. And House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says she will not take up the bipartisan bill that is up today without that legislation.  NPR congressional correspondent Kelsey Snell thanks so much for being there.  Thank you so much for having me.  And for more from Kelsey and the rest of our team on Capitol Hill just search for the NPR Politics Podcast wherever you listen.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday August 7 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news interviews books music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings - find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  