 President Trump threatens to cut funding needed for mail-in voting and then backs away.  While California Senator Kamala Harris hits the campaign trail as Joe Biden's running mate.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.  The president said that withholding funds needed by the Postal Service would effectively cripple a universal mail-in ballot for November's election. We will tell you why he switched course.  Also Gaitergate. Are those neck tubes effective in preventing the spread of the coronavirus? Maybe maybe not. Do not throw them away just yet.  And tensions escalate between the U.S. and Iran after the U.S. seized a massive shipment of Iranian fuel headed to Venezuela.  Please stay with us. We got the news you need to start your weekend.   President Trump continues to offer conflicting statements about widescale voting by mail as many voters request ballots so they do not have to line up at polling places in November.  Earlier this week the president appeared to acknowledge that blocking the funds from the U.S. Postal Service would help him politically. But by Friday he had started to backtrack.  White House correspondent Franco Ordoez joins us now to talk about that and Kamala Harris' first few days on the campaign trail. Franco thanks so much for being with us. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Hi Scott.  Is it clear to you if President Trump is going to support additional money to help the election infrastructure before people start voting? ORDO It is really not. I mean what we do know is that it is a major hang-up in the latest round of negotiations over a coronavirus relief package. As you noted the president acknowledged in an interview with Fox Business that the Postal Service could not handle mail-in voting without the additional money and that created a bit of backlash. The president later adjusted his position. And look. The Postal Service is already having issues with delays and disruptions. And now it is warning almost every state in the country that mail-in ballots might come in too late to be counted. That is according to The Washington Post. So this really has the potential of being a very big deal.  And of course let me put it this way - the president was very expansive about Joe Biden's pick for vice president Senator Kamala Harris. What did he say? ORDO Right. He and his campaign took very sharp aim at Harris very quickly calling her a phony and a radical amplifying baseless conspiracy theories and more.   I watched those debates. They were very boring but they were debates nevertheless. And I watched you know pretty good parts of them. And she treated Biden worse than anybody else by far. There was nobody - including Pocahontas nobody treated Biden so badly as Kamala.  Well let me ask you this then - do you have an issue with a strong woman of color being in this presidential race?  None whatsoever.  You dont see her as a threat?  As you - no none whatsoever. Nope not at all. ORDO You know this could all serve as kind of a preview of future attacks from Trump as well as the campaign. It is really likely to be a tough race.  Franco tell us about the news the president did have to announce from the Middle East. ORDO Right. Israel and the United Arab Emirates are working toward normalizing ties. The two have been working together behind the scenes but the Trump administration did help move it along broker a deal where the two nations are now working toward normalizing diplomatic relations.   Israel and the United Arab Emirates will fully normalize their diplomatic relations. They will exchange embassies and ambassadors and begin cooperation across the board and on a broad range of areas including tourism education health care trade and security. ORDO Now this deal did not get as much attention because of all the domestic news. And I should note - it is not the Middle East plan but it is a big deal. And Trump - you know also this week on Friday he kicked off his briefing noting a former FBI lawyer Kevin Clinesmith is pleading guilty to altering email related to the surveillance warrant for former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page. President Trump as expected is touting this as more evidence that the Russia investigation was politically motivated. And he promises more to come.  White House correspondent Franco Ordoez. thanks so much. ORDO Thank you.  And you can find more reporting from the White House the Capitol and the campaign by subscribing to the NPR Politics Podcast.   You all know this. Public health officials have been reminding us for months how important it is to wear masks or other face coverings during this pandemic.  We have been told they reduce the spread of the coronavirus but as apparently as written in the U.S. Constitution all face coverings are not created equal.  And this week there was confusion over reports that a certain kind known as the neck gaiter could actually encourage the spread of the coronavirus. What is going on? Here is NPR science correspondent Richard Harris to give us some clarity. Good morning.  Good morning.  All right. Tell us the story of this - now I cannot believe I am saying this word - controversial face covering. They are made of thinner fabrics and seem to be especially popular with runners.  That is right. And you know the story is about a fabric tube that you can wear around your neck and you can pull it up over your mouth and nose. And the misunderstanding about this actually comes from a paper published in the journal Science Advances by a team at Duke University. A doctor there wanted to give away masks but he was hoping to figure out which ones worked best. So he sent a bunch of different products down to the physics department. There professor Martin Fischer and a team - including as a matter of fact his undergraduate daughter Emma  - set out to devise a way to see how effective masks were at blocking respiratory droplets.  The aim of the study was never to do a systematic study of all mask types and mask materials. Mask very all over the place.  He just wanted to develop a testing technique that he could share. And in the process of doing that Fischer ran 14 different masks through this process just to see how well the system he devised would work. A volunteer would say stay healthy people five times into a device including a laser smartphone and apparently some duct tape. So far so good. N95 those respirator masks did find and most of those layered cotton masks he tested were pretty efficient.  OK. That seems pretty straightforward. So why did this kind of routine lab study become - and I am going to use the word again - controversial?  Well it turns out that one of the face coverings in this pile that he was asked to test was the gaiter or neck tube whatever you want to call it.  Bum bum bum - the one that we tested was a 92 polyester 8 spandex blend. It was single layer. You can stretch it out. You look at it through - hold against the sun. And you can see light going through it. And you easily blow through it.  And the test itself involved a single test and a single volunteer probably what you would call a rigorous study of this garment in particular or certainly not neck gaiters in general. But some reporter picked up on this finding and decided to write a story focusing on this single outcome and saying that neck gaiters do not really work as face coverings.  So that does not seem to be the end of the issue. Are these neck gaiters actually useful in this pandemic aside from covering any blotches on your neck?   Well not much. And that is for sure. In general we know that materials that you can see through and that can easily blow through are not really likely to be very effective as compared to a denser material for a mask. But you know of course the denser the material it is the harder it is to breathe. So everyone would like to find that sweet spot where it is not too hard to breathe but the face covering is still blocking particles.  What about those masks that have you know those vents to help you breathe out? They look so useful and you can breathe easier in those.  That is true. And in fact the sample in this study did not do too badly. But you know the CDC advises people not to use them. They are actually designed to protect the person who is wearing them from inhaling bad stuff not exhaling things like say a virus. And that really defeats the purpose of wearing a mask because we want to control the spread of the coronavirus of course. Let us remember that the main reason that health officials are telling us to wear masks is many people who have coronavirus do not know it. So we are mostly protecting people around us when we wear a mask. I will say there is also some evidence that they protect the wearer as well but I would say do not count on that.  NPR's science correspondent Richard Harris breaking it down for us. Thank you so much Richard.  Happy to be with you Lulu.  Now let us move to the Persian Gulf where we are watching to see - Iran responds to dramatic moves by the U.S. The Justice Department says that the U.S. has seized four tankers carrying Iranian fuel to Venezuela.  These are both countries the U.S. has been trying to isolate. Last night the Trump administration tried and failed to pass an arms embargo on Iran at the U.N. Security Council. NPR's Jackie Northam has been following the story and she joins us now. Good morning.  Morning Lulu.  What can you tell us about what happened with these ships?  Well the Justice Department said that it seized four Greek-owned ships carrying Iranian fuel that was destined for Venezuela. As you said the order to seize ships and confiscate more than a million barrels of the cargo was issued by a U.S. district court. And the DOJ said the action was carried out with the help of foreign partners although it did not name which countries took part. The fuel is now on its way to the U.S. where it will be sold and some profits will be given to a fund for victims of state-sponsored terrorism. But it is unclear what happened to the four tankers. We do not know where they are now.  I am sure Iran views this as an escalation. What has been their response so far?  Well Iran's ambassador to Venezuela slammed the U.S. not surprisingly saying the seizure and the confiscation was quote fake news and that the four tankers really had nothing to do with Iran. I talked with some shipping analysts and they say actually this is all part of a broader move by the U.S. to put pressure on shipping companies and their insurers not to do business with Iran. And if they do the U.S. is going to come after them you know. Make no mistake. Iran needs oil sales. Its economy has been hit badly by the U.S. sanctions and the Trump administration is warning other countries that if they do business with Iran they will get cut off from the U.S. banking system. Now some countries like Venezuela and China have either been able to skirt or just really simply ignore those threats from the U.S. But many others have not. And it is hurting Iran you know. It is deepening its economic crisis.  This is a very complex story and there were a few other developments this week. As you mentioned just last night the U.S. failed to pass an arms embargo on Iran at the U.N. Security Council last night. Of 15 members of the council only two voted in favor - the U.S. and the Dominican Republic. I mean that is got to have been pretty humiliating for the U.S. The embargo is set to expire in October.  That is right. I mean this vote was seen as an embarrassment or even as you say a humiliating defeat for the U.S. you know. The Trump administration put a lot of pressure on other nations allies to extend a ban on the sale of conventional weapons to Iran. And it failed. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called the result inexcusable and said the U.S. would continue trying to prevent Iran from getting conventional weapons. But you know Russia and China did not even have to use their veto powers because fewer than nine members voted in favor and this gives you a sense of how isolated the U.S. has become when it comes to Iran. And that is something the Iranian Ambassador to the U.N. Majid Takht-Ravanchi pointed out. He immediately tweeted that the results showed the security council's rejection of quote unilateralism.  But Jackie also this week we saw that the U.S. brokered an agreement between two U.S. allies Israel and the United Arab Emirates who are establishing diplomatic relations and are likely to counter Iran's moves in the region. So is there once again a concern that an incident like this could spark some sort of confrontation between the U.S. and Iran?  The U.S. says we have already seen some retaliation. Shortly after these four tankers were seized and the fuel confiscated Iranian forces boarded another ship in the Persian Gulf and tried unsuccessfully to take its oil. But Lulu certainly we could see more. Iran has retaliated before you know? It was just a year ago when it seized a British oil tanker and its 23 crew members in the Strait of Hormuz in retaliation for British forces detaining an Iranian tanker. And around that same time Iran was accused of using mines to attack ships in the Gulf. So this seizure this week by the U.S. could very well provoke some sort of new confrontation or retaliation by Iran.  And we will certainly watch for that. NPR's Jackie Northam thank you so much.  Thanks Lulu.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday August 15 2020. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter. And keep an eye on this feed for the occasional special episode.  And for more news interviews and just plain fun you can find us on the radio.  That is right. Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Locate your NPR station at stations.npr.org. 