 Hey UP FIRST listeners. It is A Martinez. Tonight fans will say goodbye to the HBO series Insecure. The hit comedy-drama from writer Issa Rae is set to air its series finale on HBO officially ending the Black cultural phenomenon. Earlier this month the NPR music podcast All Songs Considered host a conversation with Insecure music supervisor Kier Lehman about the show is impact and musical legacy. Here's the show.   From NPR Music and All Songs Considered I am Sidney Madden. And today we are low-key celebrating the end of an era OK? After five years of love loss and Black girl magic HBO's hit comedy-drama Insecure is coming to an end. Insecure is the creation of actor writer and producer Issa Rae and has become a cultural touchstone especially for Black fans who feel seen as awkward amazing and multifaceted on TV.    Diamante baby hairs laid. Money long long. B I been getting paid. Keep a big bag never fold Damier. B I am good in any hood but it is love in the Bay. And my wrists on baguette we as not shining the same. I pull up in a Range and the squad never change. Icy that is the gang gang gang. About to get it on the floor buss it down make it shake.  You are hearing Get It Girl from Bay Area rapper Saweetie off Insecure's final season soundtrack. Now this show will no doubt go down in pop culture history for many reasons. But on today's episode of All Songs Considered we are paying special attention in tribute to the music featured on the show and all the ways the show has influenced music. And today on the show to help me break it all the way down we have got a dream team of Insecure experts. From NPR Music's Tiny Desk producer Bobby Carter. Bobby what is up?  What is happening Sidney Madden?  And joining us from NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour co-host Aisha Harris. Hey Aisha.  Hey Sid. I am so glad to be here.  And finally here to share his wisdom and give us the inside track - see what I did there  - we got Insecure's music supervisor Kier Lehman. Kier welcome.  Hey. Thanks for having me through.  All right. So first off we just want to lay the foundation of how monumental Insecure is. So Aisha as our resident TV expert here you have been covering the show for a number of years. Can you give us a quick synopsis of what the series is and kind of where it sits in history when it comes to Black television?  Sure. So this show definitely goes back even further than the first episode of Insecure. If you know anything about Issa Rae she was the creator of a very popular web series called Awkward Black Girl which served as sort of the foundation for Insecure. And it was just about this young woman - this young Black woman who hated her job hated her office life hated her love life and was just trying to work through it in the most awkward ways possible. It is just very much a growing pains sort of TV - or sort of web series. And so that show sort of lay the foundation for Insecure. And Insecure is what I think of Awkward Black Girl but fully realized. It is also about this very interesting and fascinating relationship and dynamic between Issa and Molly who is played by Yvonne Orji. And to me what makes it so special is the fact that these are adults who do not have their stuff together.  .  It - they are so messy. And that is I think what makes it so different is that we are seeing all of these young people just trying to figure things out. And I think that that is what we are seeing the legacy is becoming now is - you know we are going to get a lot more 20-something 30-something Black women-focused shows and about the complexities and just the awkwardness and all of the messiness of that.  Yeah I completely agree. I love what you said about really peeling back the layers to show the complexities and how nobody is perfect. Nobody is a caricature of who media has previously presented Black women especially to be. And that definitely extends to how the music interplays and intertwines with everything. So what are some - I want everyone to answer this - what are some moments in the show is history where you feel like the music and the song choice made the scene what it was where it not only helps propel the story and the plot line forward but platformed it in a way that will remain in your mind forever? I will start with you Bobby.  The first one that comes to mind for me is when Dro and Molly were - sort of come to a head and Molly had asked for her key back. And in the background Cold War by Cautious Clay was playing.    Yellow-tinted lenses and a pink gelato. Falling out the window hit me back tomorrow. We will always be the one tough act to follow because we aiming for the stars with a point and hollow. I am feeling these songs mocking jokes and carols. I started this job selling rocks and arrows. Because they only swipe...  And I think that really just nailed it home. I mean when you listen to the lyrics of the song it just kind of made sense. Another quick one was not necessarily - it was more of a funny moment but when you guys play Leikeli47 Attitude - I think it was probably Season 2 when she was getting dressed...  Dress up yup.  Yeah when she was getting dressed up.    Dandridge attitude. Grace Jones attitude. Pay rent attitude or own homes attitude. Buffy Khan attitude. Champagne attitude. Kelis is God attitude. So is Beyonce attitude. Kelis is God.  Those are two of my favorites that really kind of enhanced the whole scene.  I love that. You are bringing back all the memories now. So Kier as our you know resident expert in here with the inside track can you give us a quick rundown of the process of picking the music and creating an episode where the characters and the music feel so integral?  It is a process. It is collaborative. There is a few people kind of involved in the process and we will work together with of course Issa leading the way and driving things with her vision. You know we started the beginning of the series - it was me Raphael Saadiq Solange Issa Melina - just talking through you know the sound of LA and who are the artists coming up that needed to reflect that sound. And so I work with Issa on each episode and we start with general playlists that I will send to her. But of course Issa is the decision-maker and the one who is got that ultimate vision of this is where she wants to go with the story. And sometimes she will come and say you know what? I picked this song but actually now that I watch it in the episode it is pushing the story too far forward. I remember an instance where we had a song - we pitched something. She picked it and then she came back a few days later and was like look you know what? This is pushing us too far in a different direction or in a direction that we are going to go eventually but I am not ready to go there in this episode right now so let us find something else. But it - you know those are kind of the situations that come up in the way that we work together where she has that very specific idea and concept of what the story is going to be and how these songs are going to play within the story and how we are going to tell the story with these songs. And then sometimes it is just a vibe from a song and sometimes it is going to be specific lyrical lines that speak for the character in that moment.  Right. So let us get into more music. Aisha what is one or two of your favorite musical moments from the show?  I mean the first one is the Season 2 finale with the Frank Ocean Biking .    I do not get weak in the knees. Hundreds spread out like a fan. Vert feel like some Gucci sandals. Open the sky get a handful. Torso marked up like a vandal. How you not fing with cash? God gave you what you could handle gave you what you could handle. I got the grip like the handle and I am biking. I am biking with me and my Daniel. Hades got the angels. TV's got the angles. I am breaking - got...  This is the end of the season so we are getting a little bit of a montage. And at this point Issa's job is in jeopardy. She has to move out of her apartment. You are seeing all these characters make sort of the same mistakes that they were trying not to make. And then you have Frank Ocean and this song that is about sort of being in this cyclical motion talking about biking and about being in his 20s and being all screwed up. And so I think that moment - just the soaring and then like the way it ends with like got a got a got a bike.    Got got me fed up. Got a million-dollar bike. Got a million-dollar bike. Got got me fed up. Got me fed up up million-dollar bike. Got got me fed up million-dollar bike. Got got me fed up.  Like I just love that as it sweeps up and you see like the vista of LA in that final shot. So that is one. And then my other one is sort of personal a little bit. But I love also in Season 2 when SZA's Supermodel plays.    I am writing this letter to let you know I am really leaving and no I am not keeping your shit. Heard you got some new homies got some new hobbies even a new hoe too. Maybe she can come help you. Maybe she can come lick you. After we are done what is done is done. I do not want nothing else to do with it. Let me tell you a secret. I have been secretly banging your homeboy. Why you in Vegas all up on Valentine's Day?  And it is kind of another sort of - not a montage so much but you see Issa sort of trying to rearrange her closet now that Lawrence is like really really out from the apartment. And then she like sends a text trying to hook up with someone. And for me I...  Oh is that the one where she sent it and it did not go through and then she sent it again?  No it is - it went through.  It went through because it...  No but she clicked it. And then I was like oh she almost did not send it. She...  Yeah.  The iPhone almost saved her. But no she shot her shot.  No she sent it. And what I love about that is that for me it was like my reintroduction to SZA. Like I had known who SZA was but I had not really connected with her music yet. And I was not quite on the Ctrl tip yet. So when I saw that scene and I heard the music I was like oh man. Like I need to go and listen to it. And then of course Ctrl became like one of my favorite albums because I saw it in that scene and I heard it in that scene. So all the SZA references throughout the series have been - chef's kiss. I love it.  Yeah I love that. I think Issa - and Kier like you have said in previous interviews that Ctrl could have been the soundtrack to an entire season like you know...  Oh yeah.  ...Front to back because it was just...  Yeah.  ...So on time. Yeah. I think about - even though I assert that Molly and Issa are probably the strongest relationship on the show and you know that is why Season 4 cut so deep with their conflicts and their disagreements I always remember the music that binds Issa and Lawrence together. Like in the beginning early seasons it was a lot of Sampha. Like when Lawrence confronted her about cheating with Daniel it was Timmy's Prayer. And then in Season 4 when they finally found their way back to each other and kind of reconciled it was Baby Rose who is a Tiny Desk alum so we going to talk about Tiny Desk alums in a minute - amazing. And then even in Season 5 in this series-closing season when they are still having ups and downs the first episode they basically break up with no words. So the song has to carry the nonverbal communication there and that was Nnena's Fun and that was in the first episode of this that season.    Was this just for fun? I need to know because my time lost showed me - showed me something more - what I bargain for? You took too much time. I made up my mind on my own love. All eyes on love. Heavy on my mind I need rain times on my own love. Oh my.  The odyssey of Lawrence and Issa - it is like the heartbreak never ends. And I feel like this - the music just exasperates the heartbreak. All right so as a part of our celebration of Insecure and all of its music over the years we have got a special Insecure Tiny Desk takeover that just went up today Friday December 17. It features performances from three new artists all of whom are on Insecure's final season soundtrack. That is Nnena B.K. Habermehl and TeaMarrr. Bobby as a Tiny Desk producer who really helps to craft the sound of how artists get to convey themselves and put in that work and present themselves on Tiny Desk you think about curation a lot. What similarities do you see between Tiny Desk and Insecure when it comes to curation?  Yeah I think the first one you just said. Obviously if you look at the soundtracks over the past few seasons and you look at you know what we have done at the Tiny Desk I mean we swap out. I mean a lot of these artists have played at the Tiny Desk like the Leikeli47 Rico Nasty Jhene Aiko. Like a lot of these people have played the Tiny Desk. But also curating is making sure that you know representation is across the board. I think the common denominator is Black women. Personally I feel like Black women are still sort of underrepresented in the music industry at large. So at - when we are curating at the Tiny Desk we want to make sure you know these gaps are filled these voids are filled. And I think you know obviously looking at what Insecure does obviously that is what carries them - the Black women and the Black - the independent Black women artists on the show. That is the parallel there. And then discovery obviously - a thing that I really - that really kind of keeps me going and what fulfills me is putting people on to new music putting people on to new artists. That is like the thing. Even when we are at the Tiny Desk we always want to be the person to say OK well I first heard this person at the Tiny Desk. And I am sure Kier you and Issa say I - well I heard this song on Insecure and that is how I found out about that artist. And that is kind of a responsibility to me. So the discovery women and also the music is - at this point is just as important as the plotline or any character on the show. There is a ton of plotlines. I am always - you know soon as the show starts I have my phone in my right hand ready to Shazam to figure out - to make sure I am up on what I need to do.  I am so glad you said that Bobby because I have to say that Insecure is definitely - I do not think I have ever Shazam-ed SoundHound-ed more...  Right.  ...During a show while watching it...  Of course.  ...Than I do when watching Insecure because I am always just like oh I want to hear more of this.  Yeah.  Yeah.  You know the show is going to open with something that you probably never heard of an artist or a song you have probably never heard of and it usually closes with the same thing. So you got to have - tips out there for everybody. Have your Shazam on deck as soon as the show starts 'ecause you might miss something.  All right more on the music and legacy of Insecure after this short break. Kier what about you? What is you - what do you feel - as the insider what do you feel is a scene that is always going to live in your mind?  Yeah go - you got to flex a little bit Kier.  Yeah yeah. Well you actually took a couple of mine because I think...  Oh my bad.  ...That Timmy's Prayer use at the end of that episode is a huge one. And also Lawrence and Issa makeup sex - Show You was a big big moment too from - with Baby Rose. So - but aside from those another one from early on for me was the end of Episode 2 where we played Thundercat's Heartbreaks  Setbacks which was like Lawrence and Issa kind of laying in the bed you know introducing their conflict in their relationship.    Heartbreaks setbacks breakups makeups - love love love love love. Breakdowns buildups knockdowns broke down but still time time. Maybe this could be a chance for us to see. Maybe we will figure out where we are supposed to be. Until we find the truth there is something we should do. Cannot let the love stop flowing from me to you.  And Thundercat being an artist that really was influential in the sound of the show with his own music and then also kind of just his sound as something that was an inspiration for a lot of the other kind of music that we use on the show. And then I think third episode of the second season Rico Nasty Poppin was just such a like moment for Issa feeling herself and having that really confident moment at the end of the episode where she had tried to hook up with her neighbor I think was what was going on in that storyline.    B this is the sugar trap turn your s to puddin'. I am always in the stu' b. Look at what I am cookin'. I am always in some new s so these hoes lookin'. And if you run up I bet you gettin' your s tooken . I am a poppin' a b let me remind ya. Do not hide. I can always come and find ya. As not no b in me b come proper. In an Audi goin' fast you behind us.  And that was the moment too where Rico Nasty was just kind of coming up. And that I think really blew her up and put her on the map in a big way.  And Kier now that the show is ending - you have worked on so many projects. This is not even close to your first rodeo right? Like you have been music supervisor on a lot of things. But what feels different to you about supervising on Insecure versus anything else you have ever worked on?  This for sure is a very special project. And I am just so fortunate and grateful to be a part of something that is like this. It is been like a dream come true really because to work on a project where like the music is so front so forward - like there is a lot of shows that have a lot of music but not that is like so forward. Every episode there is a bunch of moments and they are featured. Like the music is loud. The music is the only element or the main element that is happening on the show in those times in those moments on the show. So it is just really cool and a dream come true to be able to work on something like that.  Yeah. And it is funny because as Insecure gained popularity I imagine the budgets for everything have gone up. And you all could have been placing like big big big artists all over the show. But there has been a continued emphasis and effort to always platform the young the next generation. But the details the millennial references and just the honesty you hear in these songs that will always be in Insecure no matter when you go back to it however many years - on HBO Max at this point - you always are going to feel that the artists are grappling with the same world that the characters are. And that is why it always feels like an extension and it goes beyond something mechanical. It is something of love and that is how legacy really - like that is the basis of the legacy. And then it has community around it too because a lot of the offshoots of Insecure have been based in music and love of music as well - things like Insecure writing camp like Issa Rae's Raedio label all of that stuff. So as all fans of this - like superfans - what do you feel Insecure's musical legacy is going to feel like years from now?  I am excited to see that. You know I think that it was a time in that you know there was kind of this shift in music or like a new kind of wave of RB and you know like you were talking about earlier Aisha about the millennial point of view that the show has. And that also was kind of being reflected in the music that was coming out with artists like SZA or Tyler the Creator and Future and Frank Ocean. That was a movement that was happening at that time and it was really at the same time that the show was coming and we were able to feature a lot of those artists and be another platform for that movement of music. And so I think that we have curated a lot of those sounds and artists into what the soundtrack of our show is because like you were saying about how the characters - this feels like the world that the characters would be living in and this is what young people like them would be listening to. And it is not necessarily what is on the radio or on MTV or whatever at the time. You know this is a group of - age of people that are discovering music in a different way. And I hope that and imagine that the Insecure soundtrack will define this time in music culture for RB and modern hip-hop and alternative RB music culture and that we will look back and say oh yeah that - remember 2017 '18 '19 '20 ? And that was the sound that we all lived with.  Bobby Aisha do you have anything to add?  I mean I think it does feel like a SoundCloud-era mixtape in a way and it really does mimic the way so many people find music now. I feel like Insecure is sort of setting this table for these are - these underground artists these underground Black artists who are doing something you might not be familiar with you might not otherwise hear on the radio or - and again MTV does not even - no one's going to MTV to find their music these days . It is like we are at least two generations removed from that even being a thing. So I think that the legacy of Insecure in many ways when it comes to the music is like this time capsule like Kier is saying - this time capsule of the last like five-ish  six-ish  years. And the fact that it is on Spotify you can find it in that way it just feels like the time and the place. And it is hard to tell. There is no way to tell but I do not think it will feel dated.  I think as a music nerd I am the person in the room who is fighting tooth and nail with people who do not necessarily dig for music and if it is not in their face it does not exist. If it is not like on TV or on the radio it does not exist. So these are the people who say things like RB is dead.   For me it is like - I think the legacy for Insecure is just a reference point. They have helped to kind of push this music forward and push it out there. Like you said Sidney I think - I am sure Kier you and Issa have your pick of the biggest artists on the planet. You know I know they are costly. But if you really want a song from this huge artist you could have easily - you know that could have been the soundtrack. But you guys made a choice to actually dig and find people who could actually use the platform who can really benefit from the platform. So I think that it is a reminder that RB - Black music is not dead. And creatives and the chart toppers those are not the only people who are putting out really really significant art.  All right you all. Thank you so much for joining me on All Songs Considered to pay tribute to this - not only the soundtrack of our lives but the series that has defined the last five years of Black pop culture and staked a claim in representation that is going to be hard to top. So thank you once again to Aisha Harris of Pop Culture Happy Hour...  Thank you.  ...Bobby Carter from NPR Music - NPR Music's Tiny Desk.  This was dope Kier. Thank you and Issa for doing what you all did. I can nerd out and do this for a couple more hours.  Seriously yes.  Absolutely. And of course Kier Lehman music supervisor extraordinaire of Insecure.  Yeah thank you so much for having me. This was fun and I definitely could have talked for a lot longer about this stuff. So any time.   And as we say goodbye to all the groundbreaking goodness of Insecure a reminder that our Insecure Tiny Desk takeover is up now on YouTube and npr.orgmusic. For NPR Music and All Songs Considered I am Sidney Madden.    Might be fing up. I am too cynical. I can never choose. Yeah yeah I made my bed. That is why I toss and turn at night. You always play the victim. Could talk but I am staying quiet. You can save the fake s. I know I have been way too nice. I think we need a break sometimes but I cannot take no time off time off. 