  All eyes on omicron.  And yet the delta variant of the coronavirus is still with us.  And it is continuing to fill American hospitals even as the latest variant gains ground and officials issue warnings. I am Scott Detrow.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   For the unvaccinated you are looking at a winter of severe illness and death for yourselves your families in the hospitals you may soon overwhelm.  That is the White House coronavirus response coordinator Jeffrey Zients. We have got more on the spike in infections.  And we will look at the economic effects of another surge. Also former police officer Kim Potter takes the stand in Minneapolis. Our reporter has the story.  So please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Omicron appears to be spreading fast in the U.S. After watching other countries get slammed by the new variant the United States is seeing COVID-19 cases rise at an alarming rate in recent days.  We know omicron is very transmissible. There is also a lot we do not know. NPR health policy correspondent Selena Simmons-Duffin joins us. Selena thanks so much for being with us.  Hi. Good morning Scott.  And as we speak now where do things stand?  Yeah there are a few really concerning signs that omicron is just starting to take off. New York state reported more than 21000 COVID-19 cases just on Thursday. That is the highest daily total ever. I should say not all of those cases are omicron. Delta is still causing many infections. But if you look at what is happening in one hospital in Texas Houston Methodist they are sequencing the virus in their COVID-19 patients. And they say that omicron now accounts for 45 of all infections. They say that omicron is doubling every two to three days among their patients. We do not yet have good data for the national portion of COVID cases that are omicron. But the CDC director said yesterday it is been found in 39 states and they expect it to become the dominant variant in a matter of weeks.  What have we learned about this variant that might help us understand that spread?  Well basically it is really really contagious. Data from the U.K. shows a person who is infected with the omicron is three times more likely to spread the virus to someone in their household than if they had the delta variant which itself is very transmissible. We also know the vaccines are less protective against infection from omicron. Protection from two doses of the Pfizer vaccine drops from 80 to 30 which is another reason why it is spreading so fast. So just the fact that this virus moves so fast may mean lots of disruptions to work and school and the economy if everyone gets sick basically at the same time. What is not yet clear is how severe those cases will be in the U.S. and what the surge will mean for hospitals and the already horrible death toll which passed 800000 just this week.  Selena what is the response of the federal government been?  Well in a briefing yesterday White House COVID-19 response coordinator Jeffrey Zients laid out the administration's position in this moment.   We are intent on not letting omicron disrupt work and school for the vaccinated. You have done the right thing and we will get through this. For the unvaccinated you are looking at a winter of severe illness and death for yourselves your families in the hospitals you may soon overwhelm.  So that is a pretty ominous warning. But there have not been many policy changes announced by the White House. They have put in some new travel restrictions and recommended boosters for everyone over 18. But there is been no talk of adding testing or vaccination requirements for domestic travel for instance or advising policymakers and companies to require masks indoors. Only a handful of states have mask mandates right now. Some public health experts say they are not hearing a lot of urgency from policymakers to bring back or try new mitigation measures to try to keep the surge at bay.  Selena so much of this news sounds so discouraging particularly this far into the pandemic. Is there a ray of light?  Yeah there really is a little bit of good news. Vaccines still seem to protect against severe disease and death and boosters do offer strong protection against infection. So those are reasons to get your shots if you have not done it yet.  NPR's Selena Simmons-Duffin thanks so much.  Thank you.   The NFL is postponing some games scheduled for this weekend. That is after several COVID-19-outbreaks among teams.  And as we heard there is also a record number of new infections in New York City forcing some Broadway shows to dim the lights. And on Friday Radio City Music Hall canceled its Christmas Spectacular for the rest of the season. The Rockettes will not be kicking.  The Dow lost more than 500 points Friday on top of that and there is much more. So now we will turn to NPR chief economic correspondent Scott Horsley for a read on the financial fallout from this new omicron variant. Hey Scott.  Good morning Scott and Scotts.  .  So Scott Horsley we know this new strain of the virus is highly contagious. We are not yet certain if it makes people more sick but we are very much hoping that it does not. What does that mean for the economy?  It is not going to help. We are still in the early days and there is a lot we do not know. Economist Tim Quinlan at Wells Fargo has been keeping an eye on things like air travel and restaurant reservations. Those are categories of spending that have proven to be sensitive during earlier waves of the pandemic. So far Quinlan's not seeing a big drop-off but he does think that spending has kind of plateaued.  It is too early to say omicron is putting a dent in consumer activity but it is certainly causing people to stall the rebound that we were experiencing.  What has not plateaued of course is the coronavirus itself. As we heard from Selena infections are up a lot.  But sticking to this other evidence that we have seen so far that it may be less severe - if that does turn out to be true does that possibly mean the economic impact will also be more mild?  It is certainly possible. But what worries public health officials is that even if the vast majority of people have only a mild case omicron is so contagious you could still wind up with a lot of people in the hospital. In the U.K. where the outbreak is a little farther along we have seen a pretty sharp drop in the number of people going out to pubs and theaters. In Denmark authorities actually shuttered concert halls and amusement parks yesterday in response to the jump in cases. Now here in the U.S. there is very little appetite for that kind of government restriction. But chief economist Diane Swonk who is with the accounting firm Grant Thornton says if the outbreak is bad the economy is going to suffer even without a government lockdown.  It has nothing to do with whatever mandated mitigation efforts are. It is just fear itself. We have seen this repeatedly as once hospitalizations and fatalities pick up sadly that is when people start changing their behaviors.  There is some variation though in different parts of the country. I was talking recently with a guy who owns a chain of clothing stores. What he is noticed is customers in the Northeast are much more sensitive to changes in the public health outlook whereas his sales in the Midwest and the South do not change that much even when more people are getting sick.  You have been covering disruptions to the workforce all year Scott maybe more than anything else you have covered this year. How does this rising case count affect that storyline?  You know we still have a lot of unfilled jobs in this country and employers are eager to get more people into the workforce. That is less likely to happen if people do not feel safe. Older workers in particular are going to be reluctant to come off the sidelines. What is more Swonk says omicron could make it harder for short-staffed factories and other businesses to keep people on the job.  Even if it is only a mild infection the number of people out at once can hobble workplaces.  This could also be another setback for companies that were hoping to bring remote workers back into the office. Some of those plans are being postponed yet again. And of course that has ripple effects for the coffee shops and dry cleaners that depend on foot traffic from office workers. They have been struggling throughout the work-from-home era. And with omicron that struggle may drag on a little longer.  That is NPR chief economic correspondent Scott Horsley. Scott thank you.  Good to be with you.   We are expecting closing arguments Monday in the trial of Kimberly Potter. She is the former police officer who killed a young Black man near Minneapolis earlier this year.  Daunte Wright was 20 years old. Potter is charged with manslaughter for shooting him during a traffic stop. Minnesota Public Radio's Matt Sepic has been covering the trial and joins us. Matt thanks for being with us.  Hi Scott.  This traffic stop occurred in April. It was already a tense time in the area with the trial of former police officer Derek Chauvin for the murder of George Floyd just ending. Remind us what happened to this confrontation between Potter and Wright?  Well Potter who was on the force for 26 years was out on patrol with Anthony Luckey a new officer she had been training. Luckey spotted a Buick that appeared suspicious as he would testify later. So he pulled it over. The officers soon learned that the driver Daunte Wright had a warrant for failing to appear in court on a weapons charge. When Luckey tried to handcuff Wright he wriggled away and got back into his car. On body camera video Potter is heard shouting Taser but in her hand is a 9 mm Glock. She fires a single round into Wright's chest.  Potter's defense attorneys say that the shooting was an accident. And when the former officer took the stand on Friday did she say why she grabbed her gun instead of her Taser?  Defense attorney Earl Gray walked Potter through the incident. And she broke down in tears while recounting what happened. Potter did say that she feared for the safety of a third officer Sgt. Mychal Johnson who was inside Wright's car trying to grab the gearshift.  You knew Johnson for many years before this. Is that right?  Yes.  And by looking at his face at that point in time what did you interpret it to mean?  He had a look of fear on his face. It is nothing I had seen before.  And Scott Gray is arguing here that while the shooting was a mistake it was still justified because Potter feared for Sgt. Johnson's safety.  By contrast what was the picture that prosecutors drew?  On cross-examination Prosecutor Erin Eldridge asked Potter about her extensive Taser training which warns users not to confuse the device with a gun. Eldridge also pointed out that Wright did not have a gun himself and never threatened officers. Eldridge then said Potter could not have been that concerned about Johnson's safety because she would never checked on him after the shooting.  You were focused on what you had done 'ecause you had just killed somebody.  I am sorry it happened.  Matt I know it is hard to figure but how do you think that moment was received?  Well this is a question I asked Lee Hutton. He is a trial attorney here in Minneapolis who is not involved in this case. Hutton says it is always a risk for defendants to testify but he thinks Potter helped her case here.  Had she had to go back she would have done it differently. But with that being said in some questions she was able to really testify that she saw her partner in danger. And this is the reason why she decided to use some type of force.  And we will see if the jury feels the same way after closing arguments wrap up on Monday.  Reporter Matt Sepic of Minnesota Public Radio thanks so much.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday December 18. I am Scott Detrow.  I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST back Monday to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music - and you know what? There is even a puzzle. You can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition from NPR News Saturday and Sunday Mornings - this is a deal you cannot refuse. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  