 Before we get the show going we want to remind you that NPR's journalism relies on more than a thousand member stations around this country and those stations rely on your support.  Your member station is how you can hear not only NPR programming but also excellent local journalism about all the things in your community that matter to you.  Here at UP been bringing you the news you need all year long and we need your help to keep you informed the rest of the new year.  If you are in a position to offer support go to donate.npr.orgupfirst to make that contribution. And you know thanks very much.   More good news - there is another vaccine on the way. This one from Moderna.  But and there is always a but Congress failed to pass more pandemic relief again. What is the holdup this time?  I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Now lawmakers did pass a two-day bill that stopped the government from shutting down while they continue to negotiate a relief package. We will bring you the latest on that.  There is new information about hackers breaking into government agencies and private companies. Here's a warning from the president of Microsoft.  It is a threat to the national security of the country as a whole and we need to respond to it with the level of urgency that that requires.  So stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Last night Secretary of State Pompeo became America's highest-ranking public official to say Russia was behind the massive hack of U.S. government networks.  That cyberattack is extraordinarily far-reaching. Governments organizations and the world's largest corporations are among the victims.  And the hackers appear to have a particular interest in the technology business. NPR's Greg Myre has been looking into that and joins us now. Greg thanks so much for being with us.  My pleasure Scott.  So far as we know at least six government departments have been breached since March. We have now learned hackers have also gone after private companies.  That is right. Microsoft is taking part in the investigation. They have hundreds of engineers that are working on this. And they found that while the hackers are going through government agencies as we have widely reported they are also actively digging in an even larger number of private companies and organizations.  Microsoft says there are at least 18000 victims. And here's the president of Microsoft Brad Smith.  Already we have identified more than 40 organizations 80 of them in the United States where they followed up penetrated the networks took additional steps. And that number is going to continue to rise.  Greg what do the size of the attack and the range of its victims say to you about the targets of this attack?  Well many of these companies that are being targeted are tech companies and this would make sense. The hackers seem to want cutting-edge tools that these tech companies have. It is also not surprising that the big U.S. cybersecurity firm FireEye was the first to report the hack. They said valuable tools that they use to protect and defend their customers were stolen.  And Greg what do you read into the fact that this seems to be just one of a number of examples recently where we seem to have - get more information from private companies than the U.S. government?  Well this is really a big threat to their businesses. More than anyone they want to keep hackers out of the networks and systems. So at one level it is absolute self-interest. And the tech community more broadly buys into this notion that sharing information is good for everyone in the community and we actually saw this a good deal during the election season where private companies were sounding the alarm about the spread of misinformation particularly from abroad. Social media companies were taking down fake users and false information.  And what do you read into the relative silence of the Trump administration?  Well still not a word yet on this from President Trump. And his administration has been saying very little. But as you noted in the introduction Secretary of State Mike Pompeo did become the first administration official to publicly blame Russia. He sort of backed into this in the course of a longer interview. But he did say quote we can say pretty clearly that it was the Russians that engaged in this activity. And so this comes as U.S. intelligence agencies are briefing members of Congress and several prominent senators say all the signs do point to Russia in particular its foreign intelligence service whose hackers have been dubbed Cozy Bear.  And Greg any reading on how long it might take to sort this out and all the implications and how the U.S. might eventually respond?  Well this hack is still ongoing. The hackers are still inside these computer networks. And the prediction from everyone we have spoken to in the tech community is that it is going to take months and months to root them out. So clearly this will be a problem that President-elect Joe Biden will ultimately have to deal with. And Scott one final note on U.S.-Russia ties - the State Department says that it is closing or shutting the two remaining consulates in Russia though the embassy in Moscow will remain open. We should emphasize this was in the works for some time well before the news of this hacking story broke. But it really puts an exclamation point on the state of relations.  NPR's Greg Myre thanks so much.  My pleasure.   The Food and Drug Administration gave another go-ahead for the distribution of a second COVID-19 vaccine. This one is made by Moderna. Here's FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn.   This is another crucial step in the fight against a global pandemic that is causing vast numbers of hospitalizations and deaths in the United States every day.  Like the Pfizer vaccine it triggers an immune response which produces antibodies that fight off the real virus. But unlike the Pfizer vaccine it does not need to be stored at extremely low temperatures.  NPR pharmaceuticals correspondent Sydney Lupkin is with us now for more. Good morning Sydney.  Hey Lulu.  So the FDA just issued an emergency use authorization for the Moderna vaccine. A week ago it did the same for the Pfizer vaccine. Did two vaccines mean double our joy - we double our supply?  It should actually more than double our supply. So far the federal government has purchased 200 million doses of the Moderna vaccine. Half will be delivered by late March and the other half by late June. That adds to the 100 million doses of Pfizer's vaccine we have agreed to buy so far. Negotiations to buy more are underway. But it should be enough for a little less than half the U.S. population.  Well that is extremely good news. But let us remind people why these two vaccines were able to be put in circulation so fast.  Yes it is fast because this is not a full FDA approval. It is basically an expedited review because this is a public health emergency. That said the Moderna vaccine like the Pfizer one has been through large clinical trials to prove safety and efficacy. Thirty thousand people volunteered for the Moderna study and the vaccine was 94 effective in preventing COVID-19 illness. That is way better than expected.  So of course it has been vetted. What can you tell us though about any possible side effects from the Moderna vaccine in particular?  The FDA said there were no safety concerns that could hold up and emergency use authorization. Side effects were common but generally mild - pain at the injection site fatigue headaches. Serious reactions were rare. Although there have been reports of severe allergic reactions among people getting the Pfizer vaccine there have not been any such reports in medicine as clinical trial.  All right. So one of the things about these vaccines - right? - is that you have to get two shots in order to develop the necessary immunity. So can you mix and match? If your first dose is Pfizer can your second dose be Moderna?  Well no. Pfizer's vaccine requires a second shot 21 days after the first. And Moderna's requires a second shot after 28 days. They are not interchangeable which means distribution is going to be logistically challenging. Health care providers will need to make sure they do not mix them up.  So if we do get to choose which vaccine should we pick? I mean is that even an option?  This is actually a question I have been getting from my family and friends.  I can imagine.  Yeah. The short the short answer is that you probably will not get to choose which vaccine you get at least not for now. John Grabenstein at the Immunization Action Coalition went through all the data presented at the FDA advisory committee meetings the last two weeks. Here's what he told me.  None of these numbers differential between the two brands the two companies' vaccines is a big enough difference for me to guide a choice. And so the one that I want is the one that is offered to me first.  One scientist even told me that the difference is so small it might even be chance. Though of course we could learn more over time.  Yeah. I am guessing that what scientists are going to be looking for though really is long-term effectiveness how long you will be immune for.  Right. That is right. How long does each vaccine's protection against the virus last? There are a couple of ways we can find out. Volunteers currently enrolled in clinical trials will be followed for about two years. There are also efforts to keep track using electronic health records. Here's former FDA chief scientist Jesse Goodman.  I think these systems and a number of studies that are ongoing will help answer that question. And those could be important differences between vaccines you know even between individual vaccines that are very similar and certainly with other types of vaccines that are coming behind the mRNA vaccines.  But he says there is still a lot of thought going into how we are going to monitor all of this. And it is a complex issue.  NPR's pharmaceutical correspondent Sydney Lupkin thank you so much.  You bet.   There was a flicker of hope last night that Congress would finalize a COVID-19 relief bill.  But look at us putting hope and Congress in the same sentence. Yes a last-minute sticking point emerged. Even lawmakers are frustrated.   It is beginning to reach the point of absurdity. I mean it is time for leadership to put on the table what they have got. It is time for them to brief members about what they have got.  That is Republican Senator Josh Hawley of Missouri and here's NPR's congressional correspondent Susan Davis. Susan thanks so much for being with us.  Hey. Good morning Scott.  I think we have had this conversation before.   I think we have.  This has been stalled for seven months. Lawmakers said they almost had a deal on COVID relief earlier this week. Now they do not. What is the holdup?  Well Republican Senator Pat Toomey - he is from Pennsylvania - he has come out and said he wants to add a provision to the bill. Essentially what it would do is it would eliminate a couple of emergency lending programs that the Federal Reserve was granted by Congress earlier this year. Democrats are pushing back hard. They see this as an attempt by Republicans to try to tie the hands of the incoming Biden administration in terms of what they are able to do to prop up the economy. Here's what House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer - he is of course a Democrat - told reporters yesterday about the Toomey provision.   It is totally political and in my opinion a putrid political effort to diminish President Biden's authority. That is what I think.  So you can hear anger in his voice there. In terms of the overall scope of the bill this is a pretty small provision. But the fact that the Biden team has come out in saying they do not want it in the bill it is going to make it really hard for Democrats to relent and give in here. And if it is not included it creates a problem for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell because it further divides Senate Republicans.  I gather there has been some progress and NPR has learned the outlines of what is likely to be in the package if and when it passes. What do the senators agree on?  Yeah I mean all week leaders have been saying they are at the 1-yard line the 5-yard line. They really are close on the overall bill. We know it is going to cost about 900 billion. It is a lot more than Republicans wanted and a lot less than Democrats did. I think it is important to remind people that this 900 billion is on top of the 2 12 trillion that Congress has already spent this year to confront this pandemic. But it has a lot of things in it that people really need right now. It would extend federal unemployment benefits through the early spring. It is likely to include another round of those stimulus checks. We do not know exactly how much but lawmakers are talking around in the 600 range. It is going to have more money for small businesses more money to get that vaccine out there more money for things like food stamps. There is a lot of hungry people in this country right now. It is not going to include things that Democrats wanted including aid to state and local governments. They pushed hard for that but Republicans really do not like it. And Republicans had to back down from trying to include liability provisions to protect businesses and schools from lawsuits. That is something Democrats did not want in there. And remember this is all going to go on a massive annual spending bill just regular old government spending. So you know lawmakers are looking at an up-or-down vote on a roughly 2 12-trillion bill just in the coming days.  Susan where are you going to have your eyes fixed and your ears the next coming - next few days?  You know we are in that furious close of negotiations. It is possible they could wrap this up by the end of the weekend. Obviously we are coming up against the Christmas holiday and lawmakers want to go home. And as you well know Scott deals tend to come together when lawmakers want to get out of town. I think enough lawmakers have said it is absolutely unfeasible to go home and spend Christmas with their own families when literally millions of Americans are in desperate need right now. So I think the next two to three days are pretty critical. But overall I think there is an optimism that they can get there and get this done. And remember incoming President Biden has said this is just another bite of the apple. His team is already putting together a request for another stimulus package they will ask for next year.  NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis thanks so much.  You are welcome.  And for more from Sue and all her colleagues covering Congress and the White House be sure to subscribe to the NPR Politics Podcast.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday December 19 2020. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books to read music to discover you can find us on the radio.  It is called Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. And if you can please consider going to donate.npr.orgupfirst.  