 Hey UP FIRST listeners A Martinez here. We have a special presentation for you today from our Investigations team at NPR's longform audio unit. It follows more than four years of reporting by NPR's Tim Mak. We will let Tim and the Investigations team tell you more. And a warning - this episode contains discussions of guns and school shootings. Some of the audio may be disturbing to some listeners. Investigations correspondent Tom Dreisbach takes it from here.  It was April 20 1999.   Good evening. It is happened again - a mass shooting at an American school this time a high school in suburban Denver.   At least two gunmen opened fire today at Columbine High School in Littleton Colo. There were many injuries and fatalities.  Two high schoolers took a rifle a pistol and shotguns to their school and started firing.   And you could hear like bombs and shotguns going off. And then he came into the library and shot everybody around me.  Twelve students and one of their teachers were killed more than 20 were injured before the shooters killed themselves. Columbine is just outside of Denver so it was not long before the news crews arrived and it felt like the whole country was watching.   Investigators say they spent their final moments rigging the building and their own bodies with more than two dozen pipe bombs.  Columbine was one of the worst school shootings the country had ever seen. And everyone was trying to figure out how to respond. Schools postponed pep rallies and games. TV shows and movies were pulled from the schedules. Concerts were canceled. But there was one event that remained on the schedule and in Denver not far from where the shooting took place. It was the annual meeting of the National Rifle Association.   It would seem to me that good manners would dictate not to come into a place that is suffering the kind of tragedy and grieving and loss that this community is now suffering.  Denver's mayor Wellington Webb asked the NRA the most powerful gun rights organization in the country to cancel. Thousands of the NRA's members were expected in Denver for this annual meeting which is a kind of combination gun show-Second Amendment rally and policy meeting. It was a meeting set to take place just miles away from Columbine. And so the NRA's leaders had to ask themselves what do we do?   It is going to be a bad situation...  A nightmare.  ...No matter what we do. The question is how do you make a bad situation as least bad as you possibly can?  This tape is from an internal conference call that took place the day after the shootings April 21 1999.   This is the same concern obviously that everybody has that at the same period where they are going to be burying these children we are going to be having media within 10 miles of our convention center the world's media trying to run through the exhibit hall looking at kids fondling firearms which is going to be a horrible horrible horrible juxtaposition.  To journalists the NRA is often a black box and this tape that you are hearing was never supposed to be made public. For more than 20 years it was not. Then just recently NPR's Washington Investigative correspondent Tim Mak heard from a source. The source was on that call and taped it. And this black box started to open.  The NRA is just one of the most powerful and controversial organizations in the country right? And sometimes because of its centrality to this the conversation about gun politics or our politics in general there is a tendency for people to imagine what it must be like behind the scenes or what an organization must be like whether for good or evil. And here what we actually have is we actually can put you in the room. We can actually put you on the phone call where these people in real time are struggling to deal with this crisis as it unfolds.  The decision the NRA would make was about much more than Columbine and the crisis of that particular moment. In the next two decades school shootings would number in the hundreds and the decision executives made on their public stance in Denver in 1999 would echo again and again when the NRA responds to the next mass shooting and the one after that and the one after that. But how they got there that was surprising. And it is coming up after this break. All right we are back. I am Tom Dreisbach and this is UP FIRST from NPR. And our guide to this story is NPR's Washington Investigative correspondent Tim Mak. Tim recently got a hold of these secret tapes from the NRA conference call that took place just one day after the Columbine school shooting in Littleton Colo. And on this call top NRA leaders were trying to figure out what to do about this big NRA meeting coming up about 10 days away.   On the line. We are all here - Mary Corrigan Craig Jim Land...  Who all is on this conference call?  It is everyone that is important in the NRA.   Angus Tony Cain.  We are talking the executives the officials of the organization the senior staffers lobbyists outside advisers PR consultants. And it really underlines just how critical this moment is for the NRA right? They are in total panic mode everything just flying at them and they would never really dealt with something quite this dramatic before.  What are the stakes for the NRA? What is their dilemma in this moment?  So they have got a number of serious problems. Firstly is a financial one right? This conference which they do every year costs millions and millions and millions of dollars to put together. It is their biggest - it is their marquee event. And it is also one of those events where they spend a lot of their time fundraising. A lot of the money they take in every year comes as a result of the person-to-person connections that come as a result of this conference. So money is a big issue. Another issue is it is really one of those kind of pump-it-up kind of conferences where people network. It is where friends get together. It is where gossip is exchanged. It is just the most important thing for this community.   The three options are one go ahead full speed. Keep the radio going. Keep the billboards going. Do the exhibit hall. Do the meeting as planned. Two would be to cancel the exhibit hall and do the business meetings of the association. And the third option would be to cancel everything.  So who is that speaking just there?  So the voice you hear laying out the options is this guy named Wayne LaPierre. He is someone who has been the head of the NRA for decades. But what you hear in this tape and what you get a sense of if you talk to people who have known him over these decades is that he is a really kind of weak-willed leader. He is a deeply anxious person. And what you hear in these tapes is him laying out the options but really not weighing in at all about what to actually do.  So we have all these top leaders of the NRA and we have them going through these three options as Wayne LaPierre laid them out. What do they see as like the pros and cons of each approach?  So one of the options is scaling down their convention. And one of the people who is supporting this view is this guy named Angus McQueen. And if you talk to people who have known Angus McQueen well they will describe him in two ways. They will say he is a genius but he is also a bit of a jerk. He is the head of this messaging arm of the NRA this PR firm called Ackerman McQueen.   But is there a way we can have our cake and eat it too? Can we say out of deference to the sensitivities in Denver we are going to move our meeting 100 miles away? We are going to cancel the exhibit aspect of the meeting but we are going to still invite our members in Colorado to meet. Our officers will be there and we are going to conduct our business. We still then would have tremendous press opportunity to advance our point of view which is a very strong one. And I want to...  He is trying to thread this needle between seeming responsible and not being deliberately provocative in a way.  That is right. And this is really what the tape is about - is that if they are too deferential it will be like they are culpable for these shootings. It will be as if they were acknowledging defeat and adopting the media's narrative that they are responsible for the shootings at Columbine.  All right so that is one of the possible paths this sort of middle ground. What is the pro and con of just canceling the whole thing because of what just happened in Columbine? Is there anyone who says let us just cancel it all?  Well I think that there is real resistance from the NRA to cancel at all with the money spent on this with all the travel plans.   Would it be smart to use language like rescheduled and postponed instead of canceled?  What do you mean?  It implies an expectation to continue on with our business as usual but just at a more - a less sensitive time. There is an emotional difference between postponing and canceling.  One big con is that if they cancel it they will not have an opportunity to respond to the criticisms that are going to come their way.  It is like they are ceding the ground to all the people who would criticize the NRA. They will not be able to respond as quickly.  Yeah. Let us not forget that there is some pride involved here - right? - that if they were to cancel it would seem to them and their members and the media and everyone else as if they were accepting defeat in this arena. And so there is a lot of resistance to that idea. Listen here to Jim Land. He is a top official of the NRA at this time.   I got to tell you we got to think this thing through because if we tuck tail and run we are going to be accepting responsibility for what happened out there.  That is one very good argument Jim. On the other side if you do not appear to be deferential and honoring the dead you end up being a tremendous shithead who would not tuck tail and run you know? So it is a double-edged sword.  That guy right there talking to Jim Land - that is Tony Makris. He is a strategic adviser for the NRA and has been working with the NRA for many many years.   I do not know what - I do not have - I do not know what the answer is. But I know this. It is far worse to go out there and be painted as a bunch of insensitive disrespectful turds than it is to say we are sorry it happened and we will bow out.  It is so remarkable to hear them talk about how they come across. I guess I am used to the NRA being very - just being very confidently not caring about how they come across to people who might be their political opponents - right? - that they are not so worried these days about seeming maybe a little insensitive. And yet here on this call they are really worried about seeming insensitive.  I think it is a testament to how powerful the NRA has become in the modern era that - like 20 years ago you know there is a lot less security for the NRA. It is not as powerful as it has become today. It has not grown to the size that it is become today. It does not have as much money as it has today. And so it survives based on how the public perceives them at this point. And this is an NRA that no longer exists.   There are a couple other voices that are important on the call. This guy named Kayne Robinson he is an official in the organization longtime NRA secretary.   How do we look - this is Kayne - if we - is there something concrete that we can offer not because guns are responsible but because we care about these people? Is there anything? Does that look crass or you know if we...  You mean the legislative?  No I am talking about something concrete. If we...  Like a victim's fund or...  Yeah we create a victim's fund and we give the victims a million dollars or something like that. Does that look bad or does it look...  Well I mean that can be twisted too. I mean why are you giving money? You feel responsible?  No. Well you are - true. It can be twisted but we feel sympathetic and...  Respectful. Yeah.  I mean it is so interesting to hear them talking about you know raising money for the families of these victims and the people who were injured. And yet they see a pretty big downside to giving those families money.  I think here's why these - particular slice of tape was so important. It is because you hear the NRA in real time considering a softer tone. You hear them talking about a million-dollar victim fund or even apologizing saying we are sorry in the wake of a mass shooting. They talk about sympathy and respect in terms of PR terms right? How is the public going to view the NRA as sympathetic and respectful not how can we be sympathetic and respectful?   I think what you ought to do is you move forward with your meeting everything that you had planned to do but you issue a statement of sympathy and start talking about the fact that this country needs to stop blaming everybody but the perpetrators and that you cannot...  So the person you are hearing there is this woman named Marion Hammer. She was the first female president of the NRA and she is a fierce lobbyist who has been working in NRA circles for many many years. People describe her as kind of like this tiny but fierce figure. Anyone who is anyone in the NRA fears her because she is so assertive and dominant and powerful in the organization.   ...That the warning signs have been there. Why have they been unable to deal effectively and to protect our students? But you know those are like sound bites. But you issue an expression of sympathy but you have to go forward. For NRA to scrap this and the amount of money that we have spent...  We have meeting insurance.  I just - screw the insurance. The message that it will send is that even the NRA was brought to its knees and the media will have a field day with it.  All right. Let me ask you this.  And you know what you hear also from Marion Hammer is this kind of pride element of it again which is we cannot let the public think that they brought us to our knees. We cannot let the public think that the NRA had a negative day or a negative week or a negative month as a result of this tragedy. And this is kind of the framing for the whole conversation.  Right.  And you also hear her talk about how guns are not responsible that it is society that is responsible. It is warning signs in the community that have nothing to do with them.  I mean I remember I was just about to turn 12 years old when Columbine happened. And I remember a lot of the discussions were about you know was this related to the movie The Matrix coming out where there were you know a lot of shootings in that or the music of Marilyn Manson or video games? And a lot of that was in the discussion maybe even more than guns back then.  That is right. The NRA was really behind a lot of these questions. Whether it was violent video games movies violent music whether the government was just not competently enforcing existing laws about guns they were trying to change the conversation from firearms to culture. Here's NRA lobbyist Randy Scheunemann.   But at the same time in terms of what  going to say it seems to me that they are going to be resentful over the fact that to state the obvious they have nothing to do with Satan-worshipping neo-Nazi Hollywood-driven punk rock-driven murder and mayhem.   After the break how the NRA mobilized their allies plus what they really think about their members. That is next.   All right we are back. I am Tom Dreisbach and this is a special presentation of UP FIRST Sunday from NPR Investigations. So we have heard all this about you know PR and the media coverage that they are worried about and how to you know change potentially the conference to make the media coverage seem better. Did they talk at all about gun laws and politics at this stage?  They talk about gun politics but it is almost like it is a done deal like it is baked into the cake how people are going to respond. What they are basically doing is they are putting together a coalition to respond. And you hear Wayne LaPierre kind of hint at how they are going to put this coalition together.   Well I was talking to Nickles' office this morning and what they told me is they are sending them - they are planning on sending them all to school 'ecause what they wanted us to do was secretly provide them with talking points.  He mentioned secretly providing people with talking points. Who is he talking about there?  Well Nickles is Don Nickles. He is a member of the Republican Senate leadership and at the time is the Senate majority whip.  Oh.  And so what we are hearing is Wayne LaPierre saying OK well Senate Republicans are asking us for secret talking points. They are asking us to lead the messaging on this because they are going to go to schools and have conversations with people in their communities these senators are and they do not really know what to say. We need to tell them. It is a frantic time for the NRA. And you can see that they are at the nexus of this entire conversation.   I you know - this is Jim Baker here. I mean we have been through the various options. And based on everything I have heard I - at this point I think the best option barring any other input from the governor or any other credible authority out there is to cancel the exhibit hall recast our meeting as one of respect and sympathy. But at the same time we are going to have to deal with the media and make the very points that Marion's making that this is not only not our fault but we are goddamn sick and tired of being blamed for it. And here's why. I mean...  So Jim Baker there when he is talking about canceling the exhibit hall that is the gun expo where you have all these weapons and accessories and people are milling about in this giant convention hall. And then separately there is what is called the members' meeting and this is something that the NRA has to have every year according to its rules.  Oh.  Just think of like the political conventions where they nominate presidential candidates and there are all these people milling on the floor and proposing resolutions and seconding each other and arguing the pros and cons of each. And Wayne LaPierre is worried about this meeting getting out of control after Columbine and embarrassing the NRA.   You know the other problem is the people you are most likely to get in that member meeting without an exhibit hall are the nuts.  That is right.  That is - I made that point earlier. I agree.  But you have got to have...  The fruitcakes are going to show up.  Whoa. OK. So that was Tony Makris calling you know the NRA members fruitcakes.  It is some really astonishing tape - right? - because we are getting into the minds now of these senior NRA officials and they are disparaging their own members right? They acknowledge that there are these people who they consider to be kind of crazy...  Yeah.  ...That make up the core of their organization their most passionate members who would show up to members' meetings and they are worried about how their own members might embarrass them. And that is not all.   If you pull down the exhibit hall that is not going to leave anything for the media except the members' meeting. And you are going to have the wackos with all kinds of crazy resolutions with all kinds of dressing like a bunch of hillbillies and idiots. And it is going to be the worst thing you can imagine.  Wow. OK so that is Marion Hammer calling some of their own members wackos hillbillies idiots. I mean it sounds like they are really almost embarrassed by some of their own members.  Yeah. They are using all this disparaging language. But like I think the most instructive part of that tape is when you hear this chuckle in the background. It is like this knowing chuckle among their group like an inside joke almost. Like they get it. They all understand.  So you think it is like not the first time they have said this?  Yeah. And this is not just Marion Hammer. This is Wayne LaPierre the head of the organization and Tony Makris. And you know this is just some of the tape that we are playing for you. I mean there is always been this divide between NRA officials and their most right-wing members - right? - that there are the people who are trying to run the organization trying to mainstream their view of gun politics. And then there are these members who are more ideological and more aggressive about what the Second Amendment should mean for America. And what you are hearing is they are worried that these people will show up after a mass shooting and embarrass the organization.   After the break what the NRA ultimately decides to do about this meeting and how that changed gun politics in America.   All right we are back. I am Tom Dreisbach and this is a special presentation of UP FIRST Sunday from NPR investigations. And we have been talking about the different camps within the NRA and this internal debate over what the organization should do about its big upcoming meeting after the Columbine shooting. That meeting was supposed to take place in Denver Colo. not far from the shooting. And some in the NRA said they should delay the meeting. Some said move it somewhere else. Some said create a victims' fund. Another said do not back down. Do not change anything. So Tim what did they ultimately decide?  What they really do is they land on a middle ground - that they are going to cancel the festivities and the exhibit hall. But they are going to still plan for the meeting itself.   I think we are all kind of reaching consensus here. Nobody likes the situation but I think what we have is a kind of architecture here for trying to make the best of it. And that is what we just have to work like hell for is if...   is to live another day at this point.  You bet.  And what they are really relying here is on the strength of their message and the people who will deliver it. And that is Wayne LaPierre of course and the NRA president at the time Charlton Heston.  And for people who do not know Charlton Heston was you know a longtime Hollywood actor. He was in Planet Of The Apes the version from the '60s. And then he went on to become you know the public face of the NRA in the late '90s and early 2000s.  That is right - all based on the strength of his kind of booming godlike voice.   Literally. Was not he Moses?    How can I lead this people out of bondage? What words can I speak that they will heed.  So yeah he plays Moses in The Ten Commandments - right? So that gives you a sense of the sort of almost moral authority he drew from his acting career.  Is he on this call at all? Is he talked about?  Well OK. So while Charlton Heston is the public face of this organization they do not really trust him to make the message. They trust him to convey the message. They do not really trust him to deliberate on or strategize what the NRA's position should be.  Huh. So they do not actually think he is the greatest mind in deciding the message of gun policy or gun rights in America.  They do not see Charlton Heston as a strategist. They see him as a kind of spokesperson almost. He is an actor after all.  Yeah.  There you go. Read the lines.   Talk shows are not the perfect forum.  I know. And I am just saying...  Heston does not do talk shows real well.  You need a venue where he can talk but they cannot ask him questions.  You got it.  Yeah.  I want to hear...  So when the annual meeting actually happens what kind of role did Charlton Heston end up playing?  We hear him at this sort of slimmed-down convention that the NRA holds.   Good morning.  Good morning.  And we can hear them executing what we heard them strategizing about on this call and in Heston's words as the spokesperson of the NRA.   So we have the same rights as all other citizens to be here - to help shoulder the grief to share our sorrow and to offer our respectful reassured voice to the national discourse that has erupted around this tragedy.  Yeah it is interesting hearing a lot of that message now coming through this incredible you know booming voice of Charlton Heston.   Our words and our behavior will be scrutinized more than ever this morning. Those who are hostile towards us will lie in wait to seize on a soundbite out of context ever searching for an embarrassing moment to ridicule us. So let us be mindful - the eyes of the nation are upon us today.   It is almost like Charlton Heston it sounds like is trying to talk to them to say be careful. Because of Columbine the cameras are really on us. You know think about what you say before you say it. Is that him trying to kind of rein those folks in at least on behalf of the leadership?  That really seems to be what is happening here - right? - that you hear them translating what they were strategizing about into a warning for some of their own members who behind the scenes they expressed a lot of concern would embarrass them. So they really had to be mindful about the message that they were sending at this conference because it was an event that was highly covered by national press. And meanwhile outside of the convention there are thousands of people showing up to demonstrate against them.  Yeah what was the scene outside?  So there were huge protests outside. The Washington Post estimated 8000 demonstrators including many of them who are gathered just right outside the hotel where Charlton Heston is giving that speech that we heard. And one of those people was this person named Tom Mauser. He is one of the parents of Daniel Mauser who was killed in that shooting.   There are reasonable gun owners many. But the time has come to come to understand that a TEC-9 semi-automatic 30-bullet weapon like that that killed my son is not used to kill deer.   It has no useful purpose. You know for the first 10 days after Columbine I rarely at all spoke to the media. I was pretty much hunkered down in my home.  Tom Mauser is now a spokesperson for a group called Colorado Ceasefire. He is become a pretty prominent gun control activist in the years since.  What else did he have to say about you know these tapes where he actually heard what the other side was saying on the inside?  Yeah he listened to some of these NRA tapes and some of it did not surprise him but some of it really did stand out.  The bluntness of it did surprise me that they would actually say well maybe we should have a victims fund. Oh no we cannot do that. That would make us look like we are somehow responsible. It just showed that this was all a matter of political calculation for them that that - it especially struck me the nerve that they would then make comments about how now is not the time to be talking about politics. You know now is the time for reflection and grief. And yet here they were talking about politics exactly what they were doing.   You know I actually asked him how he would have reacted if the NRA had set up a victims fund.   That is a good question. I do not think that we would have accepted anything from them. I would have seen it as them trying to appease the victims and to try to make themselves look good despite the terrible situation they were in.  It is hard to imagine you know the alternate history in which the NRA takes a different tack in that moment and does set up a victims fund and maybe says even they are sorry. But - it is hard to even imagine that world because they really took almost the opposite response. And I am curious you know now that you and NPR obtained these tapes and we have published excerpts from these tapes what has the NRA said about all of this?  So after NPR obtained these tapes we reached out to the people who were on them for comment. And of course we also reached out to the NRA before publication. What we did was we gave them transcripts of the clips that we were thinking about using and the NRA responded. They called it a quote-unquote hit piece that was coming. The NRA also said that we were invoking Columbine to promote an editorial agenda against them. And what is so interesting about this is that in responding this way they are using the same playbook that they created and was shown in these tapes from over 20 years ago. They are trying to change the topic from the core issues in these tapes.  So you know the other group of people who are mentioned on these tapes but we do not hear from are the actual NRA members you know who are sometimes talked about as quote-unquote fruitcakes hillbillies et cetera. Did you hear from any current NRA members about what they heard on these tapes?  Yeah. So as part of my reporting I talk quite frequently with NRA members and I asked some of them what did these tapes show? Because a lot of them are the sorts of people described disparagingly by NRA officials as fruitcakes and idiots and nuts and so on. These are people who are you know making speeches at NRA meetings and proposing resolutions. Here's what they had to say.  I was insulted when I heard those because you know I am one of those yahoos that put resolutions in front of the board. And the only time we have a chance to have a say in what goes on in the organization is that the resolutions at the members meeting.  The people that are - that you know may be bought into the idea that this was some kind of left-wing attack on the NRA that was unfounded fake news whatever for them to hear that coming out of Marion Hammer's mouth coming out of Wayne LaPierre's mouth for them to hear the opinions and the disregard distrust for the people that are most motivated to be at the member's meetings - I mean I have been to you know full board meetings where any member - 5 million claimed members of the NRA can attend - I was the only one. So does that make me a wacko? But it is interesting to see that what they fear from the membership and what the membership really represents particularly the members that will go to the members meeting.  So going back in time and listening to those tapes it is like watching on repeat episodes of The Office where you know the character Michael Scott is always making a blunder and everyone in the office is just completely dysfunctional. But instead of some sort of comic relief there is none. It is merely just a cringe-worthy trainwreck that continues and continues and continues.  Those three were Frank Tait Rob Pincus and Ron Carter. And they are part of a movement inside the NRA that is trying to reform the organization. They are seeking new leadership at the top and more transparency in the nonprofit. I mean the NRA is in a lot of trouble right now.  And I mean it sounds like they have not felt that the NRA really listens to their members their grassroots members. You know the NRA always talks about their millions of members that are the backbone of the organization will give them their strength. Those people were pretty upset by what they heard on these tapes.  And maybe in better times that would be something that is more excusable. But there are a lot of members who are pretty pissed off right now because the NRA is under the most serious mortal threat it is seen in over 150 years of existence.  Right. Could you just give a sense of where the NRA stands right now?  The NRA is really in shambles financially. In 2018 they almost could not make payroll. That is a serious problem for any organization to be in. The New York attorney general launched an investigation and after 18 months accused the NRA and Wayne LaPierre and three others of contributing to the loss of more than 64 million in just three years.  Wow.  This is something that the New York attorney general called fraud and abuse. And what she was seeking was to dissolve the NRA entirely. Now the NRA was originally founded in New York so the New York AG has jurisdiction over the organization. The NRA has said that her action her office's action is part of a politically motivated attack and that they have become a more accountable organization in the time since.  So when we look back now at these tapes that you just obtained and can hear these executives some of them who are still with the NRA talk about the strategy I mean what do those tapes tell us about the NRA and gun politics and how those have evolved over the last two decades?  You know the tapes really show the NRA's policies and its playbook being developed in real time. Just take a listen to what Heston said back in 1999 to close out the convention this is all about.   The dirty secret of this day and age is that political gain and media ratings all too often bloom on fresh graves.  That line which was originally strategized on these NRA tapes is something they use over and over again in the years to come. But they say it in slightly different ways. Take a listen to Wayne LaPierre talking after the shootings at Sandy Hook in 2012.   Out of respect for the families and until the facts are known the NRA has refrained from comment. While some have tried to exploit tragedy for political gain we have remained respectively silent.   This theme that you cannot talk about firearms policy after mass shootings continues throughout the years. Here's Wayne LaPierre after the shootings in Parkland in 2018.   As usual the opportunist wasted not one second to exploit tragedy for political gain - the breakback speed of calls for more gun control laws and the breathless national media eager to smear the NRA.  You know Tom just in the last few weeks there have been several school shootings. And the NRA's response was to tweet quote The criminal is the problem not the inanimate object. This is really not hard to comprehend.  So what do you think these tapes tell us about the NRA and gun politics over these last two decades?  You look at the events after these tapes the mass shootings that followed after Columbine. You had Virginia Tech and Sandy Hook and Parkland and all sorts of other mass shootings that have occurred over the last 20 years. And then you look at what is actually occurred in terms of legislation responding to them.   At the federal level at least there is been no significant gun control legislation passed since these tapes. And in the meantime they have been able to advance gun rights legislation.  And that is true even though the NRA is in such a weak position now.  Yeah. What the NRA does so successfully is that they are able to mobilize its grassroots members. Politicians are not really scared as much about the NRA's money. They are worried about getting yelled at at town halls and having their phone lines lit up and their email boxes flooded. And the people the NRA is most able to mobilize are these wackos these so-called fruitcakes these hillbillies.  So even though the NRA leadership was complaining about you know what they viewed as the quote unquote fruitcakes the wackos those members who they denigrated in this way are really the source of strength for the NRA and the gun rights movement.  Yeah. And the decisions the strategy that they developed after Columbine on these secret tapes they worked to help the NRA defend themselves in the wake of these mass shootings again and again and again.  Tim thanks so much.  Thanks a lot.  This episode is a production of NPR's Investigations team and the Enterprise Storytelling Unit. In Investigations Monika Evstatieva is the senior producer and Barrie Hardymon is our senior editor. Tim Mak reported this episode. Robert Little is the senior supervising editor on Investigations. Nicole Beemsterboer leads NPR's Enterprise Storytelling Unit. Jennifer Schmidt is the senior editor and Liana Simstrom is the supervising producer. Sound design by Thomas Lu with support from assistant producer Justine Yan. Stu Rushfield engineered this episode. I am Tom Dreisbach. This is NPR.  