 Over a dozen tornadoes tore through the central and southern U.S. overnight.  Deaths have been reported in several states. Several communities are devastated.  We will bring you the latest from Kentucky which was hit especially hard. I am Don Gonyea.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Today we will bring you the latest on that massive storm system and the recovery efforts that are underway.  Also the Supreme Court says that the Texas abortion law will remain in place - why that has advocates worried.  And used cars gas fuel oil food all cost more. And it has the president's attention.  So stay with us. We have got the news for you that you need to start your weekend.   Tornadoes have devastated the Southern United States overnight.  The governor of Kentucky says it is likely that 70 to 100 people could be confirmed to be killed by those storms.  NPR's David Schaper joins us now with the latest. Good morning.  Good morning.  David tell us more about the storm system and where it hit.  Well Don this is a pretty massive and powerful storm system that stretched all the way from Arkansas and Tennessee Kentucky Missouri the mid-South. Kind of along the Mississippi River is where the most powerful storms on either side of the river broke out and then extending all the way up north to just a little ways south of the Chicago area into northwest Indiana. And it is a powerful system that I believe was caused by a lot of warm Gulf weather - moisture coming up from the south hitting a cold front that is coming in from the north. And that is what appears to have caused these massive storms to break out.  The death toll the governor is predicting is huge - perhaps as many as a hundred. Are those deaths concentrated in any certain areas?  Well there is one area Mayfield Ky. where there is a candle factory where Governor Andy Beshear of Kentucky believes the situation was especially tragic. There were about 110 people in that factory at the time. He says that they believe they lost dozens of individuals who were in that factory at the time. And so that is one spot where there is a horrible path of destruction. But this is again a system that is pretty wide pretty powerful up and down. And you know Edwardsville Ill. - there are not any confirmed fatalities from where that Amazon warehouse - the roof appears to have caved in. But there are people unaccounted for there. And really you go all the way up to just you know south of Chicago along the Illinois-Indiana border - there have been confirmed reports of tornadoes touching down there. And you know you can go down into Tennessee and not far outside of Memphis and Nashville even where there are tornadoes reported.  And what can you tell us about the efforts underway to get help to the victims?  Yeah I mean it is been a long night for first responders. Folks have been out responding and trying to conduct search and rescue operations in many parts of this region. You know it is a really difficult task. When the storms are still coming and debris is scattered about the roadways it is difficult for emergency vehicles to get through. But there have been crews that have been working through the night to try to get to folks who may have been trapped in some of these building collapses. You know there are some in the St. Louis area as well - the towns of Defiance - and that is had a couple of buildings collapse. The Kentucky State Police the police in Tennessee and Arkansas Missouri Illinois Indiana - they are all out and they are all trying to do the best they can to recover people and get people to safety as best they can.  That is NPR's David Schaper. David thank you.  My pleasure Don.   A mixed ruling from the Supreme Court has Texas abortion providers confused and President Biden quote very concerned. It concerns a Texas law that bans most abortions in the state after six weeks.  It is the most restrictive of any such measures in the country. And Friday the court again declined to block it but it did allow lawsuits to challenge the law to move forward. NPR's Sarah McCammon joins us. Sarah thanks so much for being with us.  Good morning.  Let us begin with the lawsuits that can go ahead. What does this decision say about them?  So the court is giving abortion providers in Texas some leeway to bring federal lawsuits against state health officials to try to block enforcement of this law SB8. So those will proceed along with legal action challenging the law at the state level. But that still leaves the door open to really just about anyone else who might want to sue them. Because remember Scott this law is unusual in that it puts enforcement in the hands of private citizens and anyone can bring lawsuits worth tens of thousands of dollars against abortion providers or anyone else believed to be in violation.  And Sarah what is been the reaction to the fact that the ban on most abortions will stay in place for the moment?  Well abortion rights advocates are concerned of course. Amy Hagstrom Miller is the president of Whole Woman's Health which operates four clinics in Texas. Her organization filed the lawsuit that was allowed to move forward albeit as we said in a limited way. But she told me this does not feel like a victory.  This leaves us still faced with having to turn away the vast majority of people who need access to safe abortion care from our clinics in Texas. And so it does not feel all that different.  Meanwhile groups opposed to abortion rights are praising this decision. Katie Glenn is with Americans United for Life.  We know from the data that we have seen from September and October of this year that every day that law's in effect lives are being saved from abortion. So that itself is a win.  And she hopes that this latest action is another sign that the Supreme Court may be ready to overturn Roe v. Wade.  And just last week we heard the six conservative justices on the court suggest they are open to overturning that landmark abortion rights ruling in the Mississippi case that is also with the Supreme Court. How do these two cases fit together?  Right. The larger issue looming over all of this is that Mississippi case which is a challenge to a 15-week abortion ban. That case could overturn existing precedent guaranteeing abortion rights prior to fetal viability - precedent that this Texas law seems to obviously violate. And a decision in that case is expected next year. Justice Sonia Sotomayor wrote in her dissent yesterday in the Texas case quote the court should have put an end to this madness months ago. And the fact that the court has repeatedly now been given opportunities to block this Texas law and has not done so would seem to say a lot about the mindset of the conservative justices.  Sarah this - the six-week abortion ban took effect in Texas months ago. And you have been covering what it means for women there. What do you foresee now that the law will stay in place for the moment?  Really we are going to see more of what we have been seeing since September 1 when this law took effect - women traveling hundreds of miles to seek abortions at clinics in neighboring states and beyond. Those clinics are trying to accommodate everyone. But they say they are struggling to do so. And abortion rights advocates stress that there just is not the capacity to absorb everyone from Texas. I mean this is a state with close to 30 million people. Even if it were feasible for everyone who wants to travel out of a state for an abortion to do so - which of course it is not because of cost and other barriers like work or child care. So the bottom line is there are women in Texas who are going to have no alternative but to carry pregnancies to term.  NPR's Sarah McCammon - thanks so much.  Thank you.   Spikes in the cost of gas meat and more mean the U.S. is seeing the worst monthly inflation numbers in 40 years. That is a big problem for families struggling to make ends meet. And it is a huge political problem for the Biden administration.  NPR White House correspondent Scott Detrow spent the week following how President Biden is trying to respond to rising inflation. Scott thanks so much for being with us.  Hey good morning Scott.  Anyone who remembers the 1970s and '80s - I certainly do - knows...  .  ...That high inflation can be a political problem for incumbent presidents. Let me put it nicely. How is the White House contending with this?  We did get a sense of just how worried the administration was about this new report the day before it came out on Thursday when key staffers were flooding the zone to talk about all of the good economic indicators out there. Biden's top economic adviser Brian Deese came out to the briefing room and he had a lot of charts with him and he talked to us reporters for 40 minutes.  We have seen very strong labor market developments and those labor market developments are coupled by strong developments in overall economic growth and in household income and demand.  And look. There are some good signs in this very strange economy. Unemployment claims and unemployment rates have significantly dropped. The stock market and a lot of corporate earnings are up. But after months of really dismissing inflation as a passing thing it is now very real. It is very serious. And voters are noticing. One thing the White House did focus on this week was the fact that fuel and energy costs have come back down recently since the data in this report was collected. Used car prices have as well. You know of course part of that is because a lot of the fears of this latest coronavirus variant which is - of course is not good political or economic news.  So what is the White House doing about inflation to try and slow or stop it in addition to anything they told you for 40 minutes at a briefing?   Well we should point out that even though a president gets a lot of the blame a lot of inflation is out of his control and an administration really has limited tools to deal with it especially when it comes to the short-term. The administration has pointed to federal efforts to speed up traffic at clogged ports - some signs that has worked and things are moving faster and costs are down there. Biden released 50 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Oil Reserve though again it was really the global demand suddenly changing that started to bring gas prices down. And we are increasingly hearing the president argue that his Build Back Better legislation that wide-ranging bill still stuck in the Senate would help with inflation.  Now if they are paying considerably less for child care considerably less for health care considerably less for insulin considerably less - and go down the list of being able to take care of their parent all the things that are in the Build Back Better plan. The reason why people think is going to - economists think is going to in fact diminish the impact on inflation is because it is reducing costs for ordinary people.  This seems to be a pretty tough sell for the audience that really matters the most here who of course is West Virginia Democrat Joe Manchin. Manchin has made it clear he is really worried about inflation. Even though this particular bill would spread out spending over the course of several years Manchin has regularly noted all of the trillion-dollar-plus laws that Biden has signed already this year. And Manchin says he is worried that some of that spending made inflation worse.  We have been talking about Senator Manchin and this bill for - almost since the 1980s.   We have been talking about this bill and Senator Manchin for months now.  Yes.  What is the latest?  The latest twist - Biden says he is going to be speaking to Manchin early next week - no details on whether that is a White House meeting or a phone call. Remember this bill has already passed the House. It is now in front of the Senate. The White House and Democratic congressional leaders are adverse to setting new deadlines after having us talk about all of the deadlines that have been blown when it comes to this bill. But there is an anxiousness to get this done. But again every public comment that Manchin made this week made it pretty clear he still has a lot of concerns and he seems nowhere close to being a yes vote.  NPR White House correspondent Scott Detrow thanks so much.  Sure thing.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday December 11 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Don Gonyea. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news interviews books music features just plain fun you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition with Scott on Saturdays and me this Sunday morning. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  