 Hi. I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST is here for you to help you stay on top of what is happened in the world keep you informed in a way that is reliable quick and easy. Now it is your turn to be there for UP FIRST. It is made possible by your NPR member stations. So we are asking you to please support them before this year ends. It is fast and easy. Just go to donate.npr.orgupfirst. And thank you.   Donald Trump's been impeached by the House. A Senate trial awaits.  But leader Mitch McConnell says the timeline for it is still unclear.   We remain at an impasse on these logistics.  I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Also Russia and China vetoed critical aid to Syria. That puts millions of people at risk of starvation and death. Here's their time to act.  And today may be one of the biggest shopping days of the year.  Americans say they are willing to pay more for sustainable ethical products like...   Pet beds that are hand-felted and made from all-organic and all-natural wool in Kathmandu Nepal.  But are these products really any better for the planet?  Stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your day.   This week a leaner group of Democrats met to debate.  And they did so almost 24 hours to the minute after President Donald Trump was impeached by the House of Representatives - a tale of two parties or one election. NPR's Tamara Keith joins us. Tam thanks for being with us.  Good to be with you.  It is just the third time in U.S. history a president has been impeached. But then when the Democrats got onstage they mostly seemed to be there to jump on Mayor Pete and his wine cave.  That is right. Mayor Pete Buttigieg the mayor of South Bend Ind. is leading in some early state polls in Iowa and New Hampshire. And when you have a lead in those important states - guess what? - some of the other candidates are going to come after you. So this was the PBS NewsHour Politico debate. And Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren went after him for holding big-dollar fundraisers including one in - as you mentioned - a wine cave which is a very memorable phrase. And then Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar took digs at him about his relative lack of experience. But one of the sharpest barbs came in the midst of an exchange about electability.   So you want to talk about the capacity to win - try putting together a coalition to bring you back to office with 80 of the vote as a gay dude in Mike Pence's Indiana.   Again I would - Mayor if you had won in Indiana that would be one thing. You tried and you lost by 20 points.  She is pointing back to his race for state treasurer in Indiana in 2010 which he did not do well in. You know when a race has electability as a major issue - and this race certainly does - if you talk to Democrats again and again they say you know the most important thing to me is just beating Donald Trump. Well if electability is the most important thing then you are going to have this dynamic that is existed in this Democratic race where a candidate rises up. But it is sort of like an escalator to nowhere because once they get to the top all the other candidates start coming after them. And suddenly they stop looking quite so electable. And then someone else goes up the escalator to the top.  Did they have much variance of views on impeachment?  No. I mean it was the first question in the debate. And they dispensed with it pretty quickly because well they all agree they want President Trump out of office whether through impeachment or by winning - by a Democrat winning in November.  And of course with just a couple of exceptions the vote on impeachment of the House was strictly by party lines - no Republican defections. After this week can it be said that the party of Lincoln Eisenhower and Reagan party of balanced budgets and national security has become the party of Donald Trump?  Oh absolutely without question. President Trump kept his Republicans in the House completely in line. You know early on there had been some Republican congresspeople expressing concerns or you know being distressed about the president's call with President Zelenskiy. By the time that vote happened he had all the Republicans in line and the only defections were on the Democratic side just a couple - handful of them. And one of those ended up jumping parties after the vote and becoming a Republican. But it is not just that vote. You have the placement for passed out of the House on a very strong bipartisan vote. It had a lot of things in it that Democrats liked and some things that Republicans would have maybe not have wanted. But guess what? They voted for it. And it is a huge win for President Trump. And even things like paid parental leave in the defense bill for federal employees - that has not been a top Republican priority but there they were Republicans falling in line and supporting this priority that was a priority of President Trump.  Back to the debate Amy Klobuchar and Andrew Yang seem to have impressed many in this week's debate. Could they get at least a lift on the escalator up you mentioned?  They are certainly getting a look. People are noticing them. Andrew Yang had a stronger performance in this last debate than he has had in past debates. He sort of strayed a little bit from his main talking points and showed a little bit more about what he stands for. And Senator Amy Klobuchar got almost as much speaking time as Bernie Sanders. They were quite nearly tied for the most speaking time in that debate.  Not a single vote's been cast. But at the same time the polls seem to keep suggesting this has become a Biden-Sanders-Warren race. Is that true? Did the debates change anything?  It is not clear that the debates have really changed anything. There've been some big moments in debates that you would think might register in the polls and then - but within a couple of weeks it is all gone. And it is sort of back to where it was. One thing to note though is that some early state polls do show Mayor Pete Buttigieg up at the top whereas the national polls show this Biden-Warren-Sanders race. And so if Pete Buttigieg is able to say win in Iowa that could affect all the states that flow after that.  Finally Tam does either party want impeachment trial to last through the election season?  No. No no no no no. President Trump wants to be acquitted in the Senate as soon as humanly possible and he is pretty frustrated that it is been held up and it is not clear when that Senate trial is going to happen. And these Democrats including Democrats in the Senate who are running for president do not want to be trapped in the Senate chamber when they would rather be in Iowa campaigning. You are going to get this crazy February where it is Super Bowl Sunday Iowa caucus Monday and the State of the Union on Tuesday.  Tamara Keith NPR's White House correspondent and co-host of NPR's Politics Podcast. Thanks so much.  You are welcome.   A move by Russia and China at the U.N. yesterday could put critical aid for millions of Syrians at risk.  For years aid agencies have sent food and other aid to rebel areas over the objection of the Syrian government.  It is a program approved by the United Nations Security Council. But yesterday the backing for it broke down when Russia and China blocked a resolution to keep it going. We are joined now by NPR's Deb Amos to talk about this a little more. Deb the U.N. Security Council has approved this cross-border operation every single year right? What changed?  Boy international aid groups are really surprised by the Russia and China veto. You know they and the U.N. - they have been doing this for years. This is aid that goes across Syria's borders. There is two crossing points in Turkey one in Iraq and one in Jordan annually authorized at the U.N. - no news here. But this time the Russians wanted to close two of those crossings the ones from Jordan and the one in Iraq. And the U.N. ambassador Russia's argued that the humanitarian situation in Syria has changed that Syrian government forces - with allies Russia and Iran - have recaptured large parts of the country. And the ambassador said that the U.N. Security Council had to recognize that fact. And they want to cut the authorization time down to every six months because they say things are changing.  So is this actually the end of the aid program?  So the mandate for the program ends on January 10. So there is still time to come up with a new resolution but boy does it seem like it is deadlocked. International aid groups say there is disaster ahead especially now. The Russian air force and the Syrian army have stepped up a military campaign to recapture northwest Syria. This is Idlib province. Overnight 24000 people were displaced in that province. And this is winter. Turkey has moved troops into northeast Syria and that is also displacing civilians. So these are the border crossings that the Russians want closed. So hear Vanessa Jackson - she is with CARE. She was at the U.N. for the vote. CARE is one of the largest providers of aid in this cross-border program.  This is lifesaving aid. People are going into a very harsh winter. We are seeing a really serious escalation in the bombing and shelling. So it is extremely serious. There is no plan B. We just cannot afford to see a resolution not being agreed for 4 million civilians who are caught in the crossfire.  Deb it seems like Russia and China are trying to push politics into this very delicate and dire humanitarian situation. What can these international organizations do if this deadlock continues?  That is what they are all talking about. And some of them are talking about going back to the old system - before 2014 - and that is when aid went across those borders surreptitiously. And they went into rebel held areas because civilians were desperate and they needed the aid. This does put aid at risk. As the Syrian forces retake parts of this country it will be a dangerous operation. The people who are delivering aid will be targets so nobody really knows what to do.  We should say that this caught the Americans by surprise right?  Oh yeah.  Yeah. The U.S. ambassador to the U.N. Kelly Craft - she is tweeted her anger. She is vowing that the U.N. Security Council will work every day between now and January 10 when the mandate expires to ensure that there is a renewal. But the question I guess is how much leverage does the United States have to get a new resolution through the Security Council right now?  You know the Russians were signaling that the U.S. has very little leverage. Russia backed the Assad regime and eventually wants all of this aid to go through Damascus. This is a show of a return to full sovereignty over the country. Analysts say that Russia also wants cross-border aid operations closed from Iraq. Aid comes from there but Syrians go out of there. Thousands have been fleeing into Iraq since Turkey took over parts of northern Syria. You know this was a political vote. This is as much about politics as it is about humanitarian aid. The Russians are saying this is the end of the war and our ally Bashar al-Assad won it so get over it.  NPR's Deborah Amos thank you so much.  Thank you.   Today is expected to be the biggest shopping day of this year. The National Retail Federation says there is a huge jump in the number of people who shop the weekend before Christmas.  Yep 'ecause everyone leaves it to the last minute like me. But are we shopping like we used to shop? Increasingly Americans say they prefer giving and receiving gifts that are made ethically and sustainably. NPR's retail correspondent Alina Selyukh is here to tell us more. Alina ethically and sustainably - I would love to know what those words mean to shoppers. Is this now mainstream?  People I think interpret it in very many ways and depending on the survey - either way over a course of multiple surveys you can sort of start seeing this trend that people are saying they care about the values represented by the things they buy. For example sustainability - fair trade is another one. This attitude - it is sort of like this interest in more virtuous consumerism if you will.  Which would seem like an oxymoron a little bit.  Yeah. So - but it is showing up in surveys. People are saying they want less packaging. They want reusable containers recycled materials. This year I have seen a lot of gift-buying guides that are starting to reflect that. In super popular magazines and TV programs you will see things like metal straws or recycled wrapping paper. And not only are shoppers saying that they want to buy more sustainable products for example. They are even willing to pay more for them. Two-thirds of shoppers said this in a recent survey by Deloitte. I talked with a retail expert there Rod Sides and he said this spanned all age groups but especially younger shoppers.  Gen Z about 84 of respondents said they are willing to pay more. Millennials is about 80. We go all the way down to seniors we find that regardless of the age cohort it is above 50 who are willing to pay a little bit more.  Roughly a quarter of millennial and Gen Z shoppers said that they were willing to pay as much as 20 more.  So this seems like a good thing and especially maybe even for companies because they are saying they are actually willing to pay more. And this might be good for obviously retailers who are selling things right?  The idea that people are willing to pay more is one of the biggest challenges there but of course to your point like companies want to sell you more stuff. So they will also respond to what customers want. And so a lot of them are marketing ethics and sustainability of their products. This includes the historically environmentally friendly brands - think like REI or Patagonia - but also a new generation of sellers on Instagram and YouTube promoting refillable lipstick reusable rubber cotton swabs and ethically sourced handcrafted felt beds for cats. And...  I am on that by the way. I am on that .  I believe it. And even the giant conglomerates if we go down that path like Procter  Gamble and Unilever are looking for ways to sell you maybe deodorant or shampoo in a container that you might return and refill. And to your point if you think about it there is a bit of a paradox here. Companies are pushing people to buy more stuff by saying it is better for the environment or local communities when every single new item has to be manufactured packaged shipped many of them flown on cargo planes - all these things that are inherently not better for the planet.  That is right. So how is this actually showing up in holiday shopping so far? What are we actually seeing?  Right. So the National Retail Federation says the top things we are buying this year are not surprising. It is clothes and toys but there is an indication of how consumers are starting to veer away from buying stuff. A quarter of shoppers said they plan to gift experiences rather than things like movie tickets or spa visits not that I am giving anyone any ideas here. Among younger people such experiences are more popular planned by more than a third of shoppers. And in other surveys these younger shoppers are also saying that they might be up for gifts from thrift stores things that are used or resold giving them a new life. On that note just like on sustainable and virtuous shopping just to point out again it is a bit tricky to survey because it is one thing to say you are going to give your favorite person presents from a thrift shop or...  Yes we say we are more virtuous but...  ...Skip that last-minute shipping altogether but it is another thing to actually do it.  That is right. We do not know if they are actually more virtuous. That is NPR's Alina Selyukh. Thank you so much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday December 21 2019. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back on Monday of course with news to start your day. And follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And of course you know the news does not stop when this podcast ends. We have got a solution for that.  It is called Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday. Find it on your NPR station at stations.npr.org.   And just a reminder about donating before the end of the year to your NPR member station which supports UP FIRST. To get started with your donation to an NPR member station visit donate.npr.orgupfirst or just text the word up to the number 49648. We will send you a text message with a link where you can find your local station and make your contribution. Message and data rates may apply. You can visit npr.orgsmsterms for privacy and text message terms. 