 Wash those hands really well.  Do it often and keep your hands away from your face.  That is advice from the Centers for Disease Control to guard against COVID-19 the illness caused by the coronavirus. I am Leila Fadel.  And I am Scott Simon and this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   The latest on the COVID-19 outbreak coming up.  It is primary day in South Carolina.   South Carolina has a thumb on the scale.   Hello South Carolina State.   Thank you Myrtle Beach.  What voters there do today could ripple through 14 more states when they vote on Tuesday.  And there is a deal being signed today between the U.S. and the Taliban who harbored al-Qaida before the 911 terrorist attacks. So stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your day.   Several more unexplained cases of the new coronavirus have cropped up on the West Coast raising concerns that COVID-19 is now spreading in ways that are hard to control.  There are new cases in Washington state Oregon and California and the disease is continuing to spread around the globe. The World Health Organization now reports cases in at least 56 countries.  We are joined now by NPR science correspondent Richard Harris. Richard thanks for being with us.  Sure. Good morning Scott.  First please bring us up to date on these new cases in the U.S.  Yeah. Well it is been quite a week. Earlier this week there was a case reported in Solano County Calif. - that is sort of midway between Sacramento and San Francisco. And that is raising concerns because that woman had never really come in contact with anybody who they knew had been exposed to the coronavirus. She had not traveled to China. She is now in the hospital and people are really concerned about that. The CDC sent like 10 additional investigators out there to figure that out. But just as that story was starting to unfold late yesterday California authorities talked about another presumptive case in San Jose which is at the south end of San Francisco Bay - or in San Jose area I should say. Then health departments in Washington and Oregon chimed in. In the wee hours Oregon said there was an adult in Washington County Ore. who felt sick about 10 days ago and was tentatively diagnosed just yesterday with the coronavirus. And there are two cases in Washington - one a woman who traveled in South Korea so that is not too surprising. But the other person who is a high school student in Snohomish County which you may recall - seems like a long time ago now - was the site of the very first case identified in the United States.  Richard all of that seems like a serious new turn of events. What is going on?  It could indeed be quite serious. Community spread is troublesome. To date all the other travelers have been pretty well-known. They have either been travelers to China or Japan on that cruise ship or their spouses. Health officials can track folks in those circumstances because they can figure out who they have got - been in touch with and keep following up and make sure those people are keeping track of their own health and so on. But when cases start popping up at seeming random moments that control method gets increasingly problematic. So the question is is this really the first sign of things going out of control? Or you know there is also a possibility that just there has been a long delay in testing. And now that states are starting to do testing we are all of a sudden seeing a burst in new cases.  And what is behind the holdup in testing here in the U.S.?  Yeah. Well tests are still officially run in Atlanta which is why these are still presumptive tests. But the CDC produced some test kits some weeks ago and they sent them out to the states. But they did not work. And so the states said we are not going to run them until you sort it out. CDC is taking a long time to figure out what exactly has been wrong with the kits they originally sent out. And they finally said OK we have the green light. You can go ahead and use those kits. They sent out new batches and so on. And so that is why we are seeing tests now. So that - unfortunately that delay also means that there is been very little testing over the past several weeks beyond highly suspected cases. And so that is maybe why we are starting to see this outburst right now.  U.S. now has more than 60 cases of the coronavirus. Could you put that into perspective for us?  Well clearly it is nowhere as bad as in China. And we have been seeing the last couple of weeks these other areas of outbreak like South Korea Iran and Italy where cases are really rapidly multiplying. Since most cases here are still pretty well-understood - most are in fact off the Diamond Princess cruise ship that was in Japan for a while - it is too early to panic clearly. We should never panic. But it is a - but you know it is a concern. And I think we will learn a lot more as testing ramps up in the next week or two really what the dimensions of this are here.  NPR's Richard Harris thanks so much.  My pleasure Scott.  For more advice on COVID-19 and preventing the spread of the coronavirus that causes it just open this podcast feed again tomorrow. Our colleagues at LIFE KIT will have a special episode full of information you can use to protect yourself and your family.   Polls are open in South Carolina.  It is the first Democratic primary in the South and the first contest where African American voters make up a majority of the Democratic electorate.  So it is a big test for a number of candidates.  For more on what to watch as the day goes on let us turn to NPR's Juana Summers who is been covering the campaign throughout the state for some time. Juana thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  Joe Biden says South Carolina's part of his path to win the nomination. How do things look for him right now?  Yes Scott there is no question that the state is a make or break one for Joe Biden. I have been here all week talking to folks who know the state well and folks who are backing Biden. They say he is in a really strong place. There've been several polls out in recent days that show him with a double-digit lead. A lot of that is owed to the strong grip he has on the state's black voters. Here he is last night. He is doing a little math to urge students at Wofford College - that is in Spartanburg - and he is urging them to go to the polls.   If you vote this time with the same percentage 18- to 25-year-old vote the same percentage that the rest of the population votes it will be 5.2 million more votes. And you can own it all.  Joe Biden is hoping that this state will give him momentum as the race moves on to the 14 states that have their say on Super Tuesday. He has not done as much groundwork there. He is been forced to spend almost all his time here.  Bernie Sanders lost to Hillary Clinton by 47 percentage points four years ago. What is this year look like for him?  Well things look so much different for him this year. Bernie Sanders is coming off of a close race in Iowa and wins in New Hampshire and Nevada. So he is got a lot of momentum. In this race for the nomination he is the front-runner right now. It is really clear that he is learned the lessons of 2016. I covered him then. And since then he is kept his operation alive here in South Carolina. He and surrogates those who back his campaign have come back over and over again. Four years ago people did not know him and they know him here now. He is not favored to win this race but he has substantially more support from black voters this time around than four years ago. And that'ill be key not just in South Carolina but in later states as the primary electorate grows more diverse.  And you have been on the road this week with Tom Steyer. Why is that businessman spending so much time there and so much money?  He is betting everything on South Carolina. He has been here more than any other candidate. He has the largest staff on the ground more than 90 people. And he has spent 17 million on local broadcast TV ads alone. That is a bigger investment than anyone else. And all of that is to make a big play for black voters. When you go out to a Tom Steyer event he talks about reparations the need to invest in historically black colleges and universities economic and racial justice. Last night he held a get-out-the-vote concert at Allen University - it is one of the state's HBCUs. It was quite the party.   Win lose or draw I fell in love with the people of South Carolina.   I am never leaving. Honestly I am never leaving because this is a completely righteous fight. And we are going to win this fight.  Something a lot of people do not know is that Tom Steyer has actually been coming to South Carolina for years even before he was a presidential candidate. He came here for his climate change activism and with the Need to Impeach movement that he launched. And a lot of voters tell me they knew him even before he started running from that work.  South Carolina votes today but Super Tuesday is just in three days - 14 other states. How do the candidates juggle this in their schedule? Because they have to travel truly between California and New York then South Carolina.  Yeah there is no question that there is a calendar crunch here. And that means candidates are having to make some strategic choices. Not all of them will be here today as the votes roll in. Bernie Sanders Amy Klobuchar Elizabeth Warren Pete Buttigieg - they will all spend primary night elsewhere. And we should note - Mike Bloomberg will not be that far away. He will be in North Carolina. He is not competing for votes in South Carolina. But starting on Super Tuesday he will be on primary ballots as well.  NPR's Juana Summers in South Carolina. Thanks so much.  Thank you all.  And for more on the campaign be sure to check out the NPR Politics Podcast wherever you get your podcasts.   A deal is on the table today in Doha.  U.S. and Taliban officials are there in Qatar to sign an agreement that may lead to thousands of U.S. troops leaving Afghanistan. Eighteen years ago the United States led a NATO force into that country because the Taliban refused to expel al-Qaida leaders they were harboring.  Today's deal seeks to end America's involvement in Afghanistan. And NPR's Diaa Hadid is in Qatar for the signing. She joins us now. Hi Diaa.  Hi there Leila.  So describe the scene for us there. Where are you?  So we are in this enormous ballroom that is being converted for the press in the Sheraton Hotel. It is this ultra-modern building in Doha Qatar. And we are waiting for the American delegation to get to the signing room. And that will be led by the secretary of state Mike Pompeo. He will be witnessing the ceremony. And to get a sense of how historic this is there has been multiple attempts to negotiate the Taliban over years but this is the first time a deal has been reached. And just visually it is really remarkable. There was just a press gaggle around a senior Taliban leader. These are people you rarely see even as journalists. I accidentally bumped into the Taliban liaison officer for Osama bin Laden in the lobby. He was there with a group of other Talibs while there were tourists snacking on the buffet and there are American officials mingling about in suits. It is a really a remarkable sight.  So what happens next?  So initially the Taliban said they expect thousands of their men to be released from Afghan prisons in exchange for about 1000 Afghan security forces they have captured. And we expect a drawdown of American troops about 4000 of them within the next 135 days and the evacuation of five small forward operating bases they are called. And we expect that NATO will be mirroring that with their own troops. There is more than 37 countries that are represented in NATO forces so it is a bit more complicated. After that initial drawdown we have been told there'ill be conditions-based withdrawals. And this is where it gets a bit tricky. It is going to be conditioned on the level of violence in Afghanistan and what Americans say are their counterterrorism needs. They want to make sure that al-Qaida and ISIS will not be able to use Afghan soil as a sanctuary or a place to plot further attacks. But for the next few years at least the Afghan government says that the Americans have committed to be around for counterterrorism for training and for assistance with aerial strikes. And to that end in Kabul today as this ceremony takes place the defense secretary Mark Esper will be there to sign a deal with the Afghan president Ashraf Ghani. That is meant to reassure the government that they will still be around.  And there is also a political track.  That is right. And so once this deal is signed we expect that Afghans will have to start negotiating between themselves to end this conflict because although the Americans have been there for nearly two decades this conflict has raged for more than four decades more than 40 years in Afghanistan. Now it has to end. So we expect by about mid-March that a delegation led by the Afghan president Ashraf Ghani will be negotiating with the Taliban. We expect it may happen in Oslo although that has not been finalized. And those negotiations may take months even years because so many things have to be hammered out from extending this partial cease-fire that is been holding for the past week to things like determining women's rights in a country where the Taliban have a say in the political future.  NPR's Diaa Hadid in Doha Qatar. Diaa thank you so much.  Thank you Leila.   And that is UP FIRST for leap day Saturday February 29 2020. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Leila Fadel. Do not forget about the special episode of LIFE KIT in this feed tomorrow morning about the new coronavirus and how to keep it and other viruses from spreading.  You can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter. And of course you know the news does not stop just when this podcast ends. You know what? We have got a solution for that.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  