 Impeachment - it is not over yet.  But one thing does seem settled.   The yeas are 49 the nays are 51. The motion is not agreed to.  The Senate votes against hearing witnesses. I am David Folkenflik.  I am Renee Montagne. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Coronavirus is now a public health emergency in the United States.   But I want to emphasize that the risk to the American public currently is low.  Travel restrictions to and from China quarantines and heightened awareness about the respiratory disease - what U.S. officials are doing to protect people from the outbreak.  And just days before the Iowa caucuses we will hear from voters in Decatur a county that went big for Donald Trump four years ago.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start the weekend.   It is looking like Wednesday will be the big day.  Two weeks after senators began proceedings in President Trump's impeachment trial they will take the votes to convict and remove him from office or acquit.  Joining us now is NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales. Morning Claudia.  Good morning.  Now a lot of people expected this might be over by now. But yesterday was still pretty action-packed. So walk us through what happened.  Yes it was very action-packed. We saw a key swing Republican vote Lisa Murkowski of Alaska say she would join Republicans to help block Democrats from calling witnesses. That left Democrats on the losing end of a 51-49 vote to call witnesses like former national security adviser John Bolton to testify. So that moved the chamber to consider this last phase of the trial. Even though they had a resolution setting out the parameters for how this trial would play out to this point they did not have one for how to end it. Republicans largely wanted to rush to an acquittal even if it meant going to 2 a.m. 3 a.m. this morning. But Minority Leader Chuck Schumer wanted more time. Let us take a listen.   We have stood for one thing. We do not want this rushed through. We do not want it in the dark of night. Members have an obligation to tell the American people and to tell the people of their states why they are voting.  So then what happens between now and Wednesday?  This resolution approved by the chamber last night sets out those terms. Under that plan the legal teams can present their final arguments starting Monday morning at 11 a.m. and that could last for four hours. That would be equally divided between the House impeachment managers and the president's defense team. At the conclusion of these final arguments the impeachment trial will resume Wednesday afternoon at 4 p.m. when the Senate will take this dramatic vote on whether to remove or acquit this president. And we should note that the end of this trial will overlap two major events next week. On Monday Democratic presidential candidates will be in Iowa. And we know at least four members of the Senate are still running for president so that is a tricky situation for them. And then of course on Tuesday evening President Trump is slated to deliver his State of the Union address.  So plenty of action ahead in the next few days. And just going back to last night's vote for a moment about witnesses there was news even as senators were announcing which way they planned to vote right?  Right. This question of witnesses loomed over this entire process. Would Democrats get at least four Republican senators on their side to hear from witnesses like John Bolton and others about President Trump's conversation with Ukraine's leader? Instead a simple majority of Republicans successfully thwarted this effort. For example retiring Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee did not see a need. Let us take a listen to what he recently told NPR.   I do not need to hear any more evidence to decide that the president did what he is charged with doing. So if you have got eight witnesses saying that you left the scene of an accident you do not need nine.  As we know Trump has denied there was anything wrong with this call he had with Ukraine's leader last summer. And we imagine he is very much looking forward to his expected acquittal come Wednesday.  That is NPR's congressional reporter Claudia Grisales. Thanks very much Claudia.  Thanks for having me.  And for more coverage of the impeachment trial try the NPR Politics Podcast wherever you get your podcasts.   There are very few confirmed cases of coronavirus in the U.S. right now. Still the White House has declared a public health emergency. That means travel to and from China is being sharply restricted.  American citizens are being told to avoid going there. Those who are returning to the States might end up in quarantine.  And noncitizens who have recently visited China will not be allowed to enter the U.S.  NPR science correspondent Richard Harris is with us now. Good morning Richard.  Good morning Renee.  Thank you. So growing numbers of cases of this coronavirus around the world. As we know not many deaths especially when you compare it to the annual flu. But bring us up to date on the latest.  Right. There are now something like 10000 reported cases. And every time you turn around that number grows. Most are in China but the disease has popped up sporadically in more than a dozen countries now. Here in the United States we have seven reported cases. As a result of all of these developments both the World Health Organization and now the U.S. government have declared these public health emergencies.  So what exactly does that mean?  Well first and foremost the U.S. government is adding a significant travel restriction for people attempting to return from China. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar announced those restrictions at a White House briefing yesterday.   Any U.S. citizen returning to the United States who have been in Hubei province in the previous 14 days will be subject to up to 14 days of mandatory quarantine.  Americans or permanent residents and their immediate families who are returning from other parts of China will be screened carefully at one of seven airports and monitored closely for 14 days. And most other travel of non-Americans coming from China will be just banned. Also and you remember those 195 people who returned on a charter flight from Wuhan earlier this week - well they are now in official quarantine in a military base in Riverside County Calif.  And quarantine is a big word. It sounds like an extreme step. How often does the government impose that?  Well the federal government has not imposed a quarantine for like 50 years. That was back in the days when they were trying to put an end to smallpox. Local health officials have the power to quarantine and they have used it on a small scale. But this is a big    step for the federal government. I should mention that other nations including France and the U.K. and Australia have been quarantining their citizens returning from these coronavirus hotspots.  OK but why use quarantines when we have had just seven cases so far in the United States and public health officials keep telling us that the general public is not at risk?  This is the really only chance we have to nip this epidemic in the bud. It - once it gets a foothold outside of China there is really no telling how big it will become. So thus far it seems to be much less deadly than other nasty viruses like SARS and Ebola. But you know it does spread through the air. And we already get enough grief from the annual flu which typically kills tens of thousands of Americans every year. Nobody wants a second disease like that to take hold.  So you just said that this virus spreads through the air. But how easy is that to do? I mean what are health officials saying about how vulnerable people are?  The short answer is they say we do not know enough. With SARS and Ebola those viruses do not spread unless the person who has them is actually showing symptoms. And you know that made it easier to identify people at risk for spreading the virus. Dr. Anthony Fauci at the National Institutes of Health said we are just now learning about the situation for the new coronavirus.   It was not clear whether an asymptomatic person could transmit it to someone while they were asymptomatic. Now we know from a recent report from Germany that that is absolutely the case.  So that potentially makes it a lot harder to bottle up. Fauci also said the test the CDC has developed to diagnose people with this disease is not 100 effective or reliable. So that is another factor that led health officials to push for more aggressive measures such as this quarantine.  And Richard do you have any idea of how long these measures will be in effect?  No I do not. They say it is temporary but it looks like the situation is likely to get worse before it gets better.  That is NPR's science correspondent Richard Harris. Thanks very much.  Anytime.   If you look at a map of Iowa showing results from the 2016 presidential election you will see this great swath of red.  Iowans are caucusing Monday and the focus will be Democrats there - who they pick as their preferred candidate to take on a president who won their state overwhelmingly four years ago.  Morning Edition host and fellow UP FIRST host David Greene is on the road there and spent some time in a county that backed Trump bigly. Good morning David.  Good morning David.  So take us to Iowa.  Well I want to take you to Decatur County Iowa. That is where we were yesterday in this little town called Lamoni. We are talking about the southern part of the state right on the Missouri border. This county - in 2012 Mitt Romney won it by a little bit. Donald Trump won it big-time 30 in 2016. Democrats are feeling mobilized. They really want to I mean find the candidate who will remove Trump from office. And I was talking to the county Democratic chair there Marjie Foster. She is also a pastor. She has people in her life who are transgender and that is one reason she wants Trump out no matter what.  To have any policies that benefit one socioeconomic class one gender one sexual orientation over another is just so abhorrent to me.  So that is how she views the administration. And on Monday David she is going to be endorsing and caucusing for Amy Klobuchar who is a candidate really trying to crack into the top tier of Democratic candidates. And in some recent polls she seems to be gaining some traction.  So all the focus is on Democrats like Ms. Foster. But as we say this is a state that overwhelmingly backed Trump in 2016. How is his support there?  Well I mean in this part of Iowa you know we heard from registered Democrats a number of them who voted for Donald Trump last time and are going to do it again. So I think that those numbers make sense still in 2020. And right at this table - you know we sat down with a roundtable of voters - there was also one of Marjie's good friends Les Gardner. They know each other from church. He is 90 years old. He is a Republican. He is still all-in. He says all the noise has obscured what he thinks has been some real accomplishments by this president.  If we had not been so distracted by political nonsense this last year we would have seen these extraordinary accomplishments.  So disagreements you know at a time when we are all hearing about polarization in America. But just to be clear you are at a table with an ardent Democrat and a committed Trump supporter and it is completely cordial right?  Yeah. And I really think that is so Iowa. As Marjie put it everyone knows each other in this small town. You know your neighbor the person you sit next to at church might think differently than you do politically but you just find ways to get along and listen to each other. I got to tell you that there was this 18-year-old high school senior also at the table. His name's Matthew Kolb. He is caucusing for Pete Buttigieg. And he is used to being in conversations with people in his life who like President Trump. He does not.  Both of my grandparents voted for Trump. That does not make them any less my grandparents. Like I may disagree with them on some political things but they are not racist. But just know all Trump voters are not racist. I mean we just have to talk to folks.  So David I mean I think there is a polite restraint here and it is neighborly in Iowa. But do not get me wrong. Come Monday night with all of these Democratic candidates a lot at stake and really a mission by Democrats to get a different president I think caucus-goers are not going to be holding back on how they feel.  That is Morning Edition host David Greene on the road in Iowa for us. Thanks David.  Thank you David.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday February 1. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am David Folkenflik. UP FIRST was produced by Hiba Ahmad Samantha Balaban and Denise Guerra. Our director is Ned Wharton and our technical director is Stu Rushfield. Our editors are Melissa Gray Barrie Hardymon and Ed McNulty. Our executive producers are Sarah Oliver and Evie Stone. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your day. And follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And because the news does not stop when this podcast does we have something else you can listen to.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday. Find it on your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  