 Good news for Americans quarantined on a cruise ship.  They are getting evacuated as long as they do not have the coronavirus.  Also new details from China where health care workers have been infected. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Tweets from President Trump are seen as interference in Justice Department business even by some supporters.   I think that the attorney general says it is getting in the the way of doing his job - maybe the president should listen to the attorney general.  Senator Mitch McConnell talking to Fox News yesterday after Attorney General Barr complained the president's tweets make it impossible for him to do his job.  And a peace deal between the U.S. and the Taliban but no details yet from Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your day.   Passengers have been mostly confined to their rooms quarantined on the Diamond Princess for almost two weeks. And despite the cruise ship being under lockdown in Japan coronavirus infections have continued to rise.  But now the U.S. State Department is sending a chartered plane to evacuate American citizens from the vessel. NPR's Jason Beaubien joins me now from Hong Kong for the latest on this global health crisis. Good morning.  Good morning.  So let us start with what is happening with the cruise ship that is quarantined at a dock in Yokohama Japan.  Yeah things just continue to get worse. The Japan Ministry of Health just announced that another 67 people onboard have tested positive. This brings the total number of cases on the ship to 285 now.  Wow.  Everybody on the Diamond Princess has basically not been allowed to leave under a two-week quarantine. And this quarantine might be keeping the virus from spreading into Japan but it is clearly not stopping it from spreading on the boat. So the U.S. yes has finally said it is going to come in and extract any Americans who want to get off. But it is also not clear that the roughly 350 U.S. citizens are all going to accept the offers of this evacuation.  And why is it? What are U.S. officials requiring of the people that they are going to take off the boat?  So I have been communicating with some of the people on the boat and I have seen the letter the U.S. embassy sent out to them. And here's the deal. If you get off the boat and you fly back you are going to have to do another 14-day quarantine on an airbase in the U.S. once you land. And now if this evacuation happens when they are saying it is going to happen which looks like it would be Monday these passengers and crew would have almost been on the verge of serving out their 14-day quarantine on the Diamond Princess. There would be another two days and then they were supposed to be released into Japan on Wednesday.  But there was no guarantee that might have still happened right? So this might be the best deal they could get.  That is right. It is not clear that Japan was actually going to let people off given the fact that all of these new cases are being found on the boat.  And what about elsewhere? What is happening with this outbreak?  You know this remains primarily a China health problem despite you know we are hearing other cases in different parts of the world new deaths popping up. Even inside China it remains a problem primarily inside Hubei Province. You know to be clear there are thousands of cases in other parts of China but Hubei is really the epicenter. Every day we are getting another 2000 cases 3000 new cases from Hubei a hundred deaths a day primarily from there. And again it is really focused in and around Hubei and the city of Wuhan.  And I guess the big question - is China finally getting a handle on this? I mean have we reached the point where these numbers will or may start to go down?  And that is really the big question that is out there right now. You know it appeared that this thing was starting to plateau and then China changed the case definition. They basically said that they were unable before to tell whether some cases were actual cases because they did not have the ability to test everybody. They have thrown in this new clinical definition of what it is to be infected and that is making the numbers go up and is also raising questions that there might be a lot of other cases out there that have not been gotten picked up.  That is NPR's Jason Beaubien reporting from Hong Kong. Thank you so much.  You are welcome.   Unusual tension this week between President Trump and his attorney general William Barr.   I cannot do my job here at the department with a constant background commentary that undercuts me.  That was the attorney general in an interview on ABC Thursday when he said he wished the president would just stop some of his tweets.   To have public statements and tweets made about the department about our people in the department our men and women here about cases pending in the department and about judges before whom we have cases make it impossible for me to do my job.  And now reports that the Justice Department is taking another look at the prosecution of former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn and anger from the White House as the DOJ fails to prosecute Andrew McCabe formerly of the FBI. White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe joins us now. Good morning.  Good morning.  So Barr's comments raised a lot of eyebrows. How unusual is it for a member of Trump's cabinet to publicly criticize him?  It is been pretty unusual for them to do it while still in office. Trump's made clear that he likes people who are loyal. He is been unhappy in the past when people criticize him. These comments from Barr came after the Justice Department recommended a sentence for Roger Stone Trump's longtime confidant that - and Trump tweeted that he thought it was too harsh. The Justice Department reversed its recommendation on sentencing for Stone. And Barr used this interview to say that the president did not ask him to change the sentencing recommendation. And he wants the president to stop tweeting about these kinds of cases.  So the president is not known for taking criticism well. How did he take what is a pretty public taking to task?  Surprise surprise - he tweeted. He said that he has the legal right to weigh in on cases though he has not chosen to do that quote so far. My colleague Ryan Lucas has reported that the DOJ let the White House know about the interview after it was taped but before it aired. And then yesterday there was some big news. The DOJ said it would not seek any criminal charges against Andrew McCabe for authorizing an aide to talk to the press about an investigation. This is one of the people involved in the Russia probe who has been a big target for President Trump's criticism. McCabe was fired from his job in March 2018 but Trump still talks and tweets about him all the time. Here's how he described him earlier this week...   Nothing happened with all the people that did it and launched a scam. Where is Comey? Where is Comey? What is happening to McCabe? What is happening to Lisa and Peter Strzok? And Lisa Page? What is happening with them? It was a whole setup. It was a disgrace for our country. And everyone knows it too. Everyone including NBC which gives a lot of fake news.  The president has not tweeted or spoken about this new development with McCabe. It will be a test of whether he listens to Barr's warning about tweeting and whether he will weigh in as he said he has every right to do in a Justice Department case.  So what is next on this story? Stone is being sentenced this week right?  Yeah he will be sentenced this week - on Thursday. Trump has been asked whether he will offer him a pardon. He said this week he did not want to talk about that yet. And we will know more about this AP report of the DOJ taking another look at Michael Flynn's case in which Flynn pleaded guilty. The president has two rallies this week one in Phoenix on Wednesday and in Colorado Springs on Thursday. So we will see if he talks about it there.  That is NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  And for more of our White House coverage be sure to check out the NPR Politics Podcast.   There is a truce in the making between the U.S. and the Taliban. If successful it would open the way for a deal that might eventually bring American troops home from Afghanistan and end 18 years of war.  But there has not been much talk about it from the stage of a major international meeting going on right now in Munich.  NPR's Rob Schmitz is at the Munich Security Conference. Rob thanks so much for being with us.  Good morning Scott.  U.S. officials met with their counterparts from Afghanistan. What do we know about the details?  Well we first heard about this deal yesterday from a senior U.S. official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. And according to this official the U.S. and Taliban have agreed to a seven-day reduction of violence that will cover the entire country. And if the Taliban which controls roughly half of Afghanistan is able to make good on this then a U.S.-Taliban peace agreement would be signed within 10 days. And it would mean a drawdown of U.S. troops from the current levels around 13000 to less than 9000 U.S. military personnel. And here at the security conference in Munich we were expecting Secretary of State Mike Pompeo or Secretary of Defense Mark Esper to mention the deal in their speeches this morning. But neither of them did. After his speech Secretary of Defense Esper finally addressed the deal when asked about it by a moderator. Here's what he said.   I think there is general agreement. It is my view as well that we have to give peace a chance that the best if not only way forward in Afghanistan is through a political agreement. And that means taking some risks. That means enabling our diplomats. And that means working together with our partners and allies on the ground to effect such a thing.  And Scott one of those partners the government of Afghanistan sent its president Ashraf Ghani here. And he met with Secretary Pompeo yesterday.  Well what is it that Secretary Pompeo did talk about?  Well it is interesting. His entire speech this morning was sort of a rebuke to the theme of this very conference. Organizers have coined to this conference Westlessness  to frame the idea that the world is becoming less Western. Pompeo talked about how the world still looks to the West for guidance and a model and how quote unquote non-Western countries especially those with autocratic governments are an increasing threat to a Western-built international order. The threat of China was a big focus of his speech. He and Defense Secretary Esper talked at length about how China telecoms company Huawei aims to use its 5G infrastructure to steal data spy on us and undermine Western democracies. And what is interesting here is the U.S. delegation which included two dozen members of Congress were all unified in this position. Yesterday House Speaker Nancy Pelosi criticized Huawei as did Republican Senator Lindsey Graham.  Of course China has a delegation there too. And I wonder if they responded.  Yeah. Yesterday during a session a member of China's National People's Congress stood up and challenged Speaker Pelosi asking her whether democracy in the U.S. was so fragile that Huawei could possibly pose a threat to it. Pelosi sort of snapped back at the Chinese officials. She accused Huawei of stealing U.S. technology and then went on to say that China's human rights violations are evidence alone that countries should avoid working with Huawei. And Scott I think the reason that Speaker Pelosi and others in the U.S. delegation are hammering on this issue so much is their audience here in Munich. Many European countries are in the process of deciding whether to allow Huawei build their 5G networks. But these warnings from the U.S. seem to be sort of ringing hollow in their ears because they are also worried about the U.S. intelligence apparatus spying on their telecommunications networks too.  And back to the Afghanistan agreement - seven days of reduced violence does not sound like a huge step forward.  .  When is it supposed to begin?  Well those details were not - they were not revealed today or yesterday. No one seems to be talking about this yet. I think perhaps the officials as was hinted at by one of the officials are waiting for President Trump to weigh in on this before the weekend is finished.  NPR's Rob Schmitz in Munich thanks so much.  Thank you Scott.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday February 15 2020. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST back Monday with news you need to start your day. And please follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And of course you know the news does not stop when this podcast ends. We have a solution for that.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday. You can find it on your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  