 Joe Biden says he will do it with them or without them.  People are struggling and need help says the president. So he is pushing through his economic stimulus bill and he is got the votes.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Biden argues the economy needs a boost and it needs it now. Republicans rediscover thrift and say think about the price.   It will not serve America to pile on another huge mountain of debt on our grandkids for policies that even liberal economists say are poorly targeted to current needs.  Also jumping the line - should you get the vaccine before your turn?  And the Super Bowl - authorities say cheer at home or into a mask so Sunday does not become a superspreader event.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   President Biden starts the weekend with a message for Republicans. He does not want to wait for them.   If I have to choose between getting help right now to Americans who are hurting so badly and getting dragged - bogged down in a lengthy negotiation or compromising on a bill that is up to the crisis that is an easy choice. I am going to help the American people who are hurting now.  That is the president Friday on his 1.9 trillion relief package as Democrats in Congress pushed forward with a tool that will eventually make it possible for them to get it through the Senate with a simple majority.  There are still details for Congress to hammer out but there is one thing that Biden says he will probably have to drop for now and that is a hike in the minimum wage. Joining us now is White House correspondent Ayesha Rascoe. Good morning.  Good morning.  So Biden has spoken time and time again about the need to raise the federal minimum wage to 15 an hour up from 7.25. So explain why he is dropping that idea now.  He said that he does not want to drop it but in an interview he said that because of the way things are moving ahead with the aid package - they are using this tool that is called budget reconciliation - the rules will not allow him to keep that part of the plan. He told CBS Evening News with Norah O'Donnell that he does not think raising the minimum wage will survive the process.   My guess is it will not be in it but I do think that we should have a minimum wage stand by itself - 15 an hour and work your way up to the 15. It does not have to be  boom and all the economics show if you do that the whole economy rises.  Biden said that he will keep working to try to convince Congress to move on the minimum wage down the road. Doing it now was something that Republicans did not support and that some Democrats also did not support. So even if they did make a push to keep it in it is not clear that it would have passed the simple majority vote.  I mean Ayesha Biden has been talking a lot about unity the need to compromise. That was what he ran on. That was what he was elected on. Yet it is very much the Democrats pushing this through.  Biden is arguing that this is a top priority and he is just not willing to wait. The White House is arguing that Americans do not care which process is used to pass the bill. They just need the relief. The economy is still in major trouble and the public health crisis is obviously still raging. You know they argue that this package is needed to address the economic relief and that it has billions for vaccines and testing. Biden said he wants to work with Republicans but they have not been willing to go as far as he thinks is needed. There was that one offer for a smaller package but Biden says that he learned from the financial crisis in 2009 that there is a risk in slow recovery. Back then Biden led those talks about that aid package in 2009 that ended up being about 800 billion. And he now says that was not big enough.  Biden also said he is willing to look at targeting some of the aid. What can you tell us about what that means?  So one thing that President Biden was very firm on yesterday is that there will be checks sent to Americans and those checks will be 1400. But he said he is not willing to go down from that but who gets those checks is still up for negotiation. He said that there could be a phaseout for the direct payments that may be in the range of 75000 for an individual and 150000 for a couple. Now that Congress has passed this budget resolution tool there will be time for committees and members to hammer out the details of the actual bill. So there is still a chance for Republicans to suggest changes and tweaks that they may find more agreeable. And even though Biden wants it to move quickly it could take weeks. There is no solid deadline. The timeline's up to Congress.  That is NPR White House correspondent Ayesha Rascoe. Thank you very much.  Thank you.  And for the latest from the White House Capitol Hill and more you can subscribe to the NPR Politics Podcast.   When it comes to getting a COVID-19 vaccination right now the fine print changes state to state and county to county.  Usually priority goes to people over a certain age or who work in certain occupations like frontline health care workers. But there are more and more stories about people sort of bumbling into inoculations because the shots were about to go bad or about jurisdictions with more generous eligibility requirements.  So we have NPR health reporter Pien Huang with us now to talk about the ethics of who gets vaccines when and whether it is ever fair to cut the line. Thanks for being with us Pien.  Thanks for having me Scott.  We have heard about people lining up at the grocery store pharmacy in anticipation there might be some extra shots left over at the end of the day and often they are conspicuously young healthy and certainly not in a priority group. What is the ethical call on that?  Well bioethicists say yes it is totally fine for them to get them if it is truly going to waste. Ruth Faden from the Johns Hopkins bioethics institute says the top priority right now is using all the vaccine we have.  The worst possible thing that could happen in the context of a vial of Pfizer or Moderna vaccine would be to have to throw even a single dose away.  You know that waste could come from people not showing up for their scheduled appointments. Or last week we heard about a freezer failure in Seattle that caused over a thousand vaccines to thaw at once. But if you are a healthy young person with low COVID risks Faden says there are ethically preferable things you could do in those situations.  So if you have got a colleague or a family member or a neighbor who is already in a priority group and you can call them up and you can help them get there of course that is better.  So for someone like me who is under 65 and works from home it would be better to try and match that dose with the person at higher risk before I go ahead and take it.  Pien what - if I am not eligible to get it in my county but I would be in the county next door what are the ethics of wandering over the county line to get it? The answer in this case is no you should not do that because hear what you are doing is not preventing a vaccine from going to waste. You are actually taking appointment that is meant for your neighbor. Faith Fletcher a bioethicist at University of Alabama says that kind of line-cutting is a form of vaccine entitlement.  There are certain people who feel justified in skipping the line and going county over a state over. Because they are so accustomed to having access they are going to find a way.  That said many people have real frustrations with all the different rules and how it is going fast in some places and slow in others. So if you think the rules are unfair you should feel free to speak up to organize to email your elected officials. Bioethicists say that the moral action here is not to cheat the rules but to put pressure on the system to fix them.  What about people with underlying health conditions Pien? Because they are often listed as a group that is especially vulnerable distinct from the general population. But what counts for that? Those conditions can be fuzzy. Is it for example fair to prioritize smokers who to some people would have caused their own damage?  Yeah. Well smoking is tied to health issues like lung damage. And that puts people at higher risk of severe w and also to social ills like stress and poverty. And Gabriel Lazaro-Munoz a bioethicist at Baylor College of Medicine says it is key to remember that the goal of the U.S. vaccination strategy is to use the scarce supply of vaccine we have to save the most lives possible.  Focus on risk. Focus on exposure. And just let us save lives. You know let us not focus on which of these lives we think might be more valuable for society. Let us just save lives period.  He says that if some people think smokers do not belong on the list others might have similar arguments for people with obesity or diabetes. Some might even argue that young lives are more valuable than old lives because they have more time to live. So it gets really complicated really quickly.  NPR health reporter Pien Huang thanks so much.  Thanks for having me.   Pro football along with the rest of the country was put to a test this past year as the pandemic took hold. It was not clear there would even be a pro football season.  Yeah teams canceled practice sessions. They benched players who tested positive for the coronavirus. And the NFL rescheduled games. But in the end the show did go on. And not a single game was canceled.  So tomorrow the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and the Kansas City football team face off in the Super Bowl.  So let us go now to Kansas City to find out how things feel on the ground there. Frank Morris is with member station KCUR. And he joins us now. Good morning.  Morning Lulu. How you doing?  I am doing well. Health officials are urging people to stay home and limit their celebrations. Has this dampened the mood?  Well yeah a little. You know I mean people are taking that to heart for the most part. Even the more unruly folks that I know are planning some kind of social distanced Zoom meeting. You know there are not the crowds at bars - anywhere near the crowds at bars that there were this time last year when we were also in the Super Bowl. And you know it is just a big gathering. Places are not really bubbling the way that they were before. You know people are coming up with all kinds of ideas about you know sharing food making a bunch of food and splitting it all up in some outdoor location and then taking it back to their houses. People did want to have outdoor parties. But it is going to be super cold here tomorrow like highs in the teens chill factors approaching zero. So it is a completely different kind of atmosphere than last year.  Yeah Kansas City had a big scare right when players getting haircuts for the game were potentially exposed to the coronavirus.  Yeah that is right. It was kind of a funny situation. But 20 players including Patrick Mahomes our quarterback we are all ready to get haircuts. And a guy - one of the players was in the chair Daniel Kilgore is a substitute center was getting his haircut when the barber turned up positive on a rapid test. So the two players had to be put on a reserve list. They so far has not have not tested positive. But yeah that could have been a real mess.  I want to talk about something else. Pro sports has had a reckoning over Native American imagery in the last year or so. Washington's NFL team is changing its name. The Cleveland Indians will be changing their name after next season. And that leaves the Kansas City Chiefs as one of the last holdouts and the focus of protests this weekend. What can you tell us about where they stand?  So the Chiefs' is definitely offensive to some Native Americans. It is not currently under review. The things that the Chiefs have done are stopping the really offensive fan behavior fake cartoonish headdresses and war paint red face paint at games. All that stuff is out in the stadium as of this year and will not be allowed in Tampa either. The big sticking point for most people is the Arrowhead chop. It is called a tomahawk chop. You know you are sort of cleaving the air with one hand while singing or chanting sort of a cartoonish fake war chant. And that is something that the Chiefs are supposed to be reviewing. They have not stopped. It will probably show up in the stadium tomorrow.  And Frank we are having some late breaking news. Tell us what you know.  One of the Chiefs' assistant coaches Britt Reid the son of Andy Reid Chiefs head coach ran his truck into two parked cars injuring two children who were in one of the parked cars. One of the kids a 5-year-old was in critical condition after the wreck and a 4-year-old was also hurt. So Britt Reid is not expected in Tampa for the game. Of course his father Andy Reid is.  And it is something we will be keeping an eye on. That is member station KCUR's Frank Morris in Kansas City. Thank you very much.  Oh you bet. Thanks Lulu.  And that is UP FIRST for February 6 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back on Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news interviews books music fun you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. 