 A rare united Congress rebuke President Trump just as he is about to leave office.  Or maybe Scott that is because he is about to leave office. Both parties overrode the president's veto of the sweeping defense bill.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Congress is set to certify the Electoral College results and some GOP members want to slow that process down. Here's Senator Mitt Romney.   Spreading this kind of rumor about our election system not working is dangerous for democracy here and abroad.  Plus a year after assassinating Iran's top general the U.S. braces for a retaliatory strike. Tehran says it will respond to any military moves. How much of it is posturing?  Also three states report cases of the more infectious strain of the coronavirus. Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Events this week on Capitol Hill expose rifts between President Trump and his fellow Republicans. We have not seen much of that in public before.  We certainly have not Scott. After the Republican-controlled Senate overrode the president's veto of the defense bill Trump of course lashed out on Twitter. He called the move pathetic saying it was a missed opportunity to punish big tech companies.  NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith joins us. Tam thanks so much for being with us.  You are welcome. Good to be with you.  This bill had such bipartisan support. Trump must have known he was taking a risk.  Absolutely. The National Defense Authorization Act does things like pay raises for the military and modernizing equipment. It is one of the few must-pass bills that passes every year. But President Trump objected because it would lead to the removal of the names of prominent Confederate figures from military bases and because of something that has nothing to do with the military. He was mad because Congress did not use this bill to repeal a law that shields Internet companies from liability. As you say he vetoed it. He knew that his veto was likely to be overridden. And then it was. The Senate vote yesterday was 81-13. That is not even close. It is way more than the two-thirds needed to override his veto. And you know you just have to say the president did not have to lose this fight. He could have just signed the bill touted his support for the military called it a win. Instead he is ending his presidency by racking up losses.  Now this vote was one of the last acts of this Congress. Next Congress is going to be sworn in tomorrow. They could also get off to a pretty messy start.  Indeed. The Congress will start without knowing the party that controls the Senate. And that is because there are two Senate races that are still undecided those of the two Republican senators from Georgia. Their runoff elections are on Tuesday. And if the Democrats do win then Republicans will lose their majority in the Senate by the smallest of margins. And until there is a result the Senate basically cannot organize itself. They will not know who will lead the committees which means they cannot have hearings including they cannot confirm or begin the process of confirming and considering President-elect Biden's Cabinet picks.  And that is just on Tuesday. On Wednesday the House and Senate formally count the electors from the presidential election. Usually this passes without notice or incident right? Not this year.  No. This is going to be another one of those cases where we see divisions among Republicans begin to rear their heads. We would already known that some allies of the president in the House had planned to raise objections to the results during this process but it also requires a senator to do that. And this week Republican Senator Josh Hawley of Missouri indicated that he would also object. And he is doing this against the wishes of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Here's Hawley explaining why he is doing this.   This is the only opportunity that I have to be heard and to speak up on behalf of my constituents.  So the way the process works is once an objection is raised about a particular state's results then there would be a debate and a vote to accept the results. The expectation is that those votes will pass and it will just drag out the inevitable drag out the process. And Leader McConnell has warned that this also then forces Republicans to go on the record essentially voting against President Trump who as we all know has not accepted the election result has not accepted that he lost. Oh and Vice President Pence will be presiding over the whole thing which is the way it always is but could easily be interpreted by President Trump as an act of disloyalty.  But let us be clear about this. In the end Joe Biden becomes president.  Absolutely. And some people many people including some Republicans are concerned that going through these motions perpetuates this idea that this was somehow an unfair election and that that could do lasting damage. Here's Utah Senator Mitt Romney who of course ran for president as a Republican and lost.   It continues to spread the false rumor that somehow the election was stolen. Look I lost in 2012. I know what it is like to lose. And there were people that said there are irregularities. I have people today who say hey you know what? You really won. But I did not. I lost fair and square.  Romney said that with a president who is refusing to concede Congress going through these motions that they know will lead nowhere but raising doubts about the legitimacy of the election along the way is quote dangerous for democracy here and abroad.  NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith thanks so much.  You are welcome.   It was a year ago that a U.S. drone strike killed Iranian General Qassem Soleimani and nine others. He was the country's most powerful military figure and seen by many as second only to the country's supreme leader.  Iran has vowed to avenge his death. The U.S. has warned it not to and has been flying bombers over the region.  NPR's Peter Kenyon joins us now to take a look at where the U.S.-Iran confrontation stands. Good morning.  Morning Lulu.  All right. Let us remind people what happened a year ago that set this up.  Well after the death of an American contractor in Iraq the Americans went after the Iran-backed militias that they held responsible for the killing. Tensions remain high. At one point militiamen were nearly storming the U.S. Embassy. And then came this American drone strike in Baghdad. That is the one that killed Soleimani and an Iraqi deputy militia commander. Tehran responded with their own missile attacks on Iraqi bases where U.S. military were stationed but Iranian officials have been saying for some time now that they are not finished avenging Soleimani's killing.  All right. President Trump is about to leave office. Why is this happening now? I mean what signals have they been sending lately?  Well plenty of signals from both sides some suggesting conflict is right around the corner others suggesting just the opposite. On the aggressive side we have been seeing as you mentioned these American B-52 fighter jets flying over the region. That is prompted criticism. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif tweeted about quote a plot to fabricate a pretext for war. That - last month there was an attack on the U.S. Embassy compound that was blamed on these Iran-backed militias. But on the other hand the Pentagon just announced it is withdrawing the aircraft carrier USS Nimitz at this moment of high tension sending it back to its home port as seen by some as a sign the U.S. is not looking for a clash right now. In Iran you basically see angry rhetoric in all the media aimed at Washington. But then officials also say we do not have to avenge Soleimani's killing right on January 3 the anniversary. It could happen later. Of course no one can rule out it happening sooner even in the coming days.  All right. The Biden administration is coming in. I mean how does this play into that?  Well it is a possibility that things could change. I mean Biden and his team have certainly signaled multiple times their intention to shift Iran policy onto a less confrontational footing bringing diplomacy back to the fore maybe even returning to the 2015 Iran nuclear agreement that Trump pulled the U.S. out of in 2018.  All right. But looking at the wider issue the head of Iran's civilian Atomic Energy Organization said today that his agency is ready to enrich uranium up to 20. I mean that is far lower than the 90 weapons-grade enrichment but considerably higher than what the nuclear deal allowed. Obviously President Trump pulled out of that deal. Is there anything left of that 2015 deal to save when the Biden administration comes in?  Yes. Yes there is. Everything that is been done on both sides - the U.S. reimposing sanctions on Iran Iran violating some of the limits in the deal including the latest announcement of enriching up to 20 - all of that is reversible but it may not be as simple as just jumping back into the old deal. The head of the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency the IAEA says they cannot really go back to square one because time has moved on. Square one has changed. Things are not quite the same. New negotiations he says are needed. That will not happen overnight and it may not happen at all if Iran keeps resisting the way it has been.  That is NPR's Peter Kenyon in Istanbul. Thank you very much.  Thanks Lulu.   More than 20 million people have now been confirmed to be infected with the coronavirus in the United States. And as we speak this weekend about 350000 Americans have died of COVID-19.  Now health officials have detected the new variant of the virus first seen in the U.K. in California Colorado and Florida. Because it is believed to be more contagious than previous versions there are concerns that this could mean even bigger and faster surges across the country.  NPR's global health correspondent Michaeleen Doucleff joins us now. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Scott.  I understand this version of the virus has a set of mutations in its genes. Try and understand it. Where did those mutations come from?  Yeah so this version has actually 17 mutations. And mutations in viruses crop up all the time when the virus grows inside a person specifically when it reproduces and makes a bunch of copies of itself. I talked to Bettie Steinberg. She is a virologist at the Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research on Long Island. She says that to grow inside a person the virus has to make copies of its genes.  It is just like copying a manuscript. Sometimes there is typos. The virus just makes random mistakes when it gets copied.  In the vast majority of cases these mistakes are harmless or they even weaken the virus. But in rare instances mutations can help the virus. They can give it this little boost or advantage over the other versions.  So what is happened with this new variant? Have the mutations can they tell so far given the virus what amounts to an infectious advantage over the previous version?  Yeah. So scientists first detected this new variant like you said in the U.K. back in September. And at that time it was actually really rare. But through the last couple of months it has quickly spread across England and pushed out other forms of the virus. So by December it had become the dominant one in London and it is responsible for the huge surge in cases there now. This variant has also spread to at least 32 other countries. And right now here in the U.S. scientists think it is still pretty uncommon but they believe that could change pretty fast like in the next month or two because they estimate the variant is about 50 more transmissible than the previous ones.  And how does that happen? Why would mutations make a virus more contagious?  Yeah so they are not quite sure yet but they have some data that is pointing to two main hypotheses. Stephen Goldstein studies virus evolution at the University of Utah. He says that there is some evidence that the new variant generates more virus particles inside a person's nose or respiratory tract possibly a lot more.  When you expel virus when you talk or breathe you are going to get more virus out than somebody who does not have this variant simply because you have more virus in you to begin with.  The other hypothesis is that the new variant binds to human cells more easily so people can get infected with lower doses of the virus. Either way the end result is a virus that is more contagious and spreads more easily.  Can this variant be stopped?  Well the good news here Goldstein says is that all the measures that we have been doing so far to stop the previous variants will stop this new one. That includes social distancing avoiding big gatherings and wearing masks.  So it is not a new variant that can go through masks. Those things will work. But it requires a greater level of rigor in the adherence to those things.  So what is a greater level of vigor virus-wise?  Yeah. So for example right now if say only 80 of people in a community are following these guidelines then to stop this new variant you would need something like 90 or 95 of people to follow the guidelines. And all the scientists I have spoke to say the vaccine needs to roll out as quickly as possible because so far scientists do believe that the vaccine will still be effective against this new version of the virus.  NPR's global health correspondent Michaeleen Doucleff thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Scott.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday January 2 2021. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP onday with news to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music...  And do not forget fun. Fun.  That is right fun. Fun - that too. You can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. You can find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  