 The historic urban wildfires that burned hundreds of homes in Colorado on Thursday are effectively out.  Why were they so devastating and what might they mean for the future of fire there?  I am Eyder Peralta.  I am David Gura. And this is UP FIRST on New Year's Day from NPR News.   New daily COVID cases surged to record levels this week.  The rapid increase in cases we are seeing across the country is in large part a reflection of the exceptionally transmissible omicron variant.  What makes it so transmissible? Scientists have some ideas.  And in 2018 the Trump administration withdrew from the Iran nuclear deal. Talks recently resumed to possibly restore it.  We will bring you the latest on how they are going and some of the potential challenges ahead. Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Snow has arrived in Colorado just in time to all but extinguish the wildfires that whipped through subdivisions northwest of Denver on Thursday.  The full extent of the damage is still being assessed with at least 500 homes destroyed making the Marshall Fire the most destructive ever in the whole state.  Colorado Public Radio's Sam Brasch has been covering the fires from the start and he is here to explain what happened and why they were so destructive. Thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  So as we said a full picture of the damage is still being put together. What do we know about how dangerous this fire was to people?  Well there is no doubt that it was dangerous. Two whole towns Louisville and Superior had to evacuate forcing more than 30000 people to flee. What is pretty amazing though is that so far there have not been any reports of fatalities. At a press conference Governor Jared Polis said it was a testament to the evacuation effort.   If we are granted this New Year's miracle of no loss of life it truly is nothing short of miraculous. Most if not all people got out and are safe and we as their friends and neighbors and fellow Coloradans are going to do everything we can to help them rebuild their lives.  The photos that we are seeing of this are just devastating - entire neighborhoods wiped off the map. All that is left are blackened trees the foundations of big houses apartment complexes. We have seen similar photos from previous fires in Colorado but it sounds like this one was different.  Yeah and the big difference was the setting. Previous wildfires have mainly played out in mountain towns and remote national forests. These were grass fires that started out on the plains at the foot of the mountains and then blew into neighborhoods burning from backyard to backyard across completely ordinary suburbs. Grass fires on the prairies around Colorado's most populous cities are not really that unusual but typically they can be put out pretty quickly. What was different this time is the strength and persistence of the winds. People who lived out here their whole lives say they have never seen anything like the winds we saw Thursday. They gusted up above 110 miles per hour at times and did not let up for hours and hours.  Sam let me ask you about the timing of this. I mean Colorado of course is world famous as a winter destination. People go there in December to ski to snowboard. Why are these fires happening at a time when locals are often shoveling snow out of their driveways?  You know a big part of the reason is climate change. Fire season has just been getting longer and longer and at this point it pretty much lasts all year. That is according to Jennifer Balch. She is a fire scientist who directs the Earth Lab at the University of Colorado Boulder. She told me that the rise in global temperatures helped drive a record dry warm winter here in Colorado and that primed these grasslands around these suburbs for fires.  Climate change is essentially keeping our fuels drier longer. These grasses that were burning - you know they have been baked essentially all fall and all winter. On top of that we did not get a lick of moisture.  You know the last factor here was these wind storms which Balch says it is important to note was not so much about climate change as just plain bad luck. The gusts not only fueled the flames but it made it impossible for firefighters to fly planes or really do anything other than just get people out as quickly as they could.  It almost feels like a cliche asking you this last question but is this the new normal? Are these fires something people living in these suburbs just need to be ready for from now on?  You know I think what this is is a really sickening reminder of the true size of the wildfire danger zone sometimes called the wildland urban interface or the WUI. Many assume that area only includes mountains and forested areas but the truth is fires are a natural part of grassland ecosystems too. And as Colorado's population has grown rapidly in the last few decades people are building more and more homes in those areas. The state now estimates that half of Colorado's population lives in areas vulnerable to wildfires.  Wow.  Balch says these particular fires should be a wake-up call for policymakers a disaster that gets them thinking about how to control potential ignition sources and build more fire-resistant neighborhoods even reduce fuels through controlled burns.  That is Sam Brasch reporter for Colorado Public Radio in Denver Colo. Thanks Sam.  Thank you.   Explosive growth - that is how the spread of omicron is being described over and over again.  It sped around the world in a matter of weeks and here in the U.S. new daily case numbers are soaring. On Thursday they tallied over half a million before dropping to just under half a million on Friday.  What exactly makes this new version of the virus so contagious?  Scientists are trying to piece this together and NPR's Will Stone joins us now to explain more. Hey Will.  Hello.  So I am old enough to remember that before omicron there was delta. Do we know why this new variant is overtaking delta as the most widespread?  Omicron's best trick by far is how well it dodges our pre-existing immunity so that comes from either the vaccines getting infected or both. And Dr. Joshua Schiffer says you can think of this built-up immunity kind of like the playing field on which the virus has to compete.  On that playing field the majority of the variants that we have seen could not survive. And the delta virus could survive but really at a tie where it was not really growing very rapidly or decreasing very rapidly.  Schiffer's at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. And he says now along comes omicron and it is thriving because it has these mutations that let it get by the vaccines pretty easily. So all these people that delta could not get to omicron can. But what we are trying to figure out is whether omicron has other things going for it aside from breaking through the vaccines that explain why it is spreading so fast.  Like what?  Yeah we do not know yet but we have got some hints. And one is a study from Hong Kong that looked at samples of human tissue taken from the bronchus. And these are the airways connecting your windpipe to the lungs. And scientists found that omicron multiplies 70 times faster than delta in that tissue. And at the same time they also found it does not do a great job infecting cells that are deeper in the lungs. I spoke to Angie Rasmussen who is a virologist about the implications here.  You are shedding more virus in your upper respiratory tract meaning out your nose. So potentially you could be shedding more than you would be if most of the replication was happening deep in your lungs.  So if these findings hold up it is possible people infected with omicron are essentially filling the air with a lot more virus.  OK so some scientists think it multiplies in some tissues faster. Are there any studies that have compared spread in the real world to try to get at this question of whether omicron is inherently more contagious than delta?  Yeah. And the real world can make this story a bit messier. So scientists in Denmark looked at how well omicron spreads in households and they compared that to delta. And first they found omicron is substantially better at infecting vaccinated people so that is no surprise. But when they only looked at unvaccinated people the interesting thing is they found no difference between delta and omicron. The infection rates were the same so that suggests that omicron's big competitive advantage over delta is simply that it is able to infect vaccinated people.  Will we know a lot of people who are vaccinated are getting infected even though many of them are not getting really sick. Do we know if they can also be very contagious?  We actually do have a small study from the University of Maryland that tried to get at this and this research was done in a lab where you can measure how much virus is being exhaled by people infected with omicron. Dr. Don Milton led the study and he says 4 of the 5 people had detectable virus in their breath.  These are vaccinated people and they are shedding frequently. But what is striking is I was expecting to see the amounts be much higher and they are not.  So that is the good news. Milton says his experiment did not find that vaccinated people are spewing out tons of virus like he had suspected. But the bad news is most people who are vaccinated appear to be very capable of spreading the virus and this could well be one reason the virus is spreading as quickly as it is even if it is not making vaccinated people very sick.  NPR's Will Stone - Will thanks very much.  Thank you.   For the first time in months there are signs that negotiators are making progress toward reviving the deal that put limits on Iran's nuclear program in exchange for relief from economic sanctions.  That was the major agreement the Obama administration made in 2015 and that the Trump administration abandoned in 2018 saying it was not tough enough.  The talks have been taking place in Vienna and now they are taking a short break for New Years.  NPR's Peter Kenyon has been following the story and joins us now from Istanbul. Hey there Peter.  Hi Eyder.  President Biden has been talking about getting back into the nuclear agreement since before he took office. There have been at least seven rounds of talks. Why was this week different?  Well the Russian envoy to the talks sounded pretty pleased with the progress made so far and that includes getting Iran to confirm it is agreeing with everything they have negotiated so far in the talks. The Iranians for their part are also pretty positive mainly because lifting sanctions is on the table and that is their big big goal including this question of verification. Iran says there can be no return to the restrictions in the nuclear deal before sanctions are lifted and that lifting is verified by Tehran. It is not clear exactly how that would happen. But in terms of progress these talks are apparently back on track despite a five-month pause and the election of a new hard-line president in Iran and of course despite former President Donald Trump's pull-out of the deal in 2018 and reimposition of sanctions. Now on the other hand Iran just launched into space a satellite carrier this week and that caused concern. France called it regrettable that it happened just as progress was being made at the Vienna talks.  And just remind us Peter I mean the Americans are still not in the room right? There are no direct U.S.-Iran talks happening.  That is correct - not even in the same building. The European Russian and Chinese negotiators sit with the Iranians in the quite luxurious Coburg Palace Hotel and then some of the delegates walk over to the Marriott where the Americans are staying. This does slow things down but the Iranians say it is the price the U.S. pays for pulling out of the deal and putting the sanctions back on Iran.  So what are American officials - and others for that matter - saying about how the talks are going?  Well U.S. officials want it done quickly. They do not want talks to drag on while Iran continues to break limits set out in the agreement. For instance Iran is currently enriching nuclear fuel to 60 purity. That is closer than they have ever been to weapons-grade fuel. Some delegates do seem to think it is possible to wrap up these Vienna talks before the end of January. Certainly the Biden administration is keen to avoid having to manage a nuclear crisis with Iran. Israel however has been pressing for some time for more pressure on Iran including the threat of military action if that is what it takes to keep Iran from becoming a nuclear-threshold state.  So what concerns did critics have with the previous deal that U.S. negotiators will have to navigate as they approach reviving this deal?  Well one big issue was money the money that flows to Iran - billions of dollars from its oil sales that could be used to support the Houthi rebels in Yemen Hezbollah in Lebanon militias in Iraq. The agreement also does not touch on Iran's human rights violations or the Westerners held in Iranian prisons. But supporters of the deal say negotiating those issues later on will be easier knowing that Iran will not have a nuclear weapon.  That is NPR's Peter Kenyon in Istanbul. Thank you Peter and Happy New Year.  Thanks Eyder. Same to you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday January 1 2022. I am Eyder Peralta.  And I am David Gura. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are at UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings - find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  