 The U.S. is lending FBI and Homeland Security personnel to Haiti...  ...To help investigate the assassination of the president there. Two Haitian Americans are among those arrested.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon and this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   The Biden administration is also promising COVID vaccines to Haiti.  In Florida the search is for remains rather than survivors. Workers at the Surfside collapse are vowing to keep at it until all the victims are found.  And in Washington D.C. a presidential move designed to make it easier to trade up for a better job. But will it work? Please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Lots of questions about the assassination of Haiti's president Jovenel Moise including who is in charge of Haiti now. Two men are claiming to be the rightful prime minister. There is no clear way to settle their dispute.  Moise had been running the country by decree since no parliamentary elections had been held in more than two years. And the head of the country's Supreme Court died last month of COVID. NPR's Carrie Kahn covers Haiti and joins us now from her base in Mexico City. Good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  I mean this is a real mess. Haitian police have arrested more than a dozen suspects in this case and they say they killed three more. Officials there are saying two of those arrested are Haitian Americans and the rest are Colombians. I mean what do we know about the suspects?  This has turned into quite an international story and we have more than a dozen gunmen. They are retired Colombian army veterans who traveled over the last month and weeks many through Panama and the Dominican Republic into Haiti. In the early hours on Wednesday morning they breached the president's residence riddled him with bullets and severely injured his wife. Police in Haiti say the men then retreated and were engaged in the gun battle. Three were killed and at least 17 were arrested. And among them like you said two are Haitian Americans. But no one is saying anything about a motive. Who paid these Colombians? The Colombian police chief did say the men were hired by Colombian security firms but did not say which ones or why. And one thing that stands out to me among the many questions that we do not have answers to is we have heard nothing about the presidential guards charged with protecting the president. Where were they? We have not heard about any of them being injured. The head of the presidential guard unit has been asked to present himself to give information. But if he has that information has not been released. So who organized this international assassination plot? Who paid for it? Why? We just do not have a lot of answers.  And what do we know about the Haitian Americans said to be involved in this? And we should say said to be involved.  Right. They are telling a Haitian investigator that they had no idea they were a part of an assassination plot. They thought they were just working as interpreters. Both men live in South Florida and travel frequently back-and-forth to Haiti. There were videos circulating of people speaking in English yelling at the president's residence before the assassination. They were saying they were U.S. DEA agents. And apparently that was the voice of one of those men. Haitian police paraded all the suspects before reporters and photographers but there - you know again there is just so much more about this assassination that we do not know.  And beyond that as we said at the top we also do not know who is in charge in Haiti right now.  Yeah that is a tough one too. There may be an agreement in the works to appoint an interim president and put the appointed prime minister in office. But here's the confusion. The acting prime minister was scheduled to leave office the day Moise was killed. He says he is still in charge. And the man who was supposed to replace him is also claiming to be the rightful head of government. Looks like that - maybe there might be a plan to install him in an interim government. But so far no official announcement.  And what about Haitian citizens Carrie? What have you been hearing about the mood in the country now? I mean what are people telling you?  Moise - no he was not a very popular president of late and the situation in the country is just terrible. Gangs are controlling a lot of the country especially large parts of the capital. COVID cases are spiking. There is no vaccination program underway. Food and fuel is scarce. But you know many - the idea that foreigners would enter the country and kill their president just left many people incredibly angered and shocked. And with this power vacuum at the top the sadness and anger over is growing as well as conspiracy theories about who did this.  NPR's Carrie Kahn is covering the situation in Haiti. Thank you very much.  You are welcome.   And let us go to Florida now for an update on the condo building that collapsed in Surfside in the early hours of June 24. 79 people are confirmed dead and 61 others are missing or unaccounted for.  NPR's Joe Hernandez joins us now from Miami. Joe thanks for being with us.  You are welcome.  And tell us please what you can. What is going on now?  Well right now they are just looking to get through the pile as quickly as they can. They have rescue crews from Florida but also from as far as New Jersey Pennsylvania Virginia Ohio. And just standing a block away from the site you can see they are using heavy machinery to remove what is really millions of pounds of concrete and debris. The fire chief said in some places they are down to the fifth floor of the tower and in others down to the second floor. And the mayor of Surfside also said yesterday that some parts of the pile that used to be several stories high are now at ground level. So they are making progress. But crews still have not found anyone alive since the early hours after the collapse.  So as it was noted this week the task is - has turned from trying to rescue people to locating remains. And you spoke with some of the people there who are doing that very difficult job of going through the pile of rubble. I wonder what they told you.  Well this is just grueling work for them. Remember it is hot and it is humid here. And there are also thunderstorms that pop up. I spoke with several team members from Ohio. They are working 12-hour shifts every day and they end up really being about 16-hour days. So you pair that South Florida heat with their long pants long sleeves. They are wearing helmets and anywhere from 15 to 30 pounds of gear. And it is just physically grueling for them. And that is to say nothing of the emotional toll that they are also facing. I spoke with Jack Reall. He is with Ohio Task Force 1 urban search and rescue team.  Our No. 1 goal is to rescue victims that are still saveable. But if we cannot do that we want to make sure we return the victims to their families to provide some closure to them. And really that is what I am focused on. And that gives me the - you know kind of the strength to work - continue to work through this.  So he is been in Surfside for more than a week now and it is not been easy for him and his team. But he says the community support in town is what is helping motivate him to keep at it.  And work just continues through the weekend.  That is right. Nothing changes. There are crews on the pile 24 hours a day. And they are continuing to sift through the rubble looking for clues as to why the building collapsed as well as looking for those who died. So it is difficult work and it is mentally challenging and strenuous for them. And officials have made it clear that there are mental health counselors available to those workers both on the site and also in more private settings...  Yeah.  ...If they want to use them.  Joe before we go I want to give you a chance to tell us - I do not think we can use the word happy. Well maybe we can. I understand that rescuers were able to reunite a beloved pet with a family.  That is right. Apparently there are a number of strays around the building site and volunteers had been feeding them. And then two days ago one of those volunteers recognized a cat and thought it looked familiar. In addition to posting photos of missing people some have been posting pictures of missing pets as well. So the volunteer took that cat to a shelter and they were able to determine that the cat had lived on the ninth floor of the collapsed building. The cat's name is Binx - B-I-N-X. And they do not know how it got out or how it survived. But Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava said it was good that something positive had happened.   I am glad that this small miracle could bring some light into the lives of a hurting family today.  Levine Cava did not give any details about the family but this sure seems to have buoyed some spirits here and put some smiles on some faces very briefly.  NPR's Joe Hernandez in Miami. Joe thanks so much.  You are welcome.   President Biden thinks that big business just has too much power in the U.S. and that it is harming Americans.   Lack of competition costs the median American household 5000 a year.  So this week he signed a broad executive order to promote competition. NPR's Andrea Hsu has been studying that order - one part in particular that could help tens of millions of workers. And she joins us now. Hello.  Hi Lulu.  So the president wants to make the U.S. more competitive. That seems non-controversial. What is the broader thinking here?  Yeah. So at the signing yesterday Biden said fair competition has made America the wealthiest most innovative country in history. But he said there are things standing in the way of competition that he wants federal agencies to deal with namely big companies with a lot of power. So for example prescription drugs - he pointed out that Americans pay more than double what people in other countries pay for their medicine so he is asking the FDA to work with states and tribes to import drugs from Canada. And Lulu Biden also talked about hearing aids. He wants them to be sold over the counter so they cost hundreds of dollars instead of thousands of dollars. He talked about internet service seed for farmers airline fees and lots more.  I mean it is pretty broad. But he is arguing that increasing competition will lower prices but he is also saying it will raise wages. What is the logic there?  That is right. He is asking the Federal Trade Commission to ban or limit noncompete agreements. You know these are the agreements that a lot of people end up signing when they are hired saying if I leave this job I will not go work for a rival company or I will not start one myself. And you know these are common in tech and science but it turns out they are also widely used in a lot of blue-collar jobs. They prevent employees from going to work for a competitor. And yesterday Biden gave the example of workers who operate machines that lay asphalt.   You know you are in Arkansas doing it - a lot of specific examples. You cannot take a job in west Texas and do it. What in the hell does that have to do with anything?   No I am serious.  He says all these agreements do is make it harder for workers to leave one job for a better-paying job elsewhere. And the White House says about half of private sector employers use these kind of agreements.  So is he likely to get what he wants a federal ban on noncompete agreements?  Well that is really unclear. It is not going to be immediate and it may also not be a total ban. I talked with Russell Beck. He is an attorney in Boston. He tracks state laws on noncompetes. He thinks the Federal Trade Commission is likely to do something narrower. Maybe they will focus on low-wage workers. But he does not think they will ban noncompetes in every workplace.  I would be very surprised if the FTC went so far as to ban noncompetes for people who really do have trade secret information other confidential information that needs to be protected.  But Lulu Beck also says it is in question whether the FTC even has the authority to enact such a ban. You know regulation of noncompete agreements has until now been left to states. Three states already ban them. California is the biggest one. And close to a dozen states ban them for low-wage workers. But even if the FTC does move on this it is going to take awhile. I spoke to a former acting chair of the FTC and she said we may see a proposed rule out fairly quickly but you know federal rulemaking takes forever. It has to be submitted to Congress. There are public comment periods revisions and so on. So she said it could be a year before a rule's issued. And Lulu that would be considered fast.  That is NPR's Andrea Hsu. Thank you so much.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday July 10 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And we are on the radio. This weekend we are going to be watching heat in the West CDC guidance on school soccer at Copa America and the Euro Cup and lots more.  Indeed. So tune into Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  