 Eight hundred and fifty thousand new jobs - not bad. Also an economic growth rate double what was first projected.  But are these recent gains enough to heal a pandemic-battered economy?  I am Leila Fadel.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   President Biden is taking a victory lap.   Put simply our economy is on the move and we have COVID-19 on the run.  We will let you know how that stacks up against the economic numbers.  We also have the latest on the condo collapse in Florida where recovery efforts are hampered by weather and the instability of the debris itself.  And we go to southern Europe where new COVID lockdowns are decimating the tourism industry.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   A lot of Americans are declaring their independence from the pandemic.  We are shopping dining out taking vacations. And all of that is creating a need for more workers. U.S. employers added 850000 jobs last month the biggest gain since last summer.  That is progress but it would take eight more months just like that to recover all the jobs lost last year. NPR's Scott Horsley joins us now. Good morning Scott.  Good morning Leila.  So Scott what does this jobs report tell us about the economy?  It tells us that the recovery is speeding up. We added more jobs in June than we did in May more in May than in April. As you said consumers are eager to get back to doing the things they did before the pandemic and that is generating a lot of demand for workers. But there are not as many people taking jobs right now as you might expect given the millions who are still out of work. A lot of employers say they are finding it challenging to hire as many people as they would like. And workers somewhat surprisingly are finding they have a little more bargaining power. President Biden said yesterday that is a good thing.   Instead of workers competing with each other for jobs that are scarce employers are competing with each other to attract workers. That kind of competition in the market does not just give workers more ability to earn higher wages. It also gives them the power to demand to be treated with dignity and respect in the workplace.  Overall wage gains are still pretty modest - about 3 12 over the last year in the private sector. But in certain industries like leisure and hospitality wages are climbing twice that fast.  So this is good news for the workers. But what is driving that bargaining power?  Well the leisure and hospitality industry has been a bellwether throughout the pandemic. It suffered the biggest job losses when the virus was raging and people stopped going to restaurants or staying at hotels. Now the public health picture has improved dramatically business has come roaring back but a chunk of the workforce has not. Bars and restaurants did add nearly 200000 jobs last month but the industry is still short 1.3 million jobs from where it was before the pandemic. Laurie Torres who owns Mallorca Restaurant in downtown Cleveland says she is offering 17 an hour for dishwashers but she is not getting a lot of takers.  I was my dishwasher three days in a row because I scheduled like three different people to come in and do dishes and none of them showed up.  Because of short staffing Torres says she is having to close the restaurant an hour or two earlier each night. She is closed entirely on Mondays now. And even though most years she is open on the Fourth of July she is closing tomorrow to give her staff a break.  So if millions of people who lost jobs during the pandemic are still out of work why are employers having such trouble finding people to hire?  There are a lot of different explanations. Some of this is just a question of timing. Lots of businesses are trying to hire all at once and that creates a bit of a traffic jam. Child care is still a problem for many parents although that should get better when schools reopen in the fall. Also the U.S. added 25000 child care jobs last month so that should help a bit. Some employers are counting on the expiration of enhanced unemployment benefits to push people back to work. But you know the pandemic has also given a lot of people the opportunity to think about what kind of work they want to do and what they do not want to do. Torres thinks the restaurant industry will be one of the last to be fully staffed. A lot of former restaurant workers have left for good and she understands that. There are easier ways to make a living.  When you are in the service industry you do not have Saturday night dates because you are serving other people's Saturday night dates. You do not have holidays because you are serving other people when they have those things.  And other industries are also going to have to rethink how they can be more attractive to employees whether that means offering more money or better conditions.  That is NPR's Scott Horsley. Thanks Scott.  You are welcome.   Now to Surfside Fla. where nine days after the collapse of a 12-story condominium tower rescuers are still working hoping to pull survivors from the rubble.  And hope we should say is fading though. As of this morning 22 people are confirmed dead. And 126 are still missing.  With a hurricane making its way through the Caribbean rescue efforts to find those people may soon face a new setback. NPR's Adrian Florido is in Miami and he joins us now. Hey Adrian.  Hi Leila.  So Adrian rescuers have not pulled any survivors from the rubble since shortly after the buildings collapse. Where do things stand right now?  Well there is not a lot of good news. If there is any it is that the number of people thought to be missing actually dropped by by close to 20 yesterday as officials continue to get more and better information about who was in this building. They are still pulling victims' bodies from this debris pile though. And one of the latest was the 7-year-old daughter of a Miami firefighter who had been working on this rescue effort. But officials emphasize that their primary focus is still on rescuing potential survivors. Going into the 10th day of this effort though it is not looking very good. It is a very delicate task. Rescuers are still facing many of the same challenges they have been facing all along but primarily the fact that this rubble pile is still very very unstable.  Now there is another challenge these rescuers face the threat posed by the part of the building that did not collapse. But now officials say they are going to demolish it. Can you tell us more about that?  Yeah. Well in recent days officials have become increasingly convinced that it is just not safe to let the remaining portion of this building stand. Engineers who have been monitoring the cracks in the building say that they have been widening that the support structure is shifting to the point where rescue efforts had to be put on hold for more than 14 hours earlier this week. And so yesterday Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava signed a demolition order.   We are very concerned to not compromise our search. But we also know that the building itself poses certain risks. So we have to balance those things. And of course we want to continue our search and rescue efforts now in the areas where it is safe to do so.  She said this demolition is not going to happen immediately. Engineers are considering their options for doing it safely. So it could take weeks well beyond the point of finding any survivors. But because officials are also focused on pulling bodies from this rubble pile they really want to proceed very carefully.  Yeah. I mean so hard to hear about all of these challenges. But on top of that Hurricane Elsa is moving through the Caribbean with South Florida potentially in its path. How are the rescue teams preparing for that?  Well they are monitoring the storm very closely. It is still days away. And it is unclear if it would even hit Florida or even as a hurricane. Regardless they might have to pause their rescue and recovery efforts again if it does impact South Florida. But officials say that they are capable of responding to multiple emergencies at the same time. And they are also asking Floridians just to prepare for the storm so that they do not have to divert resources to rescue people when they do not have to.  Before I let you go officials yesterday rushed to evacuate another massive condo building in North Miami Beach not far away. Can you say what happened there? They said it was unsafe.  Yeah well here in Florida buildings have to be recertified for safety once they turn 40 and then once a decade after that. And since last week's collapse a lot of cities and towns here are conducting audits to make sure that buildings are in compliance with this rule. Yesterday officials in North Miami Beach learned that an engineer who had inspected an 156-unit building had deemed it structurally unsafe. And this happened way back in January. But the building's condo board which hired this engineer only told the city about this yesterday. So the city ordered the building evacuated immediately. Although we still do not know what caused last week's collapse in the wake of that collapse. It is clear that already a lot of scrutiny is coming to bear on the protocols for ensuring that other buildings are safe.  That is NPR's Adrian Florido in Miami. Thanks Adrian.  Thank you Leila.   Europe's tourism industry has been devastated by the pandemic. But southern Europe which is entering high tourist season still with restricted travel has been hit especially hard.  Portugal which is one of the most popular vacation destinations for both Europeans and Americans has reimposed curfews in the capital Lisbon as well as in other regions.  Tourism accounts for almost a fifth of Portugal's GDP. Joanna Kakissis has been reporting on what amounts to a meltdown for southern Europe's tourism industry and she joins us now. Hello.  Hello Lulu.  You are in Athens. And Greece like other countries in that region of Europe relies heavily on tourism. You are based there. What does the second pandemic summer look like there? And do not talk to me about those pretty islands.   Sadly I am not on the beach myself. But my vaccinated friends have been telling me all their island vacation stories. I am so jealous.  .  And what they are saying it is a bit of a mixed picture here. They are saying that they are seeing lots of life on the beaches sunbathers swimmers fish restaurants you know grilling that octopus. And that is all like reminiscent of these wonderful summers of the past. But my friends have also noticed that many of the vacationers are Greeks. And that seems to line up with the official data that international arrivals this summer are way down. The head of Greece's hotel association says that fewer than half of total rooms are occupied right now. And this is July and July's a peak season for tourism.  Some of the other countries really suffering are Spain Italy Croatia Portugal. Portugal had hoped to fully reopen. I mean how are you know people and businesses coping with the news that this will not happen in time for the tourist season?  So you know Portugal's an interesting story. Portugal's one of the first countries to open up to tourists. And in spring things were just looking so good. The number of COVID cases was so low that the U.K. let its citizens visit without having to quarantine upon return. And the U.K. is - it is a big market for Portugal. So thousands of British tourists booked flights to the resorts and the hotels of the Algarve region you know hanging out at the beaches there. The local tourism director even showed up at the airport to greet them he was so excited. And then last month it just all fell apart. You know new mutations of the coronavirus spread in Portugal cases started to rise travel restrictions started kicking in and many tourists cancelled their bookings. Eduardo Miranda who runs Portugal's National Association of Vacation Homes told me how this all feels.  I think that is the new normal during this summer. It is little bit of a roller coaster meaning the ups and downs. So we have to get ready for everything.  I mean you have been talking to tourism officials and business owners there. Is there any good news coming for them at all?  So yeah the Portuguese are really trying to look at the bright side here. And you know people I spoke to said that you know hey you know there is a nighttime curfew yes in Lisbon and other popular areas of the country. But during the day you are free to roam wherever you want. You know restaurants are open shops cafes museums tourist sites all open. And some hotel and vacation owners are also seeking out new kinds of travelers like remote workers to fill their rooms. Portugal is a beautiful country and many young remote workers or digital nomads as they are called are renting homes here. You know they are filling rentals that would otherwise be empty. So the Portuguese are welcoming them with open arms.  Sounds nice. Reporter Joanna Kakissis speaking to us from Athens. Thank you very much.  You are welcome Lulu.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday July 3 2021. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Leila Fadel. A special nod this week - our engineer in Culver City Calif. is Patrick Murray. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. 