 Twenty-two and a half years - that is the sentence that former police officer Derek Chauvin faces for the murder of George Floyd.  It is drawing both approval and criticism.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  I am Leila Fadel. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Chauvin's sentence fell short of what prosecutors had requested. Nonetheless as soon as it was announced cheers erupted outside the courthouse.   George Floyd.  We will also have the latest on that horrific building collapse in Surfside Fla. and the search for survivors. More than 150 people are still unaccounted for.  Plus the Justice Department takes on Georgia's new voting law.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin is now serving a 22.5-year prison sentence for murdering George Floyd.  Floyd was killed last year after Chauvin held him under his knee for more than nine minutes. Protests followed as the nation and much of the world struggled to recognize and reject police brutality and racial discrimination.  NPR's Cheryl Corley has been following the case and joins us from Minneapolis. Good morning.  Good morning.  Much of the world and certainly George Floyd's family has been waiting 13 months to get here. What was it like in court?  Well you know it was pretty emotional. George Floyd's 7-year-old daughter in a video talked about how much she missed him. A nephew and brothers talked about how losing Floyd was like a life sentence. And Floyd's brother Terrence posed a question directly to Derek Chauvin.   I wanted to know from the man himself why? What were you thinking? What was going through your head when you had your knee on my brother's neck?  And Floyd's death has been this catalyst for what is been called a second civil rights movement. And many say Derek Chauvin should have been charged with a hate crime. And Derek Chauvin's mother Carolyn Pawlenty defended her son. She spoke on his behalf saying her son was no racist but a good man thoughtful quiet and selfless.   Derek I want you to know I have always believed in your innocence. And I will never waver from that.  And we also heard for the first time from Derek Chauvin who did not say much but he offered condolences to the Floyd family.  This case is about racial inequity of course. But it is also about collective outrage and it is become political. How did the judge acknowledge that?  Well Judge Cahill went out of his way to acknowledge the significance of this case and the pain that it is really caused for so many. But he was careful to say that was not part of his decision. Chauvin was convicted of second-degree unintentional murder third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter for killing Floyd. And the prison term is based on the most serious charge which is second-degree murder. So he faced a sentence that could range from as little as 10 years to a maximum of 40. And in his sentencing memo Cahill wrote that part of the mission of the Minneapolis Police Department is to give citizens a voice and respect. And he said Chauvin rather than pursuing that mission treated Floyd without respect denied him the dignity owed to all human beings and which he certainly would have extended to a friend or a neighbor.  What was the reaction to the term of the sentence 22.5 years?  Well as you can imagine it is been mixed. Some celebrated you know the length of the sentence the fact that it was more than the minimum. Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison who spearheaded the case said it is one of the longest sentences a former police officer has ever received for an unlawful use of deadly force. Some said they believed it would send a message that there is consequences for bad policing. However others like Bishop Harding Smith thought it was not enough. Smith said Floyd was a friend volunteered at his church. He said Judge Cahill needed to send a stronger message.   22 years and he might be out in 15. It is not powerful enough for the way a life was taken for the way this man was killed you know tortured tortured.  And with good behavior Chauvin could in fact be released after serving 15 years.  I mean Chauvin's been sentenced but his legal battles are far from over right?  Yeah that is very true. He is expected to appeal his conviction and the sentence. He also faces federal charges that allege among other things that he violated Floyd's civil rights. And the three other former officers involved in this case also face federal charges. And their state trial is set for early next year.  That is NPR's Cheryl Corley in Minneapolis. Thank you very much.  You are welcome.   Rescue operations continued through the night in Surfside Fla. where a beachfront condominium collapsed early Thursday. The confirmed death toll stands at four.  Police have identified one of the victims 54-year-old Stacie Fang. No additional survivors were found yesterday but more than 150 people are still missing. And it is feared many may be buried in the debris.  NPR's Brian Mann is in Miami Beach this morning and he joins us now. Good morning Brian.  Good morning Leila.  So Brian two full days have passed and only one survivor found so far. What are officials there saying? Is there hope more people could be alive?  Yeah. You know the mayor of Miami-Dade County Daniella Levine Cava was asked about this late yesterday and she insisted yes. She said the experts leading this rescue operation tell her there is a realistic chance people are still alive under all that rubble.  We have hope because that is what our search and rescue team tells us that they have hope. They see opportunities. They see fissures that they could go in. People have been discovered in rubble over a week beyond the date of incident.  Mayor Levine Cava also described this though as incredibly dangerous work. You know they have engineers assessing the risk to these rescue crews even as they search.  So what have you heard about those search crews? How are they holding up?  Yeah this is wrenching heartbreaking duty especially as the hours go by with so little success. Remember they are going day and night exhausted. I spoke about this with Erika Benitez. She is a spokeswoman for Miami-Dade Fire and Rescue.  It is very difficult not just physically but also mentally. So they are working hard but they are holding up and they are holding to hope that we find still people who are alive under the rubble.  And I have to say being there at the site conditions are really daunting. It is a dense pile of rubble. This was a 12-story building flattened in an instant to roughly two stories. Yesterday there were heavy rains and storms through the day. You could see a lot of smoke and steam rising from the pile from a fire that is still burning inside. The crews coming out do look absolutely exhausted.  It is just so devastating. What are you seeing in terms of support for the community and for these families who are waiting?  Yeah. Florida's governor Ron DeSantis spoke about this yesterday praised the outpouring of donations. He said it is just remarkable. He also thanked President Biden for throwing full federal support behind this effort. So you know people are doing what they can. But for now a lot of that is just prayer and waiting and hope. I spent some time with Father Juan Sosa whose parish is just about a block from the collapsed building. He says members of 10 families from his Roman Catholic congregation are among the missing.  I know several of them personally. I used to have dinner with some of them there. You do not know me well but it hits me later. During the emergency moments I am OK. And then it hits me later. So I am waiting for that bomb to drop.  Father Sosa told me he hopes more families and residents will actually turn out to have been away when this disaster happened.  What is happening this morning Brian as the search continues today?  Yeah so rescuers are listening for sounds of survivors. Again it is difficult because this rubble pile is unstable and it is shifting and there have been these heavy rains. But any sounds they do pick up - and officials have described hearing knocking sounds. They are using that information to focus the search. And they are also now carefully hoisting away pieces of debris trying to penetrate this dense mass of concrete. One hope is that there are pockets or hollow spaces inside that mound. So firefighters are also tunneling in when and where they can do it safely.  That is NPR's Brian Mann in Miami Beach. Thank you Brian for your reporting.  Thank you.   A new legal battle just started in the fight over voting rights  In Washington Attorney General Merrick Garland announced that the Justice Department is suing Georgia over the state's new voting law.  NPR justice correspondent Ryan Lucas has been on this story and joins us now. Hello.  Good morning Lulu.  This Georgia law got a ton of attention when it happened but that was several months ago. So remind us why it is been so controversial.  Before I get into the law I think it is important to remember how and when it came about. And if you think back to the beginning of this year Georgia was the epicenter in many ways of American politics. The state...  Yeah ground zero.  Right. The state flipped from red to blue in the presidential vote. It also voted into office two new Democratic senators in the U.S. Senate and that was a big deal because it gave Democrats control of the Senate. A few months after that happened Georgia's Republican-led state legislature passed this new voting law that makes major changes to how people vote in the state. The Republicans who wrote this law say it was necessary that it will improve election administration voter confidence. Opponents and voting rights advocates though say it is discriminatory and it makes it harder for people to vote and in particular people of color.  And now we have the Justice Department suing Georgia over the law. What does the lawsuit say?  Well the suit alleges that parts of the Georgia law discriminate against Black voters and make it harder for them to vote and that that was the intention of the state legislature when it passed the law. The department says that is a violation of Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act. Several of the provisions that the lawsuit challenges are related to absentee ballots including a ban on distributing unsolicited absentee ballot applications shortening the deadline to request an absentee ballot limitations on the use of absentee ballot drop boxes. Kristen Clarke leads the Justice Department's civil rights division. She said the Georgia legislature did not make these changes in a vacuum.   These changes come immediately after successful absentee voting in the 2020 election cycle especially among Black voters.  Clarke said the provisions the Justice Department is challenging reduce access to absentee voting which she says Black voters are more likely to use than white voters. She says these provisions push Black voters to in-person voting where they are more likely than white voters to face long lines. And she says a provision barring people from passing out food or water to those waiting in line to vote is also discriminatory.  So what have Georgia officials had to say in response to the lawsuit?  Well unsurprisingly they have pushed back against the allegations and they have promised to fight. The state's Republican governor Brian Kemp - he is the man who signed this bill into law. He accused the Justice Department of being used as a weapon. And at a press conference yesterday he was defiant. Take a listen.   But I will tell you right now we are not backing down. I am not backing down. And I can tell you that Joe Biden Stacey Abrams and Merrick Garland do not scare me.  Now voting rights advocates in contrast were thrilled to see the Justice Department take this step and they view it as an action to defend the rights of Black voters.  So what next?  Well this is the first significant action that we have seen out of the Justice Department under the Biden administration to protect voting rights. And this is a major political fight right now. More than a dozen new laws have been passed in Republican-led states this year that restrict voting. Attorney General Merrick Garland has made clear that protecting voting rights is a priority for him and the department. And he said that the department is going to take a close look at laws in other states besides Georgia. And he says that the department will take action if it determines that rights are being violated.  That is NPR's Ryan Lucas. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  And for more of our political coverage subscribe to the NPR POLITICS PODCAST.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday June 26 2021. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Leila Fadel. This podcast is made by Andrew Craig Isabella Gomez Sarmiento Danny Hensel and Ian Stewart.  Our editors are Jan Johnson Ed McNulty and D. Parvaz.  Our directors are Sophia Boyd and Ned Wharton.  Stu Rushfield - he is our technical director. Dennis Neilson provides engineering support.  Evie Stone is our supervising editor. Sarah Oliver is our executive producer.  And keeping all of us in line are deputy managing editors Jim Kane and Franklyn Cater.  UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are at upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  