 A stark warning from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - we could see a dramatic rise in COVID cases.  And if so we will be looking at many more deaths and the need for lockdowns.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Public health experts are watching coronavirus infection numbers go up in some states and say we are still in the thick of this pandemic. Here's Ashish Jha professor of global health.  We really never quite finished the first wave and it does not look like we are going to anytime soon.  And President Trump trying to walk a line between supporting police and pressure to ban their use of chokeholds.  While in the United Kingdom protests intensify over racial inequality mirroring what we are seeing here in the U.S.  So stay with us for the news you need to start your weekend.   Coronavirus infections are on the rise in a number of states. Nationwide around 800 people are still dying each day.  And on Friday the CDC warned that if cases begin to quote go up dramatically we may need to return to stricter mitigation measures.  NPR's global health correspondent Nurith Aizenman joins us. Nurith thanks so much for being with us.  Hi Scott.  Where are the numbers going up? What are hot spots now?  So California Florida Texas now reporting their largest daily new infections to date. Also worrisome - Arizona. Three weeks ago it was seeing less than 400 new cases a day. Now the daily average is more than 1200. In a similar boat Utah South Carolina. But even in states where the numbers do not look so bad there is a troubling trend. And to talk about it I want to get just a bit technical.  That is fine. We need to hear it. Please.  OK. So a key indicator is what is called the reproduction number or the R. It tells you for every person who is infected how many people will they go on to infect? Now if it is above one the virus spreads exponentially. For instance it is estimated that before the U.S. stay-at-home orders the reproduction number was above 2. So think about it Scott. Let us say you are infected with the virus. Then you would go on to infect two others who go on to infect four who infect eight 16. That upward spiral happens fast. So the key is to push that reproduction number below one. And we did that during the stay-at-home period. But we only barely pushed the reproduction number below one. And that means that while the infections were not spiraling up we reached almost a steady state - this kind of drip drip of new infections and new deaths each day. Ashish Jha is the director of the Harvard Global Health Institute. He says if this status quo continues...  We are going to continue seeing 25- to 30000 additional deaths a month. So this is really quite bad. And the level of virus and the level of disease burden in our country is very very large.  And then on top of that with the reopenings in two-thirds of states the reproduction number has already crept up past one again.  Is this the second wave that people were worrying about?  Right. The term second wave can be misleading because of course we never actually ended the first wave. We have just been chugging along. But that said there is growing evidence that come autumn we will move from this kind of steady-state situation to a steep rise in cases.  And that sounds alarming. Tell us what we need to know.  Well so on Thursday a prominent forecaster from the University of Washington Chris Murray said that when his team analyzed the curve of COVID-19 cases so far they find that it is followed a seasonal pattern that is very similar to the seasonal pattern for pneumonia in the U.S. Namely in the warmer months pneumonia cases go down.  If it is seasonal why does not it basically disappear in the summer?  Right. So when there is a totally new virus like this one we have no immunity. It rips through us. So even if the warmer months slow down the virus's ability to spread there is still going to be so many of us who are ripe for infection that the seasonal effect will be small. But come autumn Murray says the seasonal effect really could make a difference with case counts. Let us take a listen.  We start to see a powerful increase starting in early September. These numbers will intensify through February.  So he says seasonality will be a very big driver of the second wave.  NPR's Nurith Aizenman. Thank you so much.  You are welcome.   Congressional Democrats have unveiled legislation to ban the use of chokeholds by police one of many reforms being sought after the killing of George Floyd. Now Republicans are taking a look but President Trump is skeptical.   And you get somebody in a chokehold and what are you going to do now? Let go and say oh let us start all over again I am not allowed to have you in a chokehold?  So question here - does that mean the president has his own ideas for reform? We have got NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez to talk about that. Good morning. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Good morning Lulu.  So what does the president support when it comes to policing reforms? ORDO Well he supports the police full stop. He rejects any assertions that there is systematic racism. Instead he blames bad apples. I actually traveled with him to Dallas this week. He said the White House will provide recommendations on standards for the use of force. In that Fox interview that you played he said that he does not like the use of chokeholds but he stopped short of supporting a ban. Here's more.   With that being said it would be I think a very good thing that generally speaking it should be ended. ORDO You know we will hear from Republicans probably this week about what they support. Senator Tim Scott is leading that effort in the Senate and Jim Jordan in the House. And we will see if the White House releases the executive order with details of what the president can support.  OK. The president meanwhile is traveling today to West Point. Can you tell us a little bit more about that? ORDO Yeah. He will be speaking at the U.S. Military Academy graduation. The graduating cadets are returning for the ceremony after being sent home early when the virus struck. The White House says the president is there to honor the cadets. But we will see if he sticks to the tradition or veers off into the political sphere as he sometimes does. Will he address the policing and racial tensions that have consumed the White House? You know it is caused tensions with military leadership. The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley said this week it was a mistake to accompany Trump for a photo-op after protesters were forced out of Lafayette Square. And Trump quashed any idea of renaming Army bases that honor Confederate officers. And that is after Defense Secretary Esper appeared open to the idea.  OK Franco. He is also going to take another trip next week to Tulsa Okla. where he will hold his first rally since March. He is restarting rallies despite the pandemic. ORDO Right. I mean as you mentioned earlier there is been a new spike of COVID-19 cases that have raised concerns. And he is getting back on the campaign trail. The president has been pushing to get back on the trail but his campaign clearly knows there are risks. And they are making sure those who attend the Tulsa rally agree not to sue the campaign if they contract coronavirus. The location is also very controversial. Symbolism matters when a president travels. But the symbolism here is quite relevant because Tulsa is the location of one of the worst massacres of African Americans in U.S. history.  And especially at this time when there is so much tension over police brutality and the treatment of African Americans and racism. And he had scheduled to hold this rally on June 19 Juneteenth. But it looks like those plans changed overnight. ORDO Yeah that is right. That is a day that marks the end of slavery in America. Some African American leaders saw that as insulting and called for him to change the date. And late last night he tweeted that to honor those requests he had moved the rally to the following day.  NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez thank you so much. ORDO Thank you.  And for the latest from the White House and the campaign you can check out the NPR Politics Podcast.   So protests continue today in the United Kingdom targeting racism and its legacy.  And just as it has here the conflict has expanded to involve statues. The question - which should stay? Which should go?  Frank Langfitt is NPR's London correspondent. And he joins us now to talk about that. Hi Frank.  Hey. Good morning Lulu.  So we have been watching what is happening here with Confederate statues and monuments - a different history over there in the U.K. but a similar debate. What historical figures are we talking about?  Well it is - actually it is strikingly similar as an American correspondent covering the U.K. It started really on Sunday. Protesters tore down a statue of a man named Edward Colston who was a philanthropist but also was involved in the slave trade in Bristol - the English city of Bristol. Now there is this map Lulu online called Topple The Racists. It is a crowdsourced map. And there are other sites that people are looking at - Nelson's Column over Trafalgar Square...  Wow.  ...The statue of - I know.  That is a central statue there in London.  Yeah. I mean that is - everybody who comes to London sees that. It is at the center of Trafalgar Square. There is a statue of Robert Baden-Powell. He was the founder of the Scouts - what we know in the States of course as the Boy Scouts. Yesterday somebody vandalized the signs for Penny Lane in Liverpool of Beatles fame claiming it was connected to a slaver named Penny. People in Liverpool say that is not true and were cleaning it up this morning.  How does the public feel about this from what you can tell?  You know it is very - it is divisive. It depends on age politics and to some degree race. You have a lot of young progressives in places like London who think the country needs to confront its colonial past how much money was made off of slavery and lead to the removal of these statues. Then you have a lot of patriotic white Britons who are angry and upset. Last weekend during the protests somebody sprayed on Churchill's statue which is right across from Big Ben as you know saying he was a racist. Now one of my neighbors planned to go down this weekend actually to defend the statue during the protest. His name is Andy Musket . I was talking to him yesterday. And this is what he said.  I would be quite willing to stand in front of that statue and protect him because that is what he means to us. That is what he means to this country. They would not have this speech - if we would been taken over by the Germans those marches would not be happening.  It reminds us so much of the divisions that have already played out in the United Kingdom over Brexit and other things. This seems to be exacerbating them yet again. What has been the reaction from authorities there either local or in London?  Yeah. What they are trying to do Lulu is protect the statues and prevent violence. So they took the Churchill statue and they boarded it up. It now has a box on top of it so you cannot see it anymore. Now right now there are hundreds of counterdemonstrators surrounding that box singing God Save The Queen. And they are flying the Union Jack. And the fear today is that there is going to be a clash with Black Lives Matter protesters. Now the London group for BLM says do not participate in the protest today. It is not worth it. The mayor says that some of the far-right are coming down to protest and to basically set a trap for Black Lives Matter protesters. And cops are saying whatever happens the protests have to finish by 5 p.m. today 'ecause that is usually Lulu when the violence kicks off here.  It is incredibly tense.  Yeah.  You mentioned protesters have also focused on the founder of the Scouts. What is going on there?  Yeah so Robert Baden-Powell - he has a statue in the town of Poole which is on the English Channel. Critics say he was a homophobe and a supporter of Hitler. The statue did show up on this list this map to topple the racists. And so scouts were actually sleeping out overnight to protect it. And finally the local government there has covered in wood and built a box around it to protect it.  So I am curious. How are you thinking about this as someone who studies the U.K.?  Well I mean I was talking to a history professor and other people. And this really is a battle over identity and history in the form of these statues. And of course it is about just what you were saying - slavery empire the colonial past. And the protesters I think want to change the historical landscape to fit more with the progressive values of say London today. Many white Britons are unsettled because they are seeing icons under attack. And as this historian was telling me you know when statues get torn down we associate that more with regime change which is really jarring for people.  That is NPR's Frank Langfitt in London. Thank you so much.  Great to talk Lulu.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday June 13 2020. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news you need to start your week.  You can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter. And keep an eye on this feed for the occasional special episode.  And for everything else you need to stay informed as well as interviews and reviews and also stuff that is just interesting and entertaining...  Listen to us on the radio on Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings.  Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  