 Attorney General Barr's announced that a head prosecutor is stepping down.  Only problem is that the prosecutor disagrees. He says I have not resigned and have no intention of resigning.  I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   The man in question? Geoffrey Berman - U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York.  Among many other things he is been investigating the president's personal attorneys - first Michael Cohen and now Rudy Giuliani. More on that in a moment.  Also scientists are testing a new COVID therapy - we have the latest on antibody research.  And we are going to look to Latin America which is being hit hard by the virus.  So stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your weekend.   The announcement came in a Friday night press release. The attorney general wrote I thank Geoffrey Berman who is stepping down after 2 12 years of service as United States attorney for the Southern District of New York.  That was followed by another press release from Berman. No he is not stepping down. And he is pressing ahead with investigations that will quote move forward without delay or interruption.  Let us turn now to NPR justice correspondent Ryan Lucas without delay or interruption. Thanks for being with us Ryan.  My pleasure.  Well this was an extraordinary back-and-forth. What happened?  This really is a remarkable situation. This was an abrupt decision announced late on a Friday night which of course only adds to the jarring nature of it and only raises more questions about what is going on. But as for how it went down the Justice Department put out its statement after 9 p.m. saying Berman was stepping down and announcing that the president intends to nominate Jay Clayton as his successor. Clayton is the chairman of the Security and Exchange Commission. His nomination struck some former federal prosecutors in New York that I spoke with as odd because he is not a litigator and he is not a prosecutor. A few hours later Berman put out his own statement saying nope - he did not resign. He has no plans to resign until a presidentially appointed nominee is confirmed by the Senate. And Berman pointed out that he himself was appointed as U.S. attorney by the District Court for the Southern District of New York. This puts us in an extraordinary situation where the Justice Department is in a very public dispute with one of its most prestigious and busy U.S. attorney's offices. And it again raises questions about the management of the Justice Department under Attorney General Bill Barr's watch.  Tell us more please about Geoffrey Berman. He was at one point in the same law firm as Rudy Giuliani.  He was. He was. Berman was appointed acting U.S. attorney back in early 2018 by the Trump administration. As I said the District Court for the Southern District of New York then appointed him U.S. attorney later that year since there was no Senate-confirmed position. Originally there were questions about how independent Berman would be as a U.S. attorney. As it turns out he has been very independent. An early indication of that was the case that his office brought against the president's former personal attorney and fixer Michael Cohen. That case infuriated the president who at the time of an FBI raid on Cohen's office and residences lashed out about that raid. Cohen ultimately of course pleaded guilty to financial crimes - to lying to Congress in campaign finance crimes. And under oath in court Cohen implicated Trump in payments made by two women ahead of the 2016 elections to keep them quiet about affairs that they said that they had had with Trump. Berman's office has had other high-profile investigations that it is been working on for a while now under his watch as well.  And he says they will go forward. What do you think they mean specifically?  Well he did not specify in his statement what specific investigations he was referring to. But one particularly notable investigation that the office is conducting right now is an investigation into the president's current personal attorney Rudy Giuliani. Two associates of Giuliani's were charged in October for alleged campaign finance violations - those are Lev Parnas and Igor Fruman. Investigators appear to be scrutinizing a range of Giuliani's activities including his foreign lobbying work as well as a couple of other issues. Giuliani denies any wrongdoing. He has not been charged at this point but this is certainly something that people are going to be paying very close attention to going forward to see how that investigation plays out.  NPR justice correspondent Ryan Lucas thanks for being with us.  Thank you.  And for more from the White House and the campaign check out the NPR Politics Podcast.   A medical therapy that is been used for more than a century is being tried to treat patients with COVID-19.  It involves taking plasma from COVID patients who have recovered and giving it to patients who still have the disease.  That is called convalescent plasma. And NPR science correspondent Joe Palca joins us. Joe thanks for being with us.  You bet.  So everything old is new again. Tell us please about how plasma factors into this pandemic.  Well patients who get a disease like COVID-19 - a viral disease - and survive have made antibodies. Their immune systems have made antibodies to this particular invading organism and presumably the antibodies stick around for a while and it is in the plasma of their blood. So presumably if you take that plasma and give it to someone who is sick at the time those antibodies might be helpful in making the sick person well.  And from what has been seen so far does it seem to work?  Yeah it is been done in tens of thousands of people now for COVID. And the answer is yeah kind of sort of maybe. It is not a miracle cure where you can you know leap out of bed and say everything's fine. At the same time it has helped reduce mortality it seems. And it is safe to use - that is been the main objection. Some people said oh well this might cause more problems than it actually solves but that does not seem to be the case. So it is being used quite widely. And there are some studies that will be showing whether it is actually effective or not.  Based on my vast medical knowledge if there are antibodies in convalescent plasma that are helpful to patients could not you just give them antibodies instead of a transfusion?  Well professor Dr. Simon that is true - you could do that. In fact that is what people do do. They concentrate these antibodies into something which is called hyperimmune globulin which is a package of the proteins that are the antibodies that you could actually directly inject into people. And this has the advantage of your being able to somewhat better characterize what is in the soup. I mean if you just give someone plasma you do not know exactly what you are giving them. In hyperimmune globulin you have a better sense of exactly what is going on.  Are these antibodies available only from someone who is recovered from COVID-19 or is there a way to make them?  Well interestingly enough you can make them from a non-human. There is a company in Sioux Falls S.D. that is using cows. These are special cows I should say - they are cows that have been given a human-like immune system. And if you inject them with what amounts to a COVID vaccine - it is not the virus itself but things in the virus that cause an immune response - these cows will churn out buckets of antibodies in their plasma which can then be used to concentrate and turned into a therapy. There is another company that is using horses to do something similar. And this has actually been used in the past also - using horses to generate vaccines that are therapies for certain infectious agents.  Any time frame in which some of these newer antibody therapies might be available for COVID patients?  Well the cow-based ones are supposed to be going into human trials soon. There is other ones that are coming along that are even more specifically targeted. These are single antibodies that have been purified and grown or sometimes antibodies in a cocktail of two. These are coming along. They are about to be tested in humans pretty soon and scientists are pretty enthusiastic about their potential.  NPR science correspondent Joe Palca thanks so much.  You are welcome.   The United States still leads the world in the number of known coronavirus infections but the global epicenter of this pandemic has moved south...  ...To Latin America. Brazil is No. 2 in terms of case numbers. And Chile with a population of just 18 million is now also in the top 10.  And while the virus is claiming lives it is also roiling governments. We are joined now by NPR South America correspondent Phil Reeves. Hi Phil.  Hi.  Let us start with Chile because we have not heard as much news from there. What is the latest?  Yeah Chile has not got that much attention. But the fact is it is got more confirmed coronavirus cases per capita than almost any other country. So the government's making a fresh effort to try to combat that - it is tightening up the rules in the capital Santiago. When the people who are under lockdown there want to go out shopping they go online and get a permit from the cops. Now they can only do that twice a week instead of five times and there are also some tougher penalties being introduced for violators. But you know there is other worrying stuff going on there Lulu as well. I mean copper mining as you know plays a big big role...  Right.  ...In Chile's economy. And now the unions are warning of an explosion of cases in the mines. In a couple of cities in the mining region in the north officials have reportedly ordered refrigerated storage trucks because they are worried about morgues running out of space.  How are people there reacting Phil? Because before the virus there were months of unrest with anti-government protests - some of them violent.  Yes indeed and those were big protests. I mean last year President Sebastian Pinera was facing a major uprising over social inequality and that was still simmering away when the pandemic started. It has now died down although there were some protests in Santiago in May. But the tensions - I think the underlying tensions - they are still there. People are terribly worried about the economy - like everywhere it is a nosedive. Pinera's ratings were at rock bottom before the pandemic arrived. They have sneaked up a little but he is still unpopular and a lot of Chileans are criticizing him for his handling of the pandemic.  So let us turn to Brazil now where the political situation is really fraught as you have been reporting for quite some time. The president there Jair Bolsonaro has consistently played down the threat from the virus but cases are surging.  Yeah the number of confirmed cases in Brazil has just gone over 1 million. There have also been nearly 50000 deaths. And experts say the virus has not yet peaked in Brazil. So Bolsonaro's in an increasingly precarious position. He is lost two health ministers in as many months. He is fired one and the other quit. Now he has an army general doing that job as a stand-in. Bolsonaro disputes the case numbers saying they are inflated by state and municipal officials to get more federal dollars. He is even urged his followers to go into hospitals - public hospitals - with cameras and check whether the intensive care beds are full which is of course a crime.  Oh my goodness.  Doctors and scientists are furious - yeah they say that just spreads the virus. And they are not - also not happy because while this is going on a lot of towns and cities are opening up their economy. Meanwhile Bolsonaro's facing a political crisis - a showdown with the judiciary which is setting off a lot of alarm bells because he is been talking of ignoring Supreme Court orders if he deems them to be absurd or politicized. And on top of that there are scandals swirling increasingly around his inner circle and his son some of whom are under police investigation for alleged crimes.  And this is the region's biggest economy of course so it is incredibly important what is happening there. What is going on in the wider region? What are you seeing?  Well Peru is having a very rough time. It locked down hard and early yet it has one of the highest infection rates in South America. Medical professionals there were out protesting on the streets of Lima the capital this week demanding protective equipment. There was also a standoff in that city after riot police arrived to try to clear the streets of street vendors. These kind of tensions seem certain to get worse as the economy tanks. Peru's central bank says it is seeing the biggest drop in GDP in a century. Meanwhile in Argentina it is a sort of different story. It still has some of the lowest numbers in the region - under 1000 deaths - but there is a growing problem in the greater Buenos Aires area. The government had been loosening the lockdown but it is having to tighten stuff up again in some places. And the president Alberto Fernandez has been told by his doctors to stay in his palace in order to avoid getting infected.  That is NPR South America correspondent Phil Reeves with the latest. Thank you so much Phil.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday June 20 2020. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter. 