 A big promise about COVID vaccines.   We will have enough vaccine supply for all adults in America by the end of May.  But can President Biden actually get Americans to a COVID-safe Fourth of July with family and friends?  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   To meet his deadline President Biden is invoking the Defense Production Act getting drug companies what they need to produce more vaccines. We will explain.  Also Minneapolis will pay the family of George Floyd 27 million to settle a lawsuit over his death in police custody last May. We will have reaction from the city.  And the U.S. will offer TPS - that is temporary protected status - to people from Myanmar who fear returning home.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Enough COVID vaccines for every American adult by the end of May - that is what President Biden is promising. But after the slow and confounding rollout this winter is it a realistic goal?  NPR pharmaceuticals correspondent Sydney Lupkin joins us now with an update on vaccine supplies. Sydney thanks for being with us.  Yeah. Hi Scott.  And how is the Biden administration trying to make good on this promise?  Well it looks like Pfizer and Moderna are going to meet that first milestone. They both initially promised to deliver a hundred million doses each by March 31. And distributions had been slow but they have really picked up lately. And vaccine output should grow even more. Here's the president's COVID czar Jeffrey Zients.   The next couple of weeks of supply overall are relatively flat before supply really starts to accelerate towards the end of the month and then into April and into May.  And that certainly sounds encouraging. We keep hearing about the Defense Production Act. Explain what that is once again if you could.  Sure. It is a 1950 law that gives the president and his administration powers to allocate materials services and facilities and award contracts that take priority over any other contract to promote the national defense which in this case is defending against the virus. So not only did the vaccine makers need to put the COVID-19 vaccine first. But in many cases so did their suppliers.  And how is the federal government used this act to speed vaccine production?  The Trump administration has used the law to provide vaccine production 18 times. And now the Biden administration is building on that. For instance it used the law to get Pfizer some equipment it was not able to get under the Trump administration. And of course the act is being used to help Merck get up to speed making Johnson  Johnson vaccines. But it is important to remember that the Defense Production Act is not like flipping on a light switch.  Well  what is it like then?  I spoke to folks at Emergent BioSolutions about this. Emergent is making the vaccine for Johnson  Johnson and AstraZeneca. And the Defense Production Act has helped it get equipment like bioreactors which look kind of like fermenting tanks at a brewpub. Here's the company's head of manufacturing operations Sean Kirk.  They still had to build the equipment for us. They still had to ship the equipment to us. We still had to install it and qualify it and get it operational. And that just takes time.  The act ultimately took a process that would normally take two or three years and condensed it down to six or seven months.  Sydney is that fairly typical? Do we know how much the Defense Production Act has sped things up overall?  We do not. The Government Accountability Office has done some research on how it is been used. But it needed to go through press announcements and contracts by hand. And that is pretty tedious. The office actually recommended developing reporting guidelines to promote greater transparency. Right now there is no central database of Defense Production Act uses to track how much it helped or how much it hurt.  Hurt meaning what in this case?  There have been some ripple effects. For instance the company that makes a thyroid drug called Tepezza said in December that it would be in short supply. That is because the factory contracted to make it was required under the Defense Production Act to package the COVID-19 vaccine instead. The company is working on alternatives. But you know it turns out that funneling finite resources to vaccine development can have consequences beyond COVID-19.  NPR's pharmaceuticals correspondent Sydney Lupkin thanks so much.  You bet.   The city of Minneapolis has agreed to pay an unprecedented 27 million to the family of George Floyd. The family's attorneys say it is the largest pretrial settlement in a civil rights wrongful death case in U.S. history.  The settlement comes as jury selection is underway in the murder trial of Derek Chauvin. That is the white police officer who was filmed with his knee to George Floyd's neck for nearly nine minutes.  NPR's Leila Fadel joins us now from Minneapolis. Good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  It is a huge number. Tell us exactly what this agreement entails.  So this is the highest payout related to a wrongful death lawsuit in the history of the city. Five hundred thousand dollars of the money will be invested in the neighborhood where Floyd was killed. And what the attorneys who filed this suit stressed in their press conference announcing the settlement was that this is about more than money. This is one of the attorneys Chris Stewart.   The number today changes evaluations in civil rights for a Black person when they die because what you do not know is the rigged game that we always have to play when we take one of these cases - because African Americans are not valued high when they are murdered by law enforcement in these cases. And we are changing that precedent.  So he says when the loss of Black life has financial consequences like this that trickles down.   When there is a city council or a mayor deciding oh should we get rid of no-knock warrants? Should we get rid of chokeholds? Do we want to change these policies? They have 27 million reasons now why they should.  So you mentioned this number is historic. When was the last time the city paid out such a huge settlement like this?  Well it was a situation where a police officer killed an unarmed person. In that case it was a former Black Minneapolis police officer Mohamed Noor who was convicted after he fatally shot a white woman Justine Ruszczyk Damond in 2017. She called the police over what she thought might be a sexual assault in an alley behind her house and she was killed. Of course the case sparked outrage received national attention. Her family settled with the city for 20 million unprecedented before yesterday. And activists pointed to that as an example of Black lives mattering less because in the case of Jamar Clark - he was an African American man fatally shot in the head by police in Minneapolis in 2015 - his family received a 200000 settlement. The facts in that case were different disputed. Police say Clark reached for an officer's gun. Witnesses say he was handcuffed and did not struggle. His killing sparked protests. No charges were brought. So the financial payout to Floyd's family their attorneys say is setting a new precedent.  But Leila this is a settlement of a civil lawsuit. And there is of course a criminal trial going forward.  Right. So jury selection is underway in that murder trial against Derek Chauvin. So far half of the 12 jurors and two alternates have been selected. And following this trial the other three officers that were in that viral video are expected to each stand trial separately for their alleged roles. But this is all really hard. This city these prospective jurors are having to relive what happened through this trial. Listen to the defense attorney speaking to a prospective African American juror. She was ultimately not chosen for the jury.   There is video surveillance so I cannot unsee the video. So I am not able to set that part aside.  What if I were to tell you that there is a fairly high probability that that video that you have already seen is going to be evidence in this case? So you are going to see it again.  It is still going to be traumatizing to me.  It is hard to hear that. That is NPR's Leila Fadel. Thank you very much.  Thank you.   There is been a brutal crackdown in Myanmar since a coup there six weeks ago. The Biden administration has announced it will now temporarily allow people from Myanmar who are currently in the U.S. to remain here. Officials say that could cover about 1600 people.  Joining us now to talk about this and the latest developments in Myanmar is reporter Michael Sullivan. Good morning.  Hi Lulu.  Michael has there been any reaction to the move by the Biden administration to offer what is known as temporary protected status?  Not a lot. People I have spoken to in Myanmar say it is a nice gesture but it does not do a lot for them. It applies to fewer than 2000 people already in the U.S. as you said. And the administration made it clear it would not be broadening it to include people who may flee the country if things get worse. And that is the fear of the neighbors. I live in a Thai border town just a few hundred yards from Myanmar and the military here has increased its patrols and checkpoints since the coup to keep would-be refugees out. Thailand is still home to more than 100000 refugees who fled previous crackdowns by Myanmar's military. It does not want any more.  Yeah. As we have said the move was in response to the violent crackdown by Myanmar's military against protesters demonstrating against the coup. What has been happening on the ground?  More of the same. The protesters are not letting up and neither are the security forces. Several more protesters were killed today in different cities and towns around the country. On Thursday at least 12 were killed one of the deadliest days since the coup prompting this response from the U.N. special rapporteur on Myanmar Thomas Andrews.   Myanmar security forces have murdered at least 70 people. The junta is detaining dozens sometimes hundreds every day. As of last night the total number of arbitrary arrests and detentions since the first of February had risen beyond 2000.  But protesters say they have no intention of giving up. Thinzar Shunlei Yi is a 28-year-old activist and protest leader in Yangon.  The coup that they are making right now is not yet complete. It is not yet successful because of the resistance inside is so strong. And now we have to make sure to overthrow the military junta once and for all.  You know the military though is just pressing ahead. They gave a press conference this week and made new unsubstantiated allegations against deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi including this time bribery. What has been the response?  Inside the country I would say muted and largely incredulous. Nobody really trusts the military. So even if there were any truth to these allegations brought by a former political associate of Suu Kyi they are not likely to gain any traction with the general population. But of course that is not the purpose. The purpose is to keep piling on charges against her to prevent her from having any elected role in any future government.  And what about Aung San Suu Kyi? Do we know anything about where she is being held? Has she been able to make any public statements yet?  In the beginning we think she was held in her home in Naypyidaw in the capital but now nobody's really sure. She is not been seen in public since the coup so for about six weeks now. And her lawyer says she did appear via video link in court in the capital to hear some of the other charges brought against her but no no sightings in public and no public statements either.  That is reporter Michael Sullivan who is been monitoring the events in Myanmar from Thailand. Thank you very much.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday March 13 2021. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week and you can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books music thoughtful conversation and fun you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings - find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  