 President Biden went to Atlanta to express his grief for the eight people killed in Tuesday's shootings.  He called the violence part of a skyrocketing spike of attacks on Asian Americans.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Eight people killed seven women. Six were of Asian descent.  The president spoke after meeting with Asian American leaders.  Also the CDC has new guidance on social distancing for children. This could lead to more students back in classrooms. We will have details.  And in a change from a few months ago a growing number of Black and Latino people say that they do plan to get a COVID vaccine but access is the main problem.  Please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   We have to change our hearts. Hate can have no safe harbor in America. Those were the words President Biden spoke Friday. He and Vice President Kamala Harris traveled to Georgia to pay tribute to the eight people killed this week in a series of shootings across the metro Atlanta area.  Seven of them were women. Six of them were of Asian descent. A 21-year-old white man is in custody and charged with murder. For more than an hour Biden and Harris spoke to Asian American state lawmakers and others. Biden said those discussions were heart-wrenching.  We are joined now by Lisa Hagen of member station WABE in Atlanta. Lisa thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  A very somber message from both the president and vice president was not it?  Yes it was. Vice President Harris who as we know is the first woman VP who is also Black and Asian American was pretty blunt in her remarks. She said racism is real in America. Xenophobia is real in America and sexism too. And President Biden had sharp language too. He called on Americans to stand up to bigotry when they see it and added that silence is complicity.   There are simply some core values and beliefs that should bring us together as Americans. One of them is standing together against hate against racism the ugly poison that has long haunted and plagued our nation.  In the past year advocates say attacks and assaults against Asian Americans have risen sharply since the coronavirus pandemic. While not calling out Trump directly Vice President Harris did say - and I am quoting her here - for the last year we have had people in positions of incredible power scapegoating Asian Americans people with the biggest pulpits spreading this kind of hate.  Lisa more names of the people killed were released yesterday. What have you learned about some of them?  NPR spoke with Greg Hynson a friend of Xiaojie Tan. Tan owned Young's Asian Massage the first business that was targeted in Cherokee County. Hynson was a customer who became a friend. He says Tan spent most of her free time with her daughter but he would drop by to visit once a week. She made him a surprise birthday cake last fall.   She was a hard-working businesswoman very smart very intelligent a loving kind generous unselfish person who loved her family and loved her close friends.  And one of the victims was a U.S. Army veteran. Please tell us about him.  Yeah Paul Andre Michels served in the military for four years in the 1980s before getting into private security. His brother John told NPR they came from a big auto-working family in southwest Detroit.   He is like my twin. I knew everything that he did pretty much and he knew everything that I got into.  His brother was a big coin collector like their father. And Michels says he is going to be sending the gunman a Bible and try to form a relationship with him.  And Lisa there is a rally planned today for the victims right?  Yes. A group called the Concerned Black Clergy of Metropolitan Atlanta is meeting at the state Capitol in Atlanta to hold a prayer service. They are calling for an end in their words to stop hate and violence on the Asian American communities. They say they know all too well the plight of racism and violence against communities of color.  Lisa Hagen of member station WABE in Atlanta thanks so much.  Thank you.   The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention sent school leaders scrambling yesterday. It issued a fairly sudden and dramatic update to its guidance for reopening schools.  The agency has reduced the distance students should be spaced in most school settings from 6 feet to 3 feet. We are joined now by NPR's Cory Turner. Cory thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me Scott.  What more can you tell us about this policy reversal?  Well up to now the CDC has said that kids in most school settings should be spaced 6 feet apart just like everybody else. Realistically for schools that is meant only about 12 kids in a classroom which obviously put school leaders in a real bind this past year. Yesterday though the agency cut that recommendation in half for most schools down to 3 feet. There are some exceptions though. CDC stands by 6 feet in communities where transmission rates are still high also 6 feet between adults in schools and when kids are eating.  And why the change now?  Well the CDC says it is because their understanding of this pandemic just keeps evolving. After all it was just last month that I was covering the CDC unveiling of new school guidance that doubled down on 6 feet. But recent research has found little to no difference in transmission rates when students are 6 feet apart versus 3 feet apart - at least 3 feet apart as long as they are wearing masks. And Scott it is also worth noting that the American Academy of Pediatrics as well as the World Health Organization the WHO had already thrown their support behind this lower standard.  What change could this indicate for schools? Is there going to be a rush to reopen fully now?  Yes and no. Let us start with the yes. I have been hearing from school leaders essentially since August that if they had to space desks six feet apart there is no way they would be able to accommodate all their students. And that is why we have seen many schools choose to divide kids into really awkward hybrid rotations you know where they are coming into classrooms in groups one or two days a week or maybe four days every other week. So I spoke with a handful of superintendents yesterday who told me the CDC update is a game-changer.  That is the yes part. Why on the other hand might we not see a rush of children returning to school?  I think the challenge there Scott is the word rush. Many schools at this point - I mean it is mid-March. They have already surveyed families. They have crunched the numbers. They divided up their classrooms. They prepped their teachers. And they are right now rolling out reopening plans that were built around this six-feet recommendation. So cutting that distance in half yes it would fit more kids but it would also require an enormous logistical pivot for schools which I think we will see. It is just not going to happen overnight. There are also a couple other challenges. One teachers' unions greeted yesterday's news with real skepticism. Their message was basically we are not convinced three feet is safe. And it is not just teachers. You know in spite of what the science says many families still do not feel safe sending their kids back. I spoke yesterday with Shari Camhi. She is superintendent of a district on Long Island where about a third of her students are still fully remote.  Not everybody is there yet. There is a lot of people that are still very wary about being in-person. You know there are those of us who have lost people we love.  So Scott I think it is really important that we see in the coming weeks and months a real outreach not only by school leaders but also political leaders to reassure these families in their communities that schools are safe.  NPR education correspondent Cory Turner thanks so much.  You are welcome Scott.   A growing number of Black and Latino people in the United States now say they do intend to get vaccinated against COVID-19.  That is a change from a few months ago when public health officials were concerned about what they called vaccine hesitancy in those groups of people.  That is right Scott. And here's NPR's science correspondent Jon Hamilton to talk to us more about that. Hi Jon.  Hi.  So give us a sense of how much things have changed.  Well sure. You know back in December surveys were showing that Black and Hispanic Americans were far less likely than white Americans to say they plan to get a vaccine. At some points the gap was more than 10 percentage points. But more recent surveys including one done in the past week suggest that gap is closing and may have even disappeared.  What were the reasons some members of these groups gave about their hesitation?  Well there were a lot of concerns about the safety of the COVID-19 vaccines. Some people worried that they would been developed too quickly and might not have been tested properly. Then there were these vaccine myths and even active disinformation campaigns. And they are spreading false ideas like getting vaccinated could affect a person's fertility or change their DNA. And of course those things are not true but they are still out there.  So why have those fears subsided?  Well one reason is information campaigns. Government sources including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have been providing detailed information about precisely how the vaccines were tested and how they work. Another thing is personal experience. More than 40 people in the U.S. are now fully vaccinated so pretty much everyone knows someone who got the shot and is still OK. And then there have been a lot of prominent leaders in the Black and Latinx communities who are very publicly supporting vaccination. I spoke with one of them a couple of days ago. He is a doctor at the University of Miami named Hansel Tookes. And here's what Dr. Tookes told me.  I received my COVID vaccine on TV on the first day that it was being offered here in Miami. And there are many people that I know who have received the vaccine because they know that I did the research. And I would not recommend anything from them that I would not recommend for myself or my family.  Does it look like vaccination rates among Black and Latino Americans will eventually catch up with those of white and Asian Americans? It is important of course because you know Black and Latinx Americans have been so hard hit by this pandemic.  Yeah. It is not so clear. The problem is that vaccine hesitancy is really just one barrier to getting immunized. And another big one is access. You know so far vaccination sites are more likely to be found in areas that are more affluent less diverse. In some parts of the country it is still hard to get vaccine information in Spanish. And then there is the challenge of getting time off from work to get a vaccine something that can be really tough if you only get paid when you are actually on the job. Dr. Tookes told me about yet another barrier Internet access. He said you know not having Internet access became a problem when we - all we had was testing. And you had to go online to make an appointment. Here's what he said.  That was multiplied when we moved to using telehealth. So people who did not have access to broadband which does not even exist in many of our historically Black communities in Miami they were not able to access their physicians for a year.  And now of course many vaccination sites require you to go online to make a reservation. So that seems to be changing I would say. But there is still a long ways to go.  That is NPR's Jon Hamilton. Thank you very much.  My pleasure.   And that is UP FIRST for March 20 2021. I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news interviews books music just plain fun sometimes you can find us on the radio.  . It is WEEKEND EDITION Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  