  Ventilators are a big deal.  The president says he will force GM to make them.  But GM says it is been working to get ventilators rolling out of car factories.  Coronavirus patients need them now.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Cities and states are scrambling to find the supplies they need to treat people with COVID-19. New York is on a war footing.   So I say my friends that we go out there today and we kick coronavirus ass. That is what I say.  We will take you to New York City and out West.  And we will look at how fatal the virus can be from place to place. So stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your weekend.   More than 500 people in New York state have died so far in this pandemic and the number is growing.  Last night New York City's Mayor Bill de Blasio read the names of just a few of those lost to COVID-19.   David Perez an investigator at the Department of Correction Kious Kelly a nurse on the front line of this struggle and Dez-Ann Romain principal at Brooklyn Democracy Academy - everyone's feeling these losses deeply.  North Country Public Radio's Brian Mann is with us now with the latest from the state that is hardest-hit at the moment. Hi Brian.  Hi Lulu.  Is there any sign efforts to contain the spread in New York are helping?  Yeah public health officials think they are bending the growth rate of new cases down a bit. Social distancing better tracking of cases - it all seems to be helping. But the number of new people sick with COVID-19 is still rising dangerously - more than 44000 people sick here as of yesterday a fast-growing growing number of them needing these ventilators. And Governor Andrew Cuomo says tens of thousands more could be hospitalized in just the next few weeks.  Brian President Trump has challenged Cuomo on that suggesting New York may not see as many sick people as predicted. He is also claimed the state may already have enough ventilators stockpiled some of them distributed by the federal government. What does Governor Cuomo respond?  Well Governor Cuomo and state officials here say these ventilators are still the missing piece of the emergency response. You know there is a massive effort underway to expand hospital capacity here as many as eight emergency hospitals planned to take the overflow of sick patients. Thousands of retired medical personnel have volunteered to help staff them. And Cuomo said yesterday they do have some of these ventilators in reserve ready to be deployed but nowhere near enough.   I do not operate here on opinion. I operate on facts and on data and on numbers and on projections. All the projections say you could have an apex needing 140000 beds and about 40000 ventilators.  Now I should say Lulu that President Trump did shift on this yesterday saying he is going to use the Defense Production Act to order General Motors to make more of these ventilators. Though GM said it was already moving forward this is something that Governor Cuomo's been urging Trump to use the DPA for for days. So we will see if this now ramps up production.  Eventually these ventilators though will not just be needed in New York. They will almost certainly be in demand all over the United States right?  Yeah that is right. What Governor Cuomo keeps saying is that New York is going first. This is kind of the harbinger that the rest of the country is watching closely. Health officials here say people are often needing to stay on these ventilators for 20 or even 30 days - that is how sick they are - which means a lot of the devices will be needed if we are going to keep people alive in places where the coronavirus is now spreading rapidly.  Do we have any idea where this could hit next the next hot spot?  We are seeing the number of cases rise fast in Detroit. New Jersey right next-door to New York City has seen a big surge of COVID-19 cases in the last couple of days. But one troubling thing Lulu is we still do not have enough testing to know how widespread the virus is nationwide or where these ventilators will be needed next.  That is Brian Mann watching developments from New York this morning. Brian thank you very much.  Thank you Lulu.   Is COVID-19 deadlier in one place than another?  In Italy 10 of the people known to be infected with the coronavirus have died. But in Germany what is known as the case-fatality rate is less than 1.  So let us turn now to NPR's Jon Hamilton. Jon thanks so much for being with us.  My pleasure.  And help us understand that phrase the case-fatality rate.  What it is is really simple. It is a ratio. You take the number of people who have died from a disease and you divide it by the number of people who have the disease. So if 10 people have died of coronavirus and 100 people have tested positive the case-fatality rate is 10.  And how does this affect what we know about the severity of coronavirus cases now?  In a perfect world the case-fatality rate would tell us exactly how deadly the virus is but right now it probably does not. And the reason is that you need to be sure about both of the numbers in that ratio. And right now infectious disease experts are pretty confident that they know the true number of coronavirus deaths in most countries but they are pretty sure they do not know the true number of people who have been infected. So I talked to Dr. Steven Lawrence at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis and he told me this is pretty typical when countries are seeing lots of illness from a new source.  When a new virus emerges and it is not easy to identify and diagnose the only ones who really are recognized are the really sick people. And so when you are just testing and looking at the really sick individuals it looks like the fatality rate is much higher.  So Jon why are not we testing everybody to have a better idea of how deadly the virus really is?  So far there really just have not been enough tests at least in many countries. And that is changing. But in many places the tests are still being reserved for people who are sick enough to be admitted to a hospital or at least have really severe symptoms. So the result is there may be a whole lot of people who are infected with coronavirus and have mild symptoms but never show up in the statistics. And that is almost certainly the case in Italy where testing has been really hard to get.  So I gather you are saying that when we hear statistics about a high death rate we have to ask ourselves how many people with all levels of symptoms are being tested.  That is exactly right. So you know for example in South Korea and Germany where they were prepared to test tens of thousands of people from the very start both of those countries the case-fatality rate is relatively low. It is below 1.  And what about the U.S.?  Well here the case-fatality rate has been coming down as we have been able to do more testing. So for instance at the very beginning when patients were getting tested they were in that nursing home near Seattle. The case-fatality rate looked really high. But now that we have done hundreds of thousands of tests the rate has come down to somewhere around 1.5. But we are still not close to testing nearly as many people as we need to.  Is testing the only reason that case-fatality rates vary so much from country to country?  No. Sometimes those differences are because of factors that really do raise the risk of people dying if they get coronavirus. One of these factors is the age of a population. So you have older people are - they are simply more likely to die if they are infected. Another factor can be poverty or poor health status. That can make a population more vulnerable. And then there is the factor that we are worrying about a lot in the U.S. right now especially in New York. It is what happens when a sudden surge of cases causes a peak in demand for health care. Here's what Dr. Steven Lawrence had to say about why that can cause more patients to die.  During those high peaks there may not be enough people or ICU beds or ventilators to be able to provide the critical care that is needed for all of the people who would require it.  So Jon that is why there is all this talk about flattening the curve slowing down the spread of the virus so that hospitals do not get overwhelmed.  Exactly. And in the next couple of weeks we will know whether we are succeeding.  NPR's Jon Hamilton thanks so much.  You are welcome.   So this is not a top ranking the United States wanted. It has the most reported coronavirus cases in the world surpassing China. That number is now more than 100000. And as we have said there are shortages of the most basic equipment necessary to confirm infections and treat the sick.  Another number - 3.3 million people applied for unemployment last week. That is a new record. The previous record was 695000 in 1982.  Bleak statistics and yet Americans are rallying to the challenge and also to the president. Here's how Trump put it himself.   I think that we have handled it really well. It seems that the American public thinks that we have handled it well if you look at polling data.  Well we are going to do just that with NPR senior political editor and correspondent Domenico Montanaro. Domenico thanks so much for being with us.  Hi Lulu.  So break it down. What do we know about how the public feels about this administration's handling of this crisis?  Well the numbers are somewhat mixed. I mean two weeks ago our NPRPBS NewsHourMarist Poll found that just 44 approved of the president's handling of the pandemic. But despite Trump's mixed messaging on all of this polls now have shown an increase in that approval. Gallup had it as high as 60 though that really looks like it is kind of an outlier. Other surveys from Fox News Reuters Ipsos The EconomistYouGov showed it more to be around 50 maybe a little lower. But polling's you know a lagging indicator. I have to say Trump's messaging has been like whiplash. We do not know if the polls are reflecting his more serious tone last week as compared to his pivot to impatience really this week about wanting the country to be opened up by Easter and his pretty sharply partisan criticism of Democratic governors for example who are advocating for their constituents like he did yesterday.  The president as you mentioned has downplayed in the past the seriousness of the pandemic and now acts more impatient with the restrictions necessary to keep the coronavirus from spreading unchecked. Does that reflect the American public's perception of the threat and the steps we should take to deal with it?  Well I mean the longer this goes on obviously people are going to get more antsy about it. I mean there is only so long you can stay home before you know you want to get out there. But right now we are seeing people practicing some of that patience. About three-quarters of Americans in some polling saying that they are changing their behavior during the crisis - staying home canceling trips social distancing. But leadership matters here. You know between February and March we saw a 30 point drop among Republicans in our polling on whether they think the coronavirus is a real threat. And the problem here is like I mentioned earlier Trump's changing his opinions almost too fast for the polls and Americans really to try to keep up.  This current crisis is not totally unprecedented. The 1918 flu pandemic comes to mind. And there have been many crises since then - wars attacks calamities. How does this president's handling of the coronavirus pandemic compare with other presidents who have presided during a crisis?  Yeah. I mean Trump's range on how low his approval has been versus how high it is been is pretty narrow much narrower than other presidents. You know his low has been about 35 his high about 49 overall in Gallup. His job approval rating on average right now is the highest it is been at about 47. That is an uptick of about three points on average over the last two to three weeks. He may be benefiting from what pollsters call a rally 'round the flag effect but it is really pretty minimal frankly I mean compared to what past presidents have seen. I mean after 911 and before the Iraq War we saw President George W. Bush's approval rating skyrocket. Before the Gulf War and during the Gulf War we saw his father George H.W. Bush his approval went up significantly as well. President Reagan 1983 saw his rise about 20 points during the Grenada invasion and the Marine barracks bombing in Lebanon. And Americans - you know for all that people think about the Iran hostage crisis and how it really hobbled Jimmy Carter you know at the outset of that Americans were strongly behind him for the first several months of that crisis. It only came down after the botched rescue attempt a few months later. So what we have really seen is that polarization has taken hold in ways that we have not seen before and really took hold during the Obama years. We did not see much fluctuation during Obama's presidency did not get much bounce out of several crises and that polarization has just really gone on steroids in the Trump presidency with people as far apart as they have ever been about this president.  NPR's Domenico Montanaro. Domenico thank you very much.  You are welcome.  And for more insight into politics and the 2020 campaign subscribe to the NPR Politics Podcast.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday March 28 2020. This podcast is put together by a mighty crew of antiseptic hand washers - Ed McNulty Melissa Gray Denise Guerra Sophia Boyd Hiba Ahmad Ian Stewart and Samantha Balaban.  Evie Stone and Sarah Oliver enforce social distancing and keep us all in line. Engineers Stu Rushford Patrick Boyd Dennis Nielsen and Zack Coleman make sure we sound great and they keep - I have to say - the Clorox wipes handy.  Jim Kane oversees the newsroom now from home. But he is got spies. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. And keep you ears on this feed for special episodes and news.  You can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter and we are here for you with news information and voices just like yours from across the country and around the world.  So tune into your local public radio station for Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  