 A cease-fire and Israelis are emerging after days of rocket attacks.  While people in Gaza are realizing the scale of the destruction there thousands are homeless hundreds of families are in mourning.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   As they watch to see if the cease-fire holds Israelis and Palestinians begin to assess what happened and what it may mean moving forward.  Plus the entirely new coronavirus that scientists discovered on the island of Borneo one that likely came from dogs why it might actually be good news.  And hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes go uncollected each year. President Biden has a plan to beef up the IRS and close that tax gap.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   For two days the cease-fire between Israel and Hamas has held. It does not mean things are back to normal but people are trying to resume their routines.  And that is after 11 days of thousands of rocket attacks into Israel that killed 12 people there and intense Israeli airstrikes that Gaza officials say killed more than 240 people including over 60 children.  NPR's Jackie Northam joins us now from Jerusalem. Hello Jackie.  Good morning.  So has it remained quiet since the cease-fire began on Friday?  Yes insofar as Israel has not carried out any airstrikes in Gaza and Hamas has not launched any rockets into Israel. But there were clashes in Jerusalem's Old City between Israeli police and Palestinians yesterday. They were contained but this cease-fire is fragile and there is concern something could reignite the fighting. For now it is calm and the terms of the cease-fire are still being discussed with the help of Egypt. In fact Israelis call it quiet for quiet meaning if Hamas does not fire rockets Israel will not strike.  I mean it is now been a couple of days since the firing stopped. And I suppose that allows some space for thought reflection. What are they saying there in Israel?  You know I spoke with Israelis when I was down in the southern part of the country a couple days ago and they said then that they wanted the military to inflict as much damage on Hamas as possible to prevent this happening again. So I am not sure this cease-fire was welcome news to them. Yesterday the Israeli military held a press conference and a senior official said the airstrikes really set back Hamas' military operations and that it will take a long time for Hamas to rebuild. But this officer also expressed frustration with how he felt social media had skewed the perception of this conflict. You know there are a lot of images coming out of Gaza showing the widespread destruction and people injured and killed especially children. And he said you know that was just one side of the story. But Lulu certainly those images have been damaging for Israel. And there are questions whether Israel's military action was proportionate to Hamas' rocket attacks.  There were not just images of course. The damage from Israeli airstrikes was enormous. So what is happening in Gaza?  You know officials in Gaza say 1800 homes and buildings were destroyed and water pipeline sewage system roads all damaged. The area was bombarded more than a thousand airstrikes over the course of this 11-day conflict. My colleague Daniel Estrin is in Gaza now and he is been talking with people including Aisha Abu Sultan . And here she is speaking through an interpreter.   Yes much better. I can just describe how the past minutes over the past days every minute I was just thinking that I am going to die.  And Lulu she also told Daniel that she hopes the cease-fire negotiations will go well.  We have seen several similar conflicts - right? - between Hamas and Israel over the years. There is a cease-fire then the fighting flares up again. Any sense things will be different here? What has been resolved?  Well nothing has actually been resolved because there are still negotiations going on surrounding this cease-fire. I am not certain at this point that there is a lot of optimism that anything will change in the bigger picture. There are serious issues that go back decades that have to be addressed and resolved. President Biden has indicated that the U.S. will be involved in trying to keep things on track. And Secretary of State Antony Blinken is due to arrive in the next few days for talks. But you know the Israeli military officer I mentioned earlier he said the big question is how long until the next operation like this? And that is certainly something many people here are asking.  NPR's Jackie Northam in Jerusalem thank you very much.  Thank you.   And more now on that new coronavirus.  Scientists reported its discovery this week. It is not a variant of the coronavirus that causes COVID-19. That is good news. But it is an entirely new virus. It could be just the eighth coronavirus ever discovered known to make people sick.  And NPR global health correspondent Michaeleen Doucleff has more details. Michaeleen thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you for having me.  So I gather this coronavirus was detected last year but the patients were actually sick back in 2017 and 2018. Is the virus still around? Could it still cause an outbreak?  Right now nobody knows for sure if the virus is still around. So far researchers have looked for it in only about 300 patients. All were hospitalized with pneumonia and they found signs of a new coronavirus in eight of those patients so nearly 3 which is a high percentage for a completely unknown virus. And that suggests that the virus is still there. Now there is no need to panic here at all because the researchers do not know if the virus causes pneumonia and they do not know if it can spread from person to person. And that is really key right? Because for a virus to cause a big outbreak it has to be contagious.  And it was discovered on Borneo the island of Borneo in a state called Sarawak. What is significant about that location?  Yeah. So Sarawak has these lush tropical rainforest which contain tremendous numbers of animal species exotic animals. At the same time many people live in these forests and have contact with the animals. So these are the types of places where so-called spillovers often occur. That is where animal viruses jump into people and new human pathogens emerge. For this new coronavirus researchers think the patients who were mostly children caught it from dogs which was a surprise because no one thought coronaviruses could jump from dogs to humans. Actually you know Scott coronaviruses are likely found in every animal species on Earth - dogs cats pigs birds - and there are likely thousands of different coronavirus species.  Well we certainly love the dog we have in our family no matter what she has. Not all these coronaviruses can infect people though right?  No no. The vast majority of them cannot. But scientists are starting to realize that quite a few probably can. Dr. Gregory Gray helped to find this new coronavirus. He is at Duke University. And he and his colleagues developed a tool that can detect nearly all coronaviruses in patients' respiratory tracts even new ones. He says if we really start looking for these new viruses especially in sick people we are going to find them in many many places.  We probably have novel viruses even here in North America among people that work a lot with animals you know domestic animals. We are just missing them because we do not have the tools to pick them up.  And that is what is so important about this study. It shows how scientists have been looking for these new viruses in the wrong place. Usually they look for them in wild animals like bats and rodents. Gray says they should be looking for them in sick people so they can find the new viruses that are already causing disease but before they can spread from person to person before they can cause big outbreaks.  Michaeleen is it possible the discovery of this new coronavirus may actually be good news in that scientists found it early?  Absolutely. Now researchers have time to develop tools to stop this virus if they need to. You know think about it. If scientists had discovered SARS-CoV-2 before it was contagious the world would have had plenty of time to develop tests to detect it and even a vaccine to prevent it. And perhaps then SARS-CoV-2 would not have had the chance to evolve into such a contagious and deadly pathogen.  NPR global health correspondent Michaeleen Doucleff thanks so much.  Thank you for having me.   Hope you filed your taxes. The deadline was on Monday a month later than usual because of the pandemic.  What? What? Taxes? The Treasury Department says that most ordinary wage earners pay all the taxes that they owe but people who make money in other ways are less likely to pay. And as a result hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes just do not get collected every year.  The Biden administration hopes to narrow the so-called tax gap between what people owe and what they actually pay and in doing so help defray the cost of the administration's ambitious agenda. Scott did you pay your taxes on time?  Yes yes. Thanks for asking.   NPR chief economics correspondent Scott Horsley joins us now to talk about that. Hi Scott.  Good morning Lulu.  I am not going to ask you if you paid your taxes on time. All right. What exactly is the Biden administration proposing?  The administration wants Congress to invest 80 billion in the IRS over the next decade. Now some of that money would go to modernize computer systems that date from the 1960s. It would also double the size of the IRS workforce a workforce that is been seriously eroded over the last decade and it shows. In 2010 people who made more than 10 million had about a 1 in 5 chance of getting audited. But by 2018 those odds had dropped to about 1 in 15. And Lulu just as people are more likely to speed when there are no cops on the highway the drop in IRS enforcement has made it more tempting for people to pay less than they owe in taxes.  If tax enforcement were beefed up who would be affected?  The Bush administration says the additional resources would be directed at upper income taxpayers not ordinary wage earners. And here's why. When I get my paycheck from NPR the IRS knows exactly how much money I make because my employer reports it. So it would be hard for me or any wage earner to cheat on my taxes. But let us say I own a rental property or some other investment that generates income in a less transparent way. That is where the real temptation to avoid taxes comes in because the IRS has a much more difficult time tracking that income. So in addition to hiring more auditors the administration also wants to impose new reporting requirements on banks and other financial institutions to make it harder for people to hide their income and avoid the taxes they owe.  I like that turn of phrase there temptation to hide your tax income. How much money could this plan generate?  The Treasury Department estimated this week that with beefed up enforcement the IRS could collect an additional 700 billion over the next decade. That would be a return of nearly 9 for every extra dollar the White House wants to spend on the IRS. IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig who is a Trump appointee did not exactly endorse that figure. But he did tell senators this week stepped up enforcement could put a big dent in the tax gap.   I do know it would be a game changer for the country in terms of what the IRS would be able to bring from amounts lawfully owed.  And of course that extra revenue would help to pay for some of the other costly items on the administration's wish list.  Well what reaction is this likely to get?  This is going to be a battle in Congress. You are already seeing pushback from anti-tax lobbying groups. This is an ad that a group that calls itself the Coalition to Protect American Workers is running that tries to make IRS agents sound as scary as possible.    They are coming - IRS agents. Biden's massive tax increase plan includes a staggering 80 billion to help recruit an army of IRS agents agents aggressively coming for every dime they can grab at your house and at our small businesses.  Yikes.   Yeah. At the same time though nobody likes the idea they are paying taxes while someone else is getting away without paying. So the administration will paint this proposed enforcement push as an effort at tax fairness.  That is NPR's Scott Horsley. Scott thank you very much.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday May 22 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news more interviews books film music screen stuff everything you can find us on the air.  Everything on Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. 