 It was a busy week in Congress yet the to-do list grows longer and longer.  Is there any future for the Capitol riot investigation? Will there be a bipartisan infrastructure deal? And what about police reform? I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.  Another cyberattack. This time hackers targeted aid groups.  And Microsoft says it is pretty clear who is responsible.  We can really be strong about our conclusion that this is a group that is operating from Russia.  And record numbers of COVID cases in Argentina.  The vaccine rollout there is slow and the health care system is pushed to the limit. We will have an update from the region.  Stay with us please. We will have the news you need to start your weekend.   Republicans have staged their first Senate filibuster of the Biden presidency.  Most Republican senators lined up to block legislation that would have established a bipartisan commission to investigate the January 6 insurrection at the U.S. Capitol.  Along with all 50 Democrats the bill needed 10 Republicans to advance. It just got six.  Here's Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer.   Out of fear or fealty to Donald Trump the Republican minority just prevented the American people from getting the full truth about January 6.  That failed bipartisan push comes as talks continue on infrastructure. NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis is here to talk more about it all. Hello Sue.  Good morning.  Let us start with the roadblock in the Capitol riot investigation. Tell us about the vote.  Well the outcome was not really in doubt because Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell had come out against it. He said it was duplicating other Senate committee investigations and called it a purely political exercise. But to be clear here Lulu this would not have been a partisan commission. It was modeled after the 911 commission and it would have been equally split with Republicans and given them equal power. As you noted six Republicans did break with McConnell here senators like Susan Collins of Maine Lisa Murkowski of Alaska Mitt Romney of Utah all senators who also voted to convict Trump in his impeachment trial. Another senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania said he would have voted for it but had to miss the vote for a family obligation. The bottom line here I think is it shows just how closely aligned the Republican Party remains behind Trump. The former president opposed the commission. He wanted Republican lawmakers to vote against it. Had it moved forward Trump likely could have been called to testify before it over his own role in inciting the insurrection and his administration's response.  So is there any future for the investigation into the January 6 attack after this vote considering what happened?  It is unclear. You know House Democrats could do something on their own like create a special committee to investigate it. But there is really no reason to believe Republicans would willingly go along with that either. The whole point of this exercise was to come up with something bipartisan to create an agreed-upon public record of that day. As of today that does not look like that is going to happen.  And if they cannot agree on that I mean it shows that there is a real lack of bipartisan cooperation. And Congress and the White House continue to search for a deal on infrastructure. Are they any closer to an agreement after this week?  Well they are trading offers back and forth. Senate Republicans went back to the White House this week with their offer. As you recall he had lowered his initial start from 2.2 trillion down to 1.7. Republicans came back this week and said hey how about 928 billion? This sounds like they are getting closer together but it is all a little bit misleading. Republicans in their counteroffer proposed just about 250 billion in new spending. Most of their offer is just recasting existing funds. The White House and Republicans remain really far apart on the bottom line here. Republicans are still focused primarily on what they call traditional infrastructure - roads bridges other projects. They do not want any part of the things that Biden is calling for things like expansion for electric vehicles and other investments Democrats want. They also still are not any closer to how they are going to pay for it. Republicans continue to oppose rolling back any of the Trump tax cuts. So I think this latest offer - we have seen more Democrats saying look. We should just cut bait. We should go it alone and we should get this done without any Republican support.  We are headed into the holiday weekend right? But Congress still has a lot on its to-do list. What else is coming up when they get back?  They have a big bill in the Senate going on right now that would increase American competitiveness against China. That is going to be priority No. 1. Big questions remain on whether they can reach a bipartisan deal on police reform. Tim Scott who is a Republican from South Carolina said this week it was June or bust. And Schumer's setting up a month of what he acknowledged was pretty confrontational votes with Republicans on legislation they oppose - bills to close the gender pay gap toughen gun laws expand gay rights all expected to come up for a vote. Schumer said it would quote test the resolve of Democrats and will probably bring another call from some corners of the party to scrap the filibuster to make it easier to pass bills without Republican support.  That is NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis. Thank you.  You are welcome.   We have to tell you about another cyberattack again by Russian hackers.  As many as 3000 accounts at 150 different humanitarian organizations were breached in an attack that was first disclosed by Microsoft.  Dina Temple-Raston of NPR's investigations team has been tracking recent Russian hacking operations and joins us. Dina thanks for being with us.  You are welcome.  And what can you tell us about what happened?  So Microsoft's cybercrimes team found these hackers and they were in the systems of a group of international development organizations. And what they think happened is that the hackers broke into an email marketing company that USAID was using a company called Constant Contact. And once the hackers had broken in they sent phishing emails out to other organizations. But those emails looked like they were coming from USAID. And when people got those emails and clicked on the links inside of them unbeknownst to them they were installing malware on their networks. And the malware essentially allowed the hackers to read their emails to steal information and even plant more malware.  We should mention that Constant Contact is one of NPR's funders. Dina do we know who is behind the hack?  Well yes I talked to Tom Burt yesterday. He is the vice president of customer security and trust at Microsoft. They were the ones who first told the world about the hack if you remember. And he told us that it is pretty clear these hackers were linked to the Russian intelligence service known as the SVR. Here he is.  The association with the SVR comes from what - the techniques we see them using and from the kinds of targets that they are targeting. So it is a collection of circumstantial evidence you might say that point in a consistent direction.  And he says they think that it actually was a subset of the Russian group that hacked SolarWinds. They are also known as APT29 or Cozy Bear. And Microsoft thinks this because they saw a lot of the techniques and code that they saw in this new hack seem to overlap with things that Cozy Bear had done in the past. And they did not want to say unequivocally that it is the exact same people that hacked SolarWinds. Maybe it is a subset but what they are not equivocating about is that this hack came from Russia. Tom Burt told me that the hackers appeared to be learning as they went along. They were actually customizing their malware packages depending on the target. And Scott the reason that is important is because it is yet another indication that a nation-state actor was involved. Your average cybercriminal - they do not target these kinds of institutions and they certainly do not take the time to tailor their malware like they did in this case.  Dina in a world in which hacks have now become everyday occurrences how significant is this particular hack?  The hack is not such a big deal. Microsoft appears to have spotted this one pretty quickly. But it is the context in which it arrives that is really important. After the major SolarWinds breach President Biden told the Russians to stop and he took some real steps. He launched sanctions - or more sanctions even - expelled diplomats. And that does not seem to have been enough. And while this hack is not nearly as sophisticated as the SolarWinds hack it is the same kind. It is something called a supply chain attack. So that means that the hackers did not directly target the companies or institutions they were interested in. But instead they focused on suppliers finding a company sort of further down the chain. And now here we are with the same group from Russia launching yet another supply chain attack.  And President Biden is scheduled to meet with Vladimir Putin in June. How does this hack play into any discussions that they might have?  Well that is a big question. I mean what will the U.S. response be? President Biden has already warned Russia not to do these supply chain hacks. And now like a finger in his eye they have launched another one. So the question really is whether this is going to force the U.S. to respond in some way.  Dina Temple-Raston of NPR's investigations unit thank you so much.  You are welcome.   Statistics can never fully capture the immensity of the COVID-19 pandemic. I mean who can really visualize the loss of 3 12 million lives?  Sometimes it takes something else to make the horror apparent to us like a single image.  A photograph of a young woman in Argentina went viral this week. And suddenly the tragedy now playing out in that country really did begin to sink in.  NPR's South America correspondent Philip Reeves joins us now from Rio de Janeiro of course in Brazil. Philip thanks for being with us.  You are welcome.  And please tell us about this photo.  Well it shows a young woman called Lara Arreguiz. She is a student aged 22. And she is lying on the floor of a corridor in a hospital using her jacket as a blanket and her bag as a pillow. Lara's reportedly diabetic. She was taken to hospital with ere was not an IC bed for her. By the time she got one it was too late. She died a couple of hours later. But that image of her alone on the floor has been published all around Latin America. And it is really hit a nerve partly because she is young and looks like she could be anyone's kid but also because the Argentine government has been saying that yes the COVID crisis in Argentina is bad but at least everyone's receiving treatment unlike some other countries in the region. This image shows that that is not so.  We have heard so much over the past 15 months about how devastating the pandemic has been in Brazil. How do you assess how bad it is been in Argentina?  Well it is worse now than it has ever been. Intensive care units in big cities are close to breaking point with 95 occupancy. Yesterday another 39000 new cases were reported which is just shy of the daily record which was set on Thursday. And there were also another 560 deaths bringing Argentina's overall COVID death toll to almost 77000.  Argentina's government has locked down towns and cities since the start of the pandemic. Now the big cities are locked down again. Why are cases rising?  Well one part of this is caused by the rapid spread of new variants including the Brazilian and the U.K. variants. These account for 90 of new cases according to Dr. Omar Sued who is president of Argentina's Society of Infectology. Sued says another reason is that restrictions have simply become harder to enforce.  The people started to not listen to the advice of the authorities because the people was tired because the people need to work for earn some money but also because there was a lot a lot of confrontation. And a lot of the people got confused and does not know what to do.  The confrontation he is talking about Scott is political. It is coming from state and city governments who are against the national government's attempts to impose restrictions because the economy's nosediving. Just over a week ago President Alberto Fernandez imposed a semi-lockdown closing all but essential businesses and with a nighttime curfew. And that is now about to end. Dr. Sued says that is actually gone pretty well but it could have been introduced earlier if it was not for political opposition to it. And now the opposition-run city of Buenos Aires says it is opening schools on Monday and he is worried about that too.  Of course Phil scientists argue that the only way of reversing the trend is with vaccines. How are vaccines progressing in Argentina?  Well as you know you know there is fierce global competition for vaccines. And like everywhere in Latin America Argentina is having trouble getting hold of enough of them. It is using the Russian Sputnik Sinopharm from China and AstraZeneca. More than 20 of the population has had one dose. But scientists are saying that even after most people are eventually vaccinated targeted restrictions will have to continue because this crisis is not going to go away anytime soon.  NPR's Philip Reeves thanks so much.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday May 29 2021. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. This podcast is assembled created crafted and artfully polished by Andrew Craig Isabella Gomez Sarmiento Danny Hensel and Jon Stewart .  Our editors are Samantha Balaban Peter Breslow Melissa Gray Jan Johnson Ed McNulty and D. Parvaz.  Our directors are Sophia Boyd and Ned Wharton.  Stu Rushfield - he is our technical director. Dennis Nielsen provides engineering support.  Our supervising editor is Evie Stone. And Sarah Lucy Oliver is our executive producer.  And keeping us all in line is deputy managing editor Jim Kane. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP onday with news to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  