  Testimony interrupted when the president slammed the witness with a tweet.   It is very intimidating.  It is designed to intimidate is it not?  What we learned from the impeachment hearings - what is next? I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro and this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Plus three service members accused of war crimes are cleared by President Trump.  One of them a former Green Beret accused of murdering an unarmed Afghan man will no longer stand trial.  The president intervened against the advice of military leaders. Why did the Pentagon want him to stay out of those cases?  And also a setback in the fight to eradicate polio.  A live vaccine used outside the U.S. is causing some people to get sick.  Please stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your weekend.   Millions of people tuned into the first public impeachment hearings this week and the testimony they heard was dramatic.  Marie Yovanovitch the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine testified yesterday. She was fired by President Trump after she would served both Republicans and Democrats for decades. Here's Democratic counsel Daniel Goldman questioning her.   Were you aware that President Trump had specifically made reference to you in that call?  No.  What was your reaction to learning that?  I was shocked - absolutely shocked and devastated frankly.  On Wednesday other top U.S. diplomats described how they felt their work was undermined by the president. Democrats are trying to prove that the president was working against U.S. interests to help his reelection campaign. Here to talk about what happened and what is next is NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez. Good morning. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Good morning.  All right. Let us start with Bill Taylor a diplomat who was based in Ukraine. There was a big reveal right? ORDO Right. On Wednesday William Taylor the top U.S. diplomat in Ukraine revealed something new. He said that one of his aides in Ukraine overheard a telephone conversation where the president brought up quote the investigations to Gordon Sondland the U.S. ambassador to the European Union. Well last night that aide David Holmes gave a deposition about the conversation behind closed doors. Holmes said - or he said he heard Trump say quote so he is going to do the investigation. And Sondland responded according to Holmes he is going to do it. That is according to a copy of his opening statement obtained by CNN. But I will say this. NPR has confirmed the statements.  So that seems like a lot. And yesterday we heard Marie Yovanovitch speak in very serious terms about her own experience. ORDO That is right. On a more personal level Marie Yovanovitch the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine talked about feeling threatened by President Trump. And she pointed to President Trump's July 25 call with his Ukrainian counterpart where Trump told President Zelenskiy she was quote going to go through some things.  And President Trump was clearly listening. ORDO Yeah. Not only was he listening he started to attack her via Twitter about her record as a diplomat. And on top of that Democratic chairman Adam Schiff who is leading the impeachment inquiry stopped for a moment and read the tweets to Yovanovitch in the hearing room. He asked her if they were designed to be intimidating.   I cannot speak to what the president is trying to do but I think the effect is to be intimidating.  Well I want to let you know Ambassador that some of us here take witness intimidation very very seriously. ORDO Schiff describes this as further evidence of obstruction and some Democrats suggested it could be added to possible articles of impeachment. Trump told reporters later in the day he was just exercising his freedom of speech.  So what happens next? The Democrats have eight more witnesses - right? - for public hearings. What can you tell us about that? ORDO It is going to be another potentially crazy week. One person people are very eager to hear from his Gordon Sondland who we just talked about. So far Trump has repeatedly criticized witnesses for not having firsthand information. While Sondland has had discussions directly with President Trump including the one alleged by Holmes he can also corroborate Taylor's testimony that Trump asked about investigations of Biden. Other witnesses include people who worked at the National Security Council like Alexander Vindman and Fiona Hill. The list also includes two witnesses who Republicans have requested Ukraine envoy Kurt Volker and NSC official Tim Morrison.  That is Franco Ordoez NPR White House correspondent. Thanks so much. ORDO Thank you.   Last night President Trump cleared three servicemen accused of war crimes.  He intervened in three different cases granting full pardons to two men and reversing the demotion of a third.  NPR's Tom Bowman has been following the story and joins us. Tom thanks for being with us.  You are welcome Scott.  And please tell us about these three men.  Well Scott you have two Army officers - Lt. Clint Lorance and Maj. Matt Golsteyn - and a Navy SEAL Edward Gallagher. Lorance was in Afghanistan in 2012 and ordered his soldiers to fire on three men on motorcycles. Two of the Afghans were killed and one fled. Golsteyn also served in Afghanistan and in 2010 was awarded a Silver Star for bravery. And he also allegedly killed a bombmaker. The Army investigated and said - and no charges were filed. Then Golsteyn later said on Fox News that he indeed killed the bombmaker. And finally Gallagher the Navy SEAL was acquitted in Iraq in 2018 with killing a captive enemy fighter with a hunting knife and also threatening to kill fellow Navy SEALs if they told on him. And he was acquitted of all charges.  President Trump has been vocal in their behalf for a while now. What did the White House statement say last night?  Well the president praised all three - again Army Lt. Clint Lorance Army Maj. Matt Golsteyn and Navy SEAL Edward Gallagher. He said they were in dangerous areas in Iraq and Afghanistan were looking after their men were decorated and had support of members of Congress.  And how does that square Tom with what you understand?  Well the White House statement left out many details Scott about what happened and the reaction of their colleagues - with Maj. Golsteyn that the man he killed was unarmed - alleged bombmaker - and Golsteyn buried the body returned with two other soldiers to burn the body. With Lt. Lorance that his own soldiers said the Afghan was unarmed - the Afghans - and he ordered the order that killed and they posed no imminent threat. And they actually testified against him. And with Chief Petty Officer Edward Gallagher - that he was acquitted of charges of killing a civilian but he was demoted by a senior officer.  And Tom I know you have been talking to sources in the military. Can you tell us what their reaction's been so far?  Well frankly disgust in so many words. I spoke with two retired four-star officers who said the president has the power to offer clemency and restore a promotion but they said it all undermines the military justice system. Now we know that Defense Secretary Mark Esper - he told reporters two weeks ago that he had a quote robust discussion with the president about the cases about the importance of the military justice system. And he offered he said facts and my advice. And clearly the president in this case just brushed aside the advice and decided he could do this on his own.  NPR Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman - thanks so much.  You are welcome Scott.   Just last month the World Health Organization announced that two out of the three strains of polio had been eradicated.  It is been one of the great success stories of modern medicine.  Yeah and the disease which can lead to paralysis has been reduced to just a handful of cases worldwide.  But now scientists say there is been a troubling setback. One of the vaccines used to prevent polio has actually been causing some people to get polio. And NPR's Jason Beaubien joins us. Jason thanks for being with us.  Hey. Good morning.  I understand the problem begins with what is called a live vaccine which has little bits of weakened polio virus in it given to children around the world. What seems to have gone wrong?  Yeah. That is the crux of it that the oral polio vaccine that is used primarily in low- and middle-income countries - it is been the workhorse of this global effort to eradicate polio. But it is a live vaccine. It is cheap. It is easy to administer. Billions of doses of this have been used to basically push polio back into this corner where it is only existing in Afghanistan and Pakistan. However this live vaccine continue to be used worldwide. And while you are doing that eventually what has been happening is that some of that vaccine has gotten out into the world and it is mutated. And some people think oh the vaccine itself was directly causing polio. That is now what is happening. What is happening is even sort of more sinister on the virus' part. They have said that the virus gets out into the community. It starts circulating again just like regular polio. But early on it is just - it is still a vaccine. It is not dangerous. And then slowly it sort of regains strength. And they are finding - they can actually genetically see this scientists can - they can actually trace it back directly to the vaccine. And now these vaccine-linked cases are actually causing more cases of paralysis each year than actual traditional what scientists call wild polio.  We should underscore Jason - this is not the version of the vaccine that is given to youngsters in the United States.  Yeah.  Why are other countries still using it?  Right. So in the United States and in Europe and other countries like that we are using an injectable vaccine which is a dead vaccine. It is not a live virus and it cannot cause polio so that should not at all be a concern. The issue however is that it is an injection that has to be given. It is given four times between the ages of two months and seven years so just administering it is difficult. And just frankly there is not enough global stockpile of that vaccine to vaccinate all of the children around the world over the course of their childhood. So there is some real problems with that. That ultimately would be the goal - is to eventually get to the point where you are not using the oral polio vaccine. But it is not logistically possible at this point.  You learned this week the Centers for Disease Control takes this problem so seriously they are actually sending dozens of experts to these countries affected. What do they plan to do?  Yeah. They are calling it the surge. And they are going to be deploying between 75 and a hundred extra staff from the CDC out primarily into Africa to try to just address these vaccine-derived outbreaks and just clamp them down as soon as they can 'ecause the idea is that if you can stop them then you will stop that virus from continuing to spread. So they are going to go out. They are going to help ministries of health identify these cases when a paralysis case comes in help test it help make sure that it actually is polio virus that they are dealing with and not some other thing that is causing paralysis and really try to strengthen these systems so that they can get control of this and hopefully get rid of this other source of polio at a time when they are tantalizingly close to actually wiping out the disease.  NPR's Jason Beaubien - thanks so much.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday November 16. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. Start your day here on Monday and follow us on social media.  That is right. You can follow us on Twitter upfirst for your daily roundup of the most important stories of the day.  And you know if you want even more NPR News we got radio shows for that. We host those too in fact.  We are everywhere. Find NPR's Weekend Edition on your NPR station or at stations.npr.org.  