 A federal grand jury has indicted Steve Bannon on two counts of contempt of Congress after he defied a subpoena.  It is the latest development of the investigation into the January 6 attack on the Capitol.  I am Scott Simon.  And I am Danielle Kurtzleben. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   The slogan FreeBritney is now a fact.  The conservatorship that had controlled Britney Spears' person and estate since 2008 has been terminated by a judge.  And many consumers are feeling the sting of the surging price of goods in the U.S.  You have chicken which is the cheapest thing you can buy - 11 - for not a family pack remind you.  Will it get worse before it gets better? Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Former President Trump's one-time political strategist Steve Bannon now faces federal charges for contempt of Congress.  The charges stem from his refusal to comply with a subpoena from the Democratic-led House committee investigating the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol.  NPR's justice correspondent Ryan Lucas is following this and joins us. Ryan thanks for being with us. Thanks for having me. What can you tell us about the charges against Steve Bannon?  Well a federal grand jury indicted Bannon on two counts as you said of contempt of Congress. One count is for his failure to appear for a deposition with the House January 6 committee. The other is for failing to produce documents in response to the committee's subpoena. Bannon left the Trump administration years before the attack on the Capitol of course. But he remained in Trump's orbit. And the committee believes he has useful information about the events of January 6 including a meeting he attended with Trump allies the night before at a Washington hotel. Now Bannon cited executive privilege in his refusal to comply with the subpoena a move that Trump encouraged but one of course that the committee and many legal experts found dubious. The House voted to hold Bannon in contempt. It then referred him to the Justice Department for possible prosecution. Federal prosecutors weighed this case for several weeks and ultimately as we now see decided on charges.  Steve Bannon is outspoken on a number of different platforms. Any public response from him?  Not yet no. I reached out to his attorney. I have not heard back. Bannon is not in custody right now. I am told he is expected to self-surrender to authorities on Monday and to appear in federal court here in D.C. later that day. Obviously this is just the start of this prosecution. But it is worth noting here that if Bannon were to be convicted each count here carries a minimum of 30 days in jail and a maximum of one year. Now you may remember that back in 2020 Bannon was charged in a fraud and money laundering case in New York. But Trump pardoned him before he left office. Bannon of course does not have that sort of ticket out of these charges. For his part Attorney General Merrick Garland said in a statement that he has said from Day 1 of his tenure at the Justice Department that the department would adhere to the rule of law and pursue equal justice. And he says that that is exactly what the department is doing here.  Ryan the House Committee is meeting a lot of resistance in trying to interview key Trump advisers. Does the indictment of Steve Bannon have the potential to change that?  Well the committee certainly thinks so. Its chairman and vice chair Democrat Bennie Thompson and Republican Liz Cheney say Bannon's indictment should send a clear message to anyone who thinks that they can ignore the committee or try to stonewall its investigation. They said in a statement that no one is above the law and quote we will not hesitate to use the tools at our disposal to get the information that we need. And that last bit there is interesting. Remember the committee has issued more than 30 subpoenas in its investigation so far. So contempt charges against Bannon may convince some people to comply.  Well Mark Meadows Trump's former chief of staff missed - or maybe we should say ignored - a deadline yesterday Friday...  Right.  ...To answer the committee's questions. Could he wind up facing contempt charges?  Well Meadows like Bannon was subpoenaed by the committee and like Bannon he did not comply as you said. Meadows too has cited executive privilege as the reason for his refusal to cooperate. Meadows was a no-show for a deposition on Friday. There is little indication at this point that he is going to change his mind. His attorney has indicated that this issue in their view will be decided in the courts. Thompson and Cheney from the committee have taken all that in and have said in a statement that the panel is going to have to consider pursuing contempt against Meadows as well.  NPR's Ryan Lucas - thanks so much.  Thank you.   On Friday afternoon in a courthouse in downtown Los Angeles FreeBritney became more than just a hashtag.  Britney Spears was finally released from the conservatorship that has controlled her life and livelihood since 2008.  The situation attracted major attention from TikTok to Capitol Hill. NPR's Mandalit del Barco was inside in the courtroom when the judgment was made and outside when fans cheered. And she joins us now. Good morning Mandalit.  Good morning.  So we finally have resolution to this case that was so emotional. So many people felt a personal investment in it. What was the mood like at the courthouse?  Well inside the courtroom were a lot of attorneys including Britney Spears' lawyer Mathew Rosengart and her father Jamie Spears who was the conservator of her money for the past 13 years. He was on a video conference call and so was her mother Lynn Spears - also Jodi Montgomery who had been the conservator of her health and well-being. All of them had asked Judge Brenda Penny to terminate the conservatorship. And the judge agreed very quickly saying that the arrangement was no longer required. She also said that Britney would not have to submit a declaration of her capacity for this decision. But there was one caveat. The certified public accountant recently appointed as a conservator of her estate is being kept on a bit longer to transfer the money from her assets into her trust. And this is what it was like outside of the courthouse.    Free free Britney. Free free Britney.   Yes scores of Britney Spears fans - many of them wearing bright pink in her honor - cheered. And they danced to her music. I met a 30-year-old nurse named Stephanie Lewis who looks so much like Britney Spears and Martina O'Day  who came here from Phoenix.  We are just like really like... MARTINA O' We are ecstatic. We are ecstatic.  ...So ecstatic and so happy. O' We just - we love her.  And just - yeah. O' We want her to be so happy and do whatever she wants. She deserves the world.  Protect her at all cost. O' Protect Britney Spears. She is a treasure.  There were Britney fans from as far as Mexico and Brazil who came to Los Angeles to be there at the moment that she was freed.  Well it sounds like those people like traveled so far. They clearly felt really invested in this. Why do you think this touched such a nerve for so many people? Why do so many people care and travel to LA for Britney Spears being freed from a legal arrangement?  Well as you can imagine Britney Spears is a big pop star. She has a lot of fans who care about her. They know she went through a difficult period personally 13 years ago which is why she was put into a conservatorship. It is something that usually affects people who are deemed incapable of taking care of themselves. But it was not until she spoke out this summer - in a phone call to the court that got leaked - that people started to learn about how extreme this conservatorship was. Spears said she wanted to have more children but was not allowed. And she was not allowed to associate with certain people. And all the money she was making through albums tours and Las Vegas shows - all of that was being controlled by the conservator of her estate her father Jamie Spears. And she described that relationship as toxic. But this arrangement was bigger than just a pop star. Activists and politicians said her struggles raised awareness of conservatorship abuse something that could impact people who are far less famous wealthy and connected than Britney Spears. She gave them a voice.  What - was she herself there? Has Britney Spears responded? Has she issued a statement at all?  She was not in person at the courtroom. But after the announcement Britney got on Twitter and Instagram and posted a video of her fans. She told them that she loved them. And she wrote quote I think I am gonna cry the rest of the day - best day ever. And she signed off with a new hashtag FreedBritney.  That is NPR arts correspondent Mandalit del Barco. Thank you so much.  Thank you.   If you want to fill your gas tank stock your refrigerator or go to a movie it is going to cost you more.  Prices for just about everything are on the rise. Inflation in October was the highest it is been in the U.S. in more than three decades.  And that is weighing on people's wallets as well as the president's approval ratings. NPR's Scott Horsley joins us now to discuss. Scott thank you for being with us.  Good morning Danielle.  So I understand you have been talking with people about how inflation's affecting their household budgets. What are they telling you?  Well there is a fair amount of teeth-gnashing as you can imagine especially among people who did not have a lot of extra money to start with. The government's consumer price index out this week showed prices in October were up 6.2 than a year ago. That is the biggest annual jump since 1990. But Bernice Rank  did not need a government statistician to know that inflation is starting to bite. She sees it every time she goes to the supermarket.  You go into the grocery store - you have to really make a list before you go. You have chicken which is the cheapest thing you can buy - 11 - for not a family pack remind you - a regular pack. Everything has increased.  Chicken prices in October were up nearly 9 from a year ago. Beef and pork prices have jumped even more. But an even bigger driver of inflation right now is energy prices. And that is going to be tough for a lot of families as winter sets in. As the temperature drops heating bills are going to be going up and up.  Well let us talk about that. How are people preparing for those higher heating prices as winter comes?  Yeah it is going to be substantially higher than last year both because fuel costs more but also because it is expected to be somewhat colder this winter than last. I spoke to Nick Apodiakos who lives in Boston with his elderly mother. They use heating oil to run their boiler. And those prices have jumped 59 this year. They have gotten some help from ABCD a local aid group. But Nick says he is just going have to find other ways to economize because he is got to pay the heating bill.  My mom even if it is a hundred degrees out she is still cold. But now it is really more cold.  His mom who is 94 relies on Social Security. And benefits for Social Security recipients are going up in January - 5.9. That is the biggest cost of living adjustment since 1982. But unfortunately as Nick says the actual cost of living has already eroded that.  Well so are people going to get any relief? Is there any sign that inflation might slow down anytime soon?  Not really - not only was October's annual price increase the biggest in 31 years but the monthly price hike was higher than we have seen since June. So it looks like inflation is heating up rather than cooling off. Economist Sarah House who is with Wells Fargo thinks inflation's going to get worse before it gets better. She says it is not just a few pandemic-plagued categories like lumber and used cars anymore. House says price hikes seem to be spreading throughout the economy.  There is nowhere for consumers to hide. That suggests that inflation is going to be stickier.  And while wages are climbing especially in places like restaurants a lot of businesses are passing those added labor costs on to customers in the form of higher prices.  OK so clearly this is a big problem for a lot of Americans. Let us talk about the politics of this. How big of a problem is this for President Biden?  We have already seen the president's approval ratings on the economy drop below 40. And just yesterday the University of Michigan came out with a survey showing Americans are about as gloomy about the economy as they have been in a decade. One in four people surveyed said their standard of living had dropped because of inflation. And certainly the White House is alert to these warning signs. They have tried to do a little bit of damage control this week. The president acknowledged high prices are hurting people's pocketbooks and said reversing inflation's a top priority for him. He also nodded to the Federal Reserve's role in monitoring inflation and taking steps to fight it.  NPR's Scott Horsley - thank you Scott.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday November 13 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Danielle Kurtzleben. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news features interviews books music and just good times you can find us on the radio.   Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings - find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  