 Good morning. And before we get going we wanted to let you know that this podcast drops at about 8 in the morning East Coast time.  And with election news changing so fast we expect the stories we are covering today will need updating.  So you do not miss out please check npr.org for updates on the latest or tune in to your local public radio station.  OK everybody. Let us get started.  The count continues but no winner declared yet.  Joe Biden widens his lead over Donald Trump in the battleground states of Pennsylvania and Georgia as the president's legal options dimmed.  I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.  Joe Biden says he has a mandate.   We do not have a final declaration of victory yet but the numbers tell us it is clear. They tell us a clear and convincing story. We are going to win this race.  But Georgia is too close to call.   The stakes are high and the emotions are high on all sides. We will not let those debates distract us from our work.  And as the votes are counted coronavirus infections reach yet another record high.  So stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.  Joe Biden is just six electoral votes away from being president-elect. President Trump's path to reelection has narrowed considerably.  Biden spoke last night in Delaware projecting confidence that he would win but also urging patience for the ongoing count which can seem glacial to an anxious nation.   As slow as it goes it can be numbing. But never forget - the tallies are not just numbers. They represent votes and voters men and women who exercise their fundamental right to have their voice heard.  Political correspondent Asma Khalid has been covering the Biden campaign and she is with us now. Good morning.  Good morning.  It is been a lot. It is taken some time. Yesterday was a unique day lots of waiting on results. Bring us up to speed. Where are we?  Joe Biden needs essentially just one more state to nudge him to that 270 electoral votes that he needs to win the presidency. He has the lead now in three key states where ballots are still being counted. Those include Nevada Pennsylvania and Georgia. And the remaining mail-in ballots in all three of those states are expecting to favor Democrats you know? However Biden's leads are slim and he is up by less than half a percentage point in both Pennsylvania and Georgia. In Georgia already we have heard from election officials that this race is heading to a recount. In Nevada I should point out that Biden's lead is larger. He is up by almost a full two points but there is a greater percentage of uncounted ballots out there still. I feel like the campaigns at this point are sort of just in this holding pattern as much - you know much of the country is. It felt like early in the day on Friday the Biden campaign thought this race was going to be called. They announced that he would give this prime-time speech. But as we headed into the night it was clear that was not going to happen.  So now what? I mean what are the candidates and the campaigns saying and doing?  Well President Trump has been active on Twitter all week as usual questioning the legitimacy of vote counting in some of these key states at one point proclaiming in all-caps stop the count exclamation mark. But he has not been actually as visible in public you know? He is just delivered two public statements since the election itself. In both of those remarks he tried to preemptively declare victory and falsely declare that there is some sort of voter fraud going on you know? Again I need to be very clear. There is no evidence of that. His campaign has filed a flurry of lawsuits in some of these key states where voting is still ongoing. Meanwhile for Joe Biden you know he has been urging patience and calm. He has called for ballots to be counted again insisting that this can be a slow and sometimes messy process. But at the same time he has been increasingly projecting confidence that as the days have gone on he feels very optimistic about his odds in winning this race.  Meanwhile we heard reports late last night that Mark Meadows President Trump's chief of staff has tested positive for the coronavirus. And he was in the East Room of the White House with a lot of people on election night was not he?  That is right. He was with the president that night. And you know Meadows who has infrequently worn masks has traveled quite a bit with President Trump in the late stages of the campaign. This news about his diagnosis comes about a month after the president himself was diagnosed with the coronavirus and as we are seeing cases around the country spike you know? It also comes in the context though of a broader sort of difference of opinion between Republicans and Democrats about the pandemic. President Trump has long undermined scientific guidance from even his own administration about pandemic protocols. On the other hand you know Joe Biden has made the pandemic central to his campaign. And even this week as ballots were still being counted he held one of his regular COVID briefings with public health experts.  All right. Days after voting ended now into the weekend what are we watching for today?  Oh gosh. You know Lulu I think that really what we are watching for is to see if one of these remaining states will be called today. I think that we are most likely to see either a definitive result from Pennsylvania or Nevada you know? Georgia as I mentioned is likely headed to a recount.  All right. That is Asma Khalid NPR political correspondent still with us. Thank you so much.  My pleasure.  President Trump did not appear in public yesterday.  But the campaign was working hard behind the scenes to convince the courts to stop the count.  NPR's Miles Parks covers voting. He is with us now with the latest on some of those legal challenges. Miles thanks for being with us.  Good morning.  And what is the latest on lawsuits the Trump campaign has filed?  It actually seems to be slowing down you know the later in the week after the election that we get. The biggest litigation news yesterday was this order from the U.S. Supreme Court to Pennsylvania election officials to do something with absentee ballots that they say they were already doing if that gives you an idea of kind of the slowness of the litigation yesterday. The bottom line is that even though President Trump you know announced again yesterday that he wants to keep fighting through the legal system around this election legal experts I have talked to say there is just not that much room for litigation at this point since there was so much legal wrangling before the voting started. Most of the rules here have already been settled.  The lawsuits filed - much impact so far?  I would not say so. But I do think it is important to define success here. If you define it by changing the rules in a way that actually affects election outcomes in a meaningful way then they have had close to zero success. If you define success as changing the narrative of the election to maybe fit what President Trump is trying to say to like push this idea of election fraud further into the conversation then you know President Trump probably would see these lawsuits as successful.  Let me ask you about recounts. It looks like some of the states that Joe Biden is projected to win have the potential for I guess legally mandated recounts. Can you walk us through some of those?  Sure. So the big possibilities seem to be Pennsylvania Georgia Wisconsin and Arizona at this point. In Pennsylvania a recount's automatically called if the race is within a half a percentage point which it is right now. But it is very unclear whether it will stay there. Arizona would go to one if the margin's within 0.1 which it is not at this point. Georgia and Wisconsin do seem to be headed to recounts. The secretary of state of Georgia which Asma mentioned a second ago announced yesterday that that state would head to a recount. And in Wisconsin the candidates have the option to request a recount if the race is within 1 which it is at this point. The Trump campaign has already said they want one.  And based on history what are the odds that a recount could change the victor?  Very unlikely. We just almost never see these sorts of recounts affect results in a meaningful way. When it does happen it is in places with very small margins. I am talking hundreds of votes in most cases. So Georgia does seem like the most likely candidate that a recount could potentially make a difference. In a place like Wisconsin it is probably moot. Even Scott Walker the former Republican governor - he tweeted that 20000 votes the current margin in this race is a high hurdle for a recount. A 2016 recount for instance there changed the vote count by only about 130 votes.  NPR's Miles Parks thanks so much.  Thank you.  The country's focus is clearly on the election and rightly so. But there is another race happening. It is the fight against the coronavirus and it is a fight that America is losing.  Joining us now is NPR health correspondent Rob Stein. Rob thanks so much for being with us.  Sure thing Scott.  Just a month or two ago it seemed to be - there seemed to be some cautious signs that the pandemic was getting better. Today just seems one grim milestone after another.  Yes Scott. Unfortunately the U.S. keeps falling farther and farther behind the virus in this race. Just this week the U.S. passed two sad milestones. More than 100000 new infections were reported in a single day for the first time. The next day more than 121000 cases were reported and yesterday more than 1261000. New infections are now being reported inside the White House. And you know Scott this accelerating spread of the virus is pushing the U.S. past nine million total infections. And we are now perilously close to 10 million. I talked about this with Dr. Tom Frieden. He used to run the CDC.  The pandemic is out of control in most of the United States. Currently the virus has the upper hand.  And the scary thing is the virus seems to be starting to spread exponentially which means the worst could be yet to come especially with winter looming.  Could you point us to those places on the map those communities where the virus does have the upper hand?  That is another disturbing thing about our current situation. The surge is not just hitting one part of the country like the first two spikes this one is nationwide now. Record numbers of cases are being reported in dozens of states from coast to coast in parts of the northeast like Maine and Connecticut which either had never been hit hard before or had beaten the virus back. Cases are rising across Southern states like Alabama Texas and Mississippi in western states like Colorado and Utah. But it is especially bad in the Midwest like states like Wisconsin and states like Michigan Illinois and North Dakota. I talked about this with Bill Whitmore . He runs Missouri's public health lab.  In mid-Missouri the middle part of the state where I am located there is about a four-county area where the cases are just - they are horrible in terms of numbers. In fact the positivity rate in the four county area that I am located in has risen to 50 55 57 which is unbelievable.  It is - you know it is unbelievable because it means more than half the people getting tested are infected.  And Rob looking into those figures how many people are getting seriously ill and even dying?  More than 53000 COVID patients are already so sick that they are in the hospital right now. And that is getting close to as bad as things have gotten at any point in the pandemic. And that is already pushing hospitals to the limit in some places like El Paso Texas and Wisconsin. Even though doctors have gotten a lot better at saving people's lives the number of people dying is increasing. More than 236000 people have already died in the U.S. from re than 1200 are now dying every day. Here's Dr. Frieden again.  COVID is already the third-leading cause of death in the United States. And for each death there are an estimated nine people grieving.  Dr. Frieden estimates the death toll could easily hit a quarter of a million by Thanksgiving.  And with that kind of death toll have we been able to measure how the pandemic may have affected the election?  So you know we know the pandemic shifted millions of votes to mail-in ballots and cause states to change many of the ways they count ballots. And one might think areas that got hit hardest might have been less likely to support the president. But my colleague Sean McMinn has been looking at the numbers and that is not what he found. Support for Trump grew in the counties with the highest death rates. Now that may mean many things. Maybe voters see Trump's strategy as the best option and want to stick with it. But for all we know maybe his support would have been even higher in those counties had the pandemic never happen. So you know as they say more research is needed on that point.  NPR health correspondent Rob Stein thanks so much.  You bet Scott.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday November 7 2020. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST returns on Monday with the news to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for the latest news on the election who is up who is down what is too close to call you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. 