 Hi Scott.  Hi there Lulu.  So here we are. It is our big debut today.  Yeah. Cannot believe they gave us the keys to a podcast.  I actually cannot believe it either. But I am excited and I think it is time to you know give it a whirl.  Yeah let us give it a whirl.  All right.  Let us see what happens.   The impeachment inquiry is going public.   I am not concerned about anything. The testimony has all been fine. I mean for the most part I have never even heard of these people. I have no...  But he will next week when hearings begin. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro and this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   And next week the Senate may clear the way for a new acting secretary of homeland security. President Trump's pick for the top spot played a role in the administration's family separation policy.  Also Brazil's former president has been released from prison. His fans are celebrating.   .   What the release of the left-wing hero Lula da Silva means for the country's current far-right-wing leadership. Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   One phase of the impeachment inquiry came to an end this week - no more closed doors.  A much-desired witness Mick Mulvaney defied a subpoena and stood up House investigators for his interview.  But two key witnesses did show up and what they said may be a small preview of what we might see next week in public hearings. NPR reporter Tim Mak has been poring over the transcripts and joins us. Tim thanks for being with us.  Hey there.  Tim let us begin with Fiona Hill former White House policy adviser of course. What did she say?  Well Hill suggested in her testimony that U.S. Ambassador to the EU Gordon Sondland was running an unofficial kind of rogue diplomatic channel with the White House chief of staff's seeming consent. So essentially Ukrainian officials - they are trying to obtain a meeting with President Trump and there is a lot of resistance from the official channel national security adviser John Bolton. He is saying we should not do that yet or we should not commit to that. But Sondland kind of blurts out in a meeting with Ukrainian officials hey there is already a deal with the White House chief of staff that they will have a meeting between these two presidents if the Ukrainian government launches investigations into the Ukrainian energy sector and as we know now that that was kind of a reference to these investigations that the White House wanted into the Bidens.  And what did they hear from Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Vindman a Ukraine expert at the White House?  Well he had been on that July 25 phone call and he kind of felt like something wrong had actually occurred on that call. And it kind of speaks to the heart of whether there was an effort to leverage U.S. foreign policy for an investigation by the Ukrainians. So the transcript - I am reading from that now. Congressman Peter Welch says and was there any doubt in your mind as to what the president our president was asking for as a deliverable? And Vindman replies there was no doubt.  As we mentioned the acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney did not show up. But he was sure the topic of a lot of conversation was not he?  Yeah absolutely. I mean these transcripts really show that Mick Mulvaney was really at the center of a lot of these discussions. It shows - I mean Vindman said in his testimony that Mulvaney's office was behind the hold in military aid to Ukraine. And of course as I mentioned before there seemed to be some deal that - you know organized by Mulvaney or at least approved by Mulvaney that the Ukrainian government would launch investigations and in exchange for that they could have a meeting with the president.  Curtain goes up next week - public hearings. Democrats have chosen their first witnesses very carefully have not they?  Yeah. Well they are building their case block by block. And what they are trying to do is they are trying to present some of these U.S. diplomats these career professionals who they think will project credibility and who support their general narrative - right? - which is that the president did do something wrong that he did try to leverage U.S. foreign policy for political advantage.  Those witnesses give us some insight into how the Democrats are going to try and present their strategy. How will Republicans fight back?  Well they are saying - they are essentially questioning the motive of various witnesses. They are objecting to the process and how the inquiry has been handled. They are also saying there is no quid pro quo that the president did not do anything wrong because he did not make a specific ask for a specific deliverable.  NPR's Tim Mak. Thanks so much.  Thanks a lot.   Next week we may get yet another acting secretary of homeland security.  It is Chad Wolf. He is been with the agency off and on for years and for most of that time has kept a low profile.  But he did play a role in the Trump administration's hugely controversial family separation policy. NPR's Joel Rose profiled him for NPR and he joins us now. Hi.  Hey Lulu.  All right Joel this matters because Homeland Security is a hugely important agency that deals with a lot of things including the president's signature issue immigration. And Chad Wolf has been involved in some of Trump's most controversial policies right?  Exactly. In late 2017 Wolf put together a memo for his boss Kirstjen Nielsen - who was then the homeland security secretary - in which Wolf laid out more than a dozen ways that DHS could deter migrants the surge of migrants mostly from Central America who are coming to the southern border. And option No. 2 - quote separate family units. At a confirmation hearing in June Nevada Senator Jacky Rosen tried to push Wolf on what his role was in actually developing that policy.   Did you have concerns with that policy and if so did you bring those concerns to the secretary at that time?  So my job was not to determine whether it was the right or wrong policy my job at the time was to ensure that the secretary had all the information that she had.  And Joel we know that that policy was indeed adopted a few months later.  Exactly. Thousands of migrant kids were separated from their parents at the border before the policy was ended because of public outcry. And immigrant advocates say that Chad Wolf had a chance to stop this from happening before it happened and that he did not.  Chad Wolf was not the president's first choice right? He first had his heart set on some immigration hard-liners. They were ineligible for lots of complicated personnel reasons. So how does Wolf compare?  Well the people who have worked with him that I have talked to say he does not seem to have really hard-line positions. He came from aviation security which is still in the purview of homeland security by the way. He helped create the Transportation Security Administration after September 11. And one thing about Wolf that sort of surprised me is that immigration hard-liners do not like him because of what he did when he was out of government for a decade. He worked at a lobbying firm in D.C. and sometimes he worked for companies that want to bring in more foreign guest workers. And that is not something where immigration hard-liners are you know...  Yeah.  That is not something where he aligns with the hard-liners.  Right.  So President Trump does not seem that inclined to nominate him for this job permanently. He is likely to be the acting secretary for as long as he is actually in the position.  Acting secretary - Joel I am really actually starting to lose count of how many officials are in acting positions in this administration.  Yeah exactly. And at the Department of Homeland Security in particular seven of the top 18 jobs that require Senate confirmation have no permanent nominee...  Wow.  ...Including all of the agencies that deal directly with immigration. So the senators who are supposed to actually confirm those people for those positions are not happy about this.  Yeah and I gather they sent a bipartisan letter to the White House this week about it.  Yes. They urged the president to submit permanent nominees to fill all of these jobs including secretary of homeland security. And the letter says that having so many officials in acting jobs is really holding DHS back from achieving its goal of quote safeguarding the nation from evolving threats. President Trump has said many times that he actually likes acting appointments because they give him more flexibility in other words these people are easier to fire.  NPR's Joel Rose. Thanks so much.  You are welcome.   .   The scene last night in Brazil as the country's former president Lula da Silva stepped out of jail and into a cheering crowd.  Lula as everyone calls him is a major figure in Latin America's leftist politics and he stands in huge contrast to the current president of Brazil a far-right nationalist. So what happens now?  NPR's Philip Reeves joins us. Phil thanks for being with us. Dramatic scene yesterday was not it?  Yes it really was. I mean you know Lula's been in prison for 19 months. He was in a big federal police building in Curitiba which is in the south of the country. And he walked out. He walked through the gates pumped his fist in the air in celebration. He is a very tactile politician. He loves pressing the flesh and he walked straight into the crowd. There were hugs and kisses and he made a speech. People set off fireworks. Lula particularly thanked the people who had maintained a vigil outside his cell for all of the 580 days in which he was inside it.  And Phil remind us how Lula landed in prison.  Oh he got caught up in Brazil's giant anti-corruption drive known as Lava Jato or the Car Wash. That is netted a lot of top politicians and business executives very often for scams involving kickbacks for contracts. And Lula's case was about the acquisition of a beachside apartment. He ended up being sentenced to nearly nine years. But he maintains he is innocent and victim of a plot by the judiciary and prosecutors to prevent him from running in last year's election. He was the clear front-runner to win that election by the way but his conviction meant he could not run. And the election was eventually won by Jair Bolsonaro who as you say is from the far-right.  And Lula believes he was the victim of a revenge plot by the right does not he?  He does indeed yes and maintains that he is innocent. But he is also facing other corruption charges. His legal problems are not over. He has not been acquitted. What happened is that the Supreme Court this week changed the law and decided based on the presumption of innocence that a convicted defendant has the right to maintain - to remain at liberty until all appeals are exhausted and Lula has more appeals to come.  So in the meantime it does not appear that he is going to just go home rest and binge on Netflix does it?   No. Just before he came out of his cell a video appeared on his official Twitter feed and it shows him pumping iron pounding on a running machine like a boxer preparing for a big fight - bearing in mind that he is 74 though. And I think this is meant to signal that he is getting back to the battlefield in this deeply polarized country and plans to take on Jair Bolsonaro's government. He cannot run for office but he is going to try to galvanize his Workers' Party which has been in disarray since he was imprisoned. There is talk of him going on a big tour around Brazil to rally supporters. And all of this will raise the political temperature the rift between the left and right which is already very large in this country.  And it has implications beyond Brazil does not it?  Yes it does. I mean the return of Lula to the fray - you know he is such a well-known big figure - I think it is going to add momentum to change that is sweeping across South America. I mean we have seen protests in Bolivia Ecuador Peru and these mass protests in Chile which have been going on for three weeks. Now all of these are sort of for localized reasons but the ones in Chile against a - are against a conservative government and thereby vast numbers of people who are demanding an end to economic inequality. And in Argentina a conservative government has just been kicked out in the elections there. They were won by Alberto Fernandez who has former President Cristina Kirchner - one of the great stalwarts of the left - as his vice president. Both of them by the way have posted messages celebrating Lula's release. So I think the return of Lula will add you know momentum to this general resurgence of the left in the region.  NPR's Philip Reeves. Thanks so much.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday November 9. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. You can start your day with UP FIRST now Monday through Saturday. Subscribe - please. Review us on Apple Podcasts.  Rate us. Review us. You can like us.  And speaking of likes you better get your Instagram likes in right now.  Yeah. Instagram's CEO says they will disappear as soon as next week.  So show your like while you can.  And if you are ready for more NPR news we have got a radio show for that.  Coming right up find NPR's Weekend Edition on your NPR station or stations.npr.org.  