 Hi. This is Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is here for you to help you stay on top of what is happening in the world to keep you informed in a way that is reliable quick and easy. Now it is your turn to be there for UP FIRST. It is made possible by your NPR member station. So we are asking you to support them before the year ends. Doing it is quick and easy too. Just go to donate.npr.orgupfirst. And thanks.   The investigation continues into yesterday's deadly knife attack on London Bridge.  London's police commissioner Cressida Dick had this sobering assessment.   We are treating this as a terrorist incident.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro with Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   President Trump packed his bags this week for another NATO summit also in London. He is complained for years about how much money the U.S. contributes to the alliance.  And 'tis the season.  We got North Face items a Michael Kors purse for half price which is unheard of.  Black Friday Cyber Monday millions of Americans spending billions of dollars chasing holiday deals. But are Black Friday shoppers the best customers? Well we have got a deal for you. Stay with us for the news you need to start your day.   London Bridge is the site of another brutal attack authorities are calling an act of terrorism.  Some of those details are still unclear but two people are dead and several others injured. The assailant was disarmed by Londoners who were bustling around the busy financial district where the attack took place.  We are joined now by Lucy Fisher who is defense editor of The Times in London. Lucy thanks so much for being with us.  Hi there.  What have we learned about how this happened and the man who will be accused of doing it?  Well we have learnt today that the assailant was a 28-year-old named by police's Usman Khan. And he was in fact a convicted terrorist had performed Islamist offenses convicted in 2012 and had been released a year ago from prison on the proviso that he had agreed to wear an electronic tag submit to curfews and restrictions to his movements. And it was while he was subject to these conditions that he performed this horrific attack yesterday.  And what more is known about Khan and his history?  Well I think there is a lot of questions today about how he could have plotted this attack. I think there will be questions about why the security services were not aware that he was planning this attack when indeed he was on their radar and should have been monitored.  This incident occurs just ahead of a general election in the U.K. next week and a NATO summit in just a few days. How concerned are police and other officials about security for these major events?  Well as you say I think that it will be seen as highly unfortunate that this has happened just before 29 leaders convene for the NATO leaders meeting next week. As for the general election I think there will also be questions that play out from the frightening and tragic incident yesterday. Both the main parties the Conservative and Labour Party that could end up in Downing Street have questions to face. For the Conservatives there'ill be questions for the home secretary about why only three weeks ago she reduced the terror threat in the U.K. from severe to substantial. And there'ill be questions too about cuts to police numbers and whether that has contributed to some of the surveillance issues that may be found to have taken place there. For the Labour Party their leader Jeremy Corbyn has faced a lot of scrutiny on his robustness on national security. And indeed this week he was asked in an interview six times whether he would ever be prepared to give the order to kill a terrorist if that terrorist could not be safely apprehended arrested and put on trial. And six times he refused to say that he would give that kill order. So I think in the minds of voters there are questions about how secure the nation would be in his hands if he became prime minister.  And there was a knife attack just a few hours later in The Hague yesterday. Three young people were injured. Any more word on that attack and whether authorities see any relation between the two events?  There is no suggestion at the moment in the U.K. that the attacks are in any way linked. But of course the fact that two have occurred on the same day do raise a lot of questions about terror. Of course in the U.K. the peak of the terror threat was in 2017 when five major incidents occurred in which dozens of people were killed. So while I think yesterday's attack is incredibly tragic with two people killed and three more severely injured I think we are far from raising to the fever pitch that we had two years ago in the United Kingdom.  Lucy Fisher of The Times in London thanks so much.  Thank you.   Now as Scott just mentioned world leaders will come together in London next week for a quick summit marking the 70th anniversary of the NATO alliance. And surprise surprise - there are divisions among the allies.  President Trump has demanded that NATO member states increase their defense spending and some have. But conversations could get awkward between Mr. Trump and other leaders over his relationship with Turkish President Erdogan.  NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe joins us now. Good morning.  Good morning.  All right. So first what is on the agenda for the president during the summit?  Well at gatherings like this Trump always makes clear that he wants allies to do more to shoulder the financial burden. Here's a comment we have heard from him a lot.   The one thing I know about NATO for sure - it is better for Europe than it is for us.  This is a part of this idea of America First - in Trump's view that the U.S. has been taken advantage of by Europe and these international organizations. NATO has a target for each member to spend 2 of GDP on defense by 2024. Most of the countries have not met that goal. And Trump argues that countries should meet that target immediately and possibly even go higher. The U.S. right now is reportedly looking at cutting its direct contribution to NATO's collective budget from about 22 to 16. Now this is money that is spent on NATO's like headquarters and things like that. And that is separate from the 2 GDP goal.  Anything else on the agenda? Because speaking of these divisions French President Emmanuel Macron said this week that he wanted to see NATO focus less on Russia and more on terrorism. And I imagine President Trump will support that message especially after this attack in London.  Well it seems President Trump has definitely said that he is very concerned about terrorism but a senior administration official said that Russian aggression will be discussed at the meeting. The official said that threats posed by Russia remain an issue of deep deep concern for many alliance members. But of course often members of the administration seem to take a much harder stance towards Russia than Trump does in public at least rhetorically.  And you know President Trump of course is in the middle of these trade negotiations with China. Is that likely to come up at the NATO meeting?  It is. The administration has made a point of arguing that Chinese companies like Huawei should be kept out of the 5G network. The White House argues that these companies are a threat to national security. And so the president intends to raise this issue with other allies and basically to argue that the security of telecommunications networks and personal data should not be traded for any financial savings that may come from using Huawei. The backdrop for this discussion is that the U.S. recognizes that China has a growing influence around the world when it comes to trade and technology and the U.S. wants to counteract that.  One of the things that is really interesting - right? - about this meeting is that President Trump is of course going there while he is the subject of an impeachment inquiry. But he is not the only world leader having problems at home.  No he is not. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is dealing with Brexit and has that election coming up. And now he is also responding to the terrorist attack near the London Bridge. Johnson and Trump have been aligned in the past but Johnson also made clear that he does not want Trump commenting on the election. And the White House has said that President Trump will abide by that request. Aside from Johnson there is been some infighting between allies. French President Emmanuel Macron ruffled some feathers when he said that NATO was experiencing brain death because of U.S. unpredictability and Turkey's decision to launch an offensive into Syria. And Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan pushed back against Macron saying that Macron should check whether he is brain dead. And he called the French president's warning sick and shallow. So there is some scuffles or - between the allies right now.  Just a little tension.  Yeah.  That is NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe. Thanks Ayesha.  Thank you.   Black Friday is the unofficial start of the holiday shopping season. Millions of Americans have been shopping Lulu while we are stuck in a studio.  I know. I know. And it does not make me happy Scott I got to tell you. But I bought you something online you would be happy to know. More surprises later.  Wait. Wait. Wait. All right. Go ahead.   More than 114 million Americans were expected to shop yesterday and almost 67 million today. That is a lot of gifts.  NPR's retail correspondent - I did not know we had a retail correspondent - Alina Selyukh is working today and joins us. Thanks for being with us Alina.  So many surprises for you all in one minute.   That is right. Well that is why we are in the news business. What are the expectations for holiday sales this year?  Shoppers are expected to spend even more money this year than they did last year. The National Retail Federation predicts that over this holiday shopping season - so through Christmas - Americans will spend around 730 billion. That is with a B. A lot of that will still happen at physical stores. But a survey from PricewaterhouseCoopers - or PwC - for the first time this year found that the majority of shoppers are saying they plan to do most of their holiday shopping online like Lulu rather than in stores. And that is actually one of the reasons why to me and a lot of retail watchers one of the biggest themes this year is this slow change of the meaning of Black Friday.  Is it beginning to disappear or is it just going online?  Well we have to be clear that it still is the busiest shopping day of the year for most stores. But for the past two years the number of people heading to stores for those doorbuster deals has inched lower. Shoppers are now armed with smartphones. They can do instant price checks on what is going on at other stores. Is it worth standing in line here? I talked to Peter Fader professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and he says more stores are also realizing that maybe people who only show up one weekend in November are not the best customers. And so they are broadening their appeal with really strong online discounts and sales on so many other days of the year including more made-up shopping holidays like Cyber Monday this coming Monday or Prime Day. And this year also because the calendar gave us a super late Thanksgiving there are fewer days between now and Christmas. Some stores started offering Black Friday sales like weeks earlier back in October. And all this is washing out that meaning of Black Friday. It is still huge but maybe not the focal point of holiday shopping.  Alina what is going to make parents desperate this year and people stand in line? What is going to be big?  Well overall the top sellers are clothes and gift cards. But then as you are alluding to the toys are huge. Actually my colleague Darius Rafieyan spent Black Friday the iconic Toys R Us. You may remember the company went bankrupt in 2017 but a former executive is trying to bring back - starting with two locations. The first one in New Jersey opened on Black Friday. And there Darius spoke to shopper Monica Mallen .  It is been kind of a staple growing up so we have been doing Black Friday on Toys R Us for many years up until they closed their doors. So kind of excited to see it come back.  And as far as the hottest toys of the season go the classics like Legos and Barbies Hot Wheels and the American Girl dolls they are still at the top of the list for many shoppers. But Internet sales tracked by Adobe Analytics show that so far this week online the biggest sellers are L-O-L Surprise Dolls and pretty much anything related to the movie Frozen II.  Ah so Sven and Olaf coming to a shelf near you. NPR's Alina Selyukh thanks so much.  Thank you.   And that is Up First for this Saturday November 30. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back here on Monday. But you know the news does not stop when this podcast ends. We have a solution for that.  Weekend Edition is what we call it Saturday and Sunday. You can find it on your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  You can also take NPR with you everywhere with the NPR One app. Download it at your app store.  