 More fallout from the Facebook files.  How the people calling for violence on January 6 use the platform despite Facebook's assurances it was tamping down on misinformation and politically charged rhetoric.  I am Asma Khalid.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Three-point-five trillion dollars over 10 years has shrunk down to roughly 2 trillion. And the haggling's still not over.  President Biden's offering some concessions on his social spending plan.  And a boost for booster shots - now the focus turns to protecting young kids with a vaccine.  It will visually look different. It has an orange cap and an orange striped label. And it is packaged in smaller packages.  So please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Facebook breathed a sigh of relief after Election Day 2020.  Voting seemed to go off largely without a hitch without many of the conspiracy theories that flourished on Facebook in 2016. But all was not well. Angry Trump supporters on the platform were coalescing around the rallying cry Stop The Steal. Two months later some of them would turn up and storm the U.S. Capitol.  How did Facebook get outwitted again by a movement spreading lies about the election? NPR's tech correspondent Shannon Bond joins us. And we should note Facebook is among NPR's recent financial supporters. Shannon thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me Scott.  You have been looking at internal documents from Facebook. What do they show?  Well we know Facebook spent years preparing for the 2020 election. It did not want a repeat of what happened in 2016 of course when Russians used the platform to interfere. So the company had this emergency playbook. It called these break-the-glass measures. They were temporary steps to keep the platform safe. So for example it down-ranked posts that might break its rules against violence or hate speech. It means it might have been less visible to other people to give them more time to check them out before they spread widely. But like you said the election largely went off without these big issues. And so afterwards Facebook started to turn off a lot of these emergency measures. And the ones it did keep in place did not turn out to work so well.  And what did that mean for the Stop The Steal movement?  Well one thing that Facebook did was to try to limit just how fast these groups it called civic groups that are related to politics how fast they could add new members. So it put daily limits on invitations. But these Stop The Steal groups got around that. The first Stop The Steal group Facebook took down after just two days. But more kept popping up in its place. And that kept happening. It was this game of whack-a-mole. And these organizers were also able to elude detection by choosing their words really carefully and by posting these disappearing stories. And as a result these groups they were filled with calls for violence lies about election fraud. And they were growing faster than Facebook could keep up. And this left a lot of employees inside Facebook really upset. These were researchers and folks who work on keeping the platform safe. And they had been warning these documents show that civic groups especially were a problem that Facebook needed to crack down on. But they said leadership just did not take these warnings seriously enough. So you know on January 6 one wrote on Facebook's internal message board quote rank-and-file workers have done their part to identify changes to improve our platform but have been actively held back. Some people I spoke to who have since left the company said you know Facebook really should have kept these emergency measures in place much longer after the election or even made permanent changes to how it works.  And what does Facebook say now?  Well the company says look the blame for January 6 lies with the people who stormed the Capitol and with the people who encouraged the violence. It says it took a lot of steps to protect its platform and it is proud of the work it did. And when it comes to you know what it could have done what it should have done Facebook says look these emergency guardrails these break-the-glass measures are blunt instruments with big trade-offs. Of course if you slow down the platform for these bad groups you also have to slow it down for everybody else. You know that has an impact on growth. And Facebook is trying to strike this balance right? It says it does not want its platform to be used to incite violence. It also does not want to be seen as censoring people which of course is something Republicans and Donald Trump accused of doing.  Shannon you have based your reporting on internal research and messages and documents. Please tell us how you got those.  That is right. So recently you know we have heard about a former employee named Frances Haugen who is come forward as a whistleblower. She worked on a team protecting the platform and left Facebook earlier this year with this trove of thousands of pages of internal documents. She says she came forward because she thinks Facebook is not making the right tradeoffs when it comes to safety vs. growth. So she turned those documents over to federal regulators to Congress. They are also shared to a consortium of news organizations including NPR. And I should say that Facebook widely disputes her claims.  NPR's Shannon Bond thanks so much.  Thank you.   The gears of Washington D.C. grind on this week slowly as Democrats continue negotiations over a once-and-former 3.5 trillion spending package.  The debate has been long and frustrating for some Democrats. But in a CNN town hall Thursday President Biden brought a bit of levity.   Are you close to a deal?  I think so. You know look I have been a - I was a senator for 370 years.   And I was never - I was relatively good at putting together deals.  NPR senior political editor Domenico Montanaro joins us now. Domenico thanks so much for being with us.  Good morning.  Where are they? How much closer - are they any closer to passing what of course are billed as the party's and the president's priorities?  Well as we heard there Biden was pretty specific and candid in that town hall more so than we are used to hearing presidents talk about negotiations in Congress. And that is because Democrats appear to be in the final stages of a deal. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said 90 of everything is written and agreed to. From what we know it looks like the package will be less than 2 trillion. You mentioned that 3.5 trillion original price tag. That is because things like free community college is out. Paid family leave is down from 12 weeks to four. And it looks like significantly raising the corporate tax rate will not happen. Biden said simply he does not have the votes to get that stuff through even though he wants those things. And that is still because of two Democratic senators who have been holding out - Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona who are opposed. And they are just not budging. That said 2 trillion - still pretty big price tag . There are a lot of things in there for the left to like. Democrats seem to have a renewed sense of optimism and urgency for this deal. We could see a framework before the president heads to Europe next week for two big conferences. And Democrats look certainly need some kind of momentum boost right now because this process has dragged on and is really only served to highlight rifts within the party.  Let us move now to the Supreme Court because they refused to block a Texas law that bans abortions. But the court has agreed to hear arguments in two cases that challenge the law on November 1.  Yeah. And that is a very fast timeline which in and of itself should be an acknowledgement that the law is pretty controversial and important. You know abortions have essentially been halted throughout the states. It is a real women's health care issue right now. And as for what the Supreme Court's planning on doing we learned that the justices are specifically examining the law's unusual enforcement mechanism which you might remember is in the hands of private citizens. They are empowered to sue anyone who aids someone in getting an abortion. What the court's not going to do is look at the constitutionality of the entire law. Now the law does remain in place until the court issues an opinion which that could still take a while as you know following the court. And Justice Sonia Sotomayor liberal justice dissented with keeping the law in place. She said that hearing of the arguments is quote cold comfort to Texas women who are seeking abortion care now. And look the Supreme Court - you know now with the conservative majority it is going to be hearing another case out of Mississippi in December. And we are going to be seeing the court define now for generations to come just what types of restrictions on abortions a majority of the justices see as legal.  House voted to hold Steve Bannon in contempt for defying a subpoena from a committee that is investigating the January 6 attack. The Justice Department now has this in their court. What stands out to you here?  I mean the big thing that stands out to me is just how much Republicans have fought against not just this but the entire effort to get to the bottom of what happened leading up to January 6. You know this is an attack on their place of work. And instead of trying to find out what went on you know we have heard excuses made for insurrectionists for many on the right and from the former president Donald Trump. You know you might - for a reason for this you might look back to what Senator John Cornyn of Texas said earlier this year basically explained why saying that he stood against the formation of a select committee looking into January 6. It was about politics flatly. He said it did not make Republicans look good. In other words talking about January 6 would not help them in 2022 so they wanted to talk about other things. As far as this specific case on Bannon goes it is unclear what the Justice Department will actually do or when. And I think it is going to be a decision that you are going to see from the top levels of the department about how to proceed.  NPR senior political editor Domenico Montanaro. Domenico thanks so much for being with us.  You are welcome. Thanks for having me.  And you can hear more from Domenico and me on the NPR Politics Podcast. Check it out wherever you find your podcasts.   It is been a head-spinning month for vaccine news and October is not even over yet.  Federal science advisers reviewed data on booster shots for the Moderna and Johnson  Johnson COVID-19 vaccines. And those are now officially authorized.  Now officials are considering Pfizer's application to give a lower dose of its vaccine to children as young as 5 years old. Here to talk us through all of this is NPR health policy correspondent Selena Simmons-Duffin. Thanks for joining us Selena.  Hi. Good morning.  So Selena let us start with reviewing the booster news this week. Who can and should get one?  Well there is a whole lot of flexibility for people. If you got a Johnson  Johnson vaccine you are clear to get a booster shot of whichever flavor you wish. Actually switching to either Moderna or Pfizer might give you extra protection. And if you originally got Pfizer or Moderna shots and you are over 65 or you have a health or work reason why you may be especially at risk you can get a booster too.  Got it. OK. And so now that boosters are sorted out these federal scientists are not really relaxing at this point are they?  No they are not. We are jumping right into another vaccine-palooza  here. This time it is all about Pfizer's smaller-dose vaccine for kids age 5 to 11. So the first meeting on that is scheduled for Tuesday. But we have already gotten a peek into what is going to happen because yesterday FDA posted on its website Pfizer's application with all of its data and the agency's analysis its briefing document which came out last night.  Aha. OK and what did those documents show?  Well Pfizer's data shows that its vaccine is 90.7 effective against symptomatic COVID-19 and that is from a study of over 2000 children in the age group of 5 to 11.  Wow.  And there were no serious safety concerns no cases of myocarditis for instance although it may be because the study size was not big enough to pick that up. Pfizer made the case that vaccinating would not just prevent cases of hospitalizations in this group. It should also help curb transmission in the broader community and reduce disruptions to school. And the FDA brief said that the benefit of this vaccine is going to depend a lot on where the pandemic is going. So if there is a lot of spread it would have a big benefit whereas if the pandemic is kind of winding down anyway it is a little less clear. But the analysis concluded that even if there is not much spread the benefits of vaccinating this age group may still outweigh the risks. And that is what advisers are going to discuss and vote on on Tuesday.  I got it. So if all does go as expected and this is approved moves forward when might kids actually get shots?  OK so here is the process. The FDA advisory panel I just talked about meets and votes. The FDA then has to grant emergency use authorization. And then the CDC weighs in. So the final step the CDC director giving the thumbs-up would not happen until November 2 or 3 at the earliest.  Got it.  And then of course it will take a couple of days to get those shots rolled out.  Yeah but ahead of the Thanksgiving holidays which I imagine some parents would certainly be relieved to hear.  For sure.  That being said though Selena is the country ready for this vaccine rollout? You know I am thinking back to the original vaccine rollout that really candidly was chaotic in parts of the country.  Yeah that is true. I mean experts in this case say there is going to be plenty of supply which is a good start. Claire Hannan who runs the Association of Immunization Managers says she thinks everyone is pretty well-prepared here but there are some differences in this rollout.  The vaccine for 5- to 11-year-olds is one-third of the adult dose. It will visually look different. It has an orange cap and an orange-striped label. And it is packaged in smaller packages.  She says that is so pediatricians can get a few hundred doses at a time instead of a thousand. And they will be able to keep it in the fridge for 10 weeks. They will not need ultracold freezers like providers did at the beginning. But then there is the question of will parents want to get their kids vaccinated? What will demand be like? A lot of questions to dig into and we will be covering all of it.  All right that is NPR's Selena Simmons-Duffin. Selena thanks so much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday October 23 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Asma Khalid. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are at upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news interviews books music things that are just fun you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  