 Dozens missing as wildfires burn across Oregon.  The state's emergency management office says it is prepared for mass casualty incidents.  Let us hope those do not happen. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon and this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   We know that hundreds perhaps thousands of Oregonians have lost their homes. This is going to be an extremely challenging situation.  The latest from the West Coast as fires continue to rage from the Pacific Northwest through Northern California.  A look at Trump and Biden on and off the campaign trail as the race slips into high gear.  And Brexit a long saga that may be coming to a head. So stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Tens of thousands of people have fled their homes in Oregon. And many more have their bags packed. Here's Governor Kate Brown.   Well over a million acres of land has burned which is over 1500 square miles. Right now our air quality ranks the worst in the world due to these fires. There are early reports from our state police that there are dozens of missing persons related to the fires.  And dozens of people have died in these West Coast fires six in Oregon alone. And of course we are expecting those numbers to rise. Amelia Templeton of Oregon Public Broadcasting joins us. Amelia thanks for being with us.  You are welcome.  And what is the latest today?  Well large fires are burning throughout the Western Cascade mountains and coastal mountains in Oregon from just you know outside of Portland to the border with California. And search and rescue crews are starting to go back into some of the river canyons where these fires really blew up earlier in the week and were moving terribly quickly places that people had little time to evacuate. They are finding some survivors. A couple who made it by wading into the Santiam River. But they are also finding people who did not make it out. There is also a confirmed death and many many more people who are reported missing. In two cities in southern Oregon Talent and Phoenix where a large fire started in you know really a quite urban area - and burned hundreds of homes and apartments. The moment right now feels like a holding pattern. The fires have not grown as much in the past day. And we are all just stuck under a thick blanket of smoke.  What about efforts to contain the fires?  Crews have made progress on containing the really destructive fire in southern Oregon. Apart from that you know many of the fires burning in the state right now are 0 contained. The focus has been on saving lives and evacuation not building fire lines. What we have are you know really pretty small crews that have been fighting very large very destructive fires not a very safe situation for firefighting. When you know fires this large move close to each other - and we have had several that have merged - their smoke columns can interact and actually start to create their own weather - very unstable very dangerous situation. That is happened just in the last few days you know situations where we have had to pull all of the firefighters back off of the lines and sort of abandon the fire fight until things calmed down. And then the smoke that is blanketed the state has meant that it is been very difficult to bring in air tankers and the other kinds of resources you would usually use to try to you know drop fire retardant and control places this size. But on the positive side the wind stopped. It died down. And that alone really dramatically slowed the advance of the fires toward the sort of more populated parts of the state.  And it seems Amelia that officials have also had to fight rumors specifically the one gaining ground on the Internet that the antifascists have set some of the fires. What is behind that?  Well you know antifa is a disorganized radical movements that believes in physically disrupting far-right demonstrations. And it has you know a well-known presence in Portland a history of unruly and sometimes violent street activism here. I do not know the original genesis of the rumor. But it is been spread by political candidates pundits people online in Oregon here and very much nationally as well. And from a local perspective these fires are scary. We do not have detailed explanations yet for how all of them started ignited although we do know that in one case arson is under investigation. And in another case downed power lines played a role. So I think people are looking for answers and that creates fertile ground for conspiracy theories. But what we do know is this. Local sheriffs and even the FBI here in Portland have come out and said very directly there is absolutely no factual basis for these rumors. There is no evidence that antifa or any other political group was involved at all. And what people need to understand is that you know what made this week exceptional in Oregon is not that there were a lot of fires that ignited. That is pretty normal. We are a state with lots of people living in the woods recreating in the woods. What made this a disaster was the wind that fanned the flames.  Amelia Templeton of Oregon Public Broadcasting in Portland thanks so much.  You are welcome.   I am thrilled to be in Winston-Salem with thousands of loyal hardworking American patriots. You are great people.  Hello Michigan and I am thrilled to be in Freeland with thousands of loyal hardworking American patriots.  That is President Trump of course holding rallies with closely packed supporters in the middle of a pandemic. Today he heads west where local officials are not happy about people coming together without masks.  And it turns out a good portion of his audience does not mask up even if the many you see on television do. Let us turn to NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe for more. Good morning.  Good morning.  So the president is not letting up on his rally schedule. Where to today?  He is going to Nevada where he is holding two rallies. This is a state that Trump is trying to flip to Republican this time around. The campaign originally planned to hold events at airport hangars in Reno and Las Vegas but they ran into problems because local authorities warned the owners of these private hangars that they would be violating the state's health regulations. So those events were put on hold. And just yesterday the campaign announced that the rallies are now going to be held at new locations one at an airport in Minden Nev. and - about an hour outside of Reno. And the other event will be at a company in Henderson Nev. that manufactures construction equipment. But this was so kind of last-minute that the president tweeted last night details about the old events at the old locations. And so that is how quickly this was changing.  And what about his opponent Joe Biden?  So Joe Biden yesterday with September 11 he actually said that he would not campaign yesterday.  And that is traditional.  Yes. That is traditional. He was at an event commemorating 911 and he actually ended up elbow bumping with the current vice president Mike Pence. So that was a rare meeting of those two.  We heard that soundbite earlier from Winston-Salem N.C. and Freeland Mich. What have the rallies been like that the president's been presiding over?  They have been outdoors or at least partially outdoors. Notably though you have people that are standing close together no social distancing. Most people in the crowd were not wearing masks. But the campaign did hand them out to people and many of the people in the risers behind the president were wearing them. This is where the cameras are so you see people with masks. But where the cameras are not pointing that is where the people are without the masks. There is a lot of shouting and cheering. That is typical at Trump rallies but health officials say these type of activities are risky and they discourage them in general. We have seen some of this at official events too. It is almost as if these events are meant to look like there is no pandemic going on and nothing has changed. Dr. Anthony Fauci from the White House coronavirus task force was asked about the rallies yesterday on MSNBC.   Just because you are outdoors does not mean that you are protected particularly if you are in a crowd and you are not wearing masks.  The campaign did stop rallies for a while but they are ramping them up now because we are in the homestretch for the election.  Indeed we are. Meanwhile Joe Biden has been doing smaller events. We saw him deliver pizzas this past week and pass out beers. But in your experience are big rallies some kind of campaign necessity? I mean how does the Trump campaign answer when they are pressed on the wisdom of crowding people together during an ongoing pandemic?  They say it is up to the individuals to decide if they want to come to these events and you know whether to wear a mask. But they are arguing that it is a First Amendment issue. Here's White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany.   People have a First Amendment right if they so choose to show up and express their political opinion in the form of a peaceful protest which is what the president held. And there is a real double standard here.  What she is referring to is to the protests that have been happening against police brutality and racism. This is something that is brought up often by the president's supporters who say that protesters have not faced as much criticism even though many protesters are gathering in large groups and not necessarily social distancing.  Well have there been coronavirus infections linked ultimately to these rallies?  There was an increase in cases of the virus in Tulsa after the president held a rally there in June. Now that one was indoors. With these outdoor rallies there have not been reports of cases connected to them at least not yet. For example health officials in New Hampshire were concerned about a rally at an airport hangar there at the end of August. The state has a mask mandate for large gatherings. Health officials have since said there were no virus cases linked to that rally that they know of. So that is where things stand right now.  That is NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  And for more on the presidential campaign where Trump and Biden are going what they are promising to do subscribe to the NPR Politics Podcast.   The United Kingdom formally left the European Union in January but that did not finish Brexit - far from it. This week the U.K. and the EU have been at each other's throats over the terms the divorce and a new free trade deal.  The dispute could end up damaging both economies just as the coronavirus begins to spread again in Europe. NPR London correspondent Frank Langfitt joins us now. Hi Frank.  Hey. Good morning Lulu.  So what led the U.K. and the EU to really pull off the gloves this week? Where are we?  You know just like Scott was saying they agreed to a divorce back in January. And this week Boris Johnson - got to remember Lulu he signed the divorce agreement. He pushed it through his own Parliament. He basically said you know I do not like this. I want to change it. And the divorce agreement is an international treaty. It took ages to hash out. And breaking it is a really big deal. Now here's Brandon Lewis. He is the U.K. secretary for Northern Ireland admitting as much in the House of Commons this week.   I would say to my honorable friend that yes this does break international law in a very specific and limited way...  And so what he is saying here Lulu is in fact Prime Minister Johnson is breaking the law by breaking this international treaty.  Well what exactly does Johnson want to change and why?  Well so the problem for Johnson with this deal this divorce deal is that it could limit the U.K.'s ability to pump money into Northern Irish businesses which could help them. And from the EU's perspective they figure that that could actually disadvantage their EU businesses. And the agreement also will require customs checks between Northern Ireland and Great Britain which are both a part of the U.K. So what Johnson says - and even though he knew this eight months ago - he claims this threatens to carve up the country. And today writing in The Telegraph the newspaper here he did not have any evidence for this. But Johnson wrote that the EU is now threatening to blockade food shipments between Great Britain across the Irish Sea into Northern Ireland.  And what about - the EU said? What are they saying?  There is disbelief in Brussels that he would make this claim and I think it is worth also remembering - I have covered Johnson now for four years. And on crucial matters he said things that have been completely false. And it is common knowledge in the British public that he does this. Now European Parliament members say that if Johnson does not back off they are going to veto any free trade deal. And there is actually Lulu a rebellion brewing against Johnson in his own Parliament. And according to The Financial Times this morning there is a new WhatsApp group from some of Johnson's own conservative party members. And it is called What The Fudge Is Going On? And of course the word is not fudge.  I was about to say. Would not we all like to know? I mean this is an extraordinary position...  It is.  ...For the United Kingdom to find itself in. What is your take?  Yeah I mean my take is the take of a lot of people here which is there are at least two possibilities to what Johnson is doing here. One is he is either threatening to blow up this deal this divorce agreement so he can get a better free trade deal by the end of this year or the fact is it may be that he does not want one at all and he is looking for a way to blame this on the EU. And there is some colleagues of mine analysts I know in Brussels who think this is exactly what is going on. Now the question would be why would not Johnson want a free trade deal with the EU with their over 500 million you know consumers. It is a great market. And I think if you go back to the Brexit vote the whole argument was to take back control of power from the European Union. And if there is no deal the U.K. would definitely have that power back but it would also be looking at customs checks and tariffs at the end of this year that would damage the EU economy and the U.K. economy which we have just seen some recent figures is beginning to climb out of this recession.  Well could Johnson get away with damaging his own economy?  It seems like a crazy thing to do - right? - if you are running a country and you are already in recession. And I think what people thought here for quite some time is he may try to blame any damage to the economy that comes from a no-deal Brexit actually on the coronavirus.  That is NPR's Frank Langfitt in London. Thank you very much.  Great to talk Lulu.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday September 12 2020. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. In the meantime follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter. And keep an ear on this feed for the occasional special episode.  For more on the stories you just heard as well as an update from NPR's College Road Trip Rita Indiana's return after a decade in the musical wilderness and breaking news on the canning lid shortage.  Just catch us on your device. Weekend Edition is with you every Saturday and Sunday morning. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  