 After deliberation and disagreement federal regulators have said yes to COVID boosters for some Americans.  That does mean millions of people are now eligible for a third shot and some are already getting them.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro and this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Yesterday a widely discredited Republican-led review of the 2020 election in Arizona's biggest county concluded.  Bipartisan critics including election experts have said that the report is untrustworthy no matter what its findings say.  Even so the results were similar to those approved by county and state leaders - Joe Biden won.  Meanwhile in Germany the election there is about to start.  Who will become chancellor as the long tenure of Angela Merkel comes to a close? Please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Twenty million people are now eligible for coronavirus vaccine boosters and shots are already going into arms.  It is been a whirlwind of scientists and government officials saying an additional dose of the COVID vaccine was needed and maybe not and maybe only for certain groups.  Here to untangle all of it and explain where things seem to have landed is NPR health policy correspondent Selena Simmons-Duffin. Selena thanks so much for being with us.  Hi good morning Scott.  All this back and forth about who should get a booster what is the answer ultimately about who can right now?  So this only applies to certain groups of people who got the Pfizer shot more than six months ago. So those groups are anybody over age 65 certain people with underlying health conditions and anyone older than 18 and certain jobs or living in group settings. So this would apply to health and grocery store workers people who live in homeless shelters et cetera. So the boosters are free they are available all over the country. You do not need a special doctor's note or anything. And because the Biden administration telegraphed that boosters were coming last month hospitals and pharmacies say they are ready.  It is been a busy few weeks for boosters has not it?  Yep. Yeah. So Pfizer applied to FDA to approve boosters for everyone 16 and older and that is what the Biden administration said they were planning for. But in a surprise move late last week the FDA advisory panel rejected that plan and only recommended boosters for those limited groups. They said there was not enough evidence a wider rollout is necessary right now. And then in another surprise move a CDC advisory group recommended an even more limited group get these boosters. They left front-line workers out. But CDC Director Rochelle Walensky went against that advice and included the front-line group in CDC's official recommendation.  Selena how unusual is that for the CDC to differ from its advisers?  It is quite unusual. Some reports characterized it as Walensky overruling her outside advisers. And in a briefing yesterday she pushed back on that. She pointed out it was a close vote. Walensky emphasized the many hours of public debate and she said she listened to all of it.   This was a scientific close call. In that situation it was my call to make.  She said in the pandemic you often have to make decisions with imperfect information and that she wanted to make boosters available to more people who might benefit rather than withhold that access.  People who want boosters are being told to wait for six months past the date of their last Pfizer shot. What is the reasoning there?  Yeah. In the same briefing the president's medical adviser Dr. Anthony Fauci addressed that question. He said do not run and try to get a booster if you have been vaccinated more recently than six months ago.   There is an immunological reason why it is important to wait because you know if you allow the immune response to mature over a period of a few months you get much more of a bang out of the shot as it were an enhancement of your antibodies.  And let us be clear on this point Selena this is just for people who got the Pfizer vaccine.  Right.  Is there a plan for those who got Moderna or Johnson  Johnson?  Health officials yesterday said they know people who got these other shots are perhaps wondering why they have to wait. And they said it is because they just do not have the data they need to make determinations about boosters with those shots yet but that they will be reviewing the data as it comes in as quickly as they can. So basically they said stay tuned.  Well we will. NPR's Selena Simmons-Duffin thanks so much.  Thank you.   A widely criticized review of the 2020 election in Arizona's largest county has finally wrapped up.  And while its findings would have been scrutinized whatever they were this Republican-backed review matched the certified results.  Drum roll. They found out that Joe Biden won Maricopa County en route to winning Arizona.  Ben Giles of member station KJZZ in Phoenix has been following this for months. Ben thanks for being with us.  Of course.  The review began all the way back in late April. Yesterday was the big reveal. What did we learn?  Well as you said the big top-line finding is that this partisan review matched the certified tally. Doug Logan that is the CEO of Cyber Ninjas the firm that ran the effort for state Senate Republicans - this company had never reviewed an election before and Logan had a history of sharing conspiracy theories about the 2020 election and worked with Trump allies even before he was hired. And yet here he was yesterday conceding on the accuracy of the hand recount he led compared to the official canvass.   2.1 million ballots - these are very small discrepancies. So we can say that the ballots that were provided to us to count in the coliseum very accurately correlate with the official canvass numbers.  But apart from that Logan and others spent three hours ticking through what they called anomalies in the county's election process in IT security. They kept raising what they called potential problems but often stopped short of definitively saying something went wrong with the election. And as that was happening there was a very odd split screen on your computers of county officials debunking what they called baseless or uninformed claims in real time.  Can you give us an example?  So one of the claims had to do with something Logan said was alarming about the county's signature verification process. If you vote early by mail in Arizona you sign your early ballot envelope that acts as your ID proof that you are the person whose vote is in that envelope. But if there is something wrong with your signature that is not the end of it. You have got five days after the Election Day to cure that signature to prove you are who you say you are to election officials and get your vote counted. So when the presenters yesterday said it is concerning that more strange scribbly signatures are verified in the days after the election than prior to Election Day there is an explanation for that. That is when most ballot carrying happened. The chair of the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors said those are the kinds of claims that show Logan's inexperience and his misuse and misunderstanding of data.  Now that the review is done and the findings are in is there a next chapter?  Well Karen Fann the head of Senate Republicans here in Arizona who ordered this review maintained yesterday that this was not about overturning an election. It was about crafting policies to respond to constituents' lack of confidence in the election. Yet despite the forceful pushback from the county and elections experts about how this review was conducted and the veracity of its findings Fann said she is asking the attorney general here to open a formal investigation of the report. And she made clear she hopes this is not the last so-called audit. In fact one of the Cyber Ninjas' recommendations for state legislators was for the state to create an election audit department to conduct these on a rotating basis. Despite this rebuke of claims of fraud former President Trump and his allies expressed vindication yesterday. We have seen more of these Republican election reviews sprout up across the country. But experts hope that since the Arizona review failed to prove the fraud Trump claimed it would maybe Republicans in other states will have second thoughts.  Ben Giles of member station KJZZ thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.   And now to Germany where a notable election will take place tomorrow.  Millions of Germans will head to the polls to determine who will succeed Angela Merkel who has been chancellor of that country for nearly 16 years.  NPR's Rob Schmitz joins us now from Berlin to talk about it. Good morning Rob.  Good morning Lulu.  Angela Merkel has been a force in German politics for so long. It is hard to imagine a Germany without her at the helm. How are people there feeling about her departure?  Yeah. I think many Germans feel the same way. And even though it could take months before a new government is formed and she finally steps down there is already this outpouring of nostalgia for her here. In my neighborhood billboards are popping up thanking her all over the place. One's a giant advertisement for a dairy company showing Merkel's hands holding a huge glass of milk. And from my conversations as I have traveled across Germany in the past few weeks I have sensed a reluctance to let go of her. I was in the city of Stralsund last week on the Baltic coast talking to voters. And I spoke with Jessica Laufer  a 27-year-old scientist who was pregnant with her second child. Here's what she told me.  .  And Lulu she is saying here that she wishes Merkel were running again and were staying on as chancellor. She says she does not like the chancellor candidate from Merkel's conservative party and that she would prefer that the Green Party would win. But that does not seem likely. So it is a real shame that her favorite chancellor is stepping down. You know Laufer was 11 when Merkel became chancellor. So Merkel is really all she is known. And even though many people like her do not vote for Merkel's party they prefer her as chancellor. Laufer's next choice is the - you know of course the Green Party chancellor candidate who also happens to be a woman. But taking a look at the polls they do not have a great chance.  All right let us talk about the polls. Heading into this weekend's election what are they telling us about which parties could be part of the next government?  Yeah. According to latest polls the centre-left Social Democrats are narrowly ahead of Merkel's centre-right Christian Democratic Union with its sister party the Christian Social Union. And they are followed by the Greens and then a libertarian party called the FDP. But what is interesting here is that the leading party the Social Democrats are only polling at around 26 just a few points ahead of Merkel's party. In a normal election year that would not be enough to prevail as the party with the most votes. But this year it is. And that is because with the departure of Merkel Germans are trying out a range of different parties. And all the parties in the lead really do not differ that much in their platforms making this election really wide open.  What does that mean for the outcome when you say wide open and about how the government might look?  So it means that we will see a scenario where three political parties will have to build a coalition government. And there are many different possible combinations depending on the final vote tally. One would see the Social Democrats teaming up with the Greens and the Free Democrats this pro-business Libertarian Party. Another more left-wing possibility would be the Social Democrats the Greens and the hard-left Die Linke Party which has its roots in the old East German Communist Party. And these are just two of the many possible outcomes. So what is clear here is that as Angela Merkel departs as chancellor she is leaving a country that is not united in who should replace her and what it wants to prioritize for its future.  That is NPR's Berlin correspondent Rob Schmitz. Thank you so much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday September 25 2021. I am Scott Simon  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UPFIRST on Twitter.  And for more news interviews books music whatever you can also find us on the radio.  That is Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  