 We have got the latest on the Atlantic report that has the White House angry and upset.  And 100 nights of protests in Portland.  Along with sobering new pandemic numbers. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   I spoke with two senior U.S. officials former U.S. officials who were on the trip to France one of whom was in the meeting to plan the trip to the cemetery. And they confirmed key parts of the Atlantic article.  And that is Fox News. We will tell you what we know about the president calling war dead losers and suckers.  And is it really possible COVID-19 will kill 400000 Americans by year's end?  We will look into the numbers so stay with us. We have got the news you need to start the weekend.   The report says the commander in chief privately mocked wounded and dead veterans for their military service. The commander in chief says untrue.   There is nobody that feels more strongly about our soldiers our wounded warriors our soldiers that died in war than I do. It is a hoax.  A number of outlets are confirming the reporting by The Atlantic which says among other things that President Trump referred to American war dead as losers and suckers. We are joined now by NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez. Franco thanks for being with us. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Thank you Scott.  Franco this of course is not the first time the president's been accused of making disparaging remarks about military personnel. The White House is responding more sharply than they have in the past. What do you make of that? ORDO Well I mean the president has tied himself to the military in ways unlike many other U.S. leaders. He sees military families and veterans as a key part of his base. And he argues that he is the one who loves the flag and honors the country while Joe Biden and the far left do not. Peter Feaver who served in senior national security positions in the Clinton and Bush administrations told me basically that these accusations if they are true blow a hole in that central message.  The White House reaction makes it clear that they view this as politically toxic for the president in part because it undermines so vividly a core plank of their reelection campaign that he is the president who has rebuilt the military. ORDO You know the report alleges that Trump insulted service members and veterans in private and skipped a 2018 visit to an American military cemetery in France because he did not feel it was important. I will note NPR has not confirmed the statements independently. The White House says Trump canceled the visit because of bad weather and they have since provided statements from multiple officials who have said the accusations are false. Now interestingly the president yesterday stopped short of blaming his former chief of staff Gen. John Kelly for the report but he did allow for that possibility and took the opportunity to criticize him.  We just heard Mr. Feaver use the phrase politically toxic but I wonder about how service members and their loved ones feel about these remarks. ORDO We are heading into an election and a recent poll of service members conducted by the Military Times indicated that more troops already may be planning to vote for Joe Biden. Trump had enjoyed strong support from the military. Exit polls in 2016 showed veterans voting for Trump by about a 2 to 1 margin over Hillary Clinton. That Military Times poll was you know obviously taken before this report. And it was also before the convention so things could obviously change. But it does reflect some concern service members have about Trump. Just as one example that survey found service members largely oppose Trump's suggestion that active duty military personnel should be used to respond to some of the civil and racial unrest in American cities.  And what has Joe Biden said? ORDO Well Biden called the report disgusting and said if it is true and he emphasized that that Trump should apologize. And he personalized it raising that his deceased son Beau had served in Iraq.   When my son volunteered and joined the United States military as the attorney general and went to Iraq for a year won the Bronze Star and other commendations he was not a sucker. The servicemen and women he served with particularly those who did not come home were not losers. ORDO Biden also pointed to when Trump called Senator John McCain a war hero a loser and failing to take action or confront Russian President Vladimir Putin about allegations of putting bounties on American troops.  NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez. Franco thanks so much. ORDO Thank you.  And for more politics from here in Washington and out on the campaign trail check out the NPR Politics Podcast.   Tonight protesters will mark the 100th consecutive night of demonstrations in Portland Ore. This week brought a considerable escalation in violence.  And two people were left dead - one a supporter of the far-right group Patriot Prayer the other a far-left anti-fascist demonstrator. Oregon Public Broadcasting's Jonathan Levinson has been covering the story and joins us from Portland. Jonathan thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  The district attorney released more details yesterday about the shooting on Saturday when anti-fascist activist Michael Forest Reinoehl shot and killed Aaron J. Danielson. What did we learn from those records?  The DA released the arrest warrant affidavit for Reinoehl's arrest. And we still do not know why he shot Danielson. Witnesses told investigators they saw a verbal confrontation between Danielson and two other people. And one of them said something along the lines of you want to go? And just before Reinoehl shot him Danielson set off a spray bottle which we think was likely Mace. That was not confirmed in the records. We also learned that Danielson was carrying a collapsible baton in his other hand. And finally court records show that police found a holstered and loaded glock handgun in Danielson's waistband and three 9-millimeter magazines in his pockets. Reinoehl told Vice News that he was acting in self-defense but nothing in the court record suggests Danielson pulled the gun on Reinoehl or anyone else during that confrontation.  There is a memorial service today for the far-right supporter Aaron J. Danielson who was shot dead as you explained. And another Trump rally is planned for Labor Day on Monday. How are officials there preparing?  Yeah. There will be a handful of speakers today including Danielson's friends at the memorial. Patriot Prayer leader Joey Gibson plans to speak. And Gibson said they are going to try to keep it positive. We should note yesterday Facebook removed Gibson's profile for violating public safety policies. And that was hours after he had posted unsubstantiated rumors about the shooting. As for Monday we do not really know a lot. It is being advertised similarly to last week's rally as it is a Trump 2020 cruise. Police have not indicated yet how they might be staffing this weekend's protests. The past two weeks of pro-Trump rallies in Portland the police have said that they are understaffed and do not have the numbers to have a huge presence out on the streets. And that is a big difference from the big far-right rally last August when Portland police mobilized a lot of resources and they got assistance from neighboring agencies. But other agencies now are declining to help. The mayor has asked outside groups to stay away and to help de-escalate and that seems to be the plan at the moment.  We noted the protests are marking their hundredth day. What do protest leaders and city officials say about how and when the cycle might end?  Well it does not seem like this week's events changed much. Last night a few hundred protesters were gathered at the police union headquarters focusing their protests on the police. They have been very consistent since the beginning. They plan to stay in the streets until protesters see meaningful changes to the criminal justice system. The most consistent and specific demand has been 50 million pulled from the police budget and reinvested in the community into things like mental health care and housing and education. And as we get closer to the election as the campaigns kick into high gear a lot of city officials are saying they expect these protests could continue until November. One of my colleagues was out at the protest last night and spoke to Mac Smiff. He is a local activist who is been out at the protest from the beginning. This is what he had to say.  I think it goes on until we see change. I do not think that anyone is changing their mind. We do not want to go back to normal. So there is no incentive to get out of the streets.  He said there is no incentive to get out of the streets. Smiff also said that things have changed. Protesters used to come out in paper masks for COVID. Now they are wearing gas masks body armor and helmets.  Oregon Public Broadcasting's Jonathan Levinson thanks so much.  Thank you.   Throughout this pandemic forecasters have been analyzing the numbers to help us figure out how and where the virus is spreading and to project how many lives it may claim.  And one prominent team has now come out with an eye-popping prediction. Joining us now with what you need to know about it is NPR global health correspondent Nurith Aizenman. Good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  So what are these scientists saying?  OK this comes to us from the University of Washington's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation or IHME. And yeah their estimate is bleak. By January they project the worldwide death toll will reach 2.8 million.  What is behind that very very large number?  Well IHME estimates that the coronavirus has already killed about 900000 people worldwide. And they project that by the end of this year an additional 1.9 million people will die. By that point they project the U.S. will have more than 400000 dead ranking it second in the world in terms of total number of dead behind India and followed by Brazil.  But let me ask you this though. Johns Hopkins puts the number of American dead at 187768 as of this morning. And daily new cases have been falling in the U.S. for weeks now right? So that does not seem to track with what this group is saying.  Absolutely. Since July various state and local governments have reintroduced social distancing mandates. People have modified their behavior. And it is paid off. But Americans have also shown a tendency to ease up too quickly once cases go down. The researchers expect that will fuel arising cases come autumn. And more importantly they say they found a tight correlation between cooling weather and increasing transmission possibly because people spend more time indoors or the virus may thrive in colder air. But the bottom line says the lead researcher Chris Murray is this.  Rather than celebrating the sort of plateauing of cases we should be planning for what is coming later in the fall and in the end of the year.  But I should say some other prominent disease experts are very skeptical of these projections.  Tell us more about that. What is their objection?  Well for instance IHME has concluded that the percentage of sick people who end up dying has not changed all that much since the start of the pandemic and their projections reflect that. But critics say no hospitals have learned so much. There have been breakthroughs in therapies. And because of this Ashish Jha who is dean of Brown University's School of Public Health says he finds IHME's projected death toll for the U.S. in particular very unrealistic. And Jha says this is not just some academic dispute. By predicting an improbably high death toll...  Then if we come in at 250000 or 300000 deaths which is still just enormously awful political leaders are going to be able to do a victory dance. It is just setting a bar that is so easy to beat. It makes us somehow I think numb to the actual horrendous outcomes that the United States has had.  And then when it comes to IHME's projections for countries beyond the U.S. there is another challenge. A lot of low-income countries do not have reliable health statistics. Even in the best of times a lot of deaths go uncounted there.  And so now presumably a lot of deaths from COVID-19 are not being counted.  Precisely. And of course the IHME team has tried to come up with methods to adjust for that. But Murray says it is a challenge. And like a lot of forecasters he is especially concerned that experts may be missing spread in sub-Saharan Africa.  That is NPR's Nurith Aizenman. Thank you so much.  You are welcome Lulu.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday September 5 2020. I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. In the meantime follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter. And keep an ear on this feed for occasional special episodes.  For more on the stories you just heard and a possible rescue in Beirut a new kind of Kentucky Derby and the Sturgis Motorcycle Rally post-mortem and more...  Listen to us on the radio Weekend Edition every Saturday and Sunday morning. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  