 A recent DVD release of an imported British drama has all the features of an easily promotable teen movie. It is loaded with sex and violence. It is loaded with tales of epic battles and sinister intrigue. And even the most powerful characters are in danger of being killed at any time. But says TV critic David Bianculli this is no new action feature for the younger set  this is a very mature drama for very mature adults. It is a reissue of a miniseries that was shown on PBS 35 years ago. It is I Claudius starring Derek Jacobi as the most unlikely of Roman emperors.  I Claudius came to American television imported from the BBC in 1977  the same year as another ambitious longform production ABC's Roots which proved to everyone that miniseries were an exciting and extremely popular new form of television. Of course I Claudius shown on the PBS series Masterpiece Theatre did not get anything close to the audience that Roots did but it sure got a lot of attention. And a few years later when the ABC primetime soap opera Dynasty was launched its creators admitted openly that what they had in mind was a modernday I Claudius. The original I Claudius based on the novel by Robert Graves covers the reigns of several Roman emperors  Augustus Tiberius the famously twisted Caligula and the stuttering limping Claudius who narrates the entire tale reading from his own history. I am not yet born he says as the TV drama begins but I will be soon. The miniseries boasts impressive performances from several key British actors. Patrick Stewart long before Star Trek The Next Generation shows up here. So does John Hurt as a memorably unhinged Caligula. And the women including Sian Phillips as Livia and Sheila White as Messalina are deadlier and even more fascinating than the males. Except that is for Claudius. Played by Derek Jacobi it is a performance that spans wideeyed youth and weary old age. At first while everyone in Rome is falling victim to the treachery of others he survives mostly because he is dismissed as a stuttering idiot. Well he stutters but he is no idiot  and the older he gets and the more Roman purges he survives the wiser he is at selfpreservation. Once the obviously insane emperor Caligula has declared himself a God for example the wrong utterance in conversation with him can lead to instant death. But Claudius despite his stutter manages to use his wits quickly enough to survive. Here are John Hurt as Caligula and Derek Jacobi in the role that made him a star as Claudius. Caligula begins by asking Claudius a seemingly simple question.   Revisiting I Claudius after so many years is quite a treat. It is a strong reminder of how literate and ambitious the miniseries form used to be  and how much we have lost by its overall disappearance. Except that like so many other entertainment forms the miniseries has not so much gone extinct as been absorbed. It is alive and well in seasonlong story lines on Showtime's Homeland and Dexter and on the lengthy narratives of AMC's Mad Men and Breaking Bad. But on television the extended complicated narrative began in such productions as I Claudius. The new DVD boxed set from Acorn presents this beautifully and even includes a bonus feature that to me is alone worth the purchase price. It is a fulllength documentary from 1967 about an unfinished attempt to film I Claudius way back in 1937. The documentary is called The Epic That Never Was and you may have seen it on public TV several decades ago. I did and never forgot it. It has all the surviving footage of the aborted I Claudius filmed by Josef von Sternberg and starring Charles Laughton in the title role. Laughton was amazing and you can tell that from even a brief taste.   How wonderful is that? And how wonderful is this 35th anniversary I Claudius set? Not only do you get one fantastic Claudius to enjoy  you get two.  David Bianculli is founder and editor of the website TV Worth Watching and teaches TV and film history at Rowan University in New Jersey. He reviewed the 35th anniversary DVD edition of I Claudius.   You can download podcasts of our show on our website freshair.npr.org. And you can follow us on Twitter at nprfreshair and on Tumblr at nprfreshair.tumblr.com. I am Terry Gross. 