 This is FRESH AIR. New Orleans drummer Herlin Riley has played in some highprofile settings with pianist Ellis Marsalis and Ahmad Jamal trumpeter Wynton Marsalis and New York's Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra. Herlin Riley is also a bandleader who makes his own records. Jazz critic Kevin Whitehead really likes his latest.   Drummer Herlin Riley's quintet with Bruce Harris on trumpet. It is from the album Perpetual Optimism. Riley's side folk are native or transplanted New Yorkers but the leader lives in his hometown New Orleans. That city's musical culture stamps the band's interplay rhythmic buoyancy and high spirits. In New Orleans music drums and drumbeats reflect and represent centuries of African American folkways and culture. That is a legacy Herlin Riley takes seriously. He honors the elders.    Music is the thing that can heal your soul  black or white rich or poor young or old. It came to me at an early age with me all my life as I turned each page. I got a lot of knowledge from folks who taught me. We need to pass it on to people we teach. A great musician who taught a whole lot of fellas  he wrote this tune. His name is Ellis Marsalis Ellis Marsalis great Ellis Marsalis the Ellis Marsalis. The dad of Branford Wynton Delfeayo and Jason Marsalis Ellis Marsalis.  On his album Perpetual Optimism Herlin Riley does a couple things drummerleaders like to do such as playing drum solos within the band instead of all by himself or playing in odd time signatures. Riley plays Willie Dixon's Chicago raveup Wang Dang Doodle in 5/4 meter which adds an extra beat to every bar for extra swagger. It is Riley's only other vocal on the album. Check out those slinky horns behind him.    Tell automatic Slim. Tell razortoting Jim. Tell butcher knifetoting Annie. Tell fasttalking Fanny. We going to pitch a ball down to that old union hall. We are going to rump and trump 'til midnight. We are going to fuss and fight 'til daylight. We are going to pitch a wang dang doodle all night long.  Herlin Riley wrote most of the music for his new album. The standout composition Be There When I Get There with its rhythmic and interlocking phrases for trumpet and alto saxophone sounds like drum music orchestrated. The parts fit together like different components of a drum set. Russell Hall is on bass.   The members of Herlin Riley's quintet are close listeners working together in subtle ways to feed the band's percussive texture. There is a good example on their airy reading of the standard You Do not Know What Love Is. Behind Godwin Lewis' alto solo new star pianist Emmet Cohen chimes in with high notes behind Riley's heavy beats. That adds a little extra ping to the snare drum sound.   We do not have time to skim all the highlights of Herlin Riley's Perpetual Optimism. The music is solidly in the suave and swinging modern style but Riley's New Orleansinfused jazz has its own distinct character. The leader's upbeat nature and attention to detail shine through.   Kevin Whitehead writes for Point of Departure and The Audio Beat. He reviewed Perpetual Optimism by drummer Herlin Riley's quartet. Tomorrow on FRESH AIR...   Now we have divided in three our kingdom.  Glenda Jackson's now starring as King Lear on Broadway. Terry Gross talks with the 82yearold twotime Oscar winner about her life and career. Jackson took 23 years off from acting to spend two decades as a member of the British Parliament. I hope you will join us. FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham. Our associate producer for digital media is Molly SeaveyNesper. Therese Madden directed the show. Terry Gross returns tomorrow. I am Dave Davies.  