 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. As President Obama prepares to make his second appointment to the Supreme Court we are going to go back to 1937 when President Franklin Roosevelt tried to reshape the court. It was the first year of his second term after winning in a landslide. He had a Democratic Congress but the Supreme Court had become his opponent. In a series of rulings the court had struck down major parts of the New Deal. Curtail the court or submit to judicial tyranny is how the choice was described by FDR's Secretary of the Interior Harold Ickes. After FDR's reelection in '37 he came up with a secret plan to reshape the court by expanding the number of justices which would enable him to appoint justices who would support his New Deal reforms. This littleknown chapter of history is the subject of the new book Supreme Power Franklin Roosevelt vs. the Supreme Court. My guest is the author Jeff Shesol. He was a speechwriter for President Clinton and is also the author of Mutual Contempt Lyndon Johnson Robert Kennedy and the Feud That Defined a Decade. Jeff Shesol welcome to FRESH AIR. What are some examples of New Deal legislation that the court declared unconstitutional and overturned? Mr.  When the first New Deal case reached the court at the beginning of 1935 the court struck down a key piece of the NRA which was the National Recovery Administration. That was essentially the recovery act of the Roosevelt administration the centerpiece of his plans to get the country out of the Depression. And from that point on for the next year and a half the court struck down virtually all of the central pillars of the New Deal. They struck down the recovery act as I said. They struck down the farm program the AAA or Agricultural Adjustment Act. They struck down a coal act. They struck minimum wages. They struck down so many laws so quickly that by the end of the term that ended in the summer of 1936 one columnist said that it reminded him of a Shakespeare tragedy At the end of the play the stage is strewn with dead bodies. Those dead bodies were the New Deal programs.  Now you write that between 1933 and '36 the court overturned acts of Congress at 10 times the traditional rate. And to accomplish this justices disinterred longneglected doctrines and breathed new life into obscure clauses of the Constitution. Give us some examples of the neglected doctrines or obscure clauses of the Constitution that the justices cited in declaring parts of the New Deal unconstitutional. Mr.  That very first antiNew Deal decision at the beginning of 1935 struck down a piece of the recovery act on the grounds of delegation of power. The court said essentially that Congress had delegated too much governmental power to a body outside the government. What was remarkable about this is that the Delegation of Powers Doctrine had essentially been dead for 30 or 40 years. The people had written it off had said that it was a relic of the early part of the century. And so it was a great surprise to see the court not only revive it but then to use it very aggressively to overturn such a key part of the New Deal. And this became a characteristic of this court over the next couple of years that doctrines that nobody had heard of clauses of the Constitution that nobody was familiar with things like the Privileges or Immunities Clause which really had never been applied in this fashion before were taken up and turned into another tool with a weapon with which to strike down the New Deal.  My impression from your book is that the justices were actually afraid that the New Deal was going to ruin America. What were their fears? Mr.  The interesting thing about this conflict is that both sides in the conflict  and by that I mean Roosevelt and his supporters in the country and then the conservatives on the court and their supporters in the country  both sides felt that they were fighting for nothing less than the survival of democracy. Roosevelt felt that if he could not get these New Deal programs through if he could not do something to get the nation out of the Depression that there would be a complete economic and social collapse in the country and that out of the ashes a dictator would arise and it would be the end of democracy. Conservatives on the other side felt that if the government were allowed to develop such centralized power over so many sectors of the American economy and over American life that there would be no freedom in this country that property would no longer be a sacred right and that individual initiative and all the things on which selfgovernment rely all of these would collapse and again we would be in a dictatorship. So the interesting thing as I said is that both sides felt that they were fighting against dictatorship in America.  And this was a timely moment to be fighting against dictatorship in America because you had fascism spreading through Europe. Mr.  Absolutely and Americans were very aware of what was happening in Europe. I know that the portrayals of the time suggest that Americans were not interested in what was happening around the world and were very insular during this period hoping that they did not get entangled in what was happening in Europe and so forth. But while we did not want to get entangled in Europe we certainly were aware of what was going on in Europe. And so the attacks from Roosevelt from the right constantly referred to Hitler Mussolini and Stalin constantly in rightwing editorials in conservative papers in the country. And so this was a very live analogy for Americans at the time and it seemed like a very real danger. If the country could not get itself out of the Depression it did seem that we would head down what Herbert Hoover called the suicide road toward dictatorship.  Well I hear certain parallels to today for example with health care. I think a lot of people on the right see health care reform as an end to democracy in the sense that they see this as the first step towards communism or socialism whereas liberals I think would say that if we do not pass health care reform it really diminishes democracy because so many people dont have health care which should be a basic right. Do you see those parallels to today? Mr.  There is just a huge discrepancy in how the two sides view the situation and the parallels really are very strong. Every New Deal program that President Roosevelt passed whether it was the recovery act or the agricultural program which was really a tax on processors of agricultural goods every one of these things was denounced by the right as a government takeover of fill in the blank. And when the agricultural act passed the comparisons to collectivization in the Soviet Union and the regimentation of agriculture so that all farmers would be working for the federal government and so forth this stuff was not just a fringe argument. This was very  this was in editorials in the Wall Street Journal and the Chicago Tribune and heard from Republican members of Congress at the time. So this was really how many people at the time saw it and the emotions then and the emotions today were very deeply felt.  There were big differences between how FDR and the conservative justices viewed the Constitution and how it should be interpreted. Do you want to describe some of those differences? Mr.  Absolutely. Roosevelt believed in what was called at the time and what is still called a living Constitution. The idea was that the founders or the framers of the Constitution had set certain things in stone and those are very clearly marked out in the Constitution but most of what exists in the Constitution is sort of vague and unclear and left to each generation to decide. What does due process really mean? What does equal protection really mean? Roosevelt believed and his supporters believed that each generation essentially has to sort that out for itself and needs to do that with respect to what is going on in the country. And of course what was going on in the country then was this terrible depression. On the other side of the argument then and today was a view that saw the Constitution as essentially fixed by the founders that it was a Constitution of limitations. And so it always leads in this view to a limited government and serious limits on governmental power and presidential power and so forth. And so there was a fundamental clash between those who saw the Constitution as essentially a living thing and as a finely tuned mechanism which runs itself if you do not mess around with it.  A debate that you could still see in today's Supreme Court. Mr.  Absolutely. There is talk in the papers this week as we begin to debate the possibilities for replacements of Justice Stevens in very similar terms to the argument as it was framed in the 1930s. This is a timeless argument. It is something that really never goes away. It is always simmering but during times of economic distress as in the 1930s as we have today the argument tends to get very explosive because the stakes again for both sides seem to be the very survival of American democracy.  My guest is Jeff Shesol author of the new book Supreme Power. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   My guest is Jeff Shesol author of the new book Supreme Power Franklin Roosevelt vs. The Supreme Court. It is about how in 1937 FDR tried to reshape the court expanding the number of justices so that he could appoint justices who would uphold New Deal legislation. Okay so we have been talking about how discouraging it was for Roosevelt to see so much of his New Deal legislation overturned by the Supreme Court which declared these pieces of legislation unconstitutional. So FDR was determined to change the makeup of the court so that his plan could move forward. And he proposed a Judiciary Reorganization Bill in 1937. And what this bill directly addressed among other things was that he was facing a Supreme Court that was the oldest court in history. How many of the judges were over 70? Mr.  In 1936 the average age of a justice on that court was 71. So it was at that time the oldest court in American history.  So what was FDR's proposal to change the makeup of the Supreme Court? Mr.  FDR proposed to expand the size of the Supreme Court from nine up to 15 but it is actually I think useful to take a quick step back to go through the process of elimination that Roosevelt went through over the course of his first term before he came to that fateful decision to pack the Supreme Court. A very popular idea in the country over the course of Roosevelt's first term was that the Constitution needed to be amended in any one of a hundred different ways. In fact in 1936 there were 100 different proposals in the Congress to amend the Constitution. There was an increasing sense in the country that the Constitution was too constraining a document that it just did not allow the government to do what it needed to do to get the nation out of this economic crisis. And so there were all kinds of proposals being floated in 1935 '36. The nation had become like a rolling constitutional convention. This was a debate not just being played out in the law reviews or within the White House. This was being played out on the front pages and the editorial pages of the newspapers played out on the radio arguments on street corners and at bars and so forth. This was a major topic of conversation in the country what was to be done about the Constitution? Some suggested that the Congress ought to be able to essentially overrule the Supreme Court that by a twothirds vote the Congress should be able to overturn any decision of the Supreme Court essentially making the Congress the last word on the Constitution and not the court. There were some very radical ideas that would have really rebalanced or unbalanced the whole system of...  Was not one of the ideas that there could be a popular vote overturning a Supreme Court ruling? Mr.  That is right that you would essentially take the matter back to the American people and you would have a referendum over a piece of legislation and that if the public approved it then it would become the law of the land no matter what the court or the Constitution said about it. These were very radical ideas and very many of them were in the air. Some were a little bit less radical. And if Roosevelt had thrown his weight behind any one of them he might have gotten pretty far in the process of actually amending the Constitution. But here's why he did not do that two reasons. First he felt that it just was not practical. It takes a very long time usually to amend the Constitution and he felt that it would be very difficult to get it done quickly enough to change the reality in the country. But secondly and this is really important to understanding why Roosevelt packed the court He did not see any kind of contradiction between the Constitution and the New Deal. He did not think there was anything in the Constitution that really prevented him from doing what he needed to do. The problem as he saw it was not the Constitution it was the conservatives on that particular Supreme Court. So what could you possibly do about them? And that is how he came to the idea of packing it.  So what was his idea for packing the Supreme Court? Mr.  His idea that for any justice over the age of 70 because the age of the justices was seen as part of the problem  these old justices were out of touch with modern realities  for any justice over 70 who refused to retire the president would have the right to appoint another justice and so there would be a cap on the number of justices at 15. If no one retired if the plan passed and no one retired Roosevelt would instantly get to appoint six new liberal justices to the Supreme Court. So because he could not push the conservatives off the court he thought well at least I can outnumber them. And what most people did not realize either then or today is that this is entirely constitutional. There is nothing in the Constitution that sets the number of justices at nine. The Constitution says nothing about how many justices there are and the number actually went up and down usually for political reasons over the course of the 19th century. It settled at nine in 1869 and so by the time Roosevelt proposes his plan in February 1937 it seemed to most Americans that the number nine was foreordained that it was permanent.  FDR kept the plan a secret until the very last minute. Why did he keep it a secret? Mr.  Roosevelt loved secrets. He loved mystery. He loved to withhold pieces of information even from his closest advisors. He loved to be the only guy in the room who knew how all of the pieces fit together. And sometimes this was very innocuous it was just a little surprise. He loved springing little surprises on the people in his world. But sometimes it involved really significant matters. And so this plan that I have just described was cooked up really by two people by Franklin Roosevelt and his attorney general Homer Cummings. And even though there had been a big national discussion as I described it for four or five years before they decided to pack the court and even though Roosevelt had consulted the opinions of all of his advisors and was reading widely on the matter when it came down to making the decision he cut everyone out of the process except for Homer Cummings. And the two of them went into a little bubble of their own creation and they managed to convince themselves not only that this was the right idea to pack the court but also that they could get away with putting essentially a mask on the plan and rather than attacking the ideology of the justices and saying this is about getting the New Deal past conservative justices they said Well let us present this as a plan that promotes judicial efficiency. Let us suggest that because the court is full of very old guys the nine old men as they were known at the time that they are falling behind in their work and so they need some help. They need more justices on the court. And in fact the entire federal judiciary is full of old men. Let us add justices across the entire federal judiciary. And they managed to convince one another because they had closed the process that this was a very clever plan and that they would manage to get it past everyone. It  the mask was ripped off in the first 24 hours of the plan being unveiled in February '37 and this was a huge miscalculation upon other miscalculations that Roosevelt made. His love of secrecy got away from him.  So how did Roosevelt's own cabinet and Congress react when this pretty radical plan was finally unveiled? Mr.  With horror actually and that is not an overstatement. Most of the members of Congress and his own cabinet expected that when Roosevelt won reelection by this huge landslide one of the biggest landslides in American history...  Against Alf Landon. Mr.  Against Alf Landon of Kansas that is right. It was not only a huge landslide for Roosevelt but also in the Congress there were 96 senators at the time for 48 states and 76 of those 96 senators were Democrats. We were closer to oneparty rule than the nation had been since Reconstruction. And so everyone expected that Roosevelt would do something about the court but they imagined that it would be a constitutional amendment of some kind because this was such a popular idea. Really no one expected that he would propose to pack the court and so when they learned of it the morning that he announced it to the nation they were horrified. He called his cabinet in for a meeting revealed the plan to them called congressional leaders in for a meeting revealed it to them and then was wheeled into the Oval Office to announce it to the press. And so they were enraged that they had not been let in on this and they were horrified by the plan itself. So the plan as one of Roosevelt's advisors said began with a black eye and that was the disapproval of all of his top advisors almost all of his top advisors and the Congress. And when the congressional leaders got in their cars and were taken back that morning to Capitol Hill one of them turned to the others and said Boys here's where I cash in my chits. He was no longer going to support Roosevelt. And remarkably John Nance Garner who was Roosevelt's vice president went back with them to Capitol Hill stood in the well of the Senate and as the plan was read aloud to the senators Garner held his nose and gestured thumbsdown. So this was an incitement to rebellion and rebellion is very much what Roosevelt got.  You write that the Nazi press praised the idea of packing the court. What did the Nazi press have to say about it? Mr.  Well I think the Nazi press  it is hard for me to know what the motivation was but I think they were having a little bit of fun with Roosevelt. They would praise him to create trouble for him and they praised the centralization of power that they saw the plan as representing. The way they portrayed it and in fact the way that a lot of Roosevelt's conservative critics in America portrayed it was that this was another step towards centralizing power in his hands.  One of the things I found fascinating was that one of the people who supported packing the court was LBJ Lyndon Johnson who when he became president picked up where Roosevelt left off with Medicare and Medicaid. And LBJ was elected in 1937 and one of the things he ran on was packing the court. Mr.  LBJ ran for Congress in a special election in the spring of 1937 on a platform of courtpacking. He was trying to distinguish himself. He was a young guy. He was 28 29 years old and he was trying to distinguish himself as the most proRoosevelt candidate in a crowded field. They were all Roosevelt Democrats and he had somehow to get an edge over the other seven candidates in this race. And so he went as far as he possibly could to support Roosevelt and by embracing the courtpacking plan which was so controversial this was LBJ's way of saying I am with Roosevelt through thick and thin. Things are tough for Roosevelt right now but I am with him on the biggest problem that he is ever created for himself. And Roosevelt took notice of this remarkable young man in Texas who was running on courtpacking and Roosevelt was thrilled when Johnson won. He really took this as a sign that there was more support out there in the country for courtpacking than there really was. And so after LBJ had won Roosevelt arranges a meeting. Roosevelt was on a fishing trip off the Gulf Coast of Texas and arranged a meeting in Galveston with LBJ and there was a handshake photo which I reproduce in the book. It is a remarkable moment to see Roosevelt in his suit and a beaming Lyndon Johnson thrilled at this opportunity to meet his idol Franklin Roosevelt.  Jeff Shesol will be back in the second half of the show. His new book is called Supreme Power Franklin Roosevelt vs. the Supreme Court. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Im Terry Gross back with Jeff Shesol author of the new book Supreme Power Franklin Roosevelt vs. the Supreme Court. It is about how in 1937 FDR tried to reshape the court fearing that it was making reform impossible. It had struck down major parts of his New Deal legislation. It was the oldest court in history. Five of the nine justices were 74 or older. Roosevelt came up with a secret plan to add a younger justice for each justice over 70 who declined to retire. The maximum number of justices would be 15. The real goal was to pack the court with more liberal justices who would support the New Deal. Shesol was a speechwriter for the Clinton administration and is a founding partner of a speechwriting firm. So when this secret plan of Roosevelt's was unveiled how did the justices react and I should say here that as part of your research you were able to get access to correspondence between justices. Mr.  That is right. What you see is that even among Roosevelt's supporters on the court Brandeis Cardozo these great liberal justices and Harlan Fiske Stone there was horror at this plan. They didnt like the precedent that they thought it would set. They didnt like the idea of turning the Supreme Court into what they felt would be essentially a political body  a kind of minilegislature. The more justices you added the more they felt that it would turn into a sort of small Congress with people lobbying for votes and so forth and trading votes on different cases and so forth. And they thought that it would be so awful in fact that a number of them considered resigning if the plan passed and some of them considered resigning on mass as the debate was unfolding.  So what finally killed FDR's plan to pack the court? Mr.  There were a series of blows. And one of the things that I enjoyed in writing about this are the remarkable twists and turns in this story all of the unexpected events that ultimately conspire against Roosevelt. I should pause to say here that despite all the forces that were lined up against Roosevelt the public was pretty evenly split on the plan through most of the sixmonth argument over the courtpacking bill. And so it wasnt out of the realm of possibility that Roosevelt with his incredible powers of persuasion might somehow pull it out. He might actually get if not six justices maybe four. That was a popular compromise alternative that was being floated by members of Congress. So it was possible that he was going to win. But then there were a series of events. Beginning with a public letter that Chief Justice Hughes wrote an open letter essentially to the Senate taking apart the plan. When Hughes decided that he couldnt testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee he thought well Ill write them an open letter and let them know what I think of the plan. This had a devastating effect. And then most significantly the court suddenly in the middle of the court fight begins to uphold the New Deal. In a couple of decisions in March and April of 1937 the court switches. The swing man in the middle a Justice named Owen Roberts suddenly starts voting with the liberals and with Hughes. And so they uphold a minimum wage that is virtually identical to the one that they knocked down a year before that. Then they uphold the National Labor Relations Act which is a landmark piece of labor legislation. They upheld both of these and they were described at the time as the switch in time that saved nine. It saved the nine justices from the Supreme Court from becoming 15 justices. And then one of the conservative justices in a very welltimed very deliberate move retires shortly after that giving Roosevelt his first chance to appoint a justice. So all of these things successively pull the legs out from under the plan and it ultimately collapses by the summer of 1937.  Although President Roosevelt failed to pack the court with liberals as he wanted to do by the time he died he would appointed nearly the whole court. How did it work out that way? Mr.  Roosevelt insisted to the end of his life that he had lost the battle as he put it meaning he didnt get to pack the court but he had won the war. The court changed. The court switched in the middle of the court fight began approving the New Deal and ushered in what even today is still called the Constitutional Revolution of 1937. Everything changed as a result. But really what transformed the court in the long term was as you indicated the Roosevelt appointees. Roosevelt had his first chance to appoint someone right at the tail end of the court fight. Justice Van Devanter one of the conservatives who had retired toward the end of the court fight was replaced by Hugo Black one of the great liberal jurists of the 20th century. And once this happened the conservatives on the court began to retire in pretty short succession. They felt that the gig was up essentially. They saw that the balance of power had been shifted decisively and they felt that ultimately there was no reason for them to stick around. They were old some of them were sick and so they begin to go. And by the time Roosevelt died in 1945 he had appointed eight of the nine justices on the Supreme Court. So it was truly a Roosevelt court and it defined the second half of the 20th century or most of it anyway.  Some people say we have the most conservative court since 1937 the year when FDR tried to pack the court with liberals. Do you agree? Mr.  I think there is a strong argument to be made that this court is as conservative in many ways as the court of the 1930s. There is an eagerness on the part some of the conservative justices today to overturn many decades of precedent as we saw in the Citizens United decision as we saw in the gun control case last year  District of Columbia vs. Heller. There is what conservatives would call an activism on the right on this court that really has been unmatched by any conservatives on the court since the 1930s. So yes I think that is a plausible case.  One of the parallels between FDR and Obama is that FDR had some of his New Deal legislation overturned by the Supreme Court declaring it unconstitutional. And I know there are many Republicans who would like to see for instance health care reform be challenged in the Supreme Court and be overturned by the Supreme Court same with some financial regulation and environmental regulation. Can you talk about the parallels you see? Mr.  Absolutely. I think what you had in the 1930s what President Roosevelt confronted was the reality that he could pass many things  much more freely than President Obama is going to be able to in this environment. But he could pass all manner of legislation. He had big majorities in both houses of Congress. But ultimately he had to run the gauntlet of the Supreme Court that these big changes in government and in the economy would have to be ratified by the third branch of government. And that is very much true today. President Obama fought a very tough battle over the last year and more over the health care legislation. He managed as we all know to get it through the Congress. But ultimately the debate is not done and conservatives are carrying that argument from the Congress into the courtrooms just as they did in the 1930s.  FDR opposed the aging court. You said in 1937 the average age of a Supreme Court justice was 71. And so Roosevelt's plan was to add a younger justice for every justice over 70 who had not retired. Now it is the liberal justices who are the older justices. Best example being Justice Stevens who is turning 90 later this month and of course just announced his plan to retire and will soon be replaced. So I just find that kind of an ironic twist. Mr.  It is an ironic twist and I think that it also points up some of the problems with Roosevelt's argument that age does not define ideology. And even though Roosevelt looked at what he called the nine old men of the Supreme Court and suggested that the older justices were falling out of touch with reality the oldest justice on that court in the 1930s was Brandeis the great liberal justice. And this was pointed out with glee by many of Roosevelt's appointments. How can you tar all of the old justices with the same brush they said and when the oldest on the court is Brandeis? So you dont hear anything like that today. You hear concern on the part of progressives in this country that Justice Stevens and the other liberals are more likely to leave the court soon than any of the conservatives are. But I think weve I think come a long way since the 1930s when that argument was made so forcefully by Franklin Roosevelt.  If youre just joining us my guest is Jeff Shesol. He is the author of the book Supreme Power Franklin Roosevelt vs. the Supreme Court. Let us take a short break here. This is FRESH AIR.   If youre just joining us my guest is Jeff Shesol. He is the author of the new book Supreme Power Franklin Roosevelt vs. the Supreme Court. And its about how FDR tried to pack the court with liberals in 1937. Now you were a speechwriter for President Clinton. And since youve worked as a speechwriter and since youve studied FDR's speeches in writing this book and I should mention youve also written a book called 'Mutual Contempt about the bad relationship between President Johnson and Robert Kennedy. I want to talk with you a little bit about speechwriting. How do you think speechwriting has changed from FDR's time to now? I mean one thing I will say is that I think presidents are much more conversational now in their speeches. Mr.  I think that is right. I think most presidents are more conversational. But I think that actually looking back its really Roosevelt who developed the conversational style of speechmaking.  The fireside chat thing? Mr.  Absolutely. And I think Reagan who grew up very fond of Roosevelt considered himself as many people know at the time as a Roosevelt Democrat. Reagan really absorbed this. And so the conversational style that Reagan had in office and that I think subsequent presidents including the president I served President Clinton this really goes back to FDR. I think one of the big changes between speechmaking  presidential speechmaking in Roosevelt's time and our time is that the demands are so much greater on our current presidents. We expect them to have something to say about just about everything every day. And so we expect to be hearing a couple of speeches by President Obama each and every day. And if he doesnt fill this slot in the news then someone else will fill it and he will be attacked for creating a vacuum as he was last summer during the health care debate. And so Roosevelt was able to take much more care I think than presidents are able to do today because he had more time really to think about the kind of speech that he would deliver and the words generally would have more impact because the speeches were less frequent.