 Wellmeaning parents today often unintentionally hurt their children by focusing too much on their children's happiness or achievements according to my guest Richard Weissbourd. He is the author of the new book The Parents We Mean to Be. He is a child and family psychologist on the faculty of Harvard. His earlier book The Vulnerable Child was named by the American School Board Journal as one of the top 10 education books of all time. Weissbourd is the father of three children. Richard Weissbourd welcome to FRESH AIR. Your book is about how wellintentioned adults can undermine children's moral and emotional development. What do we even mean when we say moral development? Dr.  Well I think when we are talking about moral development we are really talking about number of moral capacities. We are talking about moral reasoning you know your ability to think through moral problems. We are talking about your sense of justice and you know developing a sense of fairness and justice your sense of caring your sense of responsibility. We are talking also about social and emotional capacities. You know the capacity to help other people without patronizing them or to give feedback constructively  these day to day social skills that I think are very much a part of morality. So that is mainly the kinds of things that I am talking about. I would just also say that I think as a culture we are very focused on moral literacy on whether or not kids know the values or whether kids know what is right from wrong. But one of the things you see is by the time kids are five or six years old they basically know the values. You know they basically know what right and wrong is. And you know the bigger issue is really having those values be internalized having those values be a part of the self a part of the child's identity. So those values become more important than their moment to moment happiness at a given moment or they are able to stand up for those values even if it has a cost to themselves. So you know I think our focus should not be on moral literacy. I think it should be on this much deeper issue of moral identity.  I heard a lot of parents say with pride that their child is like their best friend. You do not think that is really a very good thing? Why not? Dr.  Well you know on the whole I think it is a very positive trend that parents want to be close to their kids. I mean I think it is a wonderful trend. I mean parents are sharing more with their kids they are listening to their kids they are spending more time with their kids. But you know I am also worried about it in some respects. You know for one thing some parents when they treat their kids as their best friends become dependent on their kids and emotionally dependent on their kids. And it is much harder to discipline or to make demands or to create high moral expectations when you are dependent on your kids. We also you know let our kids separate from us. I mean that is critical for them emotionally and morally to be able to separate from us. And when we are dependent on them when they are our best friends that is harder to do. And you know just I think the final thing I will say about it is that you know kids need to idealize us. And that is really the way in which they internalize our values that is the way they adopt our values. And if we are their best friend we are treating them like we are equals. And I think it can undermine that process of idealization.  Now a lot of the parents of the children are the baby boomers and I am wondering if you see any  I know that we are getting into generalization here but if you see any generational differences between baby boom parents and the children of baby boom  how they behave with parents? Dr.  You know I think there are some differences between the baby boom generation and this generation of parents. I think there is  I mean to some extent this is certainly true in the baby boom generation of parents but there is a very high focus among this generation of parents on their kids' momenttomoment feelings which I think is somewhat different. I mean this is one of the things that you see on playgrounds a lot. You see parents who you know  and I do not want cartoon parents here because it certainly is not true with all parents. But you see parents who are noting their kids' moods every five or ten minutes you know saying that must make you frustrated or that must make you angry or that must make you sad you know sort of like pulling a bandage off every five minutes to see if the wound is healing. And so I do think there is that kind of close monitoring of kids' feeling's going on. And you know in some respects this is a good thing that parents are trying to help their kids articulate their feelings. But at the level it is going on I think it can be irritating and stultifying and intrusive. And  Why? Dr.  at this level.  Yeah. Dr.  Well yeah. I mean I think it is just sort of breaks down spontaneous play if parents are noting every five or ten minutes how kids are feeling. And it is just very unrelaxing for kids. And you know I think also sometimes kids  have to just work out these feelings on their own terms. So you know again I do not want to  I am not  I am all for parents helping kids to express their feelings and doing it when these feelings are prolonged. I am worried about some parents and the frequency of it.  When I was growing up if you were away from home and away from your parents you are out of reach for that amount of time. But now between cell phones and texting parents and children can be in constant communication. And I wonder you know as a parent and as an observer an expert on parentchild relations how you think that is changing relationships? Dr.  Well you know I just think it depends. You know I just think the amount of contact you have with your kid is really not a good barometer of closeness or healthiness. Some kids really do not want much contact with their parents and that can be absolutely fine. They want to be independent and that is great. And other kids want a lot of contact and they want a certain kind of intimacy and that can be great as well. You know I do worry some about parent's micro managing and hovering too much. And they have been in cell phone contact is a way in which they are micro managing and hovering you know that is not a good thing. You know I was visiting a college with my son and you know parents were asking me questions like  you know this was during an admissions process we were just doing a tour of the college and parents were asking questions like  is there a rotating shower schedule and does the washing machine take cards or coins. I mean there is a level of micro managing that goes on that gets pretty nutty sometimes. But again I do not think frequency of contact is really the barometer of closeness.  Another thing you worried about is parents who try to be an authority figure and a therapist to their child at the same time. What is the conflict there? Dr.  Well you know I think  again I think sometimes kids really need to work out their anger towards their parents on their own terms. And you know being a therapist means you know listening to your kid and sometimes helping your kid process their feelings that is a great thing. But if we are talking about young kids and where you know kids are four or five or six years old and kids were getting angry at their parents and their parents are trying in the moment to help their kids' process their feelings for them I mean sometimes that is very appropriate. But I think as a parent you just have to be very careful that it is not about protecting you. It is not about securing you because you are worried about  as you cannot bear your child being angry at you. Because that you are doing it because you feel like this is a very important moment for kids to process their feelings. Because kids you know will get angry at you sometimes and they do have to work out their anger in their way.  And you think that sometimes by playing the role of therapist you are basically trying to explain to rationalize your own treatment of a child and get them to agree that you were right.  Dr.  Sometimes yeah.  should not be angry at you. Dr.  Yeah. You know sometimes I think that is right. You are trying to get your child to agree they should not be angry at you or that you have a they have a good reason for being angry at you. And you know sometimes they are just angry. You know they have to leave the park and they have to leave the pool and they are angry and do not get over it and it does not really need to be discussed.  My guest is Harvard psychologist Richard Weissbourd author of the book The Parents We Mean to Be. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.  If you are just joining us my guest is child and family psychologist Richard Weissbourd and his new book is called The Parents We Mean to Be How WellIntentioned Adults Undermine Children's Moral and Emotional Development. You know you write in your book how parents are often obsessed with their children's happiness but sometimes by elevating happiness as the most important thing there are other really important values that get demoted in the process. Could you describe your concerns there? Dr.  Well yeah. I mean I think it is a concern about happiness and about selfesteem and I just you know think in a daytoday way there are subtle ways in which we all prioritize our kids' happiness over their caring for others or their taking responsibility for others. And you know on playgrounds you see parents who are very attuned to how their kids are doing momenttomoment but they are not helping  and again not all parents  but they are not helping their kids you know reach out to a friendless kid on the playground or they are letting their kid interrupt a group of older kids during a game. You know they are not helping their kids tune into other kids. And you know with my own kids I feel like you know there have been times where I have not insisted that they will not return phone calls from friends or I have let them write off kids that were annoying or You know one of the examples I  stories I talked about in the book is a couple who has you know they have a junior in high school and she is thinking about whether or not she wants to quit the soccer team she is not enjoying it anymore. And the mother says you know you should quit. It is not fun for you anymore. And the father says but you know it is important for your college resume. But neither of them are thinking about the team and you know her obligations to the team. And so I just worry we are off whack with this we are rather balance. And our focus you know in these ways becomes very much on our individual kids' well being and not on their sense of responsibility for others. And the irony is that you know I feel like if our kids are able to tune in and focus and care about other people they are going to have better relationships their whole lives. So they are going to be better parents. They are going to better grandparents. They are going to be better friends to people. I mean this is the foundation for lifelong happiness. So in the end I think you know the focus on our individual kids' happiness is not only going to make them less moral but its going to less  make them less happy in the end.  For years you have been writing about the overemphasis on selfesteem and in our new book you write that Americans have become intoxicated with the power of selfesteem. What are some of the ways that educators and parents have been using to try to build selfesteem that you are concerned about? Dr.  Well one of them is praise. And you know praise for real accomplishment is very important praise for effort real effort is very important. But again I think that you see an excess of praise. I mean you see a kind of steady stream of praise sometimes. And in schools and you see it with parents on playgrounds. You know not long  I was watching a father and a son play catch with a ball. And every single time the kid threw the ball or caught the ball the father praised it and when the kid dropped the ball he said nice try. And there are sports programs that are advocating you know that you praise kids five times for every time you criticize them. And you know again I think it is very important to praise kids but you know one of things that happens is I think at some point kids feel like this praise is meaningless that it is vapid. I think sometimes when they are getting praised a lot they can also feel patronized by it. Like why do adults need to keep propping me up? When you are praising kids all the time you are also judging them all the time. And you know so I think kids feel like their performance is at stake. And there is this research that says that you know kids who are feeling that their performance is at stake all the time and who are praised a lot can get very competitive and very threatened by other kids. And I  I just think its important that we think  that we are mindful about why we are  when we are praising a lot about why we are doing it and really think about it you know how kids are responding. And think about you know is this about real accomplishment and is this about real effort.  So you  your concern in part is that we are trying to build self esteem by praise. But that  that is not necessarily going to build durable self esteem. What do you think will? Dr.  I think the chain here is I think we think the praise among other things will build self esteem and then self esteem will build character. You know I think self esteem primarily comes from confidence you know from being good at things good at things at school. You know having social competence and I think it also comes from virtue from acting virtuously if that something gets valued in your family or community. I think it  it comes from having good relationships too. You know close relationships in which you really appreciate it. So you know I think if we focus on helping kids develop those things they are going to be in much better shape. You know rather than happiness or self esteem being the goal one of the things I am arguing in the book is that I think it makes sense for maturity to be the goal. And you know if you if you think of maturity is the ability to take other peoples perspectives and to manage destructive feelings and to take criticism and to learn from it and to be self observing  you know I think those are the qualities in the end that you know are the basis for morality but I also think they are the basis for good relationships and for lasting well being and for  and for competence.  Well Richard Weissbourd I want to thank you very much for talking with us. Dr.  Oh it is great to be here.  Richard Weissbourd is the author of the new book The Parents We Mean to Be. He is a child and family psychologist who teaches at Harvard. You can download podcasts of our show on our Web site freshair.npr.org. I am Terry Gross. 