 Seth Rogen is starring in yet another new movie. It is called Observe and Report and it is by North Carolina born writerdirector Jody Hill who had a cult hit in 2006 with the comedy The Foot Fist Way. He then went on to cocreate the HBO series Eastbound  Down with its star Danny McBride. In Hill's second feature Rogen plays a mall security guard who takes his job a little too seriously. The film costars Anna Faris and Ray Liotta. Film critic David Edelstein has this review.  Gonzo gun humor might not be what we are in the mood for after last week's spate of shootings but Jody Hill's Observe and Report is not just mindless fun with weaponry. About a half step below the surface it is scary as hell. It is the Taxi Driver of satirical farces. In Martin Scorsese's explosive drama Robert De Niro's Travis Bickle was a sponge for all the bad vibes of New York City in the 1970's. He obsessed over a blonde who was out of his league and then he went nuts and assumed the role of vigilante avenger. In Observe and Report we have Seth Rogen's head of mall security Ronnie Barnhardt. He soaks up all suburbia's bad vibes obsesses over a blonde who is out of his league and then goes nuts and assumes the role of vigilante avenger. We laugh at this guntoting savior in his own mind but he is too out of control for comfort. The movie opens with an overweight man rushing up to women in the mall parking lot spreading his rain coat and gleefully showing off his family jewels. A short time later Rogen's Ronnie now on the hunt for the flasher says to himself part of me thinks this disgusting pervert is the best thing that ever happened to me. Of course the creep is virtually Ronnie's doppelganger. He is not only given Ronnie's life a focus. He is given him license to show off his own family jewels metaphorically. The night after the flasher has accosted Brandi the lissome blonde cosmetics clerk played by Anna Faris Ronnie takes advantage of the opening to scoop her up in a security golf cart and press his case.  Mr.   Brandi Brandi Brandi Brandi. Hey Brandi I am going out a scenario for you You me free dinner you fill in the rest with the answer yes. Ms.   Oh my God. Mr.   What? Ms.   Where are you going? Mr.   What? Sorry the brakes. Someone cut the brakes. Ms.   Oh my God. Mr.   I cannot stop. I am just joking. I can stop but I am not going to unless you agree to go to dinner with me. Unidentified Man   Well better say yes and tell him what you want to eat for dinner. Ms.   Fine. . Mr.  It cannot be overemphasized. Ronnie is in the top tier of unattractive heroes. Whether he is putting unwanted moves on Brandi harassing a Muslim lotion vendor tasering people who park in loading docks or interfering with the detective played by Ray Liotta who is investigating both the flasher and the series of mall robberies. In Observe and Report director Hill piles on unpleasantries as if testing our need to identify with the man with a gun or taser. Hill seems genuinely fascinated by minidespots. His first comedy The Foot Fist Way focused on a bullying marshal arts instructor played by Danny McBride. It was only after this peewee authoritarian was thoroughly humiliated by bigger authoritarians that we began to sympathize with him. This macho blowhard was in some ways a casualty of a macho blowhard culture. Observe and Report's Ronnie is a casualty too. He is never known his father and his loving mother is prodigiously drunk. He is on strong psychoactive medication. He lives in a world that prizes guns and the people who use them. He works in a mall and eats fast food everyday at the food court. It is amazing he is as functional as he is. Hill hits what seems like a bad taste peek early on. A scene in which Ronnie takes advantage of an ostensibly unconscious alcohol and drug addled vomit flecked Brandi and just keeps climbing. When Ronnie and the number two security guard played by Michael Pena embark on an orgy of drug taking and authoritarian violence against unarmed civilians the air in the theater feels dangerously thin. This is comedy? It is with this cast all of them near geniuses. Anna Faris draws out her words as if hysterically entranced by her own blondeness. Her hyperventilations are exquisite. Liotta uses that eerie tension between his teenage delinquent complexion and girlish eyes to make you laugh before he opens his mouth. And Rogen even if he is in every other movie these days still has surprises in him. The only reason there is no body count here is because Observe and Report is when all is said and done a comedy. But what a comedy. Behind that bland neutral title is a mighty volcano of psychosexual mayhem. A carnival funhouse mirror of our culture's love affair with violence.  David Edelstein is film critic for New York Magazine. You can download podcasts of our show at freshair.npr.org. For Terry Gross I am Dave Davies. 