 This is FRESH AIR. Like many of us our critic at large John Powers has been stuck at home. We asked what new TV shows and books have kept him distracted.  The Russian poet Joseph Brodsky once said that prison is a lack of space counterbalanced by a surplus of time. Of course our current lockdown is not nearly so bad as being locked up but with so much surplus time on our hands many of us are eager for stories that will help us escape endless thoughts of coronavirus. Here are three that did that for me. The desire for escape underlies the appeal of Unorthodox the fourpart Netflix series that has viewers whooshing through it in a single night. Loosely based on a memoir by Deborah Feldman it stars the electric Israeli actress Shira Haas as 19yearold Esther Esty Shapiro who flees her husband and their tight Hasidic community in Williamsburg Brooklyn jetting off to Berlin where a group of music students take her under their wing. Meanwhile she is pursued by her mama'sboy husband Yanky played by Amit Rahav and his cousin Moische  that is Jeff Willbusch  who is something of a thug. What exactly is he planning to do with that gun? Here early on Esty is driving with her new friends who are quite different from the folks back home.    Where are you from Esty?   New York.   You do not sound like you are from New York.   Never been anywhere else. Where are you from?   Yemen. But I grew up near Munich.   And I am from Israel. Axmed's from Nigeria. Clemens' German but your parents came from...   Poland.   Poland right. And Robert's the only one of us who is actually from Berlin. So he can answer all your burning questions about the war.   My grandparents lost their whole families in the camps.   So did half of Israel. But we are too busy defending our present to be sentimental about our past.  Unorthodox is an uncommonly seductive show because for both good and ill it feels like pure Hollywood. On the bad side it ignores or fudges every hard question about Esty's motivations or religious practice and its swooning portrait of attractive multicultural Berlin  director Maria Schrader is German  could have been commissioned by that city's tourist board. Yet like a good Hollywood movie Unorthodox moves along so briskly boasts such terrific acting and offers enough surprises that you sink easily into its upbeat tale of a woman who escapes into a glorious new future. The future has come and failed in Baghdad Central a gripping new noir series on Hulu. Set shortly after the 2003 invasion of Iraq it centers on Muhsin alKhafaji  played by the wonderful Americanborn Arab actor Waleed Zuaiter  a former Baghdad police inspector whose world has collapsed. His rebellious daughter Sawsan has gone missing. His sweet daughter desperately needs dialysis and he has no job. Then a Brit named Frank Temple  that is amusing Bertie Carvel  offers Khafaji's daughter medical care if he will work as a cop for occupation forces. Khafaji soon finds himself threatened on three fronts  by the slippery Temple by an arrogant American military honcho well played by Corey Stoll and by his fellow Iraqis who despise him for collaborating. Based on a novel by Elliott Colla Baghdad Central takes a wellworn scenario an honorable cop caught in deadly circumstances and uses it to show us something new. Uprooting the usual Arab stereotypes it explores how the occupation was experienced by its supposed beneficiaries. As Khafaji travels around Baghdad the series depicts things we have not seen  the way daily life became nearly impossible in occupied Iraq the reason some Iraqis collaborated while others did not and how the Coalition bungled things so badly that Iraqis thought of Americans as fools and incompetents not as liberators. For his part Khafaji has a clear plan as he tells his hospitalized daughter.    Yesterday I was a terrorist. Now I am an official.   You will be a collaborator.   Yes. No matter. I will work for them for as long as it takes to make you well and for as long as it takes me to find Sawsan. And then we will leave.  Leaving is also the dream of Gina Vitay the spoiled 15yearold heroine of Abigail a 50yearold Hungarian novel by the late Magda Szabo best known for her staggeringly great novel The Door. The scene is World War II Hungary and Gina is a general's daughter who is abruptly shunted from her family's elegant Budapest home to the Bishop Matula Academy a hyper strict religious girls school in the provinces. Entitled and arrogant she is been compared to Jane Austen's Emma Woodhouse. Gina instantly runs afoul of her fellow students suffers the disapproval of the gorgeous but strict Sister Susanna and plots her escape back to her adored father. She feels like a prisoner. It sounds a bit dreary I know. Yet in Len Rix's superb translation Abigail is a delightful page turner. There is an air of enchantment about the school. The book takes its title from a statue that supposedly grants the students' wishes. And Gina begins to have adventures  some quite funny others that bring tears to your eyes. Abigail is beloved in Hungary where it even became a musical and it is easy to see why. Rather like Huckleberry Finn it tells the story of a frivolous young person gaining moral awareness by an encounter with painful truths. During her months of confinement in the school Gina learns the fallibility of her own judgment the worthiness of other people heroes are not always those you expect them to be and the existence of a historical world outside the bubble she is been living in. With luck my own months of confinement may make me a bit wiser too.  John Powers reviewed Unorthodox  which is streaming on Netflix  Baghdad Central streaming on Hulu and the novel Abigail. Tomorrow on u getting bored with your own cooking yet? We will talk about cooking at home at a time of social isolation with Sam Sifton of The New York Times. He is been the paper's restaurant critic its food editor and he is now writing about how to make interesting dishes with whatever you find in your kitchen. He has a new cookbook called See You On Sunday. I hope you will join us.   FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit Phyllis Myers Sam Briger Lauren Krenzel Heidi Saman Therese Madden Mooj Zadie Thea Chaloner and Seth Kelley. Our associate producer of digital media is Molly SeavyNesper. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham. Roberta Shorrock directs the show. I am Terry Gross.  