 The director David Gordon Green and writer and actor Danny McBride have been friends since their college days in North Carolina. They collaborated on the stoner comedy Pineapple Express which featured James Franco. Now the three have reunited in Your Highness an Rrated comedy set in the Middle Ages which also stars Natalie Portman. Film critic David Edelstein has this review.  The humor in the medieval swordandsorcery spoof Your Highness is low lower than  it is hard to find an adequate simile the deepest rankest pits of Adam Sandlershire the filthiest pools of Kevin Smithport. The crude and gratuitous sexual references cease only during battle scenes featuring geysers of gore and even then there are things involving say minotaur anatomy of which I cannot speak here. What makes Your Highness such a riot is that it is all played  well I will let you hear how it is played. This James Franco as the gallant crown prince Fabious who is embarked on a quest to rescue his fiancee Belladonna played by Zooey Deschanel from Justin Theroux's villainous Leezar. He is accompanied by his pudgy brother Prince Thadeous the protagonist a cowardly braggart and incorrigible lech and played by the movie's star and cowriter Danny McBride.  Mr.   It is a gift from Belladonna a symbol of her virgin purity. I hold it and savor it. Mr.   You do that instead of have sex with her? Mr.   Belladonna is not like any maiden in the kingdom. When I first heard her voice a tear came to my eye. And that tear turned to ice and I kept that frozen tear far from my heart that burns with passion. Mr.   Just say we are too late and Leezar has had his way with her. Would you still be able to be with her? Mr.   I do not want to think about that. Mr.   But just say that we were moments late and he was able to get her cookies. Mr.   Shut up.  The first thing to observe is that Franco plays it straight. His Fabious is hearty and generousnatured every inch the medieval knight with just a whiff of dreamy surfer cool. And McBride plays it straight too in the sense that Thadeous speaks earnestly his diction formal apart from the odd insertion of disgusting slang and that he is believably consumed from morning till night with either having or talking about sex. What is missing is camp  the wink and the leer the fey exaggeration that was once the province of drag shows and is now the stuff of mainstream sitcoms. McBride Franco and director David Gordon Green love the swordandsorcery genre as much as they love making a travesty of it so Your Highness actually works as an actionadventure picture a cunning weave of low and high regal and smutty splendiferous and splattery with grand settings and special effects both awesome and a shade tacky. Franco is a marvel  as he often is outside certain awards shows  and he would have walked off with the picture if not for a couple of genius clowns among them a skinny rubberfaced performer named Rasmus Hardiker as Thadeous's servant. But Your Highness belongs to actor and writer Justin Theroux. His evil wizard has the requisite grand manner  the sculpted gestures the thunderous elocution  until he tips into hysteria and gives you a glimpse of the embittered nerd beneath. He is so unhinged he is actually scary. Then there is Natalie Portman as Isabel a fearless warrior crack archer and fiery avenger who joins the knights midway through the picture and shortly thereafter takes a seminaked swim. Frankly Portman comes off like a middling highschool actress her voice thin her accent wobbly. It is hard to tell if she is acting badly or playing the kind of bad actress you see in B movies of this ilk. Whichever it works like gangbusters. She looks fetching in her Robin Hood getup and has the perfect swiftyettinny cadences for fending off McBride's Thadeous by the campfire.  Mr.   What exactly is your problem? You cannot even enjoy yourself for one moment? Ms.   My quest affords me no such luxury. Mr.   Not even on the tender night like this? The moon's glimmering. Ms.   On a night just like this I returned home from a hunt to find a bloodbath. Nothing remained of my six beloved brothers. I wear this bracelet forged of the seal of their shields for constant reminder of my vow to avenge them. Mr.   My only advice would just be to keep your head up hang in there live every day to the fullest. Have sex as much as you can by campfire when you are all alone and your brother is out gathering wood. Just simple things like that.  I love this movie but be warned It is a long way from the sophisticated Oxbridge silliness of Monty Python and the Holy Grail or the Jewish Catskills drollery of The Princess Bride. In his zest to show the dark side of machismo McBride is often merely gross. But if you yourself are a grossminded juvenile or like well me Your Highness delivers on its title It gives you a royal high.  David Edelstein is film critic for New York magazine.   You can join us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter nprfreshair. And you can download podcasts of our show at freshair.npr.org. 