 This is FRESH AIR. The Norwegian writer Karl Ove Knausgaard has won comparisons to Marcel Proust for his long autobiographical novel My Struggle. This sixvolume series is being published in English translation by Archipelago Books. Since 2012 they have been releasing one volume a year. Book four has just come out. Our criticatlarge John Powers has read the 1915 pages of My Struggle published so far and he says you should not let its length scare you off.  It seems like there is always some writer you are supposed to be reading. These days it is Karl Ove Knausgaard the 46yearold Norwegian whose sixvolume 3600page autobiographical novel My Struggle has become a literary sensation. Over the last couple of years I have not been able to go to a social gathering without someone asking what I thought of his work. When I have said that I had not read a word they would look genuinely startled and tell me you have to. Well I finally gave in a few weeks ago and was abashed to discover that one of Knausgaard's trademark themes is his disdain for the sheeplike souls who do exactly what everyone else is doing. Oh well. Still I am happy that I succumbed. You see My Struggle which is heroically welltranslated by Don Bartlett is surely the grand monument to our selfieabsorbed times. In its ambition narcissism and exhausting exhaustiveness the book feels like the culmination of our current obsession with the memoir. Now one feels a tad silly talking about My Struggle in a short review. I have one word for every 27 pages I have read. But luckily Knausgaard's project is not arcane. He tells you the story of his life from his boyhood on a small Norwegian island to his current existence as a writer and married father of four living in Sweden. He gives us his fear and hatred of his domineering father his feeling of being an unmanly outsider in high school his love for  and battles with  his Swedish wife Linda and much much much more. What makes his book extraordinary is not what happens which could not be more familiar or ordinary. It is that Knausgaard aims to capture the unending blizzard of feelings objects people and situations that make up a life. At the same time like Proust the inevitable point of comparison he hopes to shape all this stuff into a form that gives his experience a larger meaning. To that end he plays hopscotch with time place and mood. Volume one begins with a highfalutin riff on death moves into a hundredpage account of underage Karl and a pal sneaking beer for New Year's Eve and builds to the burial of his father in one of the unforgettable sequences in contemporary literature. In contrast the comparatively lighthearted volume four is filled with boozing and sexual embarrassment. No writer has ever admitted to quite so many premature ejaculations. Knausgaard's confident directness has won him raves from scads of star writers who clearly see new possibilities for their own writing in his books. They especially admire the ways he is not like them. He is earnest not cute bouncy or ironic. He is not afraid to use cliches and does not polish every sentence like a new Lamborghini. Unlike most novelists who feel they must compete with video games and Game Of Thrones he does not kill himself trying to make every moment exciting. There may be something Oedipal in this. In volume three Knausgaard revealingly notes that one of his dad's unbearable qualities was purging any situation of everything that had no direct relevance to what they were doing. If they were going somewhere Dad drove there grimly fast. If they ate it was only because food is necessary. Knausgaard's own vision of life is almost the opposite. I have never read a good novelist who deliberately included so many things that serve no evident point. For him such unfiltered inclusiveness does justice to the cluttered density of experience and it gives his work a strong hypnotic pull. In calling his book My Struggle Knausgaard daringly echoes Hitler's Mein Kampf which I am told he talks about at length in volume six. But he is not being flip with this title the way an American writer would be. The book actually is about his struggle with his father with death with his muse with his feelings of inadequacy with the dreariness of a daily life that offers teasing glimpses of transcendence. If this sounds a bit grandiose it is. Yet Knausgaard is not a difficult writer like Proust Joyce or David Foster Wallace. He is pointedly unliterary. Anyone can understand what he is writing. And paradoxically enough his honest obsessive selfabsorption makes his life feel universal. As I was reading every single subject that came up in my daily living  parents politics education Italian food trees even David Byrne reminded me of something in Knausgaard. His work makes you realize that each and every one of our lives contains rich enough material for a long daunting book called My Struggle.  John Powers writes about film and television for Vogue and vogue.com. He reviewed the four volumes published in English of My Struggle by Karl Ove Knausgaard. Tomorrow on our show we will talk about the California drought and water wars with journalist Mark Arax who is writing a book on the subject. His family farmed in the San Joaquin Valley but his father gave up farming and opened a small chain of grocery stores. Then he opened a nightclub where he was murdered in 1972. Arax spent years investigating his father's murder. We will talk about that too. 