 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. When Henry Winkler accepted his Emmy Award last September for his performance in the HBO dark comedy series Barry he said...   I only have 37 seconds. I wrote this 43 years ago.    OK.  The 43 years ago is a reference to when he became known for his role on Happy Days as Arthur Herbert Fonzarelli aka Fonzie aka The Fonz a networksitcom version of a cool guy with slicked back hair a motorcycle and a leather jacket who could attract girls with a snap of his fingers. Since then he is been in movies and TV shows including recurring roles in Parks And Recreation and Arrested Development. In Barry  which is now in its second season and just got renewed for a third  Winkler plays Gene Cousineau a selfimportant acting teacher who sees himself as a wise experienced mentor. One of his students Barry is played by Bill Hader an alum of Saturday Night Live who cocreated the series. Gene tries to get his students to draw on their emotional truths but Barry is hiding his truth. He is a veteran who fought in Afghanistan and after returning home used the skills he learned to become a hit man. He first came to the acting class on assignment to kill one of the students. Someone else ended up taking care of that. But Barry becomes increasingly drawn to acting and wants to stay in the class and change his life. Here's a scene from last Sunday's episode. Gene is having his students tell their own stories for a show he is putting together. Barry reluctantly reveals a little about himself and tells the story of the first time he shot and killed someone in Afghanistan. Gene is so moved by Barry's story and so unaware of what Barry is still hiding he tries to convince Barry to tell the Afghanistan story onstage. But Barry tries to get out of having to do it. Here's Henry Winkler as Gene Cousineau and Bill Hader as Barry.    Mr. Cousineau I do not really have to tell the story I told yesterday in front of an audience do I?   Of course not.   Good. Thank you.   No. That version is just the beginning. See during rehearsal  and this is just my instinct  you are going to find more complicated expletive up details. Those we have to hear.   Right. But you know you said that this is a story that has to define us and I just  I do not think that is the person that I am.   Barry you are justifiably nervous.   Yeah.   But I will not hear a word about switching it out one iota for something less compelling. You sir are doing Afghanistan.   See I wanted to do the story about meeting you.   Go on.   Yeah. You know being in this class and seeing you teach and...   So you want to tell the story of meeting me?   Yeah.   I will allow it.   Good. That is great. That is great. I think it will be way better than Afghanistan.   I can be as involved as you need me to be in order to craft this piece or I can stay on the sidelines. I totally understand. Either way is fine.   OK. I do not think I need...   But who would know more about me than me?   That is a good point but I do not think you need to be involved at all. You know? I was there. I remember.   I have scrapbooks.   Cool.   If you need 'em.   Hmm.   I have got diaries. I have got pictures. I have got tapes. Barry I have got a lot of tapes.   I think I am good Mr. Cousineau. Thank you.  . Henry Winkler welcome to FRESH AIR. You are terrific in this role. I am so glad to have you on our show.  Thank you.  So your character Gene is so intent on getting truthful performances from the students and have them dig deep into their souls. But he is also so narcissistic and wrapped up in the mystique he is tried to create around himself in this little class. This must have made you think a lot about some of the best and worst acting teachers you had now that you are playing an acting teacher. Have you kind of gone back to look at your past and your acting teachers?  I have. I have had about 14 teachers from Emerson College to Yale Drama School just in between those seven years. And what was amazing is that some of them were inspirational. Some of them were mean. Some of them lost their way. And some of them had nothing to say.  What is one of the worst acting exercises you were obligated to do when you were a student?  I did an exercise with one of my favorite teachers. His name was Bobby Lewis. He was a member of the Group Theatre. Bobby Lewis had us pick a painting pick a character in the painting get some element of clothing that represented that character take the pose step out of the pose and create who you thought that person was. I am so dyslexic. I got my piece of costume. I struck my pose. I stood there. And he said is there any reason you are mirror opposite to what is in the painting? I said no I am not. There is no reason at all. And I just turned around and immediately struck the pose in the other direction. And he started to cry. He said you are making a mockery of my work. And I had no idea what he was talking about.  Wow. That seems really harsh.  Except that he was the man  to be honest most of what I know most of what I use in my well of education comes from the great Bobby Lewis.  So do you attribute this like mirror reverse thing that you were doing to the dyslexia?  I do. I had no idea. And I of course had no sense of self at that time. I was an unrefrigerated bowl of Jello just before it congeals. I just thought well that is it. My career is over. My  they are going to kick me out of school.  So is that an example of bad teaching when you kind of ruin somebody's  when you lower somebody's selfesteem even lower than it already was? Is that    is that helpful?  You know what? I think a lot of acting teachers they talk about breaking bad habits. They talk about breaking you down. And I totally get that. But I have also  I have taught four classes in my life. And I think you can get an actor to move off their position or her position without making them feel like poop from a whale at the bottom of the ocean.  And by the way you did not know you had dyslexia at the time.  I did not until I was 31.  And you found out at the age of 31 because...  Yes after my stepson was tested. Because he was so verbal and he is so smart but he could not do reports. He could not write. He could not organize his thoughts. And when we had him tested everything that they said about Jed was true about me. And I realized I am not a stupid dog. I actually have something with a name.  How was that helpful to have a diagnosis?  The first thing? I got very angry. Because all of the arguments in my house with the short Germans who were my parents were for naught. All of the grounding was for naught. Then I...  You mean punishment grounded. Like you are grounded?  Yes.  Yeah.  Yes. Like I could not go to the dance on Friday night.  Because your grades were not good?  Could not watch  my grades were horrible. I am in the bottom 3 percent academically in America. That is calculated. And then I went from all of that anger to I now understand possibly if I did not fight through my dyslexia I would not be sitting at this microphone chatting with you.  Right. So you really had to work hard to work through the dyslexia so you could learn your parts. I mean if reading is hard how are you going to memorize a part?  Well memorizing is different from the reading. The reading is still difficult for me. When we did Happy Days I embarrassed myself for 10 years reading around that table with the producers the other actors the director all of the department heads. On Monday morning we read the scripts. I stumbled over every word. I was completely embarrassed. Memorizing if it is written well my brain is then able to suck it up like a vacuum cleaner.  I want to play another scene from Barry. This is from the first season.  Yes.  And you the acting teacher has just found out that one of your students has been murdered.  Yes.  This happens to be the person that Barry  who is a hit man  and a student in your class  he came to your class because he was assigned to murder this guy but the guy was already murdered by the time Barry got there. Nevertheless it is weighing heavy on his soul .  Yeah.  So this is you talking to the class right...  Yes.  ...After you found out that your student Ryan has been murdered. And you are telling the students about it.  Yes.    Focus. Focus. Now I wish I could say that this was the first time that one of my students was gunned down in the street but it is not. And as much as it pains me to say it it is most likely not the last. So where do we go from here? I say we do what Ryan would have wanted us to do and we use it.   Sorry Mr. Cousineau what is that mean use it?   Use Ryan's death the way that you are feeling right this second  the sorrow the rage the terror. You know I use my past all the time in my work. If I want pure sorrow I call up Princess Diana's death or the day that my dad fell off the roof when I was a kid  kerplunk. Or the next day when he went right back up on that roof. Hi Dad.   I just thought since everyone was so bummed out maybe we could cheer ourselves up by playing characters and putting on some wigs?   Wigs?   Well...   This is not playtime Barry.   No.   This is not Cheers. I am not Sam Malone. You want to blow off steam? You do it after class.   No no. I know that. No. I am actually quitting my job so I can focus on this more.   That is great.   That is my guest Henry Winkler as the acting teacher and Bill Hader as his student who is also a hit man Barry. So I just love how like selfimportant and selfinvolved  your character is.  But that is in the class. That is in that theater that I own. Outside when I am auditioning I am just a poor schlub auditioning for the man in the back of the line.  So the advice that you know Gene your character gives to the class of like yeah we are all grieving the loss of Ryan who was a member of this class but let us use that grief.  Right.  Is that good advice to use this fresh shared grief as a kind of...  Well it is a part of the tool box of the actor. The only thing is that you do not talk about what feeds your emotional underlife. You latch on to something. You keep it. You imagine it. You use it in the play or the movie or the television show. But as soon as you give it a name as soon as you reveal what that emotional trigger is in your work you can never use it again. It will dissolve into dust.  But that is why some people hate talking to me .  Why?  Because I am asking things about their craft. And if some people really feel like you just said if you say what it is you are drawing on you have ruined it. But I know like some people feel and some actors feel the same way that some magicians feel like you do not tell how it is done...  No.  ...Because it ruins the magic.  Well not only does it ruin the magic  and so that is a magic trick  but I am talking about for you personally. If I am using something  my cat died and I always picture in my mind my cat and how I love that cat  and I do not particularly care for cats but  and I actually say to somebody well I draw on my cat to get me to that emotional place. You can never use the cat. As soon as you give words to your emotional well you cannot use it again.  OK. Let us take a short break here and then we will talk some more. If you are just joining us my guest is Henry Winkler. And he costars in the HBO series Barry which is now back with Season 2. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Henry Winkler. And he now stars as an acting teacher in the HBO comedy series Barry which is also a drama series and it is on Sunday nights. Season 2 is now underway. So how did you get the part in Barry?  My wife and I had just left an estate planning meeting. I did not understand one word...  .  ...That the two people in the office were talking about.  That is not your dyslexia .  Yes.  I do not know but I really did not get it. And all I kept saying was yes that sounds like a great idea  and oh yes the kids are taken care of. That is good. And then we were driving down Ventura Boulevard. I got a call in the car from my thenagent Iris  who said they want you to come in. You are on a short list. It is Bill Hader. I went Bill Hader Saturday Night Live. And it is HBO. HBO? And then I said OK. I am on a short list. Is Dustin Hoffman on that list? Because if he is I am not going in because he is getting it. They said no he is not on that list. I said OK. They sent me a script. Our youngest son Max who is a director directed me in the scenes for the audition...  Oh...  ...And it was very strict.  So you see  you said if Dustin Hoffman is on the list I am not doing it. Why did you think of Dustin Hoffman...  He is a movie star...  Well there is a lot of an movie stars.  He is an Oscar winner...  There is a lot of Oscar winners.  Yeah I know but you know...  Have you been up against roles...  We are about the same height.  OK. Did you ask why they thought of you?  I never did. I was so flummoxed that they wanted to see me  now I have to audition. I auditioned for Bill Hader. I made him laugh in the audition. Then you know you wait until someone calls you and then you  your entire nervous system starts to eat you alive.    And that is the truth. And then you get a call from Bill saying hey I just wrote two new scenes last night. Want to come in and play? And I thought no I really do not want to do that because maybe I will not be as good as I was the first time that made you call me the second. So  I said of course I want to come in. Just send me the script. So he wrote these two beautiful scenes. I now email them to Max our son. Max directs me on the phone. And I go in the next day. And now Alec Berg is there...  The cowriter...  ...His partner. But he is not just a cowriter. This man is like the creme de la creme of comedy in American television. You know he is Norwegian and he  his vest is so close. He  I think it is tattooed on. And he does not give anything away. And I made him smile. And I thought OK so this is it. I walk out of the room. I am walking down the stairs. There is a young lady there. Her name is Sarah Goldberg. I said oh you trying out for Barry? She said yes I am. I said you seem wonderful I wish you the best break a leg. And I left. And I lost my car in the parking lot.  .  And Sarah got the part. And I got the part. And Sarah is the star of my class.  Did you find your car?  Eventually I did.  I guess you were not paying attention.  That is  hello?  .  That is the watchword of my life.  OK. So you got a primetime Emmy...  I did...  ...For your performance as the acting teacher in Barry.  Yes.  Did it take a long time for you to unFonz yourself in the eyes of the industry?  Yes it did  not with me but yes. I literally thought I was going to beat the system. The Fonz was so popular in so many countries. I thought wow this is going to be  I am not going to be typecast. I am going to go from mountaintop to mountaintop. And then I had a rude awakening that you do not beat the system. And it took me maybe eight years after the Fonz to really get a good acting role. That is when I started producing. We did MacGyver and Sightings and So Weird and directing a little bit.  I want to talk a little bit about Happy Days. How would you describe the series and your character to people too young to have seen it?  It was a story about a family about the trials and tribulations of living together. It was set in the '50s where the music was great. And my character was a tough  a tough guy who rode a motorcycle wore a leather jacket and had a very soft heart.  Your character exuded confidence...  How did I do?  Good. Good.  Thank you.  I do not think you got to the more goofy parts of the character .  What would that be? In your mind.  OK. That he thought he was like it you know that he was just like the greatest most handsome...  Oh people treated him like that.  Right.  I do not know that he thought he was because when he  you know the first thing I said to the producers when they called me on my birthday in 1973 and said would you like to play this part? I said hey when he takes the leather jacket off  when he takes his jacket off who does he have to be cool for in his apartment? If you let me show the other side it would be my pleasure to play this character.  Did you really like tell them who the character needed to be before you accepted the part?  No. Not  you  I would not tell Garry Marshall rest his soul who I thought he had to be. But I put the character on and then they let me sew it on to my being.  My guest is Henry Winkler. He costars in the HBO dark comedy series Barry which is now in its second season. After a break we will talk more about the Fonz. And Henry Winkler will tell us about being the son of German Jews who got out of Germany just in time. And John Powers will talk about how Game Of Thrones has managed to become part of the global zeitgeist. The final season starts Sunday. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Henry Winkler who won an Emmy for his performance as a selfimportant acting teacher in the HBO dark comedy series Barry which is now in its second season Sunday nights and was just renewed for a third. When we left off we were talking about the role that first made him famous as The Fonz on the '70s sitcom Happy Days. So your character when he was in public and especially when he was around girls exuded confidence  a comic confidence but confidence.  Yes.  Confidence is something you told us you were greatly lacking in.  That is true.  Because of your dyslexia and because your father was always like punishing you and insulting you for not doing well in school...  Yes that is true.  Not realizing that it was because you had dyslexia. So was it  what was it like for you to be this comic character who just like exuded confidence? He would snap his finger and girls would like walk over to him. He was you know...  Yeah so here's my advice  never actually snap your finger in real life; women will break it off.   That is good advice.  Yes thank you. Yeah. But you know here  I got to be everybody that I was not. And I understood even then that the confidence I was feeling from the success of the character was cotton and if it  God forbid  rained the cotton would just squish into nothing.  What were some of the gestures or sounds or whatever including the finger snap that you came up with yourself that were not in the script?  Well the gestures were written aye was written. And I added...  It was? But then you had to figure out how to say it. I mean how was it spelled  AYYYexclamationpoint or something?  Yeah right. You know...  But you had to figure out how to do that?  Well I also used it to reduce a lot of language to one sound. So if I had attitude about being hungry that girl was pretty do not mess with me let me think about it  I could use that one sound to say all of those different things.  Would you...  And my favorite sport at the time was horseback riding so I added the sound  whoa.  Oh because that is what you say to your horse.  Yes.  Oh that is interesting. OK.  That is another thing  I would not slow a woman's progress across the room with whoa.  .  That was really good on TV.   OK. To exemplify the kinds of things you should not say or do regarding women...  Yes.  ...We are going to play a scene from Happy Days in which you are talking about how to deal with women. And you are talking to Richie's parents hear about that and Richie's there too.    Hey Mr. C. just take a seat. I will tell you about women all right?    Boys.   This could be very enlightening.   Now listen; you got to understand women  they are not real people.    Excuse me Mrs. C. huh? Now listen; they expect the guy to make a pass. They get angry. Believe me they expect it. But  now this is a crucial but  let them feel that they got dumped passed from hand to hand unwanted sight unseen and you have got hurt feelings.   Maybe he is right Dad.   Maybe I am right?   He is wrong.   I am wrong?    Now look; I do not want to hear any more about this. We are going to tell the truth and I do not want to hear any argument.   The Fonz is wrong?    OK some bad advice there.  Let me just say the worst advice ever given out of a person's mouth especially  but you know there were many writers. There were like 20 writers in the room from 21yearolds to 77yearolds. And when we were doing this in the '70s there was a completely different dynamic between people. Not that it was more right; it was just different. But if  you know I now when a fan comes and wants to take a picture I ask if I can put my arm around them to take the selfie because we live in a very different time with a very different expectation and level of respect.  Does some of the dialogue from Happy Days make you cringe listening back?  No because it was what it was. And I loved doing that show. And I did not know better.  So you have told the story before about how early on in Happy Days you were only allowed to wear your leather jacket...  Yes.  ...When you were with your motorcycle.  That is right.  Because otherwise it looked too what?  ABC thought I would be associated with crime. So Gary Marshall in his wisdom went to...  Because of the leather jacket you would look...  Yes absolutely.  What you would look like...  Like a hood.  I mean like one of the people who made the leather jacket famous in movies is Marlon Brando.  Yes that is right.  So were they...  And he was a motorcycle you know like thug.  What is also hilarious is considering how many leather jackets and vegan leather jackets are out there now to think that like the leather jacket had such power that the network was afraid of you wearing it that is really a different time.  It is amazing. And not only that but of all those leather jackets from the tiniest leather jacket that the person had when they were 3 to the new leather jacket that they are wearing now I have signed all of them in silver.   So I want to ask you about your parents. I do not know if they are still alive or not so...  They are not.  They are not. OK.  No.  So your parents were German immigrants. They came...  They were.  ...Here in 1939.  Yes they did.  So  and so you are Jewish.  Through Ellis Island. I am.  So it is good they came when they did.  That is true or we would not be sitting here.  I think the door closed right behind them. Yeah. So what  how did they know to leave?  My father.  I always wonder how people know the time is right and they would better get out.  My father knew that it was time. He got a sixweek visa from Germany to come and do work in New York but was expected to come right back. I have told this story  that he took his mother's jewelry bought a box of chocolate melted the chocolate down put the pieces of jewelry in the chocolate box melted  poured the chocolate over the jewelry put the box under his arm so when he was stopped by the Nazis and they said are you taking anything of value out of Germany he said no you can open every bag; we have got nothing. And the jewelry that he encased in chocolate he sold when he came out of Ellis Island into New York and was able to start a new a new life here slowly but surely. I have the actual letters from the government each time my father requested to stay a little longer and they would say yes. And I was born and thank God 'ecause I love our country.  This was the U.S. government giving him permission to stay.  Yes.  And you had an uncle who stayed behind a little longer and could not get out right?  I did  Uncle Helmut. And he was supposed to escape with a submarine that was supposed  you know they had a meeting place. And they  a lot of friends were going to get on this submarine and get out. And he said no no no. I am just going to stay one more day. It will be fine. I am having a white dinner jacket made at the tailor. And I think I can wait one more day and I will be OK. And he was taken to Auschwitz. And I just did a show called Better Late Than Never where I traveled around the world. And I saw the plaque in the street that commemorated my uncle and every other Jew that was taken from Berlin. And it said his  Helmut Winkler his date of birth when he lived in the building the plaque was in front of and what year he was taken to Auschwitz.  So was it  was your family religious? Were you raised...  My family was religious. They are certainly more religious than I am. I am proud of my religion. My children were all bat and bar mitzvah'd. But I am not as traditional or keeping the tradition as my parents were. We said the prayer over the bread and the wine and the candles on Friday night. We had Shabbat dinner. My parents went to temple every week. They  my father was president of the temple.  Do you think that the Holocaust made your parents feel more strongly about being observant?  I do not have an answer to that question.  OK.  I did not like them so much. I did not pay attention a lot. I did not...  You did not like your parents. Is that what you are saying?  That is  yeah I did not.  Yeah.  Now  certainly now I have mellowed. But a lot of my life was fueled by the fury of these two people who were so nonpresent on who I was on the Earth.  Do you think that your parents having gotten out just in time your uncle having died in Auschwitz you know the knowledge of what happened to everybody who  all the Jews who stayed behind in Germany...  Yes. Yes.  Do you think that that made your father more disappointed in you and in your difficulties reading and everything  because it is like what do you have to complain about? Why cannot you be better? Look what happened in Germany. Like...  You know what? I do not know if that is true. Listen. I figure the trauma of leaving your country losing your family the Holocaust of what was happening in the world at that moment certainly affected the way they were. But on the education part the being lazy the not living up to my potential being a shtum hunt which is dumb dog  I think that was in his DNA. I think that they brought that with them with or without a war.  OK. Let us take a short break here and then we will talk some more. If you are just joining us my guest is Henry Winkler and he now costars in the HBO comedy series Barry as an acting teacher. We will be right back after this break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Henry Winkler who got his start playing the Fonz on Happy Days which made him famous around the world. And now he is on TV on HBO in the series Barry which was cocreated by Bill Hader who also stars in it. He plays a hit man and acting student and Henry Winkler plays his acting teacher. So in addition to your acting you also have coauthored a series of novels about...  Yes.  ...A boy named Hank who has dyslexia as do you. And it is in a special typeface which I thought was really interesting.  Well the younger...  I did not know there was a typeface for dyslexic people.  You know what? There was not.  Oh.  And a dad in Holland came up with it. And the publisher Penguin Putnam chose the typeface. It was the first time it was ever used in America and I have to say I am so proud because I could have used it. It just makes the eye track so much more easily across the page for the...  Yeah. What makes it different?  The ascending line of the T the descending line of the G the C is  there is a different distance in the opening of the C. They are more weighted at the bottom of the letter so they sit more comfortably on the line so that they do not float. There are so many things. He was a  he is a graphic designer and he is dyslexic. His children are dyslexic. And when you look at the novel itself when you look at the page you go I get it. It is just so much more friendly.  There is a little more space between the letters too so that it is easier...  Also...  Yeah. It is easier to...  Yeah. The spacing is different.  ...Distinguish the letters.  Yeah.  And it slows down  I think that slows down the speed that you have to read at because there is fewer letters and words on the page. So...  Well let me just say I...  ...It is not coming at you. Yeah.  I need to just slow it down because it is so difficult for me even today. I cannot sound words out. The word schedule is written out and taped to my computer because I use it all the time and if it was not there  I cannot sound out the word or visualize spelling words.  You know how you said earlier that you used to embarrass yourself at the Monday readings...  Readings yeah.  ...For Happy Days because you had such trouble reading a new script.  Yes.  Does a similar thing happen when you are reading Barry?  Yes. We are sitting around the table and sometimes they  people who sit next to me have to point out that I have dropped a line  that I just missed it on the page. And I am sitting there thinking oh my God I wonder whose line it is? There is a big silence here. It turns out it is me.  So is it still embarrassing or can you just say like I have trouble...  No.  ...