 This is FRESH AIR. On Showtime this Sunday one longrunning drama series Homeland is ending while another Penny Dreadful is returning after a lengthy hiatus with an entirely new storyline and focus. Our TV critic David Bianculli reviews them both.  Do not worry. I am not going to reveal any spoilers about the finale of Homeland the Showtime series that began nine years ago and presents its final episode this weekend. Based on an Israeli series Homeland began as one kind of show presenting two characters  a troubled government agent named Carrie Mathison played by Claire Danes and an equally troubled war veteran named Nicholas Brody played by Damian Lewis  as equally unreliable narrators. The unique brilliance of Homeland when it started was that it presented two main characters without revealing which of them we should root for or against. That lasted for a few seasons and then Carrie became the central focus of Homeland along with her longtime spy chief mentor Saul Berenson played so superbly by Mandy Patinkin. This final season's storyline has been truly unnerving with America on the brink of a nuclear war with Pakistan. And the series is about to end the way it began  with two primary characters fighting for what they feel is right and with viewers torn about where to place their loyalties. Only this time it is not Carrie and Brody; it is Carrie and Saul. And as Homeland ends it applies almost eerily to these times. This final storyline is all about facts and getting to the truth and whom to believe among the experts and politicians with many many lives hanging in the balance Penny Dreadful which returns Sunday immediately after Homeland ends also has parallels to today but only if you think of evil as a virus something that can spread exponentially and dangerously and from the smallest of sources. The name Penny Dreadful comes from 1penny pamphlets popular in Victorian England  gruesome fictional and true crime stories that were like horror movies before there were movies. Sweeney Todd the demon barber of Fleet Street was one favorite character from the penny dreadfuls. John Logan who wrote the screenplays for Martin Scorsese's Hugo and The Aviator and yes for Tim Burton's Sweeney Todd created Showtime's Penny Dreadful series as a mashup of period horror stories. The series which began in 2014 and lasted three seasons found a way to make room for such characters as Dr. Frankenstein Dr. Jekyll Dracula and Dorian Gray. It was wonderfully imaginative and showcased Eva Green in a scenestealing mesmerizing role. And now after four years of dormancy Penny Dreadful is back. But like such TV series as Fargo and American Horror Story it is back with an all new setting and story and with an almost entirely new cast. This new Penny Dreadful edition is called City Of Angels and is set in Los Angeles in 1938. It begins the way the first season of True Detective did with the discovery of a brutally staged murder scene. It is meant to spark racial tensions between whites and Chicanos and there is a parallel plot involving Nazis. The detectives on the case are played by Nathan Lane as the veteran and Daniel Zovatto as his new partner the first Chicano detective on the LAPD. The scenestealer in this Penny Dreadful once again is a woman. This time she is Natalie Dormer from Game Of Thrones and here she plays a supernatural villain  a female demon who pushes history towards chaos by shapeshifting into several different female forms and influencing events by slyly manipulating the people around her. As the prim assistant to a city councilman played by Michael Gladis for example she encourages both his admiration of dictators and his plans to build a freeway that will cut right through minority neighborhoods and probably incite a race riot.    You did magnificently today. You are a strong man.   Mussolini.   Mussolini.   Hitler even. Now there is a fellow who understands the judicious exercise of power.   That is right. Now you just have to stay the course and keep quiet. You held the public hearings your civic duty required. You have won. I will get this first motorway under construction and then start working on another one. Keep your transportation committee front and center. Keep you in the papers.   Another motorway?   Maybe through Bunker Hill.   That is the colored...   No sir. What that is is too much valuable real estate filled with junkies and junk whores . Not when there is a motorway to be built.   What am I going to wear?   Does not matter.  Every role Natalie Dormer inhabits here looks and sounds completely different. As she spreads her influence and evil like  well like a pandemic. She is the main reason to watch this new Penny Dreadful but it is also nice to know that this particular strain of evil is not only supernatural; it is fictional.  David Bianculli is a professor of TV and film studies at Rowan University in New Jersey. Penny Dreadful City Of Angels returns Sunday on Showtime the same night as the series finale of Homeland. If you would like to catch up on FRESH AIR interviews you missed  like this week's interview with Zoe Kazan one of the stars of the HBO adaptation of The Plot Against America; or with Marc O'Connell whose new book Notes From An Apocalypse is about people preparing for the end of the world; or with Jennifer Finney Boylan who is written extensively about her life as a transgender woman and has a new memoir  check out our podcast. You will find lots of FRESH AIR interviews. FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham. Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit Phyllis Myers Sam Briger Lauren Krenzel Heidi Saman Therese Madden Mooj Zadie Thea Chaloner and Seth Kelley. Our associate producer of digital media is Molly SeavyNesper. Roberta Shorrock directs the show. I am Terry Gross.  