 This is FRESH AIR. In March 1992 jazz singer Betty Carter was enjoying a late career renaissance when she played a pair of ambitious weekend concerts for New York's Jazz at Lincoln Center. One of those is now on CD Jazz critic Kevin Whitehead says it shows how Betty Carter had earned her acclaim.    Darling come close. Let us talk. Wrap your arms around me like you used to do. Lately you have been so quiet. Let me fix you dinner. What do you want to say?  Onstage Betty Carter looked right at home as if performing were her natural element. Her March 1992 New York concerts were titled The Music Never Stops  also the name of a new CD drawn from one of those shows. As that title promised the music onstage was continuous even as her backing shifted from small group to string sextet to a sometimes swaggering sometimes discreet big band.    You and I moonlight in Vermont. Telegraph cables sing down the highway and travel each bend in the road. People who meet in this romantic setting are so hypnotized by the lovely...  The Lincoln Center big band chimes in on four numbers but Betty Carter's music was really about her interaction with her trios which gave her more room to move. She does her best work here with her thenregulars  Cyrus Chestnut on piano Ariel Roland on bass and either Greg Hutchinson or Clarence Penn on drums. Selections include the quintessential Carter tune Tight a staple of her live shows.    I do not know where my man is. Where can he be? What is he doing? I have been looking and looking and looking and looking all over hoping he will be found. I might be loose. I do not like it. Take my advice girls. If you find a man hold on tight. Do not let him do not let him do not let him do not let him  hold onto him tight. Do not let him go.  Betty Carter did not have a gorgeous voice like Sarah Vaughan or Ella Fitzgerald. But she had a genius for rhythm and improvising away from a melody. That was more important than clean enunciation not that she would neglect a song's meaning. Her lyrics often address the everproblematic relations between women and men. But she put so much feeling into a song. At times it hardly matters if she is singing actual words. Her scat syllables echo American speech.   .  Betty Carter was always inspired by the rhythms harmonies and extreme fast and slow tempos of bebop the jazz she grew up on. But in her later career prime Betty was no straight bopper. She had her own style more open and fluid where she and the band could stretch out a song's form on the fly. Her personal groove was most evident at medium tempos where she would surf over the rhythm. There are a few such glorious moments on the Betty Carter CD The Music Never Stops. That weekend in 1992 at age 62 she was at the top of her game and had New York at her feet for all the right reasons  her own woman in charge. You can hear how good that made Betty Carter feel.    Oh remember I love you. And in case you wonder why wake up and kiss the good life goodbye. Wake up and kiss wake up and kiss the good life goodbye goodbye goodbye. And in case you wonder why wake up and kiss the good life goodbye goodbye goodbye goodbye.  Kevin Whitehead writes for Point of Departure and The Audio Beat. He reviewed The Music Never Stops the new live performance recording of Betty Carter from 1992. On tomorrow's show the rise of white supremacy after the Civil War and Reconstruction when white Southerners found ways to roll back new rights for AfricanAmericans  a talk with Henry Louis Gates Jr. about his new book Stony The Road Reconstruction White Supremacy And The Rise Of Jim Crow. It is also the basis for his new PBS special  hope you can join us.   FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit Phyllis Myers Sam Briger Lauren Krenzel Heidi Saman Therese Madden Mooj Zadie Thea Chaloner and Seth Kelley. For Terry Gross I am Dave Davies.  