 This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us I have two guests. Brady Jandreau plays a fictionalized version of himself in the new film The Rider. He was a rodeo rider and horse trainer who two years ago was in a rodeo riding accident that resulted in a brain injury and a plate having to be placed in his smashed skull. It meant having to rethink his life which was based around riding and training horses which is exactly what his doctors told him he should no longer do at least not for a while. My other guest is Chloe Zhao who directed the film and conceived of the film. It is the second film she made on the Pine Ridge Lakota Sioux Reservation in South Dakota. Now I mean your doctors told you you could not ride again and that you certainly could not do rodeo again. I know someone with a relatively minor concussion who had trouble riding the train afterwards 'ecause it was such a dizzying experience because of the concussion. Real concussions are so much worse than they are always made to seem in movies like where the detective gets whacked on the head with a pistol he is knocked unconscious he wakes up with a headache and that is the last we hear about the concussion you know? It is not that way in real life. But it sounds like you started riding like long before your doctor said that you should do it. What did the doctors tell you? How soon did you start riding and did you do it sooner than they said you should like I think you did?  OK so on April Fool's Day of 2016 was the day I was injured. And like I said I went in there and they did surgery and they induced coma. About three  well it was over a fiveday span because I woke up officially on the 5. But on the 4 I woke up and under the induction of coma and pulled the respirator out of my chest and started to pull my IVs out. And they did a breathing test to see if I could breathe on my own. And I failed the first two tests and then I passed the third one. And then they figured OK it is time to drop the induction see if you can wake up. You know they had a pretty good idea I could 'ecause I was waking up under the induction. So they dropped it and I woke up. I could not talk right at first. I had very blurry vision in my left eye. And I could not  it sounded like my left ear was filled with water. I am not sure if that was blood in my ear or what. But after that they told me that I needed to stay there. I have to stay in the hospital. And I told them that I am not going to. I am not going to lay here and rot. And they said OK well we cannot legally hold you if you can take your medication orally go to the bathroom on your own perform daily tasks such as walking dressing yourself other things like that take your medication in pill form. And I walked to the line like I was 17 walking for the cops you know after I had too much drink.   And I just  I told them my eye was good. And I told them that everything felt great and they needed to let me out of there. And I took the pills and then they walked out of the room. And I threw them up in the trash can. And I was out of there. So I got down the road a little ways had a pinch of Copenhagen ate at a chuck wagon. And I have been pretty well good ever since. But I never returned to the hospital at all. And then I could not take it any longer. Two weeks after I got home I rode Gus again a very welltrained horse that was like a brother to me growing up I mean if you can imagine an animal being like a brother to someone . So I had a lot of trust in him you know. I knew I was pretty well safe. And a month and a half after the injury I actually went flat broke. And unlike in the movie where I work at a grocery store I went back to doing the only thing I know how to do and what I love to do which is training wild horses for the public. So...  But the thing is like you are supposed to  after a head injury like that you are supposed to I think prevent your brain from getting jostled. But the point is you have been ignoring  what the doctors say. And it is not advice I would give other people but I am really glad that you are OK. Was giving up rodeo hard? 'ecause that you never went back to. Like that was too risky even for you to  think of doing again.  Well to be completely frank with you Madam I would say training horses...  Oh is more dangerous?  ...Is more dangerous because it is so unpredictable. The only thing that you can predict their actions through is your connection with the animal. And like I say I mean even if the horse stumbled and fell down like my dad a few months ago broke his leg when a horse slipped and fell down on him. If like say a horse were to fall down and I were to hit my head off a rock or a post or anything you know typically I am about 55 60 miles from any reputable hospital when I am training horses. And a lot of times it is just me out there. So...  OK. You have not reassured me but that was a very interesting answer.   Yeah so that is what I am saying. I think that training horses is probably more dangerous.  The scenes in the movie where you are training horses are so just beautiful to watch. And like are we seeing you train horses for real in those scenes?  Yes.  Wow. It is just beautiful. And you know one of the things interesting to me is that the first thing you do in those scenes when you are training a new horse is put out your hand for the horse to sniff. And that is something that a lot of us do when we are meeting a new cat or a new dog. And it is interesting that that is the first thing you would do with a horse.  A horse you know they cannot say hi how are you? I am soandso you know? So they communicate through typically smelling or you know just body language. And when a horse approaches another horse the first thing they do is they smell noses. If I were to put my face up close to a horse he would probably be a little bit intimidated. So like a horse's neck is long like an extension just like my arms. I would put my hand up to their face and let them smell it just like I am another horse approaching them to you know smell their nose as well.  And then other things that you do you get closer to them. You kind of pet them. And slowly you put a little bit of your weight on the horse without fully mounting it. Can you talk a little bit  can you describe for us for those of us who have never seen a horse broken just a few of the steps that you take to do it and what it is like for you to be experiencing this growing relationship between you and the horse?  It is all through the connection. And the only way that they know how to communicate is through body language you know things like that. And I cannot just whiny to them and they come running you know? So like a horse typically if they show their rear to you it is because they feel threatened by you. They want to escape from you and they might even kick you 'ecause like I said they feel threatened. They are going to protect themselves. When a horse offers their face to you they are interested in what you are what you are doing. They are paying attention. And typically like when I would let a horse smell my hand then the first thing I would do is like pet them on the nose. And then I would like I would not just reach back and grab them on the leg after that or else they would kick my head off. But if I slowly pet and slowly work my way back  but as soon as  you know say I am getting by a horse's shoulder and he gets nervous. I have to go back to the nose and restart. And typically back to the shoulder will be easy. And then from that point on you know you have got to keep that connection and slowly work your way back. Eventually horses will let me touch their hind legs or tail and slide off their butt and crawl underneath their belly do whatever because they trust me. But it takes some time  I would not say some time. You have to do the proper things to communicate with them for them to allow you to do everything because there is no way you could force you know a thousandpound 1500pound maybe even more you know animal to do what you want to do. You have to make what you want look appealing to them. You guys have to make an agreement on the matter.  Brady Jandreau is the Lakota Indian star of The Rider. The film's writerdirector is Chloe Zhao. The movie is now available on different streaming sites. We will continue Terry's interview with them after a break. I am David Bianculli and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am David Bianculli in for Terry Gross back with more of Terry's interview from earlier this year with Brady Jandreau star of the film The Rider and Chloe Zhao who wrote and directed the film. It is now available on different TV streaming sites. Jandreau plays a fictionalized version of himself in the film. He was a rodeo rider and horse trainer who two years ago was in a rodeo riding accident that resulted in a brain injury that meant having to rethink his life and career.   You know we use the expression to break a horse. That sounds kind of violent like you are  you know. So that is not what you are  you are kind of taming a horse...  OK. Yeah...  ...Or creating relationship with a horse. But what does that  do you like using that word? And...  No I do not. You know I mean honestly like I grew up and that is what people you know around horses they usually say. They call it breaking them. And there are many many trainers who still break horses meaning like almost break their spirit to the point  and subdue them and submit them cause them to submit to them.  Right break their will. Yeah.  Yeah by tying them certain ways or working them so hard to where they are so tired they cannot  you know they cannot resist. What I choose to do is just  like I am hanging out with them and it is just training them through the connection. I would not  yeah breaking is not the right word for it but it is just the word  the terminology that I am used to.  Do you think there is something in it for the horse when the horse develops a relationship with a human and learns to accept that the human's going to ride them and also feed them and care for them? Like I know what is in it for the people. What is in it for the horse?  Well you know when a horse connects with you there is something in it for them because like for their health and I believe also in a relationship with a person. Like many horses we save off of kill trucks. They take horses  well there is no legal slaughter of horses in the United States now. But there is still legal slaughter of horses in Canada. So like typically when a horse  say there is like a horse that has never been trained and he is much too wild or much too old for your average trainer to have a go at him. They will typically sell him. And nobody can ride the horse so he typically goes and becomes glue or dog food or whatever you know sent to France or  and you know the horse Apollo in the movie was one of the horses that I actually saved off of the kill truck.  Oh you are kidding. This is one of the...  Yeah.  ...Horses you tame in the movie a beautiful horse.  Apollo he actually had passed away by the time the shoot began. He was probably 8 or 9 years old. And he was really wild and really big you know? Most people would not have messed with him. But I seen something in Apollo that you do not see in every horse.  Beautiful buckskin.  Yeah. Even though he was  he was big yellow. And even though he was wild I felt as though he had a lot to offer. He had a very very  like when I look into a horse's eyes they say more to me than you have said to me in this entire conversation.  Thank you .   No offense.  Yeah. No offense to you but that is...  No offense taken.  That is how Brady  he relates to horses more than people.  Yeah.   That is OK.  So yeah and Apollo he would have had to go to a kill truck but I knew there was good in him. And so I broke him. He was difficult to break. And for the first you know about two months we owned him nobody else could ride him but me. But once he was finished out he was probably one of the best horses I ever rode. Like say he were to get...  What happened to him?  Like say he were to get  he got into the wire just like in the movie.  In the barbed wire.  Yeah that was not a  that was a recreation. That was a fictional  that was make up on the horse in the movie. But Apollo's injury was much much worse than the horse in the movie. It was much higher in the thick part the gaskin of the horse's leg. And it sawed completely to the bone before he came in the next day. And I had rode him the day before that. It is not like he would been out getting neglected or anything. He just  he went out and he probably walked by a patch of bushes. And a coyote was sleeping there and he probably jumped out. And he probably took off running nervous you know and got into the wire in a bad way. And like I said it was  it caught him in like a loop. And it had  and from him trying to free himself over those few hours it had actually sawed the barbed wire into his you know down to his femur basically.  Wow. Did you have to put him down?  No my dad did it like in the movie.  Yeah.  But yeah I loved Apollo. I really hope to get to see him again up in the sky someday.  That must be so hard. I mean like with a cat or a dog at least you know where I live you take the animal to the vet and the vet puts the animal down. But with horses it is often you know like the human who shoots the horse. It is an instantaneous death I guess.  Well when you...  But that must be so difficult to be part of.  If you have ever seen like a cow or a horse die of natural causes it is probably the most sickening thing you could ever imagine. Die on their own from natural causes  literally when a horse become  or a cow gets down meaning they are to the point where they cannot get up under their own will they will keep attempting to get up. And when their legs are not working for them they will use their head and they will literally hit their head off of the ground until they die. So that is probably the least humane thing to do is to just let them die on their own. If I were to load Apollo on the trailer I mean could you imagine walking up a flight of stairs with one leg? That is about what it would have been like. He would have had to stand in that moving trailer all the way to the vet for an hour and 10 minutes or so and  where he would have to be unloaded put in a separate pen wait until the vet was ready because obviously there was no way to predict this injury. And there he would be euthanized which is not instantaneous.  See I did not know all this so I was not able to think that through. And it seems much more humane to just put him down yourself and spare the horse all of that.  There was only one thing to do.  Yeah yeah. So Chloe what you do in your films  at least in the first two films that you have made  is cast people to play slightly fictionalized versions of themselves. It is not just Brady who plays a fictionalized version of himself. His father is in the film playing his father. His sister is in the film playing his sister. His friends are in the film playing his friends. Let us start with his family. Did you have to work hard to convince them to be a part of the film? And I will mention that his father is not always painted in the most flattering light in this. His father has gambled away the rent money so like the family is totally broke in the movie. I do not know if it happened that way in real life but you know people will confuse real life with the fictionalized version. So how is his father with playing this role?  Well this is why  Tim Jandreau is his dad's name and he is  his character's name is completely changed not just the last name. It is Wayne Blackburn because Tim in real life I think is a better father than I have portrayed him in the film you know? But I think you know this is a fiction film. And I  this is how I explain to the  to everyone who is involved. You are free to keep your real name if you want to and you can be as comfortable to be yourself as possible but you are playing fictionalized characters. So you know Tim would probably feel comfortable with me saying that he is made some mistakes as a parent like all parents do but it is not like that in the film.  Yeah my dad  I mean we have had our ups and downs you know just like any father and son probably has. But you know we get along really good honestly. You know I mean everybody makes mistakes. But I mean  that is what I mean  you know everybody you know? So I do not know. My dad is for lack of a better term not as much as of an ass expletive as he is in the film.   He is oldschool. He is oldschool.  Yeah.  Chloe how did you first get the idea of combining real people and real people's lives in a fictionalized version?  You either work with limitation or you let it work you you know? We as a women  Chinese women filmmaker with not much connections and to come to America and say like I want to make films on a reservation with kids there  back in 2010 to '13 it was a tough time for the country financially and for the industry for everybody. No one was going to just throw me money to do it. So you know it was a blessing in disguise because that style come out of  for us to be friends with the limitations that we have including the way we shoot the time of day we shoot you know and who we cast and all that stuff and how we run the set.  Well let me reintroduce you both. If you are just joining us my guests are Brady Jandreau who plays a slightly fictionalized version of himself in the new film The Rider and Chloe Zhao the film's director who also conceived the movie. We will talk more after we take a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us I have two guests. Brady Jandreau plays a fictionalized version of himself in the new film The Rider. He was a rodeo rider and horse trainer who two years ago was in a rodeo riding accident that resulted in a skull and brain injury. It was so severe that he now has a plate in his head. It meant having to rethink his life which was based around riding and training horses which is exactly what his doctors told him he should no longer do. But he still trains horses. But he no longer rides on the radio  in the rodeo. So Brady what is your life like now? I know you are still working with horses. Like what exactly are you doing?  Actually since the shoot I have started a breeding program called the Jandreau Performance Horses. We raise American quarter horses all registered through the AQHA. And we train them to do everything from rodeo events to  not the bucking events of course the other events such as the timed events where you ride a very welltrained horse to perform a task. And I also train them to do like mounted shooting hunting horses just pleasureriding horses. About anything that you could name we could train so...  And where do get your horses from now?  Well I raise them. You know I also take in horses...  Oh so it is a breeding  right it is a breeding program.  Yep. And I also take in horses from the public to be trained for a set number of days for a specific amount of pay.  How many horses do you have now?  We have around 20 registered broodmares so that means about 20 babies born each year. You cannot break a horse until they are about 2 years old. You can halter break them meaning teach them how to lead and stuff if you choose to but you cannot really break them until they are 2 because there are not developed enough you know what I mean? It would be like a 5yearold playing football or something you know?  So you know to sum up like your life was profoundly changed by your head injury from the rodeo. And it looked like maybe you would have to change your identity altogether that you would have to give up riding that you would have to give up rodeo. And you have taken like a curve but  you know 'ecause you are no longer doing rodeo. But you are still riding. You are raising horses. Horses are still central to your life. And I guess you must be so grateful for that.  Yeah. I mean it makes you feel close to God  you know?  just to be in their presence.  Did you ever think you would really have to give it up?  You know there was a point when I definitely had to think about whether or not I was going to. You know there was a lot of thoughts that went through my head after my injury  you know I mean a lot of different emotions and you know some of which were very nearly impossible to control. But yeah like I said it was something I thought about. And I rode  like I said I rode Gus again just two weeks after my head injury just to make sure that my balance was OK that I was able to mount them. And then it started eating at me to the point to where I knew what I had to do and I knew what I was going to do. And the rest was up to faith and my connection with the animal.  Brady what was your first horse  the first time you had like a close relationship with a horse?  The very first time that I ever could control a horse on my own  like my daughter she is already ridden 22 horses  you know us holding her up there you know?  How old is she?  She is only 9 months old.  Oh God .  She will be 9 months old in two weeks and she is ridden 22 different horses ridden about 45 times. And you know I grew up the same way. But I could actually control a horse  he was a very welltrained horse. His name was Pardner  and he was a fullsize horse. He was probably about 18 years old which is pretty old. Usually they have calmed down quite a bit by then. And he would actually  like I would ride him bareback because there was no saddle that would fit me because I was only a year and a half of age. I still...  Wow you were riding bareback at a year and a half.  Yeah because there was no  I you know  and if  my dad said if I would start to go a little bit off to  you know this is without any lead rope nobody on there with me. Like this was literally me riding alone with nothing  on a horse with nothing but a bridle and reins. And my dad said I would start kind of falling off to one side and that horse would go right back underneath me and I would start falling off the other. He would go back underneath me the other way and...  To keep you on him.  To keep me on his back.  And here's a question for you Chloe. You capture like the beauty of the landscape in South Dakota. And the outdoors is so  just it is so open but the indoors are so cramped. You know like the family lives in basically like a trailer. Were you looking for that contrast between the indoors and the outdoors?  Yeah I am. And if you go to the reservation I think you will find a lot of that. And again you know it is that thing that happened historically when you discontinue people's culture and their connection with the land. Even though this beauty happening right you know in their backyard not everybody can see it. And this is why I really want to tell Brady's story because he sees it and he works with it. And he make it a part of who he is and that is some healing that these young people could start doing you know for their people. So it is so important for me to  and for my whole team to be able to capture the reservation South Dakota the Badlands in a way that you understand why he would choose that lifestyle. And he is not even given the opportunity moving to a big city.  Chloe did Brady teach you how to ride?   Yes. Yes he did. And I had some really great lessons and then made me really cool when I go back to my friends.   And then there are times where I  you know it is one thing looking at a horse in the movie or in a picture or have a  like a teddy bear growing up. But when I am sitting on the horse you know and looking down at his ears and I  it is a powerful animal. You know it really is. It is a powerful animal and the only way that they are going to let you on their back is this mutual understanding and respect. And Brady always tell me do not be scared Chloe. They can smell your fear. And I was like yeah I can smell my fear too.   Because you feel it you know between your legs. It is so powerful. And gosh and it just  again you feel so close to nature through these animals. And if I have kids  and when I have kids I really want them to be around horses and animals.  I want to thank you both so much and I want to congratulate you on the wonderful film. Thank you.  Well thank you.  Thank you so much. Thank you.  Horse trainer Brady Jandreau and writerdirector Chloe Zhao speaking to Terry Gross earlier this year. Their film The Rider is now available on several streaming sites. Coming up my very favorite television experience of the year. This is FRESH AIR. 