 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest Bill Hader is nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series for his work on Saturday Night Live. He is the first male SNL cast member nominated in that category since Eddie Murphy back in 1983. After joining the cast in 2005 Hader became best known for his characters Stefon the New York City correspondent; and Vinny Vedecci the Italian talk show host. Hader has done impressions of actors including Clint Eastwood Charlie Sheen Alan Alda Vincent Price and Al Pacino; and political figures including Rick Perry James Carville and Eliot Spitzer. Most of the announcers and game show hosts on SNL are played by Hader. He is also had supporting roles in several films including Superbad Adventureland and Men in Black 3; and has been a creative consultant and writer on South Park. This summer was his second season hosting the Turner Classics Movie Network show Essentials Jr. on which he picks and introduces classic films the whole family can watch together. The season ends this weekend with the 1941 film Ball of Fire. Let us start with a clip from this past season of Saturday Night Live featuring Hader as Stefon an awkward club kid who somehow got the job as city correspondent on Weekend Update. He is supposed to recommend fun weekend events in New York City but his recommendations always focus on the most bizarre underground clubs. Here's Weekend Update host Seth Meyers.   It is Christmastime in New York which means millions of tourists will be coming to see what holiday magic the Big Apple has to offer. Here with some tips on where you and your children should go is our city correspondent Stefon.     Hi.  Hi hi Stefon. It is an exciting time is not it?   I know right? So many Republican candidates. Who do you pick?    OK so Stefon a lot of families are making their way to Manhattan to have some holiday fun. Are there any places you can recommend?   Yes yes yes yes. If you are looking to get festive with your family I have got the perfect place for you. New York's hottest club is Hey. Built from the bucket list of a dying pervert this Battery Park bitch parade is now managed by overweight game show host Fat Sajak.     And this place has everything tweakers skeevies Spud Webb a child.     And a Russian guy who runs on the treadmill in a Cosby sweater.     So come on down this weekend. The bouncer is a bulldog who looks like Wilford Brimley and the password is diabetes.    Bill Hader welcome to ngratulations on the Emmy nomination and on the birth of your baby daughter your second child.  Oh thank you very much. Yeah.  Yeah yeah so quite a time for you.  Yeah.  So we just heard one of your most popular characters on Saturday Night Live Stefon. I am going to ask you to describe him in your words.   We describe  a gay nightmare was one.   A way to describe Stefon. The character came from John Mulaney who is a writer on the show and it was two things. John got an email from a guy describing a club in New York and it had that format of the Stefon Update features. It was almost like a Mad Libs version of that which was New York's hottest club is blank it has everything blank blank blank blank you know. So he was showing me this email and we were kind of laughing about it and then I had this guy who worked at a coffee shop in Chelsea who I would go to every morning on my way to work and his mother had just moved in with him. She was staying with him and he was just kind of lamenting about it. And I would kind of draw him out because he looked  he had that kind of hair and that is how he talked. He was really like oh my God my mom's staying with me and I live like on the lower Lower East Side.   That is what he said. I live like low East Side. And I would walk around the office going lower Lower East Side and like this and John Mulaney was the smart one and said hey we should write that up.   And another thing you are always putting your hands over your mouth in that character.  Yeah yeah that is part of the character and it is become a thing where people think I am trying not to laugh but I understand why they would think that because sometimes I actually am trying not to laugh. But that is just part of the character of yeah he is just nervous. He is fidgety and he is afraid he is going to say the wrong thing I think.  Because he is.   Yeah yeah he is always  that is what kind of is funny to me is that he kind of  he is very conscious that he is making a mistake.   And so he is kind of covering up his mouth.  So I have read that John Mulaney who writes the character with you sometimes puts in a line in the teleprompter or cue cards or whatever it is that you use that you do not know is going to be in it and it throws you and it makes you laugh.  Yeah.  And you are not supposed to laugh when you are in character on Saturday Night Live but it is become such a thing for Stefon that it is like it is part of the character now.  Yeah now it is this weird thing if you do not laugh is it still a Stefon? I got through one of the dress rehearsals without laughing and felt very good about myself and then John took it upon himself to change that.   He was like do not get too excited. And the other thing I should also say is that the guys miking me are laughing the cue card guys are looking at me. They are kind of laughing. I mean from the point when I show up that day you know and I walk into work on that Saturday the cue card guys are like Hey we just read the Stefon oh boy. You know...   You are dead.   Pretty funny.  Well give us a sense of like if there is a line clean enough for you to say on our show which is broadcast earlier than Saturday Night Live so give us a sense of the kind of thing he writes that breaks you up.  I give two quick ones. The first one that started is I feel like was the first one we did. We had a club promoter whose name was Amnesia Bernstein which we thought was very funny and we did it at the  at dress and it did not really get anything; we were like oh that did not work. And it was 10 minutes before we go onto air and I was in the cold open or something and John was like oh we need to change that club promoter's name. And I go ahh I do not know um  and he goes I will think of something I will think of something because you know I am dressed up as John Boehner or something. I am like ah I gotta go.   And so I run away and he put it in and as I was walking out he goes oh I changed the club promoter's name. I was like oh great. And I went out and did it and he changed it to Gay Liotta.   And I completely lost it.   And I just went What? And so what I am seeing is the camera guys are laughing the cue cards are shaking because the cue card guys are laughing. Beyond the cue cards I can see some of the writers I can see Andy Samberg people against the wall in 8H they are all laughing. And then that kind of started it. I think in John's mind he went oh wow OK.   Because I am a soft touch. I  at the table reads I break constantly. If something is up there that I am not expecting I tend to  I cannot help myself I will start laughing. But especially as Stefon to get myself in that character I do kind of like work myself up a little bit because he is so kind of nervous and jittery that I think I am more prone to laugh and John knows that. So it is kind of  it is now like oh let us go out and watch Bill eat it.   So that first time when you laughed and you did not expect to laugh did Lorne Michaels call you in and criticize you for it?  No no. I think Lorne kind of likes it. When I did it the third or fourth time and I laughed I went to the afterparty and I sat at Lorne's table and I said hey I am really sorry. I keep laughing at Stefon. It is not very professional. And he went Bill when what you are saying is not funny then it is a problem. But what you are saying is really funny.   And so that was him being like do not worry about it. Now if it is not funny and you are trying to save it by laughing then that is not good.  So you describe Stefon as a gay nightmare. Do you get reactions from gay men about this character?  Yeah a lot of  and it is great. The majority of people come up to me and go People will say that I am a Stefon like people in my office now call me Stefon or I used to date someone like Stefon. Men come up and tell me that. One guy which I thought was nice which was something  was actually kind of conscious on John and I's part was he said I like that he is gay but that that is not really the joke is that he is gay that it was not like everything he had to say was about being gay. John and I really appreciate it because it is very easy to do that in comedy in sketch comedy. It was like oh well he is a gay character. But it is more about that he is kind of doing a bad job and on a lot of drugs.   Let me take a moment to reintroduce you here. My guest is Bill Hader and he is nominated for an Emmy for his work on Saturday Night Live. Let us take a short break here then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Bill Hader from Saturday Night Live and from many films and he is nominated for an Emmy for his performances on Saturday Night Live. Let us hear another clip from the Emmynominated episode and this is a movie trailer and you are both the narrator for the trailer but you are also one of the many many many actors in the movie and you are Alan Alda in this trailer. So here's my guest Bill Hader.    This Friday from the makers of Valentine's Day and New Year's Eve comes the story of the whole world coming together on one night to celebrate the apocalypse.  You know I love this whole Armageddon thing you know brimstone and hellfire you know. Just the other day I strangled a guy for some flashlight batteries.  Starring literally thousands of your favorite celebrities...   That is Bill Hader as the announcer and as Alan Alda in that trailer from Saturday Night Live. So how did you start doing Alan Alda?  I started  that is such a good question. I think Lorne would love it if I came in and I was like I got a really good Robert Pattinson or something you know somebody...   But instead I am like you know I was watching Trouble in Paradise I think I could get Herbert Marshall really well. And I do not  Lorne's  someone who is alive and working now. So Alan Alda was like the closest because I am like he is in Tower Heist he is in Wonderlust he is still working. He is Alan Alda. I mean he is a national treasure you know. And that came from watching Crimes and Misdemeanors with my wife and I just started doing it watching the movie  'ecause he is so funny in that movie and I was just doing it while we were watching the movie. And again like John Mulaney she was like oh you should do that on the show. And I was like oh really? And so we did it in again another sketch that Colin Jost wrote. It was audition tapes for Back to the Future and it was Alan Alda auditioning for the role of Biff the bully. And he was like Hey why do not you make like a tree and get out of here. You know...   I I really love this. This is such a great great script. And so we thought that was just really funny in that he is very nice in that he is such a nice gregarious guy and very complimentary. So yeah that  and then one time John Mulaney and I tried to write a thing with Alan Alda. I will  this was what it was called in the sketch because there was that show out with William Shatner called you know S  Expletive My Dad Says you know what I mean? So we had My Roommate's a Blank Horse an Fing horse and with Alan Alda. And it was him with this  you know I have got this horse for a roommate. And it was him like trying to have a date and he would come home and go what well this horse is in the house. You know it was like  and no one laughed.   We did it at the Wednesday table read and it played to silence.   It was one of those things where we were doing it and I am doing it and you can hear people like you know folding their legs you know crossing their legs and like digging in their pockets to check their cell phone. You know you can actually hear it. Like it was really bad.   How old were you when you figured out you could do voices?  I remember I could do  I did Bart Simpson once on the bus. I did like a really good Bart Simpson voice on the bus obviously before I hit puberty. And everybody went whoa that sounds just like Bart Simpson. And my wife said something interesting she said my family when we are all together and we are telling a story she said you guys all do voices. When you are telling a story you do the voices of everyone in the story. You do not just say oh I ran into Mike at the grocery store and he said blah blah. I would like I ran into Mike and he was like Well hey guys I was wondering maybe  you know it is like you do the impersonation of  Mike's a dummy in case you were  for the purposes of this story he is a dumb guy. No. But she just  you know she is like you guys all do the voices of the people. And so I think it just kind of was ingrained I guess.  So when you were growing up who was the cast on Saturday Night Live that made the biggest impression on you? I know you have mentioned Phil Hartman.  Yeah Phil Hartman Dana Carvey Jon Lovitz Jan Hooks Nora Dunn Kevin Nealon like you know that crew Dennis Miller at Update. That is when I first started watching the show. And yeah it just had a huge effect on me. You know that is actually the question  that is the first question Lorne Michaels asked me when I had my first meeting with him. And I think our cast now has something similar in that way. I feel like with that cast which was it felt  we are a really good ensemble I think right now. And I felt the same way about that cast. It was kind of like this really tight ensemble with really good actors. I mean when you saw Jon Lovitz or Dana Carvey or Phil Hartman doing something they were acting. It was real acting. Like they were acting like that person. They were not like  it was not even like they were really trying to go for a laugh especially in Phil Hartman's case. It was not like he was trying to be funny you know. He was just being that person. And that is always been my favorite kind of comedic performing like you know John Cleese and you know people like Gene Wilder in Young Frankenstein and things like that.  So as we heard in the trailer for Apocalypse you know you were the announcer. You do so many announcer voices. Why did that become one of your things?  You know what? I will be honest. It was  that was a bit of a conscious thing on my part because when I showed up it was like Darrell Hammond and Chris Parnell would get that and I just remember thinking oh if I can kind of be the goto guy for something you know what I mean maybe I could stick around here longer.   You know maybe I could  like oh we need an announcer we should get Bill. And I actually enjoy doing it. And I was never that great of a cold reader. So I would actually I would actually practice at home. I would actually read a book out loud or read something out loud to just practice doing that for the table reads because you read most of it cold. You know you just get a giant stack of sketches like 40 sketches you know and we read  you know and you are reading them all cold and you are reading them really fast. So I wanted to be able to do that you know at a moment's notice. And so I lucked out really because Chris Parnell left. You know he left the show and then it was like well let us see if Bill can do these things you know.  Were there announcers that you used to do impressions of as a kid or that you especially enjoyed or thought were great or ridiculous on TV?  Oh that is a really good question. I do not  I always grew up with people that I did not know their names. Actually you know what? Interestingly enough Maya Rudolph her husband is Paul Thomas Anderson the filmmaker and his dad was Ernie Anderson and Ernie Anderson was the voice of ABC growing up like The Love Boat. You know what I mean?   Yup.  And like America's Funniest Home Videos. And so he was a guy I remember growing up with and I did not realize that until Paul was talking about him. He was like oh my dad was this guy Ghoulardi you know. I was like wow and I went on YouTube and went oh that is your dad you know. Like I love him.   He was a horror TV movie host.  Yeah yeah and you know just being kind of an overall geek for stuff just started devouring all that you know just going in and you know finding all the Ernie Anderson stuff and really funny and interesting. So yeah he was a guy that without consciously doing it I would do that like at school. You know I would try to be doing those kind of voices. Another guy to be honest fullheartedly ripping off is Phil Hartman. You know he was a guy that I really liked on the show because he could do that. You know he could be the announcer. He could be the lead in the sketch like Unfrozen Caveman Lawyer that was one of my favorite SNL sketches of all time. That was one I would do at school. I would walk around and do that in science class like this photosynthesis. You know I would like try to do that voice but like at 9 you know. It did not really sound right. He could be the lead in the sketch but he also could be the dad in you know those Matt Foley sketches where Chris Farley was the motivational speaker. He would be the dad and completely committed and engaged. And I remember my dad saying that to me like yeah everybody's laughing at Chris Farley but look at Phil Hartman. I like watching Phil Hartman. And so yeah that  I feel like I took that approach when I got to the show.  So in addition to all the announcers you do you do a lot of game shows. Do you watch the Game Show Network just to get inspiration?   I do not know. No I do not.   I do not. You know what the funny thing is? I will say Vince Blake the one game show host  Simon Rich Marika Sawyer and John Mulaney have written these game shows like What is That Name? I do not know if you remember that where we did that where someone would come out and you would say you know he is the  he is a star of Ocean's Eleven and they would be like George Clooney. I am like that is right you know 15 for you. And it is like all right then  she starred in Pretty Woman. Julia Roberts. That is right 20 for you. And then I would go All right now for 10 million who is this? And it is like Hey I am your doorman. I say hello to you every day. What is my name?   And it was so funny and we did it with Justin Timberlake and Lady Gaga where Lady Gaga knew everybody's name and Justin Timberlake did not even remember one of his former band mates from N'Sync's name. Like he could not remember anybody's name. And that character Vince Blake we have a back story for that he is independently wealthy guy and he does this just because he hates people. He hates  he just  he hates all these people.   And he had this game show to just embarrass them and make them feel terrible.  Bill Hader will be back in the second half of the show. He is nominated for an Emmy for his work on Saturday Night Live. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   OK. Let us talk Rick Perry.   And I am sure you wish you could do either Barack Obama or Mitt Romney right now but those those parts are taken. But you did a very funny Rick Perry during the primaries and you have a great parody of his oops moment during one of the debates and I want to play an excerpt of that now. And Nasim Pedrad plays one of the journalists doing the questions. And so she is playing CNBC's Maria Bartiromo.    Moving on to Governor Perry...   Hey Maria before I  before I start  I want to say I know I have had some trouble in past debates. But tonight I am feeling good I think I am really gonna nail it. Texas highfive!  All right. With emerging crises in Greece and Italy what would you do to protect and grow the American economy?   Well the first thing I would do as president is cut government spending. So when I get to Washington there are three  three  agencies I would cut immediately Commerce Education and... What is the third one there? It is got away from me. Oops.   But seriously governor what is the third department you would cut?  Come on man I said oops. OK I got it  the three the three departments I would cut Education Commerce  eeeugh why is this so hard? It is it is up there somewhere I can feel it dancing around. Come on. Oh and III know if I heard it...   EPA?  Yup. There It is. EPA. That is it. Thanks Ron. Hey hey how cool is little Ronnie Paul here huh? Huh with his little birdie arms huh? It is the EPA  thank you.  Is it really the EPA?  No sir. No sir. Well I..  OK. So that is my guest Bill Hader as Rick Perry and we also heard Fred Armisen in there as the journalist John Harwood asking some of the questions. So it is always great to get a part as one of the you know politicians on Saturday Night Live especially during an election. How did you end up doing Perry?  Well that was actually the second time I played Rick Perry. The first time was in an Update feature that Sarah Schneider and Zack Cannon who are two of our new writers wrote making fun of his  where he was drunk and that video was kind of going all around the Internet. So Friday night before the show they came to me and said hey do you want to play Rick Perry? Now Alec Baldwin had played him already on the show so he was not really  it was kind of like oh Alec played him and no one has we have not had him on the show yet again. So so they asked if I would do it and I kind of went like oh yeah sure. So I had to figure it out that night you know...  So so since you had since you had to get Perry overnight basically you did not have much time to prepare. What did you do to prepare? What did you try to pick up on that you have noticed he did?  He is from...  Yeah.  Well he is from Texas and I am from Oklahoma so that helped.   Because I just know people like he kind of just sounds like you know gym teachers I used to have.   But yeah I do not know. It is just watching him kind of talk and I do not know you just kind of  I have  I have figured out that I kind of it is either I can kind of get someone immediately or I do not. You know like it immediately happens or it is never going to happen. You know it is it is like it it rarely like  well sometimes it improves. I did the guy from I did Daniel DayLewis' character from There Will Be Blood and it got better as the week went along. But yeah I do not I do not know it is hard to describe. I remember asking Darrell Hammond that once. I go how do you prepare and do your impressions? And he just kind of was like I do not know.   You just I do not know you just can do it. And and I was like that is a good lesson like do not overthink this. Just like just go do it.   What did you do for your Saturday Night Live audition?  I played Vinny Vedecci the the Italian talk show host doing impressions. So I did Vinny Vedecci doing Al Pacino James Mason Peter Falk  I cannot remember. Oh...  Gregory Peck?  Gregory Peck thank you. And you know who else? That morning they called me. My audition was at two. My manager called me at nine in the morning and said they want a political impression from you and it cannot be George Bush. And I I was like oh OK. And I just went on CSPAN and I just I saw this thing and it was like a live meeting of parliament and and Tony Blair was up went up and spoke and I listened to Tony Blair and then I called my friend who is from the U.K. and I I was like who is this? And I did it and he was like is that supposed to be Tony Blair? And I was like let me I will call you right back.   And I watched it some more. And I call him I go all right now who is this? And he was like Tony Blair. And I was like yeah. And he is like all right. And I hung up.   And so yeah I did you know Tony Blair and I had to come up with some bit for him like really fast like in in my dressing room before I went out to audition. And I remember getting in the elevator for my audition and there was a guy next to me who had a backpack full of props and wigs and things. And I went oh my god that guy is so prepared. I have nothing. I have no props. And that was Andy Samberg.   And Andy Samberg said he was looking at me going oh that guy has no props he does not need props.   And that that was the first time we met it was in that elevator.  Oh that is great. So you did Vinny Vedecci for your addition. And you know he is a character you have done on Saturday Night Live and he he hosted a talk show and you know has on celebrities. But you once did him and this is on YouTube for anybody who wants to see it. You once did him at Garage Comedy which is a comedy club I assume. And you were introduced by the MC as the replacement for a comic who had to cancel and she said the comic we are going to hear is actually our busboy but he used to be Italy's top comic impressionist back in 1985.  Right.  And then and then you come on stage and start like speaking in Italian or faux Italian.   Yeah it is Italian gibberish. Yeah.  Italian gibberish. Yeah. And and then so you start doing your impression. So I am going to play just like an excerpt of that.    Impressioni impressioni. This is Mr. Gregory Peck in To Kill The Mockingbird. Very famous racecar driving actor. Scout...  Scout you are not a lady. You are a tomboy. And you know what they call tomboys when they grow up Scout? Bull dykes.   So do the people in the audience know that you were Bill Hader or did they really think that you were a busboy?  I think a lot of them knew I was was I think they knew it was a bit that I was doing.  And why were you doing it? I mean were you testing something out?  That actually was before I was on SNL I think.  Oh.  That was before I was even on SNL. That was my first that was me probably working out my audition is that clip.  Oh.  I when before I got SNL I would try stuff out at live audiences. And I was in a sketch group at the time and what happened was  quick version of a long story Megan Mullally saw me in a show recommended me to Lorne Michaels. Lorne Michaels came to LA and said I want to see you in your sketch show the show that Megan Mullally saw. So we put on a sketch show and in it I did Vinny Vedecci doing impressions kind of like what you heard but as a sketch. So it was like I snuck an audition into a bigger sketch show. And Lorne  it went great but Lorne I think kind of went like oh this these are all his friends in the audience because the place is going crazy they all know I am here. So Lorne said you got to come to New York and do it...   ...at UCB theater an audience where no one knows you. So we came and did the show in New York with the sketch group and we looked out you know in the audience and there is Tina Fey and Seth Meyers and Amy Poehler and I was like oh my gosh. I was like plus with a bunch of New York people like who are these guys from LA because they all knew well look at all the SNL brass is here. Who are all these people? Oddly enough just  Bobby Moynihan was in the audience who later got on the show. And I did that when you kind of heard that Vinny Vedecci. And I will always be thankful for this Amy Poehler laughed really loud and it kind of made the whole audience relax  because they went oh Amy Poehler finds this funny we can kind of relax this is funny. Like this is great.  So...  You know what I mean?  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So...  It was this interesting thing.  In the middle of what we heard there is like a heckler or a plant  I am not sure which in the audience  that says cannot you do anybody current you know? And then so you do Ted Nugent. So was he somebody who you planted there to heckle you or is he a genuine heckler?  Well that is a good question. You know what? I do not know. I do not it could be it could have been a plant. I do not remember. But it really is I did not think about it until someone pointed out. It really just I think Andy Kaufman did a similar thing. I think it really is kind of just ripping off Andy Kaufman.   'ecause I was not  I was too shy or  shy is not the word. I was flatout scared to do real standup you know where people go out there and tell jokes and you are yourself. I do not know how people do that. I will go to see John Mulaney or go see Louis CK or you know Hannibal Buress and these guys and you are like I do not know how you do that you know?  You cannot do that? You cannot just do straight standup?  No. I  I no. I do not know how they  I need for me...  You need a character?  I need a character.   I need people out there with me. So that was something I learned. I remember seeing Bring The Pain Chris Rock's special in '96 and after I watched that I remember being like I can never do that. It was like I do not know how you do that.  My guest is Bill Hader. He is nominated for an Emmy for his work on Saturday Night Live. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Bill Hader. And he is nominated for an Emmy for his performances on Saturday Night Live. One of the things that you are doing over this summer is The Essentials Jr. on TCM  Turner Classic Movies. And Robert Osborne who is one of the main hosts for the for the network does something called The Essentials in which he has on a guest host with him often like Alec Baldwin or Drew Barrymore and they talk about like a favorite film and introduce it. So you are doing this on your own introducing films that are good for the whole family. So it is a range of you know like westerns like Rio Bravo and you know the Buster Keaton film The General and The Invisible Man you showed. So what were the movies you watched with your family? Did you watch old movies on TV or did your parents like rent videos and screen movies for you that they thought that you would love?  Yeah. We my family we were a big movie family  even more so than television or books. Like my grandparents I grew  my grandparents lived next door to us when we were growing up  my mom's parents  and they were they were like the reading house.   And then like my mom's mom and dad's house was the movie house. And pretty much every night we would watch a movie especially during the summer. It was like our way of relaxing and it was all d