 This is FRESH AIR. Aretha Franklin Marvin Gaye Al Green Earth Wind  Fire ParliamentFunkadelic Diana Ross Donna Summer Barry White Bob Marley Patti LaBelle are just some of the many performers our guest Bruce Talamon has photographed on stage and off. A book collecting his music photos from 1972 to '82 is titled Soul. RB. Funk. Talamon got his start doing photos for the blackowned LA newspaper Soul. That helped lead the way to freelancing for Jet and Ebony magazines photographing musicians for record companies and becoming the photographer for Soul Train. Talamon went on to shoot still photos for various movies working with people like Eddie Murphy Paul Reubens Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg. Talamon covered Jesse Jackson's 1984 presidential bid where he met his wife NPR's Karen Grigsby Bates. Talamon spoke with guest contributor Sonari Glinton.  Welcome to FRESH AIR. You know I have to say I am amazed at the access you got. So when you look at photos there is like  there is Patti LaBelle  this is one of my favorite photos  with her feet up on a conference table or Stevie Wonder late late night at Roscoe's Chicken . This is something I wonder about is getting that access. There is a photo of Donna Summer.  Yes.  Minimal makeup. She is got her knees  bare knees pulled up against her. And she is essentially looking down...  Right. Right.  ...The barrel of the lens at you at the viewer.  Right.  And it is so sweet and intimate. And this seems early in your career. How does this photo come about?  Well this was an interesting  this was  Casablanca Records and Filmworks her record label was promoting an album that was coming out in 1977. And they wanted to reach this  you know this black audience. And they would do this sometimes to the black press. They would give what were called handouts where they would have another photographer shoot it. And you know some Hollywood glamour photographer would shoot it. They would almost even write the story. And quite frankly you know a lot of black newspapers and groups would not have the manpower. They could not go to a concert. They could not  you know they could not be there. So they would take these handouts and they would print them. And Regina said...  And this is the editor of Soul Magazine.  The editor of Soul said if you want to reach my audience you have to allow my photographers and my writers access. And so they reluctantly said oh OK. You have got 20 minutes. Well we had set up  on the day that that we were supposed to shoot Donna for the cover we are there three hours early. Well who walks in but Donna Summer? And she looks at the setup. And you know they had told her that it was going to be you know 20 minutes in and out. And she looks and she says oh you brothers are serious. She stayed for four hours Sonari. Maybe six months later when Ebony magazine which was the big African American magazine of record  they said do you have a photographer that you work with? Because they were going to defer to her. And she says yes Bruce Talamon. That Ebony cover was my first national cover. All right? So you know from there a lot of things happened after that.  You transitioned at some point to work for another Chicago legend Don Cornelius the founder of...  Soul Train.  ...Soul Train. And in the book you tell an anecdote that I really love. And it is of Don Cornelius and he is standing in shadow with James Brown. And I love this photo not necessarily because the photo is so great because the story behind it is so great. For those who do not know Don Cornelius starts Soul Train and he runs it for over 30 years. He is a music entrepreneur who was a Chicago DJ. And there is this like  there is this moment where James Brown who is a God of rock 'n' roll RB and everything is standing next to Don Cornelius. And he is surprised by all the stuff that is happening around him.  First of all when I look back at that photograph you have got James Brown and you have got Don Cornelius two black men who were at the height of their powers and their careers in 1973. They are sitting there on the set or actually standing on the set in between shots. And that is one of the things sometimes that is a little subversive about being a photographer  you can get close and you can listen and you can hear things. You know I have always felt that that was sacred and you do not tell all right? Now that they are both gone I think I will share it. During the break James Brown was noticing you know that everybody was deferring obviously to Don.  Yeah.  And at one point you know he asks him who are you with? Well what do you mean James? Well who are you with? Who is backing you on this? And it was not until I was putting this book together that I realized that I might have captured an important little historical footnote in black music. Don knew what James meant. And Don you know said it is me. It is only me behind  you know who is doing this. But James Brown was asking if Don was being assisted by backers who were primarily not of the colored persuasion. And the answer was James it is just me.  That is a moment of real realization right? It is like oh we can  not only can sing and dance we can do the whole thing.  We can  as they say we can fourwall it because you see what that meant was Don paid for everything and then he went out and sold it and he owned his product. This was not Don going to ABC and making a deal. Nobody wanted to make a deal with Don back then.  There is a photo in the book...  Yes.  ...Of Isaac Hayes with a saxophone chain mail vest is the only thing I could call it sort of in his Shaft era glory.  Yes.  Isaac Hayes you know wrote the theme to Shaft and was a singersongwriter and musician.  This is my first RB photo that I took. And...  You are up in his grill. Like how do you get there?   I was two feet away from him. How do you get there? Stupidity not understanding that you are not supposed to be there not understanding that two security guys could have picked me up and tossed me out. But they did not. It was the end of the show. I actually got up on the stage was crawling around these boxes the road cases you know that the instruments are in. And he was actually playing at that moment. So there I was.  And there is a photo in the book of a young Bruce Talamon standing near Isaac. I mean you are  you are under the piano almost.  I am  yeah. I am two feet away. And I just knew that that was what I was supposed to do for the rest of my life.  You are listening to the interview our guest contributor Sonari Glinton recorded with Bruce Talamon. His music photos from 1972 to '82 are collected in the book Soul. RB. Funk. We will hear more of their interview after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to the interview our guest contributor Sonari Glinton recorded with Bruce Talamon. His book Soul. RB. Funk. collects his photos of musicians from 1972 to '82.  It is clear looking through the book that you have a relationship with these artists right? And if the positive side is the intimacy then you have to develop trust. What are the tradeoffs then you know to get this close to get this intimate? As someone you know who is a journalist I think well are there tradeoffs? Are  hey Bruce do not take this photo. Hey  like what do you have to trade  what did you have to trade?  I was never asked to put my camera down. One of the things I learned early was that you not mess up the vibe and maybe do not get too close. You know you can always put a longer lens on you know. Pay attention; it is all around you. And if you are in the room the shot will come. But you have to pay attention. You have to be aware of everything that is going on. One of the things that a couple of people told me was that they liked the fact that I did not burst into a room and just start photographing. You have to lay back. Just wait. I have used that and it is been good for me.  How do you not mess up the vibe? That  you say that is the key is like I knew not to mess up the vibe. But how do you not mess up...  Well I mean...  ...The vibe on a...  You know in other words...  With cool people. These are people you might think are actually cool. How do you not mess it up?  Oh they were very cool. They are very cool. Look  there is a lot of folks walking around with cameras; there is only a few photographers all right? And you got to learn you know how you go about it. There is a certain style to it. And you know you learn from you know people like Gordon Parks or you learn  you know Bob Willoughby or David Douglas Duncan. These are the people that I looked at their work and I basically put myself to school you know. And I would look and I would see how they would tell a photo story and how you would use your lenses. And quite frankly the photographer who had an impact on me was  one of the ones  was Jim Marshall. He of the rock 'n' roll...  Yeah the rock 'n' roll photographer. He took a  like my favorite photos of Mick and Keith etc. Yeah.  Right in 1972. But I mean you know Janis and Jimi at Monterey and then later at Woodstock  and he used a Leica camera because a Leica does not make that loud clack you know? It is a much quieter shutter that you have. And also it is unobtrusive. It is smaller than a Nikon or a Canon. And the lenses were just superb. And it almost sort of disappears in your hand so there is not that red flag of oh he is got a camera.  Oh he is got  and a big camera with big lenses on it.  And a huge camera and a camera that goes chickachickachickachicka . No. You do not  you know you do not do that. You do not fire off 20 shots in  you know backstage in the dressing room you know?  You know I  you know you tell a story  your first professional photograph actually you take a photo of Miles Davis when you are...  I was a college student. And actually that was not really a professional job. That was just Bruce wanting to go down and get a better position and a better seat. I mean I was sitting at the feet of Miles Davis.  Oh so you are at a  you go to a concert to see Miles Davis.  I was at a concert in  I had bought a camera in Berlin. I was on an exchange program for Whittier College. And I had bought a camera for 150  all my little money that I had at the time. And I used up all my little  for those of you who do not remember American Express traveler's checks. But I had my little American Express traveler's checks and I wrote them all out and bought the camera. We were at the University of Copenhagen. And Miles was coming to play at Tivoli Gardens which is a big venue in Copenhagen. And the brothers wanted to go see Miles. So we go and we were in the cheap seats because we did not have any money. And I decided to go down to the front. Well I walked down to the front and an usher stops me. And he says you have to go back to your seat. And I said well actually I am from Jet magazine an American publication  looked the man straight in the face and lied.  .  Sorry Mom. But he said OK and then allowed me to proceed down. And during the concert I photographed Miles. I was  I do not know  two or three feet away from him. And he is in the front  or you know front part of the stage. And there came a moment when the photographer  the Danish newspaper photographer took  Miles was doing a solo. He had the mute on the solo. It was intimate. It was quiet. It was subtle and the photographer fires off with a Nikon motor drive right in the middle of the solo. And...  But then that is  that would be like click click click click click.  Click click click click.  OK.  Miles did not say a word. He just emptied his spit valve on the guy. And that is...  That is gross. And Miles Davis...  That is pretty gross. But then he turns and he looks at me. And he says you can stay. Oh baby I was done OK? I was like floating on air. And you know...  And just to be clear  I want to say when I say that that is gross the spit valve is  when you are a performer like the spit collects in...  Right exactly  in the trumpet.  ...The trumpet in the horn. And so  and a lot of it can collect. And you can see musicians when you are emptying them on the side of the stage  and they have places for it. So to do that is possibly one of  I mean can you  I mean I just...  The point was that he  the artist was insulted. And also the guy  he could have gotten  you know you did not need to do that OK? As a chronicler or as a recorder of this moment I learned you know stay out of the way and do not mess up the vibe. And so you know there we were. And that is something that I have always  I mean it is taken me to many places.  Bruce Talamon thank you so much.  You are welcome. Thank you.  Bruce Talamon's book is called Soul. RB. Funk Photographs 19721982. He spoke with our guest contributor Sonari Glinton. Tomorrow on talk about debunking a conspiracy theory. Our guest will be investigative journalist Michael Isikoff who uncovered what he describes as the previously unreported role of Russian intelligence in creating and fostering one of the most insidious conspiracy theories that arose out of the 2016 election; a conspiracy theory that was promoted by some of Donald Trump's allies. I hope you will join us.   It is a pleasure to end today's show with some good news. Our producer Heidi Saman has brought Remi Rafat Tannenbaum  into the world. Baby and mother are doing great. It was wonderful witnessing her pregnancy. And now we all look forward to seeing the next chapter of her life as a new mother. She is only been gone a few days. She worked until nearly the last minute but we miss her already. We look forward to her return and to meeting Remi. Congratulations to Heidi and her husband Joel . FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham. Our associate producer for digital media is Molly SeavyNesper. Roberta Shorrock directs the show. I am Terry Gross.  