 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. It is Emmy week on FRESH AIR. The next nominee we are going to hear from is Michael K. Williams. He is nominated for his performance in the Netflix limited series When They See Us as Bobby McCray the father of Antron McCray one of the five black and brown boys who became known as the Central Park Five. They were wrongfully convicted of assaulting and raping a woman who was jogging in Central Park in 1989. The series has 16 Emmy nominations. Michael K. Williams became famous for his roles in fictional crime series. In The Wire he was Omar the fearless stickup man who stole money from drug dealers. In Boardwalk Empire he was Chalky White a bootlegger who later runs a nightclub in Atlantic City. I spoke with him about his life in 2016 when he was costarring in the HBO series The Night Of. He played an inmate who basically controls his prison block in Rikers Island the notorious jail in New York City. We started with a clip from a scene in which he is giving advice to a newly arrived prisoner a young man who is clueless about prison life. The young man is played by Riz Ahmed. Michael K. Williams speaks first.    You see us and the guards we all from the same hood. Some of us even grew up together. They know our families; we know theirs. Look; family's everything right? It is in a Muslim family.   Yeah.   I will tell you something man. See those brothers you pray with the nation of Islam? They are not your friends. In fact they hate your ass because you are a naturalborn Muslim and they are just phony jailhouse opportunists looking for better food do not know the difference between Cairo Egypt and Cairo Ill.   I am Pakistani not Egyptian.   Yeah well my ancestors came from Doheny and not the Congo. Who gives a expletive man? See you are a celebrity in here and I am not talking the good kind. Dude kills four guys over some dope  OK. But murder a girl? Rape a girl?   I did not.   It does not matter. Makes no difference. See there is a whole separate judicial system in here. And you have just been judged and juried and it did not come out good for you.   Michael K. Williams welcome back to FRESH AIR.  Thank you. Thank you Terry.  I really like your performance in this series. What did you want to know about your character when you took the role?  You know when I first got the part it was not really  nothing I wanted to know about him. I am so familiar with people like Freddy you know from my childhood and you know from my personal life. You know I have family members that remind me of Freddy  you know just all this potential that just got misguided and led to bad decisions. And those bad decisions came with consequences. I know that all too well. And so it was not something where I needed to do research to understand that world. I still visit my family that is incarcerated. And I see the good days. I see the bad days. I see the growth. I see what they lost by being incarcerated. And I saw the gains. I just dove into that.  You have family who is in jail now?  Yes I have a nephew Dominic Dominic Dupont who I am extremely proud of. If there were such a term as a model prisoner he would be the poster boy. You know he went in at a very early age. He defended his twin brother in a fight and they got jumped and a gun went off and someone lost their life at the hands of my nephew. And I believe that had we had the proper money to hire the highpowered lawyers his outcome probably would have been different. But you know did he do the crime? Yes. Did he do the time? Absolutely. But his record what he is shown society how he is grown in there  we are talking got his education got married in there  managed to find a good woman and got married in there. He mentors young men that come in behind him whether it is a HIV/AIDS program or a Scared Straight program. While doing all of this he still managed to keep his respect and his dignity. And as we all know that is not easy to do in prison. You got to fight for your respect or you get run over. And he was able to ride that thin line.  So your character is in jail in Rikers Island...  That is right.  ...Which is a very notorious jail in New York City. Did you know people in Rikers Island when you were growing up? Did you hear a lot of Rikers Island stories when you were growing up?  Yeah Dblock . Yeah House of Pain or 4 Main House of Pain. You know and I just want to take a moment to just say  to give a shoutout to all my brothers and sisters who may be incarcerated on the island from New York City. Just keep your head up man and just keep striving to be the best you you could be. You know they could lock your body up but they cannot lock your mind up. Just keep striving. Tomorrow's a better day.  We are listening to the interview I recorded with Michael K. Williams in 2016. Eighteen months later in January 2018 his nephew Dominic Dupont was released from prison after receiving a commutation citing his remorse and his nine years of work as a mentor to atrisk youth. He would served 20 years of a 25yearstolife sentence. He is currently working as a counselor to atrisk youth. In this next part of my interview with Michael K. Williams we talked about a minister who helped him through a very tough time. We got into that by talking about an interview he would done for a series he was hosting for Viceland TV called Black Market.   You interview a minister Reverend Ronald Christian who ran the Christian Love Baptist Church a church that bordered Newark in Irvington N.J.  Correct.  And this was a church that was really important to you during a difficult period of your life. The episode is dedicated to the memory of this reverend. So in between the time that you recorded the interview and last November when he actually died  I do not know how much time elapsed but you must have been really shocked. He was found dead on the floor of the church. Does anyone know what happened?  His heart just gave out man. He got tired. You know this was a man that you know I have never seen someone give so much of themself  100 night and day. He just never stopped. He was always there in the community. If you are familiar with Essex County and particularly Irvington and you know certain parts of the Oranges and especially Newark you know that there is a lot of violence that goes on there a lot of death. Life is very cheap on those streets. And he was always there. You know when...  What did he do for you? You came to him during a difficult part of your life.  When I came around I was broken. I came through those doors I was broken.  When was this?  Around the second  more like third season of The Wire. I was on drugs and I was in jeopardy of destroying everything that I had worked so hard for. And I came in those doors and I met a man who had never even heard of The Wire much less watched it. He was somewhere else in the Bronx preaching at another church when I first went there. And he stopped everything he was doing ran back to New Jersey just because his team at the church told him that some you know some guy named Omar was in trouble and needed to speak to him. And he came in his office and he says write your full name down and your email. He said I am going to go get you a Bible man. You could keep that. And we going to spend the rest of this day. And I was like bet. So I wrote my full name down Michael Kenneth Williams. And as he is leaving the office he turns around. He says so what you want to be called man? I said well you know my name is Michael but you know I could do Mike you know? He said well why everybody saying Omar  Omar in trouble? And I was like oh this dude  clueless. And it had nothing to do with Hollywood light or who I was in my job  just basic human being stuff. And one of his biggest sayings was Imma  love you till you learn to love yourself. And he never judged. You know he just nudged. You know I could  you know if you want to stop this pain I can help you with this but until you are ready I am your brother. He never  you know I am not saying he accepted me in my dysfunctionalism but he loved me in it. And it worked. It worked for me. It got me to want to become a grown man to grow up and to stop acting foolish or at least to make the attempt to stop acting foolish you know?  We are listening to my interview with Michael K. Williams who is now nominated for an Emmy for his performance in the Netflix series When They See Us about the Central Park Five. We will hear more of the interview after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to my 2016 interview with Michael K. Williams. He is now nominated for an Emmy for his performance in the Netflix series When They See Us. Earlier in our interview he talked about how he would used drugs earlier in his life.   So why do you think you started using drugs when  or started using them again  I am not sure which  after The Wire was on...  A little bit of both .  ...After you would become successful because you would think on the surface that that would be a period when your selfesteem would be like really good because you were so great in the role and people like loved you in it.  Yeah. See that is the trick. That is the trick. Feeling good that is got to come  it is got to come from the inside out not the outside in. And you know you you know...  Oh you did not feel worthy.  No. Hell no I did not feel worthy of opportunity like that. Then you know when I was given this character as Omar I could have used it as a nurturing tool for myself. It could have been cathartic for me. I decided to wear it as a SpiderMan suit you know and just fly around and go whee look at me. I got web in my hands. You know and instead of actually doing the work and finding out how I could use this character to make myself feel better about me I just  I used it instead of me. It was  I  you know like it was like my crutch. And so when The Wire and the character of Omar ended I had zero tools personally speaking in how to deal with letting that go. I was not going around robbing people or anything stupid like that but I definitely wore that dark energy that Omar was. He was a dark soul tortured soul. And I just woke all of that up and lived in that so when  and that is what people was attracted to  his  whatever they were attracted to I just did not know how to differentiate OK that is Omar's love and then you have Michael's love. The lines got blurred. It was a little too close to the white meat at the time. It is an old figure of speech in the streets...  OK .  ...When you cut somebody to the white meat. It was a little too close to home that character and I did not equip myself with the tools of how to wash that off my psyche.  You know we were talking about how you did not feel powerful when you were young and playing Omar felt like a real stretch for you. And you had this kind of dissonance between how you felt as a person and how you portrayed Omar. Something I know for sure that must have taken a lot of courage was when you were I guess in your 20s when you decided to leave a job that you would finally gotten with a pharmaceutical company to try to make it as a dancer you know to try to have some kind of career as a performer. And I think you know that always takes a lot of courage to leave a secure job even if it is not a job you especially like and just kind of you know jump into the water not knowing if you will float or not.  You know Terry I was being a bit of a butt expletive when I did that to my  that was a way to stick it to my family especially my mom. You know in my family there are three things that you are taught to do. You either get an education or you go into the military or you get a trade with your hands. You know the men in my family that is what you do. And I kind of like failed at all three. Yeah so I went and got a job at Pfizer pharmaceuticals. Like I was a temp job and I worked there for a year. They were about to make me a permanent when I saw this Janet Jackson video. And it was like my spirit got stirred by the visual images that were shown in that video the strength. You could see like these just different people  you know some tall some short male female lightskinned darkskinned. It was not just this everybody was pretty with perfect teeth. You saw some jagged edges in that formation in Rhythm Nation. Yet when they all came together they moved like one. Mixed with the lyrics  and I am a huge Janet Jackson fan. It is  I could not run that fast. So it stirred my spirit. My spirit got awoken. My creative sources energy got awoken the first time I saw that video. And it was a way to like you know stick it to my mom like yeah I am going to do it my way. I got us some Frank Sinatra you know?  .  So it was a combination of like you know I do not want to get an education. I do not want to get a trade. I do not want to go to the Army. I want to do this. I am going to dance. And you know lo and behold I got lucky. I started getting work. That was not in the plan to actually you know become something.  .  I just wanted to have fun and make a few dollars you know ?  What kind of dancing had you done before?  OK now when I say I used to be a dancer I need you to know that I was a complete and utter hack.  .  I  you know I have way too much respect for dancers and real choreographers to really call myself one. I just had a real good way with rhythm. I love movement. I love music. And I am a good mimic. I could make it look like a pirouette but if you really look at my form any real dancer could tell you that is some garbage right there. So you know I was just that club kid in the clubs in New York City with his you know with his suspenders on backwards the loud floral shirt the baggy jeans the highheel marshmallow shoes with the big platform doing halfsplits in the club. I was that dude. And I got really blessed and was able to parlay it into a dance career being at the right place at the right time and surrounding myself by the right people.  We are listening to my interview with Michael K. Williams who is now nominated for an Emmy for his performance in the Netflix series When They See Us about the Central Park Five. We will hear more of the interview after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to my 2016 interview with Michael K. Williams. He is now nominated for an Emmy for his performance in the Netflix series When They See Us.   Let us talk about another turning point in your life. When you were 25  I think it was like the night of your 25th birthday  you got into a bar fight. That is when your face was slashed with a razor. And your  the scar that runs down the middle of your forehead  that is become almost like a signature. You know it is almost like you are known for that. It is part of your look in a way. And you have managed to make it a strength instead of something horrible that you have to cover up that is going to hurt your career or anything like that. But when it happened what did you think assuming that you survived because I think you were also cut in your throat that night?  Yeah the second cut of that fight ends right at my jugular yeah.  How did you think that scar on your forehead which is visible was going to affect your career as a performer?  I did not think at all. You know when I first got that scar when I got jumped that night I was just beginning my dance career. And I was  I had just gotten a gig as a model like a  there was this company called Rock Embassy that made tour jackets for like various recording artists that went on tour. And they would sell them at you know as merchandise. And I was the big  one of the big spokesmodels for that company. And so I think the  it went in all the magazines the hiphop magazines. There were like posters all in the subway stations. And that whole wave of press went out on November 20 or the 21. And then I get this big slash down my face on the 22. So immediately I thought my modeling career  well that is over. OK we are going to  now we are going to focus on the next thing on your resume  dancing yeah. Scratch model. OK now we are just a dancer. So you know and I just want to say man there are some good advantages that came out of growing up in my community. That whole like fake toughskin thing it kind of worked for me in this instance because I refused to look at myself as a victim. I kept it moving. I did not allow myself to feel weak over that incident because I knew that mentally I did not have what it would have taken to really deal with what had just happened. So I did not mentally go there. They wanted me to seek like therapy for trauma. I shut all of that down. I said no I am good.  What about the scar from your ear to your jugular? I do not think I have noticed that ever. Is that visible?  Because I purposely wear my beard. It kind of just hides it back there.  Did you think you were not going to make it through that night?  You know I think  yeah I think a lot of people thought that I was not going to make it to see 30. You know my mom did not think I was going to see 30 you know.  Does she watch your TV shows?  No she liked Boardwalk Empire. Every time that character would come on she  oh Nucky  oh Nucky. And I am like Ma .  Why do not we hear a scene from Boardwalk Empire?  Yeah.  And Boardwalk Empire was HBO's series set during the Prohibition era in Atlantic City. And Steve Buscemi played Nucky who was like the king of Atlantic City...  Atlantic City.  ...And basically controlled politics controlled the bootleg liquor. You play the most powerful African American in the city and you have a bootleg operation of your own. And then with Nucky's help you run a very swank nightclub in Atlantic City. And so you have accumulated a lot of wealth. And in this scene you are at a dinner party at your very wellappointed home with your wife and children. Your daughter's boyfriend a medical student is there too. And you are feeling very selfconscious because you are from the South you are from the country. And he is very urban. He is educated. He is refined. There is a sumptuous duck dinner on the table. Your wife asked the medical student to say grace. You are a little drunk and you keep interrupting him and talking about how they should all be eaten Hoppin' John  rice and blackeyed peas. Here's that scene and it starts with the boyfriend.    Lord we...   Is that a duck?   Yes Albert. Of course it is. Please Mr. Crawford.   Lord we thank you...   I thought I asked for Hoppin' John.   There is duck peas carrots freshbaked biscuits.   I made chocolate pudding for dessert.   We would like to thank you for the...   I asked a question.   Albert please. She made that pudding all by herself.   It is very nice.   Where the damn Hoppin' John?   Albert you know that is not proper food for a guest. Now let us allow Samuel to finish.   Lord we come together to...   Well maybe our guest would have liked some.   Oh I have always enjoyed that type of food sir.   What type of food?   My grandma would make it.   I say something funny son?   I beg your pardon?   You laughing. What is the joke?   Hoppin' Johns Albert. You are being ridiculous.   I have been eating rice and beans all my life. Tell me it as not good enough.   You will have to forgive my husband's country ways.   Oh I completely understand.   This is my house and my country ways put the food on this damn table.   Albert you are drunk.   Sir I apologize. I will leave.   You stay right where you are son right there inside the house. Pretty clear who the field expletive is.  That was Michael K. Williams as Albert  Chalky  White on Boardwalk Empire. So your character in Boardwalk Empire is from the South from the country. You are very urban. You are from Brooklyn. What did you feel like you had to learn about the South and about Prohibition era to play Chalky White?  Well you know Terry there was not nothing I had to learn about the South. I am firstgeneration Bahamian from my mother but my father is straight from a small town in South Carolina called Greeleyville. So I have full working knowledge of the South. What Boardwalk and portraying Chalky White did for me was it gave me time with my dad who is no longer here again but not in this time frame. It allowed me to go back to hang out with him in his childhood what he went through in coming up as a man him and my Uncle Jayhu  my Uncle Par my godfather Junior my Uncle Tommy. All these men are deceased and Chalky White gave me time to hang out with them in their era when they were young men coming up. That is what they all went through. That is what they lived in.  So both in The Wire and Boardwalk Empire your characters are shot to death. In The Wire you are shot by a kid. In Boardwalk Empire it is almost like a firing squad this like  there is like  I do not know  five gangsters who just kind of line up and shoot you and you die offcamera. It kind of fades to black. Can I ask you what it is like to experience your character's death?  Oh wow. That is a first. That is the first time I have ever been asked that question. And you mentioned who they got shot by young  a black teen on the streets of Baltimore. Chalky White got shot by a firing squad you know ironically of all black men in Harlem. And it speaks to what is happening today you know in our society. And so those images that you see on The Wire and Chalky  and in Boardwalk Empire and particularly with my character's demise I do not take that lightly you know? And anybody that was on the set that day when Idris Elba and I had to shoot the scene where Stringer Bell dies I was shaking like a leaf and crying you know because I did not want to do that. It just did not feel right. Like how do you come to these two darkskinned strongminded black men strongwilled black men  as we say in the hood these two kings  how is it always they have got to come on and you know there is a faceoff and one of them got to die? You know I did not want to be a part of that. I did not know  at that point I questioned what am I doing? Am I telling the truth or am I perpetuating the problem? I suffered with that on The Wire you know and that weighed on me. And even though it is fake where I go in my psyche it  trust me it is very real. And it comes equipped with all those emotions that comes from having killed someone that looks like you. You know how do you deal with that? Where do you go with that? That is where I take it.  Michael K. Williams recorded in 2016. He is nominated for an Emmy for his performance in the Netflix limited series When They See Us based on the story of the Central Park Five. He plays Bobby McCray the father of Michael McCray  one of the five boys who was wrongfully convicted. The series has 16 nominations. Our Emmy week continues tomorrow with two more nominees  Christina Applegate who is nominated for her performance in the comedy series Dead To Me and Natasha Lyonne who is nominated both for her acting and her writing on the comedy series Russian Doll. I hope you will join us. FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham. Our associate producer for digital media is Molly SeavyNesper. Roberta Shorrock directs the show. I am Terry Gross.  