 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. Sam Shepard playwright actor and an icon of understated cool died last week at the age of 73 due to complications from Lou Gehrig's disease. Shepard grew up on his family's avocado farm in California but moved to New York as a young man and began writing plays. He wrote more than 55 many dealing with the American West. Among his plays are True West Fool For Love Cowboy Mouth and Buried Child which won the Pulitzer Prize. Shepard was also a compelling if reluctant screen star appearing in more than 50 films including Steel Magnolias Days Of Heaven Country and The Pelican Brief. His breakthrough role was in the 1983 film The Right Stuff. He played Army test pilot Chuck Yeager who in 1947 became the first person to break the sound barrier. In this scene Yeager's having a drink in a desert bar. A couple of Army Engineers who are working on a new aircraft are sitting nearby. They have heard about this pilot Yeager.    Hey there Yeager.   Sir?   We were just talking to Slick here about the sound barrier.   Is that right?   And we feel that the X1 is ready to have a go at it.   We think the X1's got the answer to go beyond Mach 1.   If there is any beyond. So what do you think Yeager?   Well I tell you what half these engineers ever been off the ground you know. I mean they are liable to tell you that the sound barrier is a brick wall in the sky. It will rip your ears off if you try to go through it. You ask me I do not believe the damn thing even exists.   Waitress a drink for Mr. Yeager here.   No thanks. I got one.   So do you think you want to have a go at it?   I might.   But since as you say this sound barrier does not really exist how much...   How much you got? I am just joking. The Air Force is paying me already as not that right sir?   Why sure Yeager but...   So when do we go?   Well how about tomorrow morning?   I will be there.   See you there.  Terry spoke to Sam Shepard in 1998. One of the subjects Shepard wrote about was his fear of flying hardly in keeping with his rugged image or his portrayal of test pilot Chuck Yeager.   I got to meet Chuck Yeager you know when I was shooting The Right Stuff. And he is a man who is known for impeccable courage and all the rest of it. And I got to talking to him about flying and all that. And he says it is not true that you do not have fear. You know fear is  part and parcel of the thing that you take on is that you are able to face it you know. To me that is the interesting part about courage you know. It is not that you do not have fear it is that you look at in the eye you know.  But Chuck Yeager went on to be you know a famous test pilot. You played him in The Right Stuff but you do not go up in planes yourself right?  I do occasionally yeah. I am getting better at it actually. I go to Mexico once a year and stuff like that. It is just that I am not crazy about it you know. And it is a funny thing because I grew up in a kind of rural situation. Most of the people that I have talked to from that kind of background are terrified of flying. And I always thought that was curious you know that people who had a background of being sort of stuck in the land do not like to get up in airplanes. And I do not know if that is just a coincidence or  you know what I mean? I have a farmer friend of mine who once a year flies to Las Vegas to have a go at the onearmed bandits. And he cannot stand airplanes. He hates them but he goes you know.  Now did playing Chuck Yeager have any effect on you and flying?  Any effect on me and flying? No. I went up with him actually once in a little Piper Cub over the desert because you know if I am going to crash I might as well go down with the world's greatest pilot. So we went to this hangar. And he took this little hook  it was like  looked like an umbrella handle  and pulled this airplane out of the hangar by hand. And it was a singleprop plane. We jumped in the damn thing and took off. And I could not believe it. It felt great. It was just a  it was a great feeling. We kind of hovered over the desert. And he showed me different stuff you know where he hung out in his Air Force days. And that was fun.  Now I know your father was a bomber pilot in World War II. I am wondering if that had any impact on you? And if you heard...  Oh I am sure it did .  Did you hear a lot of scary stories about nearly being shot down during the war?  Well he  yeah he had he had quite a few scrapes. He had a bunch of shrapnel hit him and stuff. And one time they had a belly gunner. You know in those old big planes they had these glass turrets underneath the fuselages with the machine gun turret. And he  one of his buddies was in that while he was flying the bomber. And the turret got shot off. And he saw his pal go down you know. Stuff like that. I do not know. I guess it gives you little nightmares when you are a kid and stuff. I suppose it does  it has affected me but I am not sure how.  Now some of your plays have dealt with family upheaval family violence. You left your family. As a teenager you left home.  I did. I was driven out.  Driven out by your parents?  Well that is unfair to say. I mean I left in a kind of holocaust of my old man. You know he destroyed the house. And I decided it was time to go.  What did your father do that destroyed the house?  What did he do?  Yeah.  Broke windows tore the doors off stuff like that.  Oh literally destroyed the house?  Yeah physically.  Did  how did your mother handle that? She did not run away with you.  She is a very brave soul.  Was your father very strict when you were growing up? Were there were a lot of rules you were supposed to follow?  Yeah he was.  What were the rules?  He was a Air Force guy you know.  Right.  Crew cut all that stuff.  So what were the rules you were supposed to obey as a kid?  What were the rules I was supposed to  never show any feeling was one of the rules .  Well that is interesting. Let me stop you there because in several of your roles you are a character who does not show his feelings. Even in the new movie it is clear how much he feels for the Diane Keaton character but he is kind of in her eyes unwilling to demonstrate it enough.  Yeah. I think you cannot  it is very difficult to escape your background you know? And I do not think it is necessary to even try you know to escape it. More and more I start to think that it is necessary to see exactly what it is that you inherited on both ends of the stick  your timidity your courage your selfdeceit and your honesty and all the rest of it. You know it is necessary to include all of that in order to be able to accept oneself because if I  you know what I am saying? And the fact that the characters that I portray have to do with that kind of dilemma is fine by me because I know what that is you know? And I suppose the way it is expressed is part and parcel of who I am. I cannot get away from it you know?  No I think there is a kind of hardboiled quality about some of your characters so that even if they do not kind of openly express a lot of emotion they are also  they are vulnerable but in a hardboiled way as opposed to in a way where they do not express emotion but you know behind closed doors they would be crying or something. Do you know what I mean? There is  and I am wondering if you thought of yourself as having that hardboiled quality when you were still in the house with your parents kind of in a house ruled by your father.  No. I never as a kid thought of myself as hardboiled. That came later. Under the influence of my old man and the family situation and all that I never for a second believed that I was  that tough you know? You cannot  as a child you do not think of yourself as tough. I mean you may be able to bear certain things but I just never had that kind of image of myself as a tough kid.  When your father was tearing doors off hinges and breaking windows was he beating you up too?  Now and then you know yeah. But I mean I would not say that I had a particularly horrendous childhood compared to the modern kids. You know I think the modern kids probably have it worse you know having sometimes no fatherly influence at all you know?  When you were young did you find any resonance in books or movies? You know with the situation that you were in did you gravitate to books or movies that seemed to describe families similar to yours? Or did you look for something completely different in books and movies?  Well no I was  it was funny. When I was in high school  again we were out in the middle of the boondocks you know? And there was a little bitty art house theater I remember out in a place called Cucamonga.  Oh wow. You really lived in a place called  near Cucamonga?  Yeah.  Do you remember in the Jack Benny show? It was always...   Right.  The bus announcer was always singing Cucamonga.  Yeah there really is a Cucamonga. It was surrounded by vineyards you know? And for some reason there was this little bitty art house there. And they would show foreign films which was just unbelievable in those days 'ecause there was not anything around but BenHur and you know Cleopatra and all those kind of things. So me and a couple of buddies of mine would go out there and  I saw a film called 400 Blows by Truffaut  black and white film. And that really stunned me you know? I was like wow you know this kid  I saw a lot of similarities in that between my situation and that you know?  He was sent to reform school in that.  Yeah. I mean yeah he had a pretty rough deal.  So you were seeing art films in Cucamonga wow .  Yeah art films  imagine that.  Sam Shepard speaking with Terry Gross recorded in 1998. We will hear more after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is 're listening to Terry's 1998 interview with actor and playwright Sam Shepard. Shepard died last week at the age of 73.   You started off acting in  I think it was a repertory company  a small repertory company that basically...  Yeah.  ...Toured churches.  Yeah. When I first left home I got this paper route. And I was delivering papers all over the  I had a '51 Chevy and I was throwing papers all around the houses and stuff. And at the end of the day I started going through this paper. And the end of it in the work section there was this little ad that said actors wanted. And I went in and auditioned for this company. It was called the Bishop's Company. And the great thing about it was that it was a traveling company. It was going to get the hell out of there you know? So they hired me and the next day I was on a Greyhound bus to Bethlehem Pa. and joined up with the company there. And we toured all over the place and did these onenight stands in churches which was my first real experience with theater.  It is funny 'ecause you went you know from churches eventually to offBroadway at a time when offBroadway was you know very avantgarde for its time. So it is an interesting contrast. Doing the  playing the church circuit must have been an interesting to see the country and to get started acting.  Yeah and also to see this  probably the last of that kind of '50s culture. Although it was the '60s you know there was still a '50s feel about it  you know that culture in smalltown America. It was pretty amazing.  So you went to New York. I think it was in 1963.  Yeah.  What was it like to be  I think you were living or at least working in Greenwich Village. Was this your first exposure to an avantgarde and to a bohemian life to a life that was radically different from the kind of military life that you grew up in and also radically different from the churches that you were touring?  Yeah it was. I was suddenly on the Lower East Side on Avenue C and 10th St. living with jazz musicians .  Well I think your roommate was Charles Mingus's son.  Yeah yeah. I would gone to high school with him. And he was working at a place called The Village Gate and got me a job there as a busboy. So that is how I got initiated into New York.  Were you a good busboy?  Oh yeah excellent. I got fired though because I dropped a  knocked over a candle on a guy's suit. And that was the end of that job.  Right right.  But in the course of that I got to see probably the most amazing musicians of their time  you know like the Adderley brothers and Mingus and Thelonious Monk and Gerry Mulligan. It was just a free show you know?  Yeah because The Village Gate was a club.  Yeah yep.  Do you  when you are writing lines for a play do you speak the lines out loud to just hear how they sound spoken?  Sometimes sometimes yeah.  Now when you are writing dialogue for play do you ever hear a certain musicality in a line like where you hear the accent where you hear the emphasis as being and then the actor does it completely differently than that?  Oh yeah.  And maybe it works but maybe it does not work for you. Maybe you feel like your intention was kind of lost. Will you say something to the actor about that if you do feel that the music you are hearing is lost?  Well yeah. But I think more often particularly if you have good actors like for instance Malkovich and Ed Harris and Jim Gammon and these great actors that I have had the good fortune to get they often will land things in an unexpected way that is not only surprising but right you know I mean much more right than you could have intended. You know in other words bring the intention of the writing into another domain. Malkovich has an uncanny ability to do that.  Any general impressions about most screenplays that you read now about how well they are written?   Oh boy. Well my main problem with screenplays nowadays you know that most of the ones I have seen is that there are no characters whatsoever in them.  .  That is my main problem. You just do not find any characters you find these formulas. You find these sort of Hollywood rituals going on but you do not find characters everywhere. Every once in a while you do. I mean I do not want to be too harsh. Like this Snow Falling On Cedars that I am doing in Vancouver has very clear characters in it and actual human beings in it. But many many of the characters do not even feel human. They feel computerized or faxed or you know somebody's mailed it in. And they all kind of sound like the same  they come from the same person. I do not know if it is a secretary out there who is doing it or what.  That is the secret .  Very weird you know.  You must be able to read screenplays with confidence because you write plays. I mean I know  like for me for instance it is very hard for me to read a play or a screenplay and really be able to kind of stage in my mind how it would look and sound together.  Well screenplays are easier to read because if you cannot get past the first five pages you might as well throw it in the fire you know. That is it five pages.  Well I really want to thank you a lot for talking with us about your life and your work appreciate it very much.  You bet.  Actor and playwright Sam Shepard speaking with Terry Gross recorded in 1998. Shepard died last week at the age of 73. 