 Our Country Music Week continues with Bobby Braddock who wrote George Jones' hit He Stopped Loving Her Today and cowrote Tammy Wynette's hit DIVORCE before she married George Jones. Braddock also wrote Tanya Tucker's I Believe the South is Gonna Rise Again and Toby Keith's I Wanna Talk About Me. Bobby Braddock was inducted into the Nashville Hall of Fame in 1981. After decades of lyric writing he wrote a memoir about growing up in old Florida. I interviewed him when it was published in 2007. Let us start with a Braddock song that was a number one hit on the country music charts in 1968. Here's Tammy Wynette.  Ms.   Our little boy is 4 years old and quite a little man. So we spell out the words we do not want him to understand. Like toy or maybe surprise. But the words we are hiding from him now tear the heart right out of me. Our divorce becomes final today. Me and little Joe will be going away. I love you both and this will be pure hedoublel for me. Oh I wish that we could stop this divorce.  Bobby Braddock welcome to FRESH AIR. So tell us the story behind this song. How did you write it? Mr.  DIVORCE I had written a song called I LOVE YOU Do I Have to Spell it Out for You? And it was not very good and that sort of inspired this song. I wrote it. Nobody recorded it. I asked my friend Curly Putnam why did he think no one had recorded it? And he said he thought the melody was a little bit too happy for a sad song. And I said what would you do? And he got around the title line and just made it sound real mournful and mine sounded sort of like a detergent commercial. And I said hey let us get it on tape like that. And he did not want any of it and I wanted him to have half. So we compromised and he took a quarter of it. And Tammy Wynette recorded it within  I would say probably a week or two after that.  Can you sing us the more upbeat version that you originally wrote?  Mr.  Okay. What I had was  everything else was the same except the title line. I had...  Oh I wish that we could stop this divorce. And Curly changed it to...  I wish that we could stop this divorce. Which made it a lot lot better. And that little change made the difference I think between it being a hit and just gathering cobwebs and nobody ever having heard it.  Let us talk about another of your most famous songs a song recorded by George Jones He Stopped Loving Her Today. And after we talk about it a little bit we will hear it. Now this song tells a story. Would you describe the story? Mr.  It is the story of a man whose love was so strong that the only way he could get over this woman was to die. I think he was a terrible role model.  Mr.  A very bad role model. The man was obsessed with this woman and he never got over. He never moved on. Again this is one I wrote with Curly Putnam. I thought it was just an okay song. I did not think it was that great a song. And when the producer Billy Sherrill played me George's recording of it I went wow. This is something really great. I think in this instance the artist and the production elevated the song to a place that it would not have been otherwise. I really attribute so much of the success of this to George Jones and his producer.  Mr.   He stopped loving her today and placed a wreath upon his door. And soon they will carry him away. He stopped loving her today. You know she came to see him one last time. Oh and we all wondered if she would.  Bobby Braddock the word schmaltz is probably not a word that is used a lot in country music.   But it is a word that comes to mind with parts of the song schmaltz being like overly sentimental or you know almost maudlin. Did you think this is really going to be over the top? Mr.  I think in the hands of anyone other than George Jones it would have been really schmaltzy. And there is such an intense believability about it. There is a little story that goes with this and I think it is okay to tell it that as George was performing in it  in those days the recordings were pretty much done  the vocals were often done with the band on the original track in session as opposed to now when they are done separately later on. And George had sung this once. And at that time his ex Tammy Wynette came into the control room with her new boyfriend who was also a friend of George George Ritchie. And she sat down next to the producer Billy Sherrill in the control room. And Billy said George you need to sing it one more time. And so as George sang it he was looking in the control room and Tammy's face was  I mean Tammy Wynette the love of George Jones' life at that time her face was illuminated and he was looking right at her as he sang that song. So I think that probably put a little more poignancy into what was going on that day.  That is the take he used huh? Mr.  Mmhmm. That is the take that we hear. Yeah.  We are listening back to our 2007 interview with country music songwriter Bobby Braddock. We will hear more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   Let us get back to our interview with country music songwriter Bobby Braddock. He cowrote the George Jones hit He Stopped Loving Her Today and Tammy Wynette's hit DIVORCE. Now you were signed to Tree Music which I think was probably the biggest country music publisher. Is that fair? Mr.  It was. It was not the giant then that it is now. And of course it is now Sony/ATV/Tree.  Mmhmm. Now what was the approach of Tree Music to matching well to deciding whether a song was worthy of being recorded and if so who would be chosen to sing it? Or who would be asked to sing it? Mr.  My memory is of just turning in a bunch of songs them liking the songs and getting out there in the street and getting them cut which is pretty easy. There were not a lot discussions about it. If they did not like a song they told me you know. And more than likely the next song or two I brought them that were decent they would they would like.  Did you ever think Oh not him. Do not give it to him. Mr.  Oh yeah. Yeah I thought that a lot. Yeah and that still happens.  Do you say anything? Or do you figure well maybe it will be a hit anyways?  Mr.  Yeah. I think maybe it will be a hit anyway. Eventually I became a songplugger myself and got quite a few  the Toby Keith thing I Wanna Talk About Me. I got that cut. And I got...  What do you mean when you say you became a songplugger? Mr.  I just decided to go out and start pitching my own songs around.  Mmhmm. I am glad you brought up the Toby Keith record. This is unusual because it is a kind of rap country song. So what gave you the idea to do that? Mr.  I think it is the only number one country rap song you know. And there probably do not need to be any more.  Mr.  I got the idea for that song Terry by  I had a friend who I talked to quite a bit on the phone. And she was going through a lot of stressful personal things. And she  at that time she seemed to pretty much dominate the conversation with things that were going on in her life. So she was the inspiration of the song. And I was producing had just begun producing a young man named Blake Shelton. And I had a lot of successes with producing in the past few years. And he went around doing this little rap thing just to cut up and I thought it would be good to write a country song in rap form for him to record. And the record label thought well this would not be a good first record for a new artist  and they were probably right. So then I took it to Toby Keith's producer and he immediately liked it for Toby.  And he had a numberone hit for five weeks. Mr.  For five weeks in a row. Yeah. It is probably as big a song as I ever had. It is probably as big as He Stopped Loving Her Today.  Why do not we hear it? That is Toby Keith recorded in 2001 I Wanna Talk About Me written by my guest Bobby Braddock.  Mr.   We talk about your work how your boss is a jerk. We talk about your church and your head when it hurts. We talk about the troubles you have been having with your brother about your daddy and your mother and your crazy exlover. We talk about your friends and the places that you have been. We talk about your skin and the dimples on your chin the polish on your toes and the run in your hose and God knows we are gonna talk about your clothes.  You know talking about you makes me smile. But every once in awhile I wanna talk about me. Wanna talk about I. Wanna talk about number one. Oh my me my. What I think what I like what I know what I want what I see. I like talking about you you you you usually but occasionally I wanna talk about me. I wanna talk about me.  We talk about your dreams and we talk about your schemes...  You know a lot of people think of like George Jones country music and say Toby Keith country music as being two different forms altogether from two different eras of county music. You have of course had hits in both styles both eras. Do you see that  those two being as disconnected as some other people do? Mr.  I have not really thought about it that much. Of course sonically it is different because for the most part it is from different eras.  What are some of the sonic differences from the different eras? Mr.  For one thing I can identify from different eras by the amount of reverb...  Mmhmm. Mr.  ...and the amount of delay that they have on which are technical things. I tell you one difference now is singers are tuned. There are singers out there who do not have really good pitch who probably could not have gotten deal years ago who now if they look good and if they have an interesting delivery and have an interesting personality then they might get a record deal because their flatness or sharpness can be tuned. Toby Keith is not one of those. Toby live sounds pretty much like he does when he is recording. The attitude  Toby's got quite a bit of attitude chutzpah. George comes from a different era and it is more of a  from the perspective of somebody maybe who does not have as much selfconfidence. And this was an era when country music was about she went off and left me  you know  my heart's broken. I cannot imagine Toby Keith saying baby you left me. I love you so much. Please come back to me. Country singers did a lot of that back in the '50s and '60s. You do not hear as much about that now. They inject themselves into the songs personally a lot too. You know you hear a songwriter saying well I would not say that. Thankfully you do not hear a lot of actors saying well I would not say that you know?  Yeah well that is the point.   You are acting. Mr.  I know. I know.  Yeah. Mr.  So that is the big difference.  Bobby Braddock it is been great to talk with you. Thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you so much for having me on your show.  Country music songwriter Bobby Braddock recorded in 2007. Our Country Music Week continues tomorrow. We are collecting all the interviews from our Country Music Week series on one Web page. You will find the link on our website freshair.npr.org. 