 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. Our guest today Frank Langella has been acting for a half a century. He is had memorable roles and times when he could not find work or even an agent. But at 74 he is as busy as ever. Langella got attention in the '70s with his performances in Diary of a Mad Housewife and Dracula. In 1993 he was an imposing White House chief of staff in the comedy Dave. And more recently he earned an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of Richard Nixon in FrostNixon a role he also performed on stage. He received his third Tony Award for that performance. Langella is now starring in the new film Robot  Frank. It is from firsttime director Jake Schreier that also stars Peter Sarsgaard and Susan Sarandon. The film is set in the near future and Langella plays a retired cat burglar living alone in rural New York. He is beginning to experience some dementia and his family's getting concerned. In this scene his son played by James Marsden has arrived at his home to introduce him to a new home health care aid who happens to be a robot.    You have got to be kidding me. I am not this pathetic. I do not need to be spoonfed by some goddamn robot.   Dad this  it is not like that. It is new. It is more like a butler.   You are going to leave me with this death machine?   What is the problem? It is a robot.   Hi Frank it is a pleasure to meet you.   How do you know?  Frank Langella welcome to FRESH AIR. It is great to have you.  Thank you.  At the heart of this is the relationship between your character and the robot whose voice is played by Peter Sarsgaard but I understand that was not dubbed in until later right?  Much later actually several months maybe six months after we finished the film.  Yeah so how did you interact with the robot that is such an important part of the film?  Well the robot was a universal sound to me in my head my imagination of what a robot would sound like and how the robot's rather disassociated voice would sound. So I always played to that no matter who was reading the lines offcamera. So I never had any  people kept saying to me do not you wish now that you would had Peter's voice which he does beautifully but it really would not have mattered because the robot was somebody I made up in my head.  Was that physical representation of the robot on the set with you all the time?  Yes the robot that you see in the film was there all the time sometimes occupied by a human being sometimes sitting on an apple box sometimes not there if we were shooting on me and not the robot. And his voice was  the voice was several different people at different times.  Was it disconcerting to be interacting with this person in a robot suit but as you say your relationship is really with this voice in your head? That seems like a challenge.  Well I have acted opposite human robots on occasion. So it was not disconcerting at all. As a matter of fact it was rather freeing in certain ways because Frank the character feels very strongly about this robot negative and then somewhat positive although never sentimentally in love which I thought would have been a cliche to do. That robot becomes very useful to him. It enables him to sort of get back some of his vigor and youth and do the thing he loves most which is to steal from the rich. But I did not find it disconcerting; I found it rather exciting in a way in a strange way to try to be as honest as I could opposite a machine and opposite something that was not ever going to change no matter what I did it was only going to feed me back the information it had been fed.  Right. I thought we would listen to a scene here. I mean this is at a point a little farther into the film where some of your character's reluctance to deal with the robot has been overcome because the robot is after all a home health care aid and has you know gotten you on a regular diet and some healthier food and exercise. And so your character's mental acuity is beginning to come back and he gets interested in resuming his old career which as you say it is stealing.  And he gives me enemas and that'll always bring back your mental acuity.   I trust that was not reenacted on the set?  No it was not mercifully.  And of course your character you are the Frank in the film teaches him how to pick locks and he is a robot and he is good and learns to do it. And they have  in the scene we are going to hear they have already done one job they broke into the local library and stole a rare book so that your character Frank could give to a librarian he is sweet on played by Susan Sarandon. And now here he is in the room speaking with the robot and considering another heist. Let us listen.    I am sorry Frank but I cannot agree to let you risk another burglary. Let us focus on the garden instead.   Look the library was strictly a smashandgrab job.   Smash and grab? You did not even give Jennifer the book.   I will give it to her some other time. Maybe I will invite her over for dinner or something. Meanwhile going after one of these rich yuppies it is a whole different story.   You cannot predict that Frank.   Is not this something you are supposed to encourage? Look without the library job I would just be down in the dumps watching you dig up my lawn. Instead I am at a party with a beautiful woman. You know I do not want to lose that again.   Maybe we can just do the casing portion as a research project.   And if I have covered everything so that it is basically zero risk?   You would have to be very thorough Frank. I am a strict judge.   OK OK.  And that is our guest Frank Langella with the robot played by Peter Sarsgaard in the new film Robot  Frank. Is it fun to hear the finished product with Peter Sarsgaard's voice?  No it is absolutely the opposite; it is agony. I am sitting here in agony because so much of what you do in a film is visual and not to see the face not to see the pauses for the emotional life is agony when you are an actor listening to it. I do not think Peter would mind because he is absolutely wonderful and it is that marvelous sound he makes but I did not like the sound of me at all.  Really? Huh.  No but then I am very critical even when I watch a film. But you know something that is done for the radio or done for recording is one thing but when you are doing something in front of a camera there are all sorts of beats and rhythms in it that you cannot possibly get when you listen to it.  Right so anything we play is just not going to measure up to what it should be.  Not for me no.  Yet there is  this is a firsttime direction right? Jake Schreier and the writer is Chris Ford young guys writing about an older man. Did  what appealed to you about the project?  Well first of all the story. I could not resist the story. I loved it and I thought it was intelligently written. But I thought it was missing the heartbeat of what it is like to be in your 70s which is where I am. So we all had a very very very long luncheon. I said immediately I would like to do this but may I tell you what it is like to be 70. And these two guys sat and listened for a long time and asked a lot of really smart questions and I said if you would be willing to incorporate some of the inner life of a 70yearold man into this so the audience of in what way and how he neglected his family and his kids what he is feeling just about being in his 70s with or without this illness which he totally denies  I would like to do it when I see it. And they sent me back a script that was very sensitive to the things we would talked about. So I said yes immediately.  Did it make you think about what is ahead you know in your own health? I mean you have grown kids who probably you know worry about their dad at times.  No more than I did earlier. The only thing that is different now is I know I am closer to the end than the beginning so I am trying to be far more conscious of any time wasted which I still waste as everybody does. But I  because it is inevitable and because there is nothing I can do about it and I was taught at a fairly young age  not young enough I wish I would learned it earlier  that to waste any time on the inevitable or the thing you cannot control or fix is absolute nonsense and I cannot control the clock ticking. What the film has done for me and what I hope it will do for people who watch it is made me much more keenly aware even though it is a clich these days that machines are taking over our lives it made me much more keenly aware of how often I miss or we all miss contact with other and how easy it is to rely on these things to get a point across I will just send an email quickly; I will not answer the phone; I will do that in writing; or I will sit and listen to a message being read to me live while I am sitting there rather than deal with whatever the thing is. Machinery is going to make us I think less sensitive to each other less empathetic to each other because we can turn to the machine to take care of something that is you know not particularly pleasant and I think that is a big danger and a worry.  Frank Langella stars in the new film Robot  Frank. We will talk more after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us we are speaking with actor Frank Langella. He stars in the new film Robot  Frank. You grew up in Bayonne New Jersey. What kind of neighborhood was it? What kind of kid were you?  Middleclass extraordinarily shy awkward kid; very skinny; very short cropped hair; big hornrimmed eyeglasses; middle kid; not able much to express himself. Consequently I became an actor...   You know it is an old story.  I cannot imagine you as shy and awkward. When did you get the acting bug?  At about seven maybe earlier than that but I started  I got on a stage when I was about six or seven in a school pageant called Lazy Town. I wrote about it in my book. I wrote that I did not know what a stage was the first time I walked onto it and I did not know what the wings were the first time I stood in them but I did know I was home. That is a blessing about as great as you could give a young kid which is to have a calling something that you think you are right for and want to do. When I graduated college I will never forget my graduation night sitting amongst all my buddies fraternity brothers and guys in my classes and things some of them in agony because they had no idea what they were going to do. And I already had a job in a little theater in Boston and I had my car all packed up and I drove away the next day and was in rehearsal that afternoon. And that was one of the things I was spared growing up you know all the agonies of being a kid all the  you know it is going to  how can I ask a girl on a date I do not want to enter that room I am not as good a ballplayer as the other guy what  all the things that all of us go through. One of them was spared me which was what am I going to do with myself. I knew and boy was that a  that was a blessing.  Did you have a Jersey accent? I read that you...  Yes I did. I had a very strong New Jersey accent and I got rid of it by listening to John Gielgud albums a record  actually one particular Richard III that Sir Lawrence Olivier did '54 '55 I think and I was taken with Gielgud's voice. And so I imitated it in my attic in New Jersey over and over and over again and pretty soon I sounded like you know in the middle of Bayonne New Jersey in South Orange here comes this little British lord.  Yeah what did your friends think of your John Geilgud thing?  Well they were not particularly interested in it really. They did not pay much attention. You know the kid who wants to be an actor is not the kid a lot of people want to be around especially  particularly girls. They want to be around the captain of the basketball team. And the friends you tend to make when you want to be an actor at that age are all the other misfits in the class you know all the strange kids the ones who wanted to be in the theater and things like that. And it was an odd bunch but not many of them in Bayonne. It was only when I got to college that I began to find more likeminded people.  Right you went to Syracuse and studied acting right?  Yes I did.  Early in your career you were in Diary of a Mad Housewife and then the Mel Brooks film The Twelve Chairs which is one of my alltime favorite movies. And I do not know if people know about it. How did you get that role?  I got it because Ann Bancroft and I had done a play together called A Cry of Players it is about young Will Shakespeare. And she and Mel were just married and I was just married and the four of us my former wife deceased wife and Mel and Ann became very closer. And Mel was putting together The Twelve Chairs while he was putting The Producers in place editing it and opening it. So I was at all the screenings. I was at the very first screening of The Producers and the degree of laughter was beyond anything I would ever heard before or anybody had. And while he was thinking about doing his new movie called The Twelve Chairs he had hired Alastair Sim who was a great English character actor Albert Finney to play the young male lead and Peter Sellers to play the priest. And one by one all three of those actors fell out for different reasons and Mel got more and more angry and more and more upset. And I said I would just seen Oliver! with an actor named  oh God he is got...  Ron Moody.  Ron Moody and I took Mel to an afternoon screening of it and he said there is my Vorobyaninov. And Annie said I saw a really funny rolypoly little fat guy on television called Dom DeLuise and I think he would be great as the priest and then that was Dom's part. And one afternoon he was going through all the different  he would just worked with Gene Wilder and they were talking about maybe Gene playing the young male lead and a whole bunch of names. And I do not know if I can say this on NPR but I will say it and you will cut it Mel suddenly turned to Annie and said oh  let Frankie do it.   And that is how I got my first movie. I just got it in that sort of offhanded way. And I looked at him and I said Are you serious? I have never made a movie before. He said yeah. And that is how I got the job. And he paid me next to nothing but I had 10 of the greatest months of my young life all over Yugoslavia just  we became such a great tight group of crazies.  Well I have to play a scene early on. I mean the movie is set in the Soviet Union in the late 1920s and this  what we hear is there is a member of the  a former member of the Russian aristocracy played by Ron Moody who has come into this town because he is learned that he may be able to figure out what happened to his family's jewels which would be worth a fortune. And then he crosses paths with you you are this sort of adventuresome kind of scam artist working his way through the Soviet Union smart guy and you do not know this aristocrat but you sense that there is something here that might be lucrative. And in the scene we are going to hear you are in a room together. You have just grabbed a piece of paper of his which is the list of jewels that he is looking for. And he is trying to get it back from you and keep him out of his plans. Let us listen.    Oh how very impressive. This ought to fetch quite a lot.   Please give me that paper. It is personal property.   Oh have not you heard? There is no personal property in the Soviet Union. Everything belongs to the people.   Will you please give me that paper? It is a private matter and I am not at liberty to discuss it.   Yes of course of course. One should not interfere in private matters. It is considered gauche. There you are. Now I must be off.   Where are you going?   Ah the eternal question . Well if you must know I am  off to gossip with the secret police.   Secret police?   Well what can I do old cock? After all I am a patriotic citizen of the Soviet Union. It is my sacred duty to turn you in. Now maybe if you were not such a selfish pig we could do business.   I cannot.   I am going.   Wait.   Why?   Let us talk.   About what?   Things.   What things?   I do not know. The situation.   I am going.   Wait.   Why?   Let us talk.   About what?   It.   What is it?   You know.   I know what?   What we are talking about.   We are talking about nothing. I am going.   You must not.   I must.   Why?   A reward.   What reward?   For turning you in.   Wait.   Why?   We will talk.   About what?   About the diamonds the diamonds the diamonds.  It still makes me laugh. That is from The Twelve Chairs that is Ron Moody and our guest Frank Langella. Well it was I just think a wonderful film.  I do too. I am very happy for it to have been my debut film.  What was it like working with Brooks on it  and Dom DeLuise?  Oh staggering really really funny because I was such a novice and I did not know. The first day I was called on the sense I did not work for four or five hours and like a total nave ass I said I do not understand I got here four hours ago. Why am I still waiting? And the whole crew looked at me like I was nuts. And it took me not very long to figure out that that is what movies are about. But Mel had a relentless relentless anger about working there because he could not get any laughs out of the crowd of people and out of the crew. Most of them did not speak English.  This was in Yugoslavia right yeah.  Yeah we were in Yugoslavia and he was used to getting big laughs and making jokes and these people just stared at him as if he were a stone statue. And he wanted what he wanted and he wanted it in the way he wanted it. So after a while watching him frustratingly trying to get what he needed from a group of Yugoslavians who did not find him in any way amusing was really great to watch. And he was wonderful to me and Annie his wife was on the set with us all the time and Mel's  Dom DeLuise's wife and mine. People came  no mine was not there. Kate came and went all the time. It was just a wonderful time to be making a movie in a foreign country to be 28 29 whatever I was at the time. It was exciting.  Frank Langella stars in the new film Robot  Frank. He will be back in the second half of the show. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. We are speaking with actor Frank Langella whose career on stage and screen goes back five decades. He is starring in a new film called Robot  Frank which also features Susan Sarandon and the voice of Peter Sarsgaard as the robot. Langella's other films include Diary of a Mad Housewife Dracula Dave and Frost/Nixon which earned him a Oscar nomination for Best Actor. He also played Nixon on stage winning his third Tony Award. I read at once in an interview and you said that in your early years as an actor you described yourself as obstreperous arrogant and stubborn. Does that get it? I mean were you a hard guy to work with?  Yes I was. I made the mistake of believing  as so many young actors do and many young men do and women too I suppose  that because you feel you are right about something it gives you the right to behave badly or stubbornly or arrogantly to make your point. I think it is a function of youth and I give a wide berth to young actors who are like that these days. The notion that what you feel is the right way to do something or how to do it is the correct way can make you walk around with blinders on and give you very little understanding into the feelings of the person opposite you who has their own point of view and their own way of expressing themselves. And so I was I was a very forceful young man very strong minded and very strongwilled and I have moderated that over the years a great deal. I am not entirely free of it but I am still strong minded but I think I am a lot more tactful about it now than I used to be.  In the '80s you did a lot of theater. Was that by choice or was it because movie roles were not coming?  My career has been really very much like a Chekhov play which is it just ebbs and flows and you know it is not like exposition and then the plot turns and then there is a great big climax and then a denouement. It is been wildly up and down. And I have liked it that way  great great periods of enormous success and then even sometimes greater periods where I could not get a job at one point I could not get an agent even where you just feel like you are somehow you are not going to ever pull out of whatever the slump is that you are in. The thing I think I had in my back pocket that a lot of actors do not have is that I was  I trained myself for the stage. So there was never a period in my life when I could not do that. So I did. I did not run to bad television or do commercials or things like that I went on the stage and I played great roles. And the movies would be dead to me for three four five years  nobody wanted me  and then suddenly something would come along and start a whole new period. And as I left my juvenile period and then went into my leading man years and then when my leading man years were fading along with my hair and waistline suddenly I began to get offered very interesting character roles which kind of started with Dave the Ivan Reitman film I did about the president. And that began what was what I think I am in now is my character years.  Well I do want to talk about Frost/Nixon. There is a moment that I think we are going to let our audience listen to. And this is you are playing Nixon. This is of course after his resignation. He is unhappy living in the West Coast and trying to figure out what he will do and how he will restore his reputation. And this English talk show guy David Frost has proposed to pay him a bunch of money for a series of interviews. Not so clear that he can raise the money and pull it off but Nixon is interested. And in the scene we are about to hear you as Nixon has just given a boring speech at a convention I guess to put some money on the table. You tell some stories that are not particularly interesting and you are speaking afterward with your aide Jack Brennan who is played here by Kevin Bacon.    I cannot stand it Jack. Reducing the presidency to a series of banal anecdotes. I feel like a circus animal doing tricks. And I thought Imade it clear I did not want to take any questions on Watergate. Get it? Soon as it came to question time all those sons of bitches ever wantto hear about is Watergate. It is as if all my other achievements haveceased to exist.   Well sir you are going to get a chance to talk about them sooner than you think.  Yeah? How?  Frost got there. He got the money.  What?  I understand most of it is borrowed  that his friends have bailed him out. But the point is we start taping at the end of March.  Really? Now that is terrific. How much time is devoted to Watergate?  Twentyfive percent. Just one of four 90minute shows.  What are the other three divided into?  Domestic affairs foreign policy and Nixon the man.  Nixon the Man? As opposed to what? Nixon the horse?  Well I imagine it is some kind of biographical piece.  I can see it now. The father that neglected me the brothers that died. Spare me. Still now the fact it is come together now that is a good thing no?  Mr. President it is fantastic. Frost is just not in your intellectual class sir. You are going to be able to dictate terms rebuild your reputation. If this went well if enough people saw it revised their opinion you could move back East way way earlier than we expected.  You think?  I am certain.  It would be so good to go back to where the action is. You know the hunger in my belly is still there Jack. I guess it all boils down to Watergate huh?  And that is our guest Frank Langella with Kevin Bacon in Frost/Nixon. You played this role of course on the stage as well as in the film. I read you were a little reluctant to take it on initially. Is that right?  Yes I have said a number of times that I did not think  I did not think Richard Nixon's particular way of being was in my bag of tricks. I just did not think I was going to be able to find quite the soul of this guy. And it was enough reason for me then to decide to do it which was well so if I fall on my ass I fall on my ass. And it was a very painful three or four weeks. Really I was like I sounded like Mr. Magoo for a certain period of time then I sounded a little bit like Jimmy Stewart and I you know I kept  and it is not new information but it was when I sat and watched Nixon in slow motion that I began to get into his soul and into his heart and then what I sounded like did not matter to me. Then a noise began to come out of me that was as a result of what was in my imagination going on inside him.  How do you explain that that the slowmotion Nixon kind of unlocked it for you?  Well I was at the Museum of Radio and Television. I asked the lady there if she would be good enough to give me some tapes on him. And she said how many do you want? I have got thousands and thousands. And she brought in a big wagon and I got a sandwich and an iced tea and sat and plugged in the Watergate shows and watch him. And then I got up to go to the bathroom and I pressed the button and when I came back I pressed slow motion as a in an accident really. All the wonderful accidents that happen to you as an actor and that was one of the great ones for me. And I watched his eyes and the way his mouth moved and his hand gestures in slow motion. And suddenly I began to see what he was hiding. I began to notice the ticks much more vividly than I had normally because we had all seen so much of him that you grew used to it. But when you watch him in slow  when you watch anything in slow motion you are going to see something a little waiver in the eyes a little strange smile whatever. And that is when his heart when the soul of the man as I perceived him began to take shape for me and then I began to think well maybe maybe I can find a way to do him.  Did you talk to a lot of people who knew him? Did you read a lot of stuff?  Yes I did. I actually  the first calls I made were all to journalists. I took Barbara Walters to lunch. I took Mike Wallace to lunch. I spoke to Henry Kissinger about him at length. And Henry said to me you know I will never see the movie and he did not see it for two years or so. And then one night at dinner he said to me I finally saw it. And he was very very fond of Richard Nixon. And everyone I met who had been around him  I actually talked to the Clintons about him too  everyone who had been around him said very much the same thing that this was a man about as profoundly uncomfortable in his skin as anyone they would ever met usually with a little prepared text of what he was going to say. And when he would finished asking the first question and the second and the third would turn to the daughter and ask a question to her and then to him then he was gone. He just was not there anymore and did not want to be there anymore. Everyone said the same thing. His discomfort in himself was staggering. And that is...  Is it different doing him on stage than in film?  Oh yes immensely. The first day we shot this film I played the first scene which was ultimately cut which was Nixon's resignation. I think I did three or four takes and I thought well I am ratcheting it down to camera I am not doing a stage performance. And Ronnie  Ron Howard  came up to me and said you know you played all three of those scenes at exactly three minutes and 20 seconds and I have got lots of film and lots of time. Go your own way. Do not you know stare at the other person five minutes longer five seconds longer. You do not have to be so loyal to your the rhythms of your stage performance. And it was probably the single greatest note he gave me. He freed me to play it for the camera without any worries about am I you know am I getting myself there on time so the next scene can start. And that is  it is one of the rules of course of movies is you do not have to do what you do on the stage.  Franklin Langella stars in the new film Robot  Frank. We will be back after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us we are speaking with actor Franklin Langella. He is starring with Susan Sarandon and Peter Sarsgaard in the new film Robot  Frank. You do not like hearing audio clips of your movies. Do you like watching your movies?  No I do not. I try not to. First of all it is  just imagine going up to your attic and pulling out all those blackandwhite photographs of yourself at six and then 12 and then 14 then 30 then 50 then 60 now 70. It is no fun to watch yourself getting older. And also you are always disappointed  at least I am because the process of it is more exciting really than the result. The result is never ever as good or even as powerful as it is when you are doing it. And the process of doing it is many ways much more exciting than the result of it.  And when you are doing theater you get that process night after night you do not have to look at it.  Right. You do not and also you get the full story in one night. You know you go from beginning middle to end. It is not been chopped up pieces.  As an actor right? You wrote a book last year Dropped Names. Kind of not the standard memoir. It is a set of vignettes of your encounters with famous people. Kind of curious why you chose to write that book. I mean there are a lot of interesting stories here.  I wrote it because when I was trying to write my biography at a younger age not that much younger but I got bored with... I was in this play I did not win this award I did not get this part. This was what was going on. But when a fascinating person  and I have been really lucky I started in 1960 in the theater  when a really interesting person crossed my path I could not stop writing about them. So a year or two ago when Jill Clayburgh died and my traveling companion was a young woman who had never heard of her I was very taken aback by that. And I said let me tell you about her and I wrote a piece about her. And then I thought you know I in this 50 years I have been doing this there is so many extraordinary people 