 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. We are ending the New Year with great music as we continue our holiday week series of memorable interviews from 2009. This next interview and performance with Geoff Muldaur was recorded a few weeks ago. Muldaur has had a lifelong passion for jazz and blues of the '20s and '30s. His recordings reinterpreting that music has led many listeners to seek out recordings from that era. Muldaur was a founding member of the Jim Kweskin Jug Band in 1962. That band inspired people like Jerry Garcia and John Sebastian. After the Jug Band broke up Muldaur recorded with his then wife Maria Muldaur and teamed up with Paul Butterfield to form the band Better Days. In the mid'80s he began a long sabbatical from performing reemerging in 1999 with the album The Secret Handshake. Now he has a new CD called Texas Sheiks that features his old friend Jim Kweskin as a guest star. Here's the opening track The World is Going Wrong featuring Muldaur singing and playing sixstring banjo.  Mr.   Strange things have happened like never before. My baby told me I would have to go. I cannot be good no more once like I did before. I cannot be good baby honey because the world's gone wrong. Feel bad this morning. As not got no home. No use aworrying 'ecause the world gone wrong. Cannot be good no more like I did before. Cannot be good baby. Honey because the world's gone wrong. I tried to be loving...  That is Geoff Muldaur and the Texas Sheiks from the new album Texas Sheiks. Geoff Muldaur welcome to FRESH AIR. I love the CD. There is a nice story behind this album  well nice is the wrong word because it is about a good friend of yours who is sick but tell us the story behind it. Mr.  Well first of all it is good to be here. And you are talking about Stephen Bruton?  Yeah. Mr.  My longtime friend from Fort Worth Texas and eventually Austin Texas and I met Stephen in Newport Rhode Island when the Jug Band was playing there. He drove up there when he was a teenager in a jacket and tie to see our banjo player Bill Keith because at the time he was a banjo player. And you know we played over the years in various situations recordings and some road work together but he was mostly the backup guy for Kris Kristofferson and Bonnie Raitt and others. And it is tough to talk about him still you know because he passed away this last May. And we put this album together so he could just have some fun and forget about what was going on with all his treatments down in Austin. So we got his friends together and we made the Texas Sheiks album.  So he died before it was released. Mr.  But he got to hear it.  Good. Mr.  On those beautiful earphones he had and he was smiling you know.  Good. Mr.  You know so.  I am always interested in hearing how people discover music that is not the music being played or listened to by their generation. How did you discover early jazz and blues? Mr.  Well you know I am a kid of the '50s and actually it started a little earlier than that for me because my brother had this record collection of '78s and LPs of jazz people. So I used to spend all my time in his room after school and listening to Bessie Smith and Louie Armstrong and Bix Beiderbecke and all these great jazz players. And in amongst that stuff were little smatterings of country blues you know they would put them on an anthology or something. All of the sudden there would be a Lead Belly piece or a Blind Lemon Jefferson piece or a Blind Willie Johnson piece and you go What is that stuff? You know it was very mysterious to me the country blues thing. And at that time in America there was not a huge difference in the feeling of things between what I was hearing on the street corner with doowop music and you know which was so gospel related and the pop music at the time I am out you know as a 13yearold kid buying Fats Domino and Little Richard and Jimmy Reed. You know we are living outside of New York and we are dancing to Jimmy Reed. So times were very different and there were influences coming from all over.  Well you have been generous enough to bring your guitar with you and I would like you to play one of the first early jazz or blues songs that you fell in love with that made you really want to seek out more music from that period. Mr.  Well I could not help but fall in love with Lonnie Johnson. I mean he was on some of those jazz records with Louie Armstrong Duke Ellington. And then my friend Joe Boyd and his brother Warrick and myself went down to Philadelphia picked him up and brought him up to a party when we were living in Princeton New Jersey.  Well let us back up a second. He was  what was he doing in Philadelphia? Was not he working at a hotel or something? Mr.  He was. I thought he was washing dishes. Other people said he might have been a cook or something. But he came out of that door with a suit on and his big guitar case and we took him up to the home of Murray Kempton who was a journalist and passed the hat for him. And you know we just kept screaming for these blues things including this tune  I will play a little bit for you  called Jelly Roll Baker.  Mr.   She said Mr. Jelly Roll Baker let me be your slave. Gabriel blows his trumpet then I will rise from my grave for some of your sweet jelly roll yes I love your sweet jelly roll. It is good for the sick yes and it is good for the old. I was in a hospital all shot full of holes. Nurse left a man dyin' just to get a jelly roll. She loved her jelly yeah she loved her sweet jelly roll. She would rather leave a man dying than to miss her sweet jelly roll.  Oh that is great. So when you were listening to that as a kid did you know what jelly roll  what was intended by the word jelly roll?  Mr.  That is a good question because I was saying things around the house I would always get in trouble for and I did not know  I hit this stuff so young.  Right.  Mr.  And especially the Bessie Smith stuff. So yeah I knew by then and that is one of the tunes we were asking for at that party and you know double entendre you know when you are young.  Well if you are just joining us my guest is Geoff Muldaur and he has a new CD called Texas Sheiks and we are talking about how he first discovered early blues and jazz. You did an album in about 2003 of songs that Bix Beiderbecke played on or that were from his period. So these are songs from the late '20s and '30s and in the liner notes...   ...in the liner notes to this you write In my house in my father's world of rahrah Ivy League grads Bix lore was common fare. Everyone seemed to have a Bix story about meeting him drinking with him. And later you write that the trumpeter Muggsy Spanier came to your house and spent time in your brother's room listening to music. How did your family know these people? Mr.  Well my brother was out there doing reconnaissance. He was 10 years older than I was. So when he was 18 going into 52nd Street and down to the Village I was eight. So when he was hunting up these people  and my parents loved Dixieland and that kind of music anyway. So they would go down there to Nick's or to Ryan's and these clubs in New York and you know when everybody starts having those cocktails and having fun you meet people. So somehow Muggsy Spanier came out to the house and that was impressive.  Were you there? You were there? Mr.  Oh I was sitting there listening to him. I remember him talking about kicking his mute around the room to get individual types of bumps in it so his sound would be different than anybody else's.  Oh that is almost avantgarde.  Mr.  Well there you go. That is typical of avantgarde you know keep going back with it. But  and he also talked about Bix and I remember that just sort of shaking his head you know sadly.  Your Bix Beiderbecke record is so much fun. I think we should hear a track from it and this is you singing lead on Take Your Tomorrow  and do you want to say anything about why you chose to put this on the CD and how you arranged it? Mr.  Well the original reason for the CD was to do the chamber arrangements of the piano pieces. So they are all on there.  Of the Beiderbecke piano pieces. Mr.  Yes yes. And you know we wanted to spice it up with some of the old tunes and we decided to do them in ways that have never been done. I do not like to try and recreate the sounds of others. I try and sort of get an impression I guess. I am sort of an impressionist.  Okay so this is Geoff Muldaur from his album from about 2003 that is a tribute to Bix Beiderbecke.  Mr.   Why should I wait for happiness? I have grown impatient more or less. I cannot wait somehow. Show me a bluebird now. Unidentified Group  Take your tomorrow and give me today. For your tomorrow is too far away and every dawning I have waited in vain. I find each morning brings only rain. How can I borrow tomorrow today? With clouds around me all heavy and gray. What your tomorrow may bring do not mean a thing. That is why I say take your tomorrow and give me today. Mr.   Well you know when skies are gray I can not say...  That is Geoff Muldaur from his album Private Astronomy A Vision of the Music of Bix Beiderbecke. Geoff Muldaur has a new CD called Texas Sheiks. That is really so much fun to listen to. One of my favorite quotes about you comes from Loudon Wainwright who said Geoff Muldaur was and is one of my musical heroes. When I listen to him sing and play I can hear the coal mine the cotton field last but certainly foremost the boys' boarding school.  Mr.  He is such a clever guy.  Is not he?    My guest is Geoff Muldaur. His new CD is called Texas Sheiks. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   Let us get back to our interview and performance with Geoff Muldaur. His new CD Texas Sheiks features jazz and blues from the '20s and '30s. You wrote a song about looking for Blind Lemon Jefferson's grave. Blind Lemon Jefferson was one of the great blues performers. So the song is about wanting to find his grave so you could make sure it was clean. What  you actually did this. The song is based on an actual trip that you made. What inspired you to do it? Mr.  Probably alcohol.  Mr.  You know I was up all night in New Orleans as usual. I was living down there when I was 18...  Uhhuh. Mr.  ...and hanging out at these crazy places with these crazy people. You know it was 1961 and things were swinging. And so we were down over at you know near the Cafe Du Monde a little south of there having some red beans and rice and I thought about this tune One kind favor I will ask of you please see that my grave is kept clean. And I would go...  That is one of his songs. Mr.  Yeah yeah. And I goaded these four guys that were with me into cruising around the streets to look for brooms. And we found them and by the time the sun was up you know in the morning we were hitchhiking to East Texas through the Bayou country. You know this is not a recommended trip for anybody.  Mr.  So I am here to tell the tale. The first trip ended up in a turnaround which is  which I wrote about in the song spending the night in jail in Lafayette. But I got there eventually.  And did you sweep the grave? Mr.  Of course. They had moved it by the time I got there but it is a beautiful little graveyard. You know we found one big graveyard and we were standing in it. It was all these people with sort of coiffed hair and white belts and it just did not feel right. I said Blind Lemon could not be in this graveyard. And I looked across this field sort of a flood plain and there was this little island of dirt with little trees on it you know and grass and a little splitrail fence with these scissortail flycatchers going up and down off of the fence. And I looked over there and I said he is there. He is got to be there. And we ran across that field and found him and found his mother and his sister. It was beautiful.  Who moved his grave? Mr.  Some blues society.  Good. Mr.  So as you can tell from this it took a few years before I got back there but I got back there.  Well would you perform some of your song about Blind Lemon Jefferson about looking for the grave? Mr.  Why certainly.  Thank you. Mr.  Let us see if I can remember this one.  Mr.   With my broom in my hand headed out from Jackson Square. With my broom in my hand headed out from Jackson Square. I had to get to East Texas find that graveyard somewhere. Well down on Highway 90 not  Lafayette. Well down on Highway 90 not  Lafayette. I had one dime in my pocket. I was hungry and I was soaking wet. So it goes on like that.  My guest is Geoff Muldaur. His new CD is called Texas Sheiks. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   Let us get back to our interview and performance with Geoff Muldaur. His new CD Texas Sheiks features jazz and blues from the '20s and '30s. So you met Jim Kweskin and with him formed the Jim Kweskin Jug Band. And obviously you found someone in him who was a musical kindred sprit. I mean he is even on the new CD on the Texas Sheiks CD Mr.  He sure is.  performing Blues in the Bottle which is one of the songs he was famous for with the Jug Band. It must have been amazing performing with the Jug Band in the 60s at a time when probably like a lot of the people in the audience were really high and probably some of the people on stage were too.   There was a sense of kind of community at that time I think it is fair to say between performers and audiences that was based in part on liking this music that other people did not like or did not know about and also about sharing in this alternative culture. So can you talk a little bit what it was like for you being a performer in that period? Mr.  Well you know there were two  there were different sets of circumstances. The one you just mentioned was the most common but we became sort of a curiosity piece for television. So we were on a lot of television shows. We would come out to L.A. we would do the you know we did The Johnny Carson Show. We did The Steve Allen Show. We did three of those. And we would do all the you know whoever was having a weekly variety show like Pat Boone or Al Hirt.   Oh really? Mr.  Oh yeah. And so we were sort of a curiosity and we sure were not playing for our compadres in those audiences. And it was really interesting. They love those good old chunky you know funky things. You know you would get this square audience in a studio in Burbank and they were just loving it.  Why do not we hear what the band actually sounded like together? Is there a track that you would particularly like to hear? Mr.  Well I  gee you know Jimi and I have been playing recently. And Blues My Naughty Sweetie might be good one.  Oh that is perfect. Okay let us hear that. That is the opening track from I think the album's just called Jug Band Music. Mr.  You got it.  So let us hear this. This is Geoff Muldaur with the Jim Kweskin Jug Band.  Mr.   There are blues that you get from loneliness. And there are blues that you get from pain. And there are blues when you are lonely for your one and only. The blues you can never explain. And there are blues that you get from sleepless nights oh but the meanest blues that be they are the blues that I have got on my mind I mean the ones that are the meanest kind they are the blues my naughty sweetie gives to me. Let us hear it now.  The Jim Kweskin Jug Band with my guest Geoff Muldaur. And Geoff Muldaur is a singer guitarist and arranger. And his new CD is called Texas Sheiks. You left music for a few years. How long a hiatus was it? Mr.  It was about 17 years.  Whoa. That is really long. How come? I mean you are so passionate about it and so good at it. Mr.  It is the classic crashandburn thing you know. And I am alive and some of my friends are not. And I made a great effort to get out of the lifestyle I was in. And you know I have continued with that for the last 25 or six years. And you know after a while of working in  believe it or not I was developing software for the steel industry in Detroit Michigan when Bob Newirth came to visit me an old friend of mine. And he was in town recording Patti Smith. And he came up to my office and I had programmers and analysts and a fancy suit on and I was making money. And he was not impressed.  Mr.  He said do you think anybody else can do this? And I went well I guess so Bob. He said you hear anybody out there playing music the way you play music? Well I do not know. I guess not Bob.  Mr.  It was one of those. And he dragged me over to Italy that fall. And that is when I got the bug again. I said you know what? I am not knocking these Northern Italians silly but I love this. And I started practicing. And that is when I came up with the Wild Ox Moan. You know I just I got bit again. And I have been having the greatest time ever since.  Now if you would not mind I would like for you to perform some of the Wild Ox Moan. Maybe you can tell us about it before we hear it. The reason why I want you to do this you go into this kind of like blues falsetto in it which is almost like a blue yodel. Mr.  I do. But it is something that the writer of this tune if she did write it  because it is so different I almost cannot believe anybody wrote it. Her name was Vera Hall and she was a schoolteacher from outside of Tuscaloosa Alabama. And she recorded at the Library of Congress in the late 30s for the Lomaxes I guess. And she had these little cracks she would do in her voice. She did it with a few tunes. And she did The Boweevil and she did children's songs. And she  and I heard her when I was  she was one of those tunes that was you know on one of those jazz anthologies you know  Mo mo. These little things like and I just  I took to her. And so I arranged what was an a capella tune for the guitar and came up with this thing the Wild Ox Moan.  Mr.   Well round here pretty woman and sit down on daddy's knee. I got something to tell you woman. Well do not you holler and plead. Well I am going up the country. Well do not you want to go? Well I am going down to Texas cause that is where I belong. Well that is where I belong.  Nice.   Geoff Muldaur thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you.  Geoff Muldaur recorded in early December. His new CD is called Texas Sheiks.   You can download podcasts of our show on our Web site freshair.npr.org. And you can follow us on Twitter nprfreshair. I have been thinking about what to wish you for the new year. I wish happiness and good health to you and your family fulfillment in your personal life and your work. And if you are out of work I hope you find a good job. If you have a loved one in Iraq or Afghanistan I hope they stay safe and well. So best wishes for 2010 from all of us at FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. 