 Our book critic Maureen Corrigan has a wish for this holiday season that everyone read a terrific book and she has some to recommend. She says she does not care whether you read the books on her 2010 bestbooksoftheyear list electronically or the oldfashioned way.  Sometimes there is justice in the world.That was my first thought when I heard that Patti Smith had won the National Book Award this fall for her glorious memoir Just Kids  which has just come out in paperback.Smith wrote the book to honor Robert Mapplethorpe her youthful partner in love art and ambition; but Just Kids is also a celebration of the frayed beauty of New York City in its socalled years of decline  the late 1960s into the '70s. Early in her memoir Smith likens herself to the iconic Audrey Hepburn a young girl full of pure yearning. Smith says that she and the more brooding Mapplethorpe were a curious mix of Funny Face and Faust. Another standout work of nonfiction this year also explores a famous relationship that defied convention Hazel Rowley's biography of the marriage of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt called simply Franklin and Eleanor. Rowley charts the evolution of the Roosevelt union from a standardissue highsociety alliance to something we do not even have a label for  maybe semiopen marriage comes closest. Speaking of conformity and rebellion Rebecca Traister's soverysmart and lively book about the 2008 presidential campaign called Big Girls Do not Cry teases out how our reigning cultural narratives about femininity and playing nice came to wield so much power during the campaign and finally in the voting booth. For all its daring allure early 20thcentury American detective fiction pretty much played by the rules when it came to the standardissue look of its detective heroes Same Spade and company were white straight males who were quick to pull the trigger on any characters who were different.One enormously popular detective hero however who smashed the stereotype was Charlie Chan the subject of a fascinating mishmosh of a book also called Charlie Chan by Chinese born scholar Yunte Huang. In the late 19thcentury ordinary people  mill girls garment workers and miners  embraced the revolutionary idea that by joining together they might better their lives. Philip Dray's spectacular narrative history of the American labor movement called There Is Power in a Union reads like a novel filled with dramatic acts of barbarism and bravery. This nonfiction bestoftheyear list has turned out to be composed of stories and people who refused to play by the rules so I will end it with two other outofthebox mentions first Laura Hillenbrand's Unbroken the unforgettable and yes inspirational World War II tale of Louis Zamperini Olympic athlete and prisoner of war. Zamperini's story puts to shame all of us these days who use the word survivor casually. Second two books by Gabrielle Burton a writer now in her 70s who is near nearlifelong obsession with Tamsen Donner the wife of the leader of the notorious Donner Party inspired her to write a fabulous ontheroad feminist memoir called Searching for Tamsen Donner as well as an evocative recreation of Tamsen's lost journal called Impatient With Desire. Since we are on to fiction now here are my top picks certainly Jonathan Franzen's Freedom a novel about a marriage deserved all of its applause despite the literary spitball fight over Franzen's demigod status. My personal favorite novel of the year was Lionel Shriver's So Much for That a moving black comedy about the emotional and financial cost of health care in America. I also admired David Mitchell's beautiful novel The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet which traces the life of its title character who starts working in 1799 on a small European outpost in the harbor of Nagasaki Japan. Finally Gary Shteyngart's novel Super Sad True Love Story moves at warp speed telling a dystopian but comic story about a future where books are derided as objects that smell like wet socks. I can never close out a literary year without giving a nod to mystery fiction. The late Stieg Larsson's last Lisbeth Salander novel The Girl Who Kicked the Hornets' Nest deservedly overpowered all. But this was the year I also belatedly discovered suspense writer Tana French. French's police procedurals about the Dublin murder squad including this year's Faithful Place are brilliantly dark and moody. I want to end by doffing my hat not to a book but to an independent bookseller and small press publisher. David Thompson was known throughout the mystery world. He died suddenly this year at 38. David introduced me to the wonders noir writers like Reed Farrel Coleman Daniel Woodrell and Martin Limon. His legacy is a reminder to all of us who love books that as someone once said about the lake critic Irving Howe enthusiasm is not the enemy of the intellect.  Maureen Corrigan teaches literature at Georgetown University. You can find links to all the books on her bestoftheyear list along with links to excerpts of those books and Maureen's original reviews of some of those books on our website freshair.npr.org.   I am Terry Gross. 