 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest Jeffrey Toobin is working on a book about the Mueller investigation and he has a new article about it in the New Yorker where he is a staff writer. He is also been commenting on the investigation for CNN where he is chief legal analyst. Robert Mueller was directed to conduct a full and thorough investigation of the Russian government's efforts to interfere in the 2016 election including any links and or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump campaign. We are going to take a step back and look at the big picture. What are the possible outcomes of the investigation? Who is on President Trump's legal team and what strategies are they pursuing? As it stands now two people from the president's team have pleaded guilty of lying to the FBI. Michael Flynn Trumps former national security adviser and George Papadopoulos a Trump campaign foreign policy adviser. They are now cooperating with the investigation. Paul Manafort Trump's former campaign chair and Rick Gates a former campaign aide who is also Manafort's business associate have been indicted on 12 counts including conspiracy against the U.S. and money laundering. They have both pleaded not guilty. Jeffrey Toobin welcome back to FRESH AIR. Since one of the things we are going to be talking about is how Trump's legal team is making him and what kind of cases they are expected to make. Let us talk about his legal team. He has three lawyers primarily involved on his defense team  Jay Sekulow Ty Cobb and John Dowd. Let us start with Jay Sekulow. He cofounded the American Center for Law and Justice which you describe as a rightwing counterpart to the ACLU. Tell us a little bit about that and the kind of cases he is represented with them.  Yeah. Jay is someone I have written a lot about over the years. He is 61 years old now. He grew up in Long Island. He was raised as a Jewish kid. But when he went to college in Atlanta he had a religious awakening. And he joined the messianic group called Jews for Jesus and ultimately became a lawyer and then general counsel to Jews for Jesus. And he got involved in a lot of cases defending the right of Jews for Jesus to proselytize. They do a lot of aggressive leafleting as people might know. And he developed this specialty in representing religious groups that wanted to operate in the public sphere whether they wanted to hold services in public schools or religious classes in public schools  basically those kinds of issues. He drew the attention of Pat Robertson the religious figure and conservative activist. And they decided to found a group.  And TV personality.  Right exactly and TV personality. And they decided to found this group called the American Center for Law and Justice which has expanded to kind of a fullservice evangelical political operation which does lawsuits. Jay has his own radio show. And he is now part of the evangelical conservative movement. He is a familiar figure on cable TV. And Donald Trump saw his appearances and hired him to be one of his personal lawyers. Jay is not someone who is particularly experienced in criminal law but he is good on TV. And that is something that the president always appreciates. So Jay has been very much the public face of Donald Trump's personal defense.  And you mentioned that he is part of Jews for Jesus. That is what is called Messianic Judaism. It is people who were Jewish but believe that Jesus is the savior. So they are basically Christians .  They are Christians. And you know there is no central authority of the Jewish faith but one thing pretty much all of organized Judaism agrees on is that Jews for Jesus are anathema. They are deeply deeply unpopular with Jewish folks particularly because they are so aggressive in proselytizing. And they I think confuse a lot of nonJews about whether they are Jewish or not. And Jews for Jesus I  assuredly at least according to all of mainstream Judaism are not Jewish.  OK. So Jay Sekulow is on President Trump's legal team. Let us move on to Ty Cobb. What is his role in the defense team and who is he?  Ty Cobb is  was a prominent whitecollar defense lawyer in the Washington bar. And he has a different role from Jay Sekulow. He is a government employee. He works for the White House. He is a special assistant in the office of White House counsel. And his job is sort of to coordinate the response to the official response  the White House response to the Mueller investigation. Mostly that involves producing all the documents that Mueller has asked for  all the emails all the things he has requested as part of his investigation. He is also coordinating to a certain extent the interviews that Mueller wants to do with current members of the White House staff. But he is a government employee. And he has a slightly different interest than Jay Sekulow and John Dowd who are the outside lawyers who represent Donald Trump the human being not Donald Trump the president.  John Dowd is the third lawyer you have written about. What is his background and what is his role?  John Dowd is also a wellknown whitecollar defense lawyer in Washington. Considerably older he is 76. And he is sort of the lead lawyer for Trump personally. And he is actually a close friend of General Kelly the White House chief of staff. Both Kelly and Dowd are former Marines. They are roughly contemporaries. And they are both from the Boston area. And that is his connection to the Trump circle. And he has maintained less of a public voice although somewhat more recently than Sekulow has.  Now John Dowd the lawyer you were describing has taken credit for a very possibly incriminating Trump tweet. And the tweet said I had to fire General Flynn because he lied to the vice president and the FBI. He has pled guilty to these lies. It is a shame because his actions during the transition were lawful. There was nothing to hide. Why is this such a potentially damaging tweet?  For one specific reason but it takes a little bit of explanation. Remember James Comey's very striking testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee. And he  one of the extraordinary meetings he described with Donald Trump took place on February 14 of this year Valentine's Day. That was the day that there was a group meeting with a lot of important people in the White House in the Oval Office  the vice president the attorney general Director Comey. And after the meeting was over Trump shooed everyone away except for Comey. So it was a oneonone. And Comey recounted that the previous day Flynn had been fired as national security adviser. And the president knew that the FBI was investigating Flynn. And so the president went to Comey and said look I wish you could find it to go easy on Flynn. He is a good man. Do not be too tough on him. I am paraphrasing. The tweet is significant because it suggested that at that time he is telling Comey to go easy on Flynn. The president knows that he has lied to the FBI. So if you tell the FBI director to go easy on someone whom you know has committed a crime that is potentially obstruction of justice in and of itself. And that is why that tweet is so potentially incriminating. There has been a lot of scrambling on the part of the Trump defense this week to try to explain that tweet. John Dowd as you said said well I wrote it. The president did not write it. And it was sort of garbled. It is unclear how true that is. And one of the many problems that that explanation creates is that it makes John Dowd potentially a fact witness in the Mueller investigation perhaps requiring him to get off the case altogether because how he learned the underlying facts that he drafted in the tweet might become worthy of investigation by Mueller. So it is quite clear that at a minimum Dowd has made quite a mess of this whole story of you know whether the president knew Flynn was under investigation at the time he asked Comey to go easy on him.  Well you know as Trump's lawyer Dowd does not have to testify against him. But if he is no longer his lawyer and if he is under investigation himself does he have to spill the beans about everything he knows about Trump and Trump's involvement in this story?  Well the attorneyclient privilege survives even if Dowd is no longer the lawyer. Anything he told him in the attorneyclient relationship is still privileged even if Dowd leaves the defense team. However you know planning a tweet planning a public disclosure is not covered by the attorneyclient privilege I think under any theory. So he may well be required to talk about what his factual basis was for planning this tweet. It can get very complicated and convoluted over what is covered and what is not by the attorneyclient privilege but once you get into a debate like that it becomes very difficult for someone like Dowd to remain as a lawyer which is one of the problems raised by his explanation for that unwise tweet.  All right at this point we should take a short break. If you are just joining us my guest is Jeffrey Toobin and he is been covering the Robert Mueller investigation. In fact he is writing a book about it now. He is a staff writer at The New Yorker and chief legal analyst for CNN. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is 're talking about the Robert Mueller investigation. My guest is Jeffrey Toobin. He is a staff writer at The New Yorker and chief legal analyst for CNN. He is been writing about the investigation and he is in the process of writing a book about it. OK so you write that the Mueller investigation appears to consist of three areas of inquiry. What are they?  Well the first relates to the whole issue of illegal lobbying and the sort of related aspects of it. This is the case against Paul Manafort and his deputy Rick Gates for illegal lobbying on behalf of Ukraine. Michael Flynn was also investigate  under investigation for his lobbying activities on behalf of Turkey though he wound up pleading guilty to something else. That is one area. The second area is the area that I think most people are familiar with  is the whole area of socalled collusions. Like what was the relationship between the Trump campaign and Russia and people and organizations affiliated with Russia including for example WikiLeaks? So that is the second area. And the third area relates to obstruction of justice  you know the question of whether the president's firing of James Comey when the FBI was investigating the president  whether that and related activities constitute obstruction of justice. So you have sort of the whole lobbying investigation you have the collusion investigation and you have obstruction of justice. Those are the three areas.  What argument is the Trump legal team making about obstruction?  Well it is shifted over the past couple of days and I think there is a certain amount of improvisation and disorder in the Trump campaign. But John Dowd said in a series of interviews that the president cannot be convicted of obstruction of justice because he is the head of the executive branch and the executive branch includes law enforcement and he is allowed to express his opinions he is allowed to supervise the executive branch and he can say anything he wants to the FBI or any other law enforcement official because of his power as head of the executive branch that it is constitutionally protected from being charged with obstruction of justice. That was the argument that Dowd made. Ty Cobb sort of backed away from that saying well let us put aside the constitutional argument; the president did not commit obstruction of justice on the facts. You know we are going to argue the facts are that there was no obstruction of justice so we do not have to reach the constitutional question of whether the president has a right to say anything he wants.  So they are kind of working both arguments.  They are working both arguments. And you know if I could just talk a little bit about Dowd's argument...  That the president cannot commit obstruction.  Right. There is a kernel of a reasonable argument in there which is that the president cannot be criminally charged while he is in office with obstruction of justice. That is a  related to the larger argument of whether a sitting president can be charged with any crime at all whether it is obstruction of justice or bank robbery or securities fraud or anything. You know this is a great unresolved question of constitutional law. It is never been settled by the Supreme Court. There are differing points of view about it. The argument is that the president is so central to the operation of the executive branch that the damage to the country would be so great for  by distracting him with a criminal case that he is exempt while he is in office from being charged. That argument is a reasonable argument and reasonable people can disagree about it. Where I think Dowd is completely wrong is the notion that Congress cannot impeach the president for obstruction of justice that he has some sort of immunity from any kind of sanction for obstruction of justice including impeachment. And that is clearly wrong as a matter of constitutional law but also as a matter of history because you know the House Judiciary Committee articles of impeachment against Richard Nixon in 1974 referred to obstruction of justice. When President Clinton was impeached in 1998 obstruction of justice was part of the charges against him. And it also is I think offensive as a matter of you know policy to think that the president has absolutely no limits on his power over law enforcement because he is head of the executive branch. And I think the impeachment  previous investigations reveal that and I think that is where Dowd's comment was really entirely wrong.  So what do you think Mueller's best case now is that Trump committed obstruction of justice?  That he fired James Comey to stop the investigation of himself. You know I think you know the news cycle works so quickly that we sometimes move on to the next thing and do not absorb the magnitude of what we have seen. And you know the idea that the president of the United States having asked the FBI director repeatedly you know am I under investigation? Help me out here. I want your loyalty  that out of the blue then on May 9th 2017 fires the FBI director and then essentially confesses in a series of interviews whether first with Lester Holt of NBC and then you know in comments that he made to the Russian ambassador that he fired James Comey because he was investigating the Trump campaign I think that remains a very serious case for obstruction of justice. Now there are other aspects of the case that reinforce the president's possible liability for obstruction of justice. But the core allegation firing the FBI director because he is investigating you remains for me the central aspect of any possible obstruction of justice case against the president.  You know it is just  if the president did obstruct justice like that to protect himself what does it say if he cannot be held responsible for that until he leaves the White House?  Well he can be held responsible by the House of Representatives by impeaching him. And that is I think the proper forum for it. Now we are at a political moment where certainly the Republicans in charge of the House of Representatives will never investigate the president for obstruction of justice in an impeachment proceeding. But that is not to say that is the right decision. But I do not think it is accurate to say that well he can obstruct justice and then there are no consequences. Impeachment is a very serious consequence and it is available to the House of Representatives today. It is just that they choose not to exercise it. But constitutionally and legally and politically they could do it tomorrow.  So the fact remains that it is possible that the president could have obstructed justice and face no consequences while he is in office?  Absolutely. And impeachment is much more a political process than a legal process. And it is no coincidence that the only two successful impeachment investigations  Richard Nixon in 1974 and President Clinton in 1998  took place when the House of Representatives was under control of the opposition party. And even then they were less polarized times than we are now. Now you know we have you know a House of Representatives that is very much still enthralled to President Trump and thus they may not investigate him for obstruction of justice. But that is a political problem that is not a constitutional problem. Under the Constitution they have every right to do that. They are just at the moment  and likely in the future  not exercising that right.  My guest is Jeffrey Toobin who has a new article about the Mueller investigation in the current issue of the New Yorker where he is a staff writer. He is also CNN's chief legal analyst. After we take a short break we will talk about possible crimes the Mueller investigation could reveal and why collusion is not one of them. And Justin Chang will review the movie that will represent Israel at the Oscars in the category of best foreign language film. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Jeffrey Toobin. We are talking about the investigation by Special Counsel Robert Mueller into the Russian government's efforts to interfere in the presidential election and any links and or coordination between the Russian government and individuals in the Trump campaign. Toobin has a new article about the investigation in the New Yorker where he is a staff writer. He is also CNN's chief legal analyst. So when we left off we were talking about the possible charges that Mueller could bring against President Trump. And one of them  well one of them is collusion. Except for Trump's team is saying  and a lot of people agree  that collusion is not legally a crime per se.  You know this was the reason Terry I started to write this story in the first place because  the New Yorker story  because I was curious about this question. You know is collusion a crime? Everybody's been talking about the relationship between Russia and the Trump campaign. And there is a criminal investigation led by Mueller. But what is the crime? What is the possible charge that could be brought against the president or anyone in his circle for the relationship with Russia? And that is the heart of my piece and that is the question that I sought to answer.  So what do you think is the heart of the crime?  Well it is a hard question. I mean collusion itself is not a crime. The two possible crimes that I saw that people in the Trump campaign might have committed  and I warn people we are  I am going to get into the weeds a little bit here but I am going to try to translate it into English. Is  there is no such crime as collusion but there is a crime called conspiracy. But it has to be a conspiracy to violate some law on the books. Well there is a law on the books that says it is illegal for anyone to solicit or receive campaign contributions from nonAmericans from foreigners. One of the aspects of the collusion investigation is the relationship between the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks. WikiLeaks is a nonAmerican institution. If you believe that  and contributions are defined as cash but also inkind contributions. If you believe that the Trump campaign in its emails and in its relationship with WikiLeaks solicited inkind campaign contributions from WikiLeaks a foreign operation  that is potentially a crime. The solicitation of inkind campaign contributions from a foreign entity WikiLeaks that is potentially a crime. The other area where there is potentially a crime related to collusion is  relates to the hacking the underlying hacking of the Democratic National Committee and of John Podesta's emails. If you believe that the Trump campaign  and there is some evidence for this  encouraged that hacking encouraged the distribution of that criminally source material  it is of course illegal to hack anyone's emails  that could be the crime of aiding and abetting hacking. So the two possible theories of collusion as a crime that I identified with the aid of experts was conspiracy to solicit and receive illegal campaign contributions from foreigners. That is one. And the other is aiding and abetting the hacking of emails. That is two.  So they both have to do with the emails?  They both have to do with emails correct.  And with WikiLeaks?  And with WikiLeaks. And there are problems with those theories. I do not want to pretend that those are you know obvious...  But what are the problems?  Well the problems are  the core of the problem is you know any time a criminal case is brought especially whitecollar cases the question arises is how did you know it was illegal what you were doing? And you know it is quite possible that the Trump campaign officials could say I did not know it was illegal to go to WikiLeaks and say I would like their emails. They were just another source that was coming to us and offering us information and we said sure. That is a potentially  a plausible defense. And the usual way that prosecutors get around that defense is they show what is called consciousness of guilt. They show someone destroyed documents. They show someone lied about what the nature of their contacts were. There is not that evidence that I have seen yet. So the argument that you could not prove criminal intent on the part of the Trump campaign because they did not know this conduct was illegal  that is a serious impediment to bringing a case like this.  So the aiding and abetting part how sound a case might that be?  Well the problem with that case is that it is quite possible indeed likely that the hacking itself  the invasion of the DNC emails and John Podesta's emails  took place before the Trump campaign even knew about it. The actual hacking had nothing to do with the Trump campaign and that their involvement only came later were they encouraged the distribution of the emails. And there is an unresolved legal question of whether aiding and abetting can take place after the underlying criminal activity the hacking. You know usually aiding and abetting takes place at the same time as the underlying crime. If you drive the getaway car for a bank robbery you are aiding and abetting bank robbery because it is all one enterprise. But if you merely encourage the distribution of material that is been stolen months earlier it is not clear legally that that is aiding and abetting.  Well it might not be aiding and abetting but is it legal to use material that you know has been stolen  private material that you know has been stolen through a hack? Is it legal to you  take that and use it for your own selfserving reasons even though you did not aid and abet the hacking itself?  Well again that is an unresolved legal issue. But it also runs into First Amendment problems because you know the press  those of us in the press we get material that is sometimes illegally obtained  you know emails that are leaked that should not be leaked stuff that is not in our  that we do not have a legal right to and other people may have obtained legally. We then publish it because we believe we have a First Amendment right to. So are we then aiding and abetting the underlying hacking? Again unresolved legal question but one that I think would give prosecutors pause by  because of you know what it said about you know the broader issue of obtaining illegally obtained material.  You made the press analogy the press is reporting on information. To make this comparison in the TrumpWikiLeaks case would you have to say that WikiLeaks is a journalistic organization and that therefore what they have you know published is fair game?  Right. I mean again this is another complexity  is like the status of WikiLeaks is an unresolved question that has deep legal significance as far as this investigation is concerned because you know if there is under the campaign finance laws an explicit exception for news organizations  like you cannot charge CBS with a crime for giving favorable coverage to Donald Trump. You cannot charge The Kansas City Star with a crime for making campaign contributions in the form of favorable coverage. So the question is can you charge WikiLeaks with a crime for aiding  for conspiring to give illegal campaign contributions? And can you charge others with soliciting WikiLeaks  which is also a crime if WikiLeaks is not a news organization  but what is WikiLeaks? That is an unresolved factual and legal question. You know the director of the CIA Pompeo gave a speech in April that said you know WikiLeaks let us not be confused about WikiLeaks. WikiLeaks is a nonstate actor doing Russia's bidding. That is the view of the CIA. But WikiLeaks says we are journalists; we are doing the same work that NPR and that The New Yorker is doing; we are getting facts and getting them out to the public. If WikiLeaks is in fact a press organization none of these theories involving WikiLeaks for criminal liability work. But if WikiLeaks is essentially part of the Russian government or an affiliate of the Russian government then potentially these criminal cases could proceed if you could prove to a jury beyond a reasonable doubt that what WikiLeaks really is  and that gets into very difficult questions of proof because you know it is  these are really hard questions in terms of what WikiLeaks is. And when you get into jury questions juries like simple cases and simple answers. And you know the murkiness is always to the advantage of defendants.  OK why do not we take a short break here? If you are just joining us my guest is Jeffrey Toobin and he is been covering the Mueller investigation for The New Yorker and CNN and he is writing a book about the investigation. We will be right back after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Jeffrey Toobin who is a staff writer at The New Yorker and chief legal analyst for CNN. He is been covering the Robert Mueller investigation for both places. He is also writing a book about the investigation. Is it legal for a presidential campaign to work with a foreign government  i.e. Russia  to get help to win the race?  It is illegal for a political campaign to receive inkind campaign contributions from a foreign government or a foreign company or a foreign person. But you know again I am sorry to be a legal nerd with you here. You cannot just say work with. It has  what is illegal is to receive campaign contributions from a foreign government. And in order for the criminal law to be implicated you have to see the question as a campaign contribution not just working with a foreign government.  If Russia was interfering in the U.S. election and the Trump campaign was working with Russia in conjunction with them would that be a crime? Because you know foreign powers are not supposed to interfere in American elections. So if you are cooperating with a foreign power who is interfering in American election is that a crime?  Well you have to specify which crime it would be and that is...  Treason  would that be treason?  Well you know treason is defined in the Constitution as making war against the United States. And you know I do not think that that would be treason although that would certainly be one ground for investigation. I think you know you have to specify which statute would be violated. I mean you know the traditional way that our government responds to misconduct by other governments is diplomatically and militarily. I mean is that you know the  when Russia does something bad to the United States you know or another country does you know we respond with trade sanctions. We respond by breaking off diplomatic relations. We respond by having a war. We do not bring Russia into our criminal courts. We do not sue them. That is not the way countries by and large interact. So the question is what criminal law would be violated by Americans who coordinate with Russia in  who work with Russia in trying to influence the United States election? And that is where you have to go through the specific statutes.  So if  you know as you are saying there has to be conspiracy to break a certain law and one of the laws that might have been broken are  have to do with financial issues. So what are some of the financial issues that you think the Mueller team is investigating?  Well there are many unanswered questions about Donald Trump's personal finances. They are not directly related to the campaign in the way that illegal campaign contributions are but the whole question of how Donald Trump made his money has raised many questions. You know who was buying apartments in Trump's real estate empire? What were the financial arrangements behind his decision to build a hotel in Azerbaijan? You know why did a Russian oligarch apparently overpay him by tens of millions of dollars for a piece of real estate in Palm Beach? All of those questions are potentially within the purview of the Mueller investigation. They are not directly related to the 2016 campaign but if you believe that you cannot understand what went on in the 2016 campaign without understanding Donald Trump's relationship to Russian financial interests then those questions very much are within Mueller's purview.  So since Mueller's investigation is a criminal investigation if he presses charges against the president would that end up in a jury sitting in judgment of the president?  Well it would if the case went to trial. And the first thing the president's lawyers would certainly do if there was a criminal charge would be to move to dismiss the case on the ground that a sitting president cannot be indicted among other crimes. So you know it would be many many months of legal wrangling before the case went to a jury. But yes ultimately if the case went to trial it would be before a jury. But yet again that goes back to the constitutional argument that a sitting president cannot be forced to sit in a criminal courtroom as a defendant while he is president because it is too much of a distraction from his duties. You know we have been talking about the possibility of a criminal case against Donald Trump. I do think there is a middle ground that is far more likely than Mueller simply folding up his tent and saying there is nothing here and indicting the president like an ordinary criminal.  What is the middle ground?  The middle ground is what Leon Jaworski did the Watergate special prosecutor. It is what Kenneth Starr did the Whitewater special prosecutor. It is for the independent counsel which was what Starr was the special counsel which is Mueller's title to write a report and to say we believe based on our investigation that Congress may find impeachable offenses in the following areas for the following reasons. And then simply turn that report over to Congress. That I think is well within Mueller's purview. It is constitutionally entirely appropriate and it makes the decision. It puts the decision I think where it really belongs in the political arena of whether the House of Representatives wants to impeach Donald Trump. So I think you know yes it is an interesting theoretical constitutional question about whether Donald Trump or any president can be indicted. But I think the far more likely outcome of the Mueller investigation is a report to Congress where he essentially dumps the whole problem in Congress's lap and says this is up to you if you want to impeach. If you do help yourself. If you do not help yourself. But that I think is both legally politically and prudentially the right approach for an outside counsel like Mueller.  Well Jeffrey Toobin it is great to talk with you again. Thank you so much for coming back to FRESH AIR. TOOBI