 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Our TV critic David Bianculli is with us with his picks of the best and worst TV shows of the year. We are also going to look back on some of the biggest developments in cable and broadcast this year. David was the longtime TV critic for the New York Daily News. He now writes the online magazine tvworthwatching.com teaches TV and film at Rowan University and is the author of a new book about the Smothers Brothers called Dangerously Funny. Well hi David. Happy holidays and happy new year.  Hi hi you too. Happy to be back.  So much has happened on TV and behind the scenes of TV this year. So when you look at the landscape what do you think is the biggest TV story of the year?  Well last year the biggest story was the strike and the repercussions. This year the biggest story is Jay Leno. He transformed late night put all these dominos in play and then showed up in primetime and gobbled up five night of CBS' TV time and then did not do well.  Did not do well in what sense?  First of all he did not do a good show. It is an almost to me unwatchable show and it is not as entertaining as even The Tonight Show was. But in what it had to do which was to make money because it cost so much less than a drama for NBC to put in the 10 p.m. slot that it is accomplished only barely. And in giving any sort of a leadin to the local affiliates for their newscasts which is very important it is really failing. So I expect an allout mutiny next year.  What would a mutiny mean?  It would mean that local affiliates that are aligned with NBC could say you know I can take a syndicated program or put a local program or move something else in there in that last hour and garner a bigger audience for my local news which is where most of my money comes from. So I will just delay showing Jay Leno until 30 and then I will move The Tonight Show back to 30 and I will move you know Jimmy Fallon back to you know The Farm Film Report.   So can you compare the ratings of the NBC shows that had been on the 10 of the clock spot with what Leno is getting now?  It varies night to night but it is you know a 20 percent drop 30 percent drop 50 percent drop. It is substantial and it is also substantial in terms of the young demos that they find so attractive. NBC is trying to put a good face on this but there is not much of a good face. And now that one of the big stories to end the year is NBC you know being sort of absorbed by Comcast with new owners in charge they are probably not going to be so enamored with the idea of staying with this.  So you think they might just pull the show?  Well even Jay Leno has said you know I would not mind going back to my old slot at Tonight.  Whoa.   Yeah is not that a big...  Tell that to Conan O'Brien.  Yeah exactly exactly. That is such a big whoa. And you know if you thought that his leaving The Tonight Show and then sort of bringing it to primetime under another name was a little bit disingenuous or not being a team player what about that admission?  So this year late night changed a lot. You know Leno moved from The Tonight Show to the new 10 of the clock show. Run through the musical chairs that have happened at late night.  Well let us see. Conan moved up to Tonight. Jimmy Fallon took his place at Late Night and at the other networks things remained stable. You had Nightline on ABC. You have Letterman on CBS and then Craig Ferguson on after him. But what this new shift meant is that Conan had to sort of temper his act a little bit in order to appeal to a wider audience and he got a younger demo. The age for The Tonight Show has dropped by about 10 years the average age but unfortunately the overall audience has dropped so significantly that Letterman is now winning over The Tonight Show and it did not used to be. And in the 30 slot Ferguson is beating Fallon and that did not even used to be a close race. So there is a shift.  There were two major things that I think helped give Letterman a big audience this year. One of them was the feud with Sarah Palin and the other was his affair which he handled in such an interesting way and he was so funny about it. No matter what you think of his affair I think you have to say he made better jokes about it than anybody else did.  Well he not only made better jokes  and you are absolutely right. But he not only made better jokes about it but he confronted it headon. And you can not like what he did and still like the way that he handled it. It is sort of like Richard Nixon this is the way you should have handled Watergate.   Tiger Woods you know take note. You know the  it was just a straighton look I do not want to tell you this but here's exactly what is going on. And it was out there. There was not a secondday story because he would told it all the first day.  We are talking about the year in television with FRESH AIR's TV critic David Bianculli. David when we do these yearend wrapups we do not usually talk about soap operas but we are going to talk about them now because there is a significant change in the world of soap operas. What is left?  Very little. And the really really tenured ones you know are going away. Guiding Light left and next year we are going to get As The World Turns. I mean and these are...  As the World Turns is ending next year?  Yes and these are CBS soaps that were around as long as television was around and before that on the radio. And it is actually something that is generational. There are not that many shows left from the salad days of television. There is Meet the Press and there really is not much else except for soaps. Now you can look at it and say in the last 10 20 years primetime has absorbed the idea of the soap. So you get plenty of soap opera stuff if you are watching Brothers and Sisters or even a serialized you know story genre thing like Lost. But the idea of having something to watch every afternoon and/or every morning and just do it the way it was done for generations TV is saying well that is not important either right now.  So what is on during the day?  Oh who knows?   You know I am sure  I am working. I have the sound off. There is people still angry about stuff. There is game shows and there is lots of talk and it astounds me. Jerry Springer is still on.  And Oprah's leaving broadcast. That is a big story.  Yes that is a big story.  Speaking of the afternoons.  That is like is God dead? No but Oprah's leaving TV. You know it is a close second. You know how are we going to find out what books to read? But I think we will survive but you know  and I think that Oprah will not go far. Oprah will not pull a Johnny Carson and leave after 30 years and...  Well she is starting her own cable network.  Yes yes. You know and if her magazine does not work she will just start her own  well she cannot start her own newspaper. She is not that stupid. There is no newspapers you know but there is something out there that she will do.  The big business story of the year is probably NBC merging with Comcast which is happening this month. Comcast bought a 51 percent share of NBC. What impact do you think that will have on the network and on us the viewers of the network?  I honestly do not know. There is two ways to look at it. You could think of it as a good thing because the cable arm of NBC Universal is doing better programming than the network broadcast arm.  You are talking about MSNBC?  No I am  no  I am  oh no no no no. I am talking about like Universal like USA Network some of those programs some of the things that have come to us on the SyFy Channel and other things that are part of the whole network synergy umbrella that if they bring some of those programs to network TV network TV would be better served. But on the other hand they do not necessarily  I do not trust executives to do the right thing. The right thing would be to do the cable model and do instead of 22 episodes a year maybe do 10 or 12 like cable does  do better shows and cycle them off. But I think we may just get more and more reality shows and trim the profits and you know sell their own fare from NBC to their own sister things to keep it in the family. It is  you know the money for making these shows is getting harder and harder to find.  My guest is our TV critic David Bianculli. We will talk about the best and worst TV shows of the year after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   We are looking back on the year in television with our TV critic David Bianculli. Last year one of the big TV stories was the political coverage of the election and the really divisive campaign.  Mmhmm.  So this is the first year of President Obama's presidency. How do you think political coverage on television changed this year?  It became less dynamic. I think that one of the things that you could see is that almost all of the networks rather than favor Obama went to look at him critically fairly early. I do not mean critical in a bad sense but there was not a honeymoon period that lasted too long. Maybe that was just because of current events and everything that was happening so quickly. When I compare like Fox News for example and  them you know equally shrill when they engage one another. It is still like children in a sandbox on both sides. But I do think that there is a difference in content.  OK let us look at the best and worst of the year starting with the worst. What do you think were the worst TV shows of the year?  The worst in terms of most important worst?  Yes.  I would say Jay Leno because the failure of that show both in terms of the ratings and creatively are going to have a major impact on TV for the next couple of years. But I will say I think it would have been worse if it had been a better show worse for television if it had succeeded.  Because?  Because then we would have 10 shows just like that gobbling up all the hours of primetime.  OK what about the best TV shows of 2009?  All right. I like the fact that it is really hard to come up with a top 10 not because there are not 10 but because there are more. So here first off are ones that just missed my Top  Rescue Me on FX In Treatment on HBO Glee on Fox House on Fox Modern Family on ABC Battlestar Galactica on SyFy and Fringe on Fox. Those are all wonderful shows. But now I am going to tell you more wonderful. My number one show for this year was Curb Your Enthusiasm on HBO. I thought the whole Seinfeld story was brilliant and brilliantly resolved. Mad Men on AMC I love that when I watch that show it seems to be of a different pace than anything on television and operating at a more interesting frequency and like what I like about Larry David's Curb Your Enthusiasm even when you know what is coming it surprises you and I love that.  The Daily Show with Jon Stewart I think even in a nonpolitical year managed to be both very important and very funny. I am amazed at how much energy those guys have. And really he is the best TV critic working in the United States right now. I know he does not want that title and probably would not accept it but he is doing more about deconstructing the media than anybody else.  Is Colbert on your list?  Colbert is  would be actually one more rung down. I should have mentioned Colbert but he would not on my Top 10 but it is only because Colbert whom I also love I think is more of an act. And Jon Stewart who says he is an act to me is more serious. I think he is playing with higher stakes. I do like them both. Lost on ABC is going to be ending next year and it has not been around for a while so you have to have a good memory to put it on a Top 10 list. But I like the idea of looking forward to a TV show and trying to figure it out but not so hard that it becomes obsessive. I really have liked the whole journey of Lost. So I still like that. So now  and then Friday Night Lights which used to be on NBC and it still is but NBC has sort of shared costs by lending it out. So Direct TV Network you know a cable  I mean a satellite firm gets to show it first. So I am watching it on satellite each Wednesday now and loving it and it will show up on NBC next year. It is NBC's best show and NBC does not even care enough about it to pay whatever it would take to show it first. That to me says where NBC is. 30 Rock at least NBC shows. I love the humor on that. Showtime's Dexter was so twisted this year John Lithgow as a villain every bit as watchable as Michael C. Hall as the twisted serial killerhero. Great show. Breaking Bad is another twisted show. That was on AMC and it got a lot of attention for its acting but not necessarily for its writing. But I think the writing on that is brilliant. And then we have got three more. True Blood on HBO which is my idea of just a bloody summer book. You know I cannot  it is just so much fun. Damages on FX I think is one of the best legal procedurals on TV ever. And finally  this one will surprise you I think  60 Minutes on CBS. I think it is had another superb year. And you talk about shows that have been around for a long time 60 Minutes started in '68. So 41 years later it is still in the Top 10 still doing better TV journalism than just about  than anything else I will not qualify it on broadcast TV.  OK. Anything else you want to say about the year in television?  It...  It sounds like you are pretty enthusiastic about shows in spite of all the problems that television is having.  Yeah but the trend that I see and this I am sad about is that more of the good shows more of the really good things are being done on cable rather than on broadcast. And I think it is just one more thing that broadcast TV is abdicating. They gave up the TV movie. They gave up the miniseries. And now if they are giving up comedies and dramas  you know if the best ones are on cable rather than on broadcast then what are you in the business for? It baffles me and saddens me a little bit. And the other thing is that as broadcast TV the overall audience dwindles nothing's going to replace that. We are not going to have another shared national experience once we lose TV.  Yeah well I think it is impossible now anyways because there is so many channels and you have the Internet. And you have all these other portable devices from smartphones iPods. We are done.   Well thanks. It was nice being here.  In terms of being united by pop culture.  Oh yes.  I think things are just so fragmented now for better and for worse.  I know. Thank goodness for American Idol.   Which we did not mention.  I know and it is OK. I mean it is the last thing that sort of pulls people into the living room as a family the way television used to and it is the most popular show on TV. The fact that we did not mention it means  it is hugely popular. It is not hard to defend as a viewing experience but it is not to me meaningful. Meaningful to me is a TV series I want to own on DVD and watch again. It does not matter how many people saw it the first time. You know if I want to go back to The Wire  you know The Wire is gone. Deadwood is gone. I love watching those shows. I am never ever ever going back to an American Idol you know to see Sanjaya's hair one more time. It is just not going to happen.  Well David thanks for managing to sneak The Wire into our discussion even though it was not even on the air this year.   No. That is right. But still you know you talk about best show of the decade that is probably it.  Yeah. So do you think in some ways instead of like the big mass shared experience of television what we are having now is sharing experiences? We send clips to friends that we have found on YouTube. We get clips from friends. And so we see these like high points of various things that happen in TV and on the world?  That is the best way I have ever heard it described sharing experience instead of shared. I am very excited. The...  Let us credit our producer Phyllis Myers who came up with that during our interview and talked to us on the headphones.  But it is really what has happened and it is hard for me to accept it. Let us say for example something big happens but nobody watches it on TV but it starts getting viral on the Internet. And where maybe it only originally had an audience of one or two million  whether it is something that Jon Stewart did or it is a musical performance by Susan Boyle or anybody else. And then all of a sudden it gets 10 15 million hits over the Internet. But still what happens right now is it gets then vindicated when one of the morning shows or one of the evening shows comes back and says oh look at this popular thing on the Internet and sort of crowns it. So right now it does go back to TV but I do not know how much longer it is going to. But I do not know if taking two minutes out of a monologue and having that shared because everybody wants to see it is the same thing as watching the entire hour of like the Johnny Carson show 10 years ago. I think it is different somehow.  David it was great to talk with you. Thank you for putting together your list for us. And those lists will be on our Web site so you can find them there at freshair.npr.org. David happy new year happy holidays. Thank you for being here.  Well thank you.  David Bianculli is FRESH AIR's TV critic. He also writes the Web magazine tvworthwatching.com. He teaches TV and film at Rowan University and is the author of a new book about the Smothers Brothers called Dangerously Funny. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR. 