 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest David O. Russell directed and cowrote the movie American Hustle which is nominated for 10 Oscars including Best Picture Best Director and Best Original Screenplay. It is tied with Gravity for the most nominations. Russell's previous two films Silver Linings Playbook and The Fighter also received nominations for Best Picture and Best Director. American Hustle is set in 1978 and is inspired by the Abscam scandal in which the FBI worked with a con artist to set up a sting using someone posing as an Arab sheik to offer bribes to politicians. In American Hustle Christian Bale plays a con man who along with his partner played by Amy Adams is busted by an FBI agent played by Bradley Cooper. The FBI agent coerces them into working with him on a sting he is setting up to go after politicians. Let us start with a scene from early in the film before Christian Bale's character Irving and Amy Adams' character Sydney become partners. After they kiss in one of the dry cleaning stores he owns he takes her into his office and explains the scam where he really makes his money.    Why'd you bring me here?   This is getting to be my main business my growing business. I help get loans for guys who cannot get loans. You know I am their last resort.   You are their last resort. These interest rates are north of 12 percent and heading to 18 percent.   That is right smartypants.    Jimmy Carter.    Jimmy Carter.   Well  Nixon really and the war and the deficit and all of that .   You are so smart you are.   Thanks kid but how do you get them the money?   Well...   You do not do you? You do not.   These guys are lousy risks. I cannot get them a loan. But I get my fee 5000.   Five thousand? You take 5000 you do not give them anything?   All right these are bad guys. You know they have got bad divorces gambling habits embezzling all that . You know what I mean?   Everybody at the bottom crosses paths eventually in a pool of desperation and you are waiting for them.   How about we...?   We?   How about it? Sydney Sydney I am sorry. That was too much. I went too far. I did not want to upset you. Sydney please I am sorry. I know it as not for everybody. Oh God I love getting to know 'ya.  David O. Russell welcome back to FRESH AIR. Both in Silver Linings Playbook where the Robert De Niro character is a kind of smalltime bookie and in American Hustle where you know two of the main characters are running a con you are interested in you know like smalltime criminals. And I am wondering what makes you interested in those characters. DAVID O.  Well what makes me interested in any characters is their heart and their soul. I am not interested in smalltime criminals per se. I mean Silver Linings was a little different for me because to me De Niro's character was kind of doing bookmaking on the side. My grandfather on my mother's side was a bookmaker for most of his life out of a diner on Canal Street in New York. And I do not know that he ever considered himself a smalltime criminal you know but I just love people  in Silver Linings it was more of an oh he was interesting as superstitious and OCD as his son in some ways or had his own rules of craziness which many people have about their rituals of their work or their superstitions especially in betting or especially in sports. And you know that to me was interesting because look how that is like sanctioned craziness whereas you know a different kind of craziness lands you in a mental hospital. I just found that interesting. I am interesting in predicaments that can create local specific characters that I can be riveted by. So that was true in The Fighter where there was also a criminal the Christian Bale character or Silver Linings or American Hustle. There are characters who are very local very specific and they are in predicaments that cause them  they start out and they are in a lot of trouble and they spend the entire movie reckoning with the trouble they are in and who they are going to be and who they are going to love and how they are going to live. The emotional entanglements are what interest me as much as the financial or criminal entanglements.  Can I get back to that your grandfather was a bookie who worked out of a diner on Canal Street? Was he alive when you were old enough to...  No I did not get to see it. He died like the year I was born. But he was sort of worshipped by my mom and I heard her talk about him a lot. What else did he do? He ran a diner. He ran a couple of restaurants.  Oh it was his diner?  Yeah it was his diner yeah.  Oh on Canal Street. Wow that had to be interesting.   Yeah I know. See? See what I am talking about? You know so like my  or like one of my producers on The Fighter Jeff Waxman had a family on Long Island that had like a candy store and a diner and it just  every time he talks about it and his father recently passed away it is just it is so much love and light for the local characters and Lefthand Louie and all these guys who were in this  I just love  I just think I find an enchantment in these local places. I think that sometimes things that people overlook or if you said to them is not this great they would look behind them and go what are you talking about because they are in it and they would not know. But if you tried to take it away from them they would say oh this is special.  You write great dialogue and you have talked about how you like your dialogue to be almost like music like a song. But there is a few lines I especially like just as outstanding lines. And these two lines get to the scam that the Christian Bale character is running and the scam is that people come to you who are desperate for loans and cannot get it anyplace else. And you say you are going to do your best to get it for them. You charge them 5000 for your consultancy. Then you decide you know you just do not qualify for the loan but they never get the 5000 back. So he just keeps collecting all these fees. And so he says to one of  the Christian Bale character says to one of these guys my fee is nonrefundable like my time.  Just like my time.  Yeah it is a great line. And another one  you know because wants  everybody who really desperately needs this money wants these loans and the more he says nah I do not think you are going to qualify the more they want it.  The more you say no to people.  He says the more you say no to people the more they want in on it. So can you talk a little bit about coming up with those lines because they seem perfect for the character. They are very colorful very concise.  The first line I think is a line that the actual guy said that Christian Bale and I interfaced with a little bit Christian more so than me. There is a lot of specific language you pick up when you are in Lowell Massachusetts or you know Ridley Park you know outside Philly Upper Darby or in these neighborhoods in New York around this Mel Weinberg character. So he said that line. He says he actually breaks up like this and my fee just like my time is nonrefundable which is a great line. The other one I wrote which is I find it to be true. I find human behavior to be fascinating that the more you say no to people the more they want in on something. I mean that is how Madoff happened because you know people said you know he said no to a lot of rich  well can you get me in? Can you get me in? You know then you have got to get in. It is just crazy. He says it is so stupid. I think it is kind of stupid.  Several of the main characters in American Hustle want to or need to reinvent themselves. The movie starts with the Christian Bale character looking in the mirror gluing on his toupee and it is a really awful toupee.   And we see...  It is not a toupee. No it is his own hair.  It is just a hairpiece? Oh it is own hair he is combing?  It is his own hair. He combs his hair. It is a combover that he puts one  he does put a little  they have like some kind of wool that people can put in there on their head. They can glue it to the top of their head. I mean watched many people my dad's friends and even my dad construct themselves. To me the movie is about  what that scene is about really and him making his hair is not just his hair it is really what the whole movie's about which is about the fragility of identity. I think identity is fragile. I think it is got a big piece to it that is chosen or changed as the need may be. And I think love is also fragile and is living and shifting like shifting ground under your feet. So that interests me and how everybody has that vulnerability and that fragility of who they are going to be at any time you know whether it is Christian Bale in The Fighter or Bradley Cooper in Silver Linings you know or Jennifer Lawrence in Silver Linings. You know who are they going to be? Who are they now and who are they going to be? And how is that going for them? You know how is that going for you? So I find that interesting.  So the movie starts with Christian Bale kind of physically recreating himself and we see his big belly and it is as if to say this person has to recreate himself like every day. But the interesting thing to me is that the movie's about you know selfrecreation selfinvention. The character's physically recreating himself. But Christian bale recreated himself physically to play the part. He gained a lot of weight. He has this very like New York accent. He took on a completely different posture. I read he actually herniated a disk because of the slouchy posture and the weight that he gained and everything. When you cast Christian Bale to play this part had you imagined that he would physically recreate himself in the way that he did?  I did not think he would go as far as he did. That is really his decision. You know I knew that it would be exciting and enticing to him to lose himself in this person. That is what actors who love characters kind of live for. You know they can take some part of their own soul some part of my soul and the screenplay's soul and the actual character that they  or who they think the real character is the real person and it becomes this amalgam of a human that they get to live in like in a trance or like a dream you know during the movie. Jennifer Lawrence has described it as a high. Christian describes it as like a waking dream. And that is one of the reasons that the way I shoot is I like to shoot 20minute mags of film and I still shoot film on a Steadicam. That is where I am in the room with the actors. And we do not call cut because I do not want them to break the spell that they are in. I just want it to get deeper and deeper. So I will just keep directing take after take while the camera resets or keeps moving through the room and they kind of stay in character whether they are talking to me or not or whether I am giving them lines or ideas or adjustments.  So when you say that you have them do take after take without calling cut do you mean take after take of the same scene or take after take in order that you are shooting because I imagine you would need a different setup for the next scene.  Well we tend to light  like if you walked onto our set you would not see a lot of lights or anything. It would like you were walking into a room or a house because we light from the ceiling like a soft source from above or from the windows a natural soft light that can still be very beautiful and have different levels to it and is soft. But it is fast. It is fast for them to do it and it is not going to take up our shooting time. And it means the actors and I can pretty much go anywhere in the room. So when I say take after take I mean to keep redoing the scene in a way until we feel like we have gotten some very exciting versions of it. And sometimes we get different versions of it because sometimes you do not know if it should be done hotter or cooler or quieter or bigger. That is part of the exploration of the instrument of cinema and characters and voices is to play them at different levels. That is interesting.  My guest is David O. Russell. He directed and cowrote American Hustle which is nominated for 10 Oscars. We will talk more after a break; this is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is David O. Russell and he cowrote and directed American Hustle which is nominated for 10 Oscars including Best Picture and Best Director. And congratulations on that.  Thank you Terry.  Yes you are welcome. There is a voiceover narration that I want to play from early in the film. And this is the Christian Bale character in part explaining how he became involved in a smalltime con game. So he is talking about his father and we are  I will not describe what we are seeing. I will just play what we are hearing.  OK OK.  OK so here's Christian Bale. Oh oh we cannot  I am sorry because of something going on in the control room I cannot play that for you now. But you know...  Oh really?  Yeah.  You want me to do it for you?  No no that is OK.   I mean you are welcome to. Go ahead go ahead.  Hold on let me try it. Hold on wait a second. Did you ever have to survive and you knew all your choices were bad? I learned how to survive when I was a kid. My father ran a glass business in The Bronx. I would much rather be on the taking side than on the being taken side any day of the week especially after I saw how my father got taken. I mean that scarred me for life. You know so I became a different kind of person you know. I became a con artist from the feet up all the way. That is pretty close to what...  That is good.   So  and you shot it a while ago but you still remember it.  Well I have watched it about 100 million times.   OK but I interview so many actors who have completely forgotten their lines.  Well that is an actor. They do it and then they leave. And they go to another movie in Morocco with Ridley Scott or something. I am still in the edit room with the same person for like...   Well you have said that you relate to that character in part because of what you saw with your father and what happened to his business. Can you talk about that?  Sure. My dad was a scrupulously honest businessman who started out in the stockroom of Simon  Shuster the publishing company in New York City when he was 18. And my mom was a secretary from Brooklyn there as well she was 18. And they met there and they got married. And he was just a very honest guy and he  a very sincere guy and not an operator really. You know what I am saying? Like he does not really have that gene in him. And we were very loyal to that brand. You know when you are growing up you know that is what made me want to be a writer is that our house was always filled with books. Books were the most important thing in our house because that is what my dad sold all the books of Simon  Shuster. And it was very glamorous to me the other side of the divide where the editorial side was where the writer was you know not the sales side. That was really the fascinating world beyond you know the window of where we were. But sometimes we would get to interface with it. That is why I aspired to become a writer and sometimes I would take my dad's book in like a little sales case and walk around the neighborhood and pretend to sell them door to door.   Not that he did that. No he went to bookstores.  Right right.  And when we came into the '70s you know there was like a whole corporate thing that went down at Simon  Shuster and his kind of group of friends who were just lovely people you know many guys that we know just kind of they were out. And I was sort of flabbergasted. I said what happened? I do not understand what happened. You know I thought you were going to be there for life and I thought who are these other people. I do not understand what happened. And that was a great lesson in the ways of the world you know because you start to hear about people you know who you thought were on your side and then you find out other aspects of that person. You find out about power moves and politics and backdoor deals and why decisions get made that seem unfair or not right or just to the advantage of certain people. And you know so that was  that was kind of heartbreaking for me to watch a couple of times with my dad. You know and even into his  you know he worked all the way up until he was 80. You know he is still alive knock wood and I am very close to him. But he  even then there are people who would not pay him you know which just blew my mind. So I was fascinated growing up in of course you know the sincere and honest person which I do still think is a better way to lean and to be. And I found  but I was also interested in their  the other guys. Like who are these other guys? And of course in the movie Irving ends up much closer to the way his father was than he started the movie but then that is interesting. That is part of the opera that then unfolds as the human  the two sides of being human.  Obviously you did not have the reaction to what happened to your father that the Christian Bale character has because his attitude is I saw what happened to an honest man so I am going to be a taker rather than get taken advantage of. But...  Well a little bit I did in the sense of being ambitious right. So to be a filmmaker you have to be sort of ruthlessly ambitious in certain ways. You know what I am saying?  Yeah.  You cannot just be like you know the book salesman from Simon  Shuster. You know you need to  you need to be relentless about your own improving your own skills and work. And I would say it is taken me 20 years since I first spoke to you to really make the films that I think I was meant to make and to be at the level of filmmaking and storytelling and writing that I think I had ever aspired to. And so you are working on your skills but at the same time you have to always have another move. You have to always find a way to survive. You always have to know how to you know keep your investor you know around and not lose them you know especially when the things are shifting around. You know some cast members available suddenly they are not available. That takes a lot of tapdancing and you know people skills. You have to instill confidence in people if they are going to bet on you. That is from a cast member to a studio. You cannot just walk in and be scared even though if you are scared about what your story is. You have to show them your heart. You have to audition for them really. And I feel that I audition for each one of my actors and I want to be worthy of their time and their risk and their hearts. If they are going to give the roles I have to show my cards to them and really impress them.  But I think you are also saying you have to display confidence even when you are not sure yourself.   Yes that is right. I am interested  the word hustle to me not just at one level. Yes there is one level of a hustle where someone is just outright deceiving you and it is just heinous. You know that is not the thing that interests me. What interests me is all the levels of you know when are we sort of kidding ourselves when does hustling actually get you through the day. You know you say to yourself well I can do this. Whistling in the dark you know what I am saying? I mean that is a great skill to have. There is going to be many a day where you are going to need to whistle in the dark or you are just not going to make it. In my personal experience through life there is many a time where you go this is going to be OK and you know it is not as bad as it looks and I am going to get through this and it is  or I do not know what is going to happen but it is  I find that interesting the stories we tell ourselves in order to motivate ourselves and to feel positive or negative. Even in Silver Linings Playbook which is very personal to me even though it was based on a novel because my son has faced many of those struggles and I have had many of those scenes that are in the movie in my own house you know he had to  that is a luxury. Negative thinking or negative stories or cynicism is a luxury is what I learned from my son that some people just simply cannot afford. In fact I cannot afford it and I do not think it is the greatest thing in the world for anybody to afford. And I am happy to hold the ground of sincerity and romance and wish and love and trying with all the terrible struggles. You know my son had to believe in silver linings and he had to. Otherwise his life would literally be in danger. And that is how Bradley Cooper is in that movie. So that is  is that a con? Is he conning himself? I mean you know Abraham Lincoln said you know I am an optimist because I do not really much see the point of the other point of view. What does it give me? What does being a pessimist get me? It does not really get me anything. I would rather have a surplus of faith that keeps me inclined upwards as Jack Nicholson once said it is good to incline yourself upwards because it is too easy in this world to incline yourself downwards.  David O. Russell will be back in the second half of the show. He wrote and directed American Hustle which is nominated for 10 Oscars. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with David O. Russell. He directed and cowrote the film American Hustle which is nominated for 10 Oscars including Best Picture Best Director Best Original Screenplay and all four Best Actor categories. You have pointed out that that self invention was the theme of your last three films American Hustle Silver Linings Playbook and The Fighter. And in American Hustle Christian Bale's character says you know about the Amy Adams character like me she learned to survive and she knew she would have to reinvent herself. And Amy Adams says my dream more than anything was to become anyone else other than who I was. What resonated with that in your life the whole theme of self invention? I mean I know you feel like you have become  and you have become a you know a much better filmmaker although I liked your other films too.   No apologies needed for those films. But just in terms of like more personal things like what is self invention a theme that is been important in your life as well?  It became one to my great discovery once I came back from sort of what I call my wilderness period which is sort of after Three Kings which includes Huckabees. It is a period that comprises about nine years if you really look at it you know where I kind of ponderously rewrote. I have always been a writer first and I will spend most of my life writing and rewriting many screenplays. And I rewrote Huckabees  five different versions. And right now I would I am now wise enough to know I would sit back and say to me whoa what you doing? Why do not you just instinctively from your heart grab one of these and really put your heart into it and do not be in your head too much and do not look it every way you can tell the story. You could do that forever. You know you can tell you have to act from instinct and commit yourself. And you know I learned that the hard way. You know I think I was a little scared after Three Kings. I wanted to take a big creative risk and I over thought it. I wrote it in many different  it is happened to many filmmakers by the way that I know many great filmmakers who are working today have told me that  they either say publically or just to me privately that they completely identify with that. Alfonso Corona said that to me. Spike Jones has said that to me. Darren Aronofsky has said that to me. Kim Pierce has said that to me. So you know it is hard to keep being a storyteller who is clear and coming from your soul you know that is a skill you must learn to balance and do. So I came out of that nine year period which also included a divorce and also included helping my son get into a residential school called Glenholme in Connecticut which saved his life and many other kid's lives and I have been on the board of. But that is a big thing to put your 11yearold kid in a boarding school. I would say it was actually harder than my divorce. So it meant a lot of time traveling. I live in Santa Monica but then I was over in you know Connecticut all the time. Where was I? In the middle of nowhere you know living in this hotel you know just so I could be close to him and see him whenever I could. And I mean I could even cry just talking about it right now you know. Anyway. So you go through that whole period. And I also during that time also wrote a movie with Vince Vaughn that did not get made because I I just did not I did it first as a writing job. I write  I pay my mortgage by writing  so I took a writing job to do a comedy for Vince and they said would you please direct it? And I said OK this will help pay for my divorce and for my kid's school. And then I thought I do not know and I said I do not know if this is the right movie. Then again that was a luxury. I over thought that. I did not make it. I then tried to make a movie with Kristin Gore a terrific writer a terrific person. And it was a satire about health care and that movie literally did not get finished because the financing stopped due to mysterious reasons you know out of mind control. And then you think wow this is the truly lowest I have ever been at like unprecedented things that I would never experienced. And by the time you come back from all that it is like you know I have said you know it is like God is saying to you you know if you want to do this you are going to have to really mean it and show and come up from your heart. And I just came back a humbler storyteller you know meaning just clearer grateful grateful to tell stories telling them from instinct not overthinking them telling them from the heart suddenly seeing all these characters who had been under my nose all my life the people I would been embarrassed of or would not... You know like when I first met you on Spanking the Monkey you know I think I had kind of a younger person's criticism or embarrassment about my family you know. And now my son that is like one of his favorite movies of course you know because it is all about you know the young person who is you know the victim. And as you get older even The Graduate I look at and I go like I am on the parents' side more which was my favorite movie.   Now I look at The Graduate and I am like oh what is the matter? What is  oh god for bid they sent you to a college and they want you to get a job. Jesus. What is  wow poor you.   So poor alienated you. I mean it is take it easy. But anyway so I am saying that oh I lost my way there. Anyway so I went through that whole period and came out I think a better storyteller and a more instinctive storyteller. And you know actually that is how I got Silver Linings was the beginning of the comeback to me  the reinvention  was that Sydney Pollack in the last year of his life I was as I said a writer for hire. And he said David I would like you to adapt this screenplay. I could not even be attached to it as director yet. And he said I cannot find anybody who knows how to do this story because it is sort of it could be very disturbing but I think it could also be human and warm and I do not know how to make it also funny. And I said well I do because I have lived it and I would like to make it personal to my experience and change how the novel is. It is a wonderful novel and I am very sorry he did not live to see it. And then I could not get it made. So you know here I am. I am coming back. I wrote something that is very personal to me that I was  and I never would have written before. I can thank my son for that and his mother. And I wrote it but then I could not get it made. So I then made The Fighter thanks to my friend Mark Wahlberg you know he gave me a chance you know. And I was not I was like you know I was not hot at that time so it was not easy for me to get that gig. And he just had a lot of faith in me and I could feel that from the instinct. I loved the relationship of the women. The women became like the napalm in my movie. You know starting from that movie I thought women are just the women are where it is all at for me...  Was not that great fight scene between all the sisters and Amy Adams.   That is how I got Amy to the movie was I would only known her for having lunch with her a few times. And everybody said Amy Adams the princess from Enchanted? I mean what are you doing? Do we even need that character to be a big character? I said yes because the romance is essential to me. I love romance. That was where I realized I loved romance. When you met me on Spanking the Monkey I do not know you know I do not but I turn  I will happily carry the banner for romance. And so...  But did romance seem like too corny?  Not cool.  Mmhmm.  Not cool.  My guest is David O. Russell. He directed and cowrote American Hustle which is nominated for 10 Oscars. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is David O. Russell. And his film American Hustle is nominated for 10 Oscars including Best Picture and Best Director. I want to get back to something you just said which is that...  Oh.  ...for a long time you were almost like embarrassed by certain members of your family and then you realized...  Oh that is a good idea. That is a good thing to direct to. Yeah.  They are actually really interesting. So like what was embarrassing about that and what turned out to actually be interesting?  Oh OK. Well first of all OK. All right. Well you know it is very interesting when you are first generation. I am second generation American. My parents are firstgeneration Americans. They had big New York accents and their parents spoke other languages you know? My mother's family all spoke Italian and my father's family spoke Russian or Yiddish  and Yiddish you know. So my dad wanted nothing to do with any of that like a lot of first generation Americans or did my mom. And I was in we moved to the suburbs right? Upwardly mobile. We will to Mamaroneck New York the first family to sort of move to a suburb in our family and you know you get to be around some fancier people and you want to knock off the rough edges right? You know so you know your mother has a Brooklyn accent. Your father has a New York accents. They are embarrassed of it which probably is what the lesson I  that may be because they were embarrassed of it then I got embarrassed of it a little bit. They were trying to fit in. In the meantime you would go to visit your relatives at a wedding or a confirmation or a bar mitzvah you would go visit people or a funeral and you go into these other worlds that bore no resemblance to where you lived. You know like a world like in Brooklyn or the Bronx or you know Queens you know and it just they were just animal kingdoms of what people spoke differently...   People spoke differently acted differently everything spelled different everything looked different everything you know different records were playing different food and all sorts of strange customs. You know I never my parents wanted nothing to do with their traditions you know so I was not raised Catholic o