 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. In the novel The Testament of Mary Colm Toibin imagines Mary's life and what goes through her mind years after the crucifixion of her son. The Testament of Mary is now out in paperback. The Mary Toibin has imagined does not comprehend why Jesus' disciples men who she considers misfits believe her son is the son of God. She does not want to cooperate with them in writing the Gospels and she feels constant guilt that she could not or did not do more to help save her son or east his suffering. Colm Toibin is Irish and he seriously considered becoming a priest before becoming a lapsed Catholic. His novels include Brooklyn and The Master. His nonfiction books include Love in a Dark Time Gay Lives from Wilde to Almodovar New Ways to Kill Your Mother Writers and Their Families and Signs of the Cross Travels in Catholic Europe. Terry spoke to Toibin in December of 2012 when The Testament of Mary came out in hardback.  Colm Toibin welcome to FRESH AIR. I would like you to start with a short reading from The Testament of Mary and you could just set up where we are in the story before reading it.  This is Mary about 20 years after the crucifixion. So she is an old woman and she is remembering the past. And she is talking about her son.  I should have paid more attention to that time before he left to who came to the house to what was discussed at my table. It was not the shyness or reticence that made me spend my time in the kitchen when those I did not know came. It was boredom.  Something about the earnestness of those young men repelled me sent me into the kitchen or the garden. Something of their awkward hunger or the sense that there was something missing in each one of them made me want to serve the food or water or whatever and then disappear before I had heard a single word of what they were talking about.  They were often silent at first uneasy needy. And then the talk was too loud. There were too many of them talking at the same time or even worse when my son would insist on silence and begin to address them as though they were a crowd his voice all false and his tone all stilted and I could not bear to hear him.  It was like something grinding and it set my teeth on edge. I often found myself walking the dusty lanes with a basket as though I needed bread or visiting a neighbor who did not need visitors in the hope that when I returned the young men would have dispersed or that he would have stopped speaking.  Alone with me when they had left it was easier gentler like a vessel from whom stale water has been poured out. And maybe in that time talking he was cleansed of whatever it was that had been agitating him. And then when night fell he was filled again with clear spring water which came from solitude or sleep or even silence and work.  That is Colm Toibin reading from his new book The Testament of Mary. Why did you write a novel about Mary in which Mary does not see her son as the son of God and she sees his followers as a group of needy misfits?  I did not know where the story would take me so I did not begin with any set of principles. Or I even was not clear myself as to what she would say or do in the novel. I simply found myself in Venice looking a lot over the years at the painting by Titian of The Assumption which is the altarpiece over the altar of the friary. And it is a glorious painting and Mary is being assumed body and soul into Heaven. It is the apotheosis of everything. But nearby  I mean some blocks away is a painting by Tintoretto of the crucifixion. And I came across that much later. In other words I would looked over the years at the Titian in Venice but not at the Tintoretto. And one day when I went into that building which is the Scuola de San Rocco in Venice I was really struck. The Tintoretto's enormous. It is long. It is untidy. It is chaotic. It has the crucifixion at the center but all around is every form of untidiness and human activity as sort of odd and strange and random. And it struck me the distance between the two things between the ideal and the real. And it struck me that that story had not been told the story of what it might have been like on that day in real time for somebody and how they would remember it. And so slowly  I mean I went back and I looked at the Gospels. I especially looked at St. John. And I came across  in the introduction of one of the translations  the idea that St. John had seen Greek theater. And I was fascinated by the idea of that by the idea that one of the people who wrote the testament had been  had seen Medea and had seen Electra had seen Antigone. And so it was that voice  I began then to look at those translations of those plays to look at that voice of a woman who is strung out who is deeply angry who is somehow or other using a very heightened tone to describe feelings which have not been resolved. And so I started to work. And I went where it took me.  So one of the things I see in your book  and I have no idea if you intend this or not  is in some ways you have described Mary as a typical mother who likes the son that she knows the son that she raised her son a boy. But now that he is a man now that he is an adult she sometimes thinks he is false when he speaks that he is stilted when he speaks and that the people who look up to him and admire him do not really understand who he is. That is a kind of false self. She is the one who understands who he truly is because she raised him. She knows his essence and he is only his authentic self when he is alone with her. She cannot see him through the eyes of others and she cannot see him as a fully grown adult man who has been transformed by growing up by being an adult by being his own person.  Yes. I was fascinated by that idea of a relationship between a mother and a son in which the separation had not occurred in which whatever had happened between them remained elemental as though he was almost a baby in her arms that she had never seen him as an adult and that when she did she sort of minded that. She found it difficult to deal with. Especially because of I suppose the intensity of what he was doing seemed to strike her as not an aspect of the child she knew who was very quiet and retiring. I mean I think this is quite a common business in the relationship between mothers and sons and I have probably explored it in other areas. I wrote a book of stories called Mothers and Sons but I was interested in the idea that that full separation between them  and then they would both become adults  had actually not occurred thus giving her a sort of feeling about him that was all the more intense and all the more gnarled.  You know it seems to me that that kind of separation anxiety is maybe a pretty contemporary thing. Like I have no idea if people in the time of Jesus had that kind of sense of their children the inability to let go and see who they are as an adult. I mean life was I assume very different then. So I am just kind of interested in why you wanted to project a very kind of contemporary anxiety onto Mary and her relationship with Jesus.  Well I think that the terms to use about it are contemporary but the idea that something like that did not occur in the past that it is not something eternal and perennial I think is something that really did not occur to me. Obviously I have to be very careful about issues. I did not want to be anachronistic. But I did want to include the fact how much we know now about psychology and about family relations and sort of play with that at the edges of this story.  So before I go any further I want to say you are really playing with fire in this book because a lot of people will see it as blasphemous. I mean you are saying that Mary did not believe her son was the Son of God and she does not really believe his disciples. The disciples who are staying with her to protect her she kind of thinks what they are really doing is to protect her against telling her story to other people because her story is inconsistent with their story. So everything that you are saying is so contradictory to the gospels and kind of contradictory to you know the basic tenets of Christianity.  Well I suppose there are two things there. And one the first is that I am a novelist. And my job is to imagine and to create character and there is a long tradition of this. In other words George Moore who was an Irish novelist wrote a novel called The Brook Kerith which he published in 1916 in which he deals with the fact  with not the fact the fiction that Jesus survived the crucifixion and ended up in India. You know someone like Jose Saramago the Portuguese novelist has written a book called The Gospel According to Jesus Christ in which Jesus has a sexual relationship with Mary Magdalene. So it is not as though it has not been done before but even if it had not been done before I would have felt an absolute right as a novelist to see this character as my invention and as to work with that as truthfully as I could within the terms I had set myself. And I suppose the second issue is that I am a citizen of the European Union in which such freedoms are allowed and absolutely accepted by everybody. So that I do not really see any difficulty there.  Colm Toibin speaking with Terry Gross. We will hear more after a break; this is FRESH AIR.   This is 're listening to Terry's interview with writer Colm Toilbin. His book The Testament of Mary is now out in paperback.  So in your novel Mary actually asks is there anything that can be done so that my son suffers as brief a time as possible. Is there anything to do to hasten his death during the crucifixion? And what is she told in your novel?  Well she is told that it could last for a long time and she is told that it could last for a shorter time if they break his legs and that there is somebody who knows how to manage this. And she becomes very interested in that idea that all around are people who actually know the strangest things. That is as though you know somebody could in childbirth say oh right it could take another hour now. So too here on the hill there are men who could say right leave it for another two hours and we will be able to handle it then. And that for her is really upsetting and part of the atmosphere that is so ominous.  And did you do any research for that part of the book to understand more about crucifixions and how long death took on the cross?  Well it is one of the issues where you know death on the cross is the strangest thing because you die of sunstroke where you are just held up in that way and you cannot faint and you cannot fall. But obviously if you have nails in your hands and your feet then there is a question of blood.  And if you have already been sort of tortured so that it can go quicker but that some crucifixions were in fact very very slow which made them extremely cruel. And also the fact they were done on hills meant that crowds in the distance could see them that they are  as I say in the novel  silhouetted against the sky and that that was part of the cruelty.  Was it upsetting to do that part of the research? I mean just crucifixion is such you know one of the many horrible things in history.  I did not find the research upsetting. What I found absolutely upsetting was the writing because I had to enter into it. I had to be there. I did not write this from outside. I went into it. And certainly in writing those sentences in writing those passages had to you know had to really get myself set up and know this was the day for this and know that I really would need sort of protection myself. I remember one of the days going into another room and somebody saying to me in the other room all you all right? What is wrong with you? Are you OK? And I was not. You know in other words it was very very difficult to imagine that pretending as a novelist I think has to do that it has not happened yet and now in these sentences it will now come into play so it will now happen. That was very very difficult work.  So in making Jesus a character in your novel did you feel like you were crucifying Jesus?  No I did not feel that. I felt that I was Mary; in other words I was her voice. I was her eyes. I was her soul. I was her consciousness watching the thing happening and wondering what to do and thinking about it years later  did I do anything right? Was there anything more I could have done? And then going into describing in the next paragraph exactly what she saw. For example I tried to think you know very precisely and exactly if you are wearing a crown of thorns  and I would never thought about it before  of course she sees that he puts his hands up to try and pull the thorns out and by doing so manages to sort of seal them in further into the skin. And she is watching him doing that thinking stop no no you are actually not helping. And of course I  there is an image in the book where she watches as they have  they have one arm nailed on the cross and they cannot get the other arm nailed because he will not give it to them. He is holding it in so hard against his chest to stop them. And they have to get other men to come and sort of pull it and free it and nail it. And look writing that sort of stuff I mean writing that seems like that is really really serious work. In other words you have to go in and pretend it has not happened yet and that it is happening now and go into absolute detail. So you are almost working the same way maybe as a painter is working or a photographer except that it is occurring word by word sentence by sentence and you have to imagine it in that way.  You grew up in Ireland and still there much of the year although you live part of the year in New York. So what role did the Church play in your life as a boy?  I think it played such a great role that you did not even notice it. In other words that  I was an altar boy so often I would serve in the morning. On a Sunday morning I would do 7 of the clock mass and I would do maybe 8 of the clock mass. And then I might even go to a later mass myself with my parents. And that was Sunday. And I would often then during the week serve 8 of the clock mass every morning riding on my bicycle from home to the church. I would go up into the steeple. I would ring the 22 bell 22 before. I do not know; I was 10 or 11 years old. And most of the teachers  I mean the school was Catholic. Some of the teachers were Christian Brothers. And later I went to a diocesan school with priests and when I went there you had rosary every day. You had benediction a lot of time. And you had mass every morning. And the church had I suppose a great deal of power so much power that you did not even notice the power. But yes it was a Catholic society. It was a Catholic country with enormous quantities of Catholic worship. The church the cathedral both in my boarding school the church and the cathedral in my town were both designed by Pugin who was a great English 19th century neoGothic architect. And he created really beautiful spaces. So that I suppose my first connection with beauty of seeing stained glass of seeing soaring architecture came from the church and also the choir. In Enniscorthy where I am from they would have always sung Mozart's Ave Verum so that the idea from very early age hearing religious music. And also the smell of incense you know and the vestments of the priest. And the fact that the priests themselves were figures that people had enormous respect for. So yes all of that was so much part of life that you never even thought about it.  You have just described a very sensual experience. I do not mean sexualsensual. I mean you know like your nose is engaged through the incense your eyes through you know there is like magnificent architecture your ears through the music the Mozart. So you know you have described something quite beautiful.  Yes. Yes. In other words it is very difficult to say that Catholicism did damage. You know in other words  also there is something I have not mentioned which is the beauty of the language. And at boys confraternity I mean we went there from the age of seven you went on I think a Monday night to boys confraternity. And the lights of the cathedral would go down and the booming voice of the priest would go Death comes soon and judgment will follow. So now dear children examine your conscience and find out your sins. And for some reason I found that very satisfying I mean as a piece of language. I mean I sort of always looked forward to him saying it I liked the sound of it. And also I was never really that interested in the sermons. But when the mass was put in English and it came to the consecration and you say And so Father we bring you these gifts we ask you to make them holy by the power of your spirit I do not know what that is but whatever it is it has an element of poetry in it. And so Father we bring you these gifts. We ask you to make them holy by the power of your spirit.  You did not find it ominous that every day the priest would say death comes soon so atone?  It was once a week that happened.  Oh OK.  I mean yes later on obviously when I was a teenager and started to listen to Leonard Cohen...   I found Leonard Cohen equally satisfying if you know what I mean and I did not find that as satisfying as before. But it was the beginning of that I suppose engagement with language as something sacred as something special as something if used publicly if used properly that could be very powerful.  Colm Toibin's book The Testament of Mary is now out in paperback. He will be back in the second half of the show. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. We are listening to Terry's interview with Irish writer Colm Toibin. Toibin's book The Testament of Mary imagines Mary years after the crucifixion of her son. It is now out in paperback. Toibin seriously considered the priesthood before becoming a lapsed Catholic. Terry spoke with him in December 2012.  So when did you start to separate from the church?  The Dublin boarding school was very interesting because the priests spent a lot  I mean a lot of the priests spent the summers in America and they came home  this is 1970 I went there they came home with new ideas and they came home with an idea that everything should be debated. And the only thing I should say that was not debated was homosexuality. But everything else was debated including the quality of your faith was open to debate and that there were very serious theological discussions in the school and slowly slowly mine faded. You know in other words I would have at the age of 16 I did not go home for the Easter holidays. I stayed in the school to at my own volition wondering if I would become a priest. There was an arrangement whereby you could do this. I should say my family and friends were very surprised by this and it was a big decision to make look I am not coming home because I think I might have a vocation. There was a sort of silence that you are you are not coming home? No I am staying. And so I stayed and it was a very satisfying an interesting time as serious theologians came to talk to us and there was a lot of silence and there was a lot of discussion. It was a very and a lot of prayer and then it just went away by the end of that year by the end of the summer something else had taken its place maybe and then I did not join.  What do you think took its place?  Certainly music did. Certainly Leonard Cohen and to some extent T.S. Eliot as a poet and some writers like Joseph Conrad. And then when I went to university at 17 within a few weeks I met somebody who I who became a very close friend and he just said to me it is all rubbish you know. It is all rubbish. All of its rubbish. And I am very susceptible to that if anyone ever says something like that to me about anything. I said is it? He says yeah it is all rubbish. There is no truth in it. I said are you sure? He says yeah. And that was almost the end of that.  Really? After being so deeply involved with it...  I know.  ...and thinking you had a vocation...  I know.  ...a friend tells you it is all rubbish and that is that?  Well I suppose I have been moving towards it without knowing. You know I as I had been reading D.H. Lawrence I had been reading whatever else I had been reading and certainly D.H. Lawrence might have been an important element in this where the element of the sensual the elements of the sex of all of that. But yeah it went very quickly.  Was he the first person who basically said you have the right to think this?  Yes. It was something like that and he was so sure and he knew so much about literature in general that I thought he must be right. No I did not. That is not true to say that I thought he must be right about this but it is simply I was clearly ready for it and when he said it then it happened. So earlier you were talking about how once some of the priests in your boarding school started making trips to America and bringing home ideas from America back to the boarding school things opened up to debate and discussion in a way that they had not been before and many things were opened to the debate but one of the things that was not was homosexuality. You are gay. Did you know that at the time when you were in boarding school? You know there was no word for it and there were no I mean obviously there was a word like we are work something but you know even we did not use that word very much I mean as an insult it would have been used very much. And I suppose what I am talking about is absolute confusion with no image of anybody else who was in that position. So what I thought was that I would go on and get married and do what everybody else did and it did not occur to me the difference that this confusion was going to make to my life.  When did you start to understand more fully who you were?  Very slowly and in my in university. In other words I met somebody when I was about 18 or 19 who was really out who had really you know who had been spent a summer again in America and come back just with absolute feeling of I must be free to declare who I am. I was terribly embarrassed to be around him but I could not avoid it and so I moved very gingerly between being a very conservative boy from a small town and being out with some friends.  What year was this about?  Seventythree '74 '75.  Mmhmm. So just getting back to your church experience for a moment. When you decided to basically part with the church and not practice Catholicism anymore if I am putting that correctly how did it feel to lose religion when religion had been such an essential part of who you were? Did you have a void in your life? Did you have a hole that you needed to fill? Did you have to search someplace else for the kind of meaning that religion can provide?  I suppose I did in that I was really terribly interested in poetry. You know I would have been by that time have found somebody like Wallace Stevens to be terribly important for me and indeed the portrait of W.B. Yeats and other American poets like Robert Lowell so that I was reading poetry very seriously and I was reading fiction almost for its poetry. And so yes I suppose a life I mean very intense reading of books and poems and also the discovery of classical music and all of that simply fill the gap and so that I did not feel a void. The void was filled so deeply and seriously by painting and to some extent but not as much as by literature and by music.  And the language and the music of the church was part of what you loved about it so you are kind of consistent with that.  Yes. I remember in Barcelona buying a record of Beethoven's Missa Solemnis and finding that extraordinary I mean really powerful and sort of using that in a way to have I suppose what I might call now a spiritual life. But I did not call it that then. I called it pleasure then.  So now that you know you are gay and you are you know you are out and you are living the life of a gay man could you ever seriously go back to the Catholic Church knowing that the church has not really budged on the issue of homosexuality?  I think I could. I mean I think that the church has many mansions and there are many ways of being in the church. And just because this particular group have these very rigid rules and this particular group of popes have these rigid rules does not mean that if you had a relationship say with the ceremony of the mass or indeed with the idea of eternal life or with the figure of Jesus on the cross that you should allow men such as that  ordinary men and sometimes very bossy men  to interfere with you.  Because the church is such a big part of Ireland where you grew up are you angry with the church?  No. No I am not. I got a lot from the church. I mean in other words that idea of beauty that idea of ceremony that idea of I suppose community. But I did get to understand that there is an element in all of us I think that wants to boss and bully other people around. I suppose the church came to mean that at a certain point for a lot of people I mean for a lot of women and indeed for gay people that you had these very bossy men standing very rigidly telling you what you should and should not do and I got to feel an immense dislike for that sort of exercise of power.  So it was that exercise of power and not your understanding of Catholicism that...  I think Catholicism is much grander...  Mmhmm.  ...than the mere exercise of power by a number of men who happen to be alive at the moment.  Colm Toibin speaking with Terry Gross. We will hear more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR and we are listening to Terry's interview with writer Colm Toibin. His book The Testament of Mary is now out in paperback.  I want to ask you about your novel Brooklyn which was published in 2009. And this is a novel about a young woman growing up in Ireland where you grew up. And it is the 1950s and hundreds of thousands of people during the '50s left Ireland. It is a period of great unemployment. Three of her siblings have already left for England. One  you know a sister has a job but you know this woman has a not very good job and one of the priests from her parish has moved to America and invites her  offers to sponsor her to go to America and to live in his parish. Which she does. And when she first gets there she feels so lost so without a home. And before we talk about this I would like you to just read a paragraph that describes that feeling from your novel Brooklyn.   She was nobody here. It was not just that she had no friends and family. It was rather that she was a ghost in this room in the streets on the way to work on the shop floor. Nothing meant anything. The rooms in the house in Ireland belonged to her she thought. When she moved in them she was really there. In the town if she walked to the shop or to the vocational school the air the light the ground it was all solid and part of her even if she met no one familiar. Nothing here was part of her. It was false. Empty she thought. She closed her eyes and tried to think as she had done so many times in her life of something she was looking forward to. But there was nothing. Not the slightest thing. Not even Sunday. Nothing maybe except sleep. And she was not even certain she was looking forward to sleep. In any case she could not sleep yet since it was not yet nine of the clock. There was nothing she could do. It was as though she had been locked away.  Did you ever experience the kind of loneliness and dislocation that you have described in the paragraph from Brooklyn that you just read?  Yeah I did but I mean I would not like to dwell on it. In other words I did not have that experience that so many Irish immigrants had of going on their own having menial jobs and working as servants or builders or having those jobs in England and in America. But I did find myself in the you know year before I started the book living in Austin in Texas. I was teaching in the university. Look it was a very privileged business but I had never really thought about it before I went there. I thought it was going to be great. And some of it was great. But you woke in the morning in a foreign country where every single thing was different. I mean you drive on the wrong side of the road here for example. So...  No you drive on the wrong side of the road there.   Oh I see. So that is exactly what I am talking about. And so I started to think about home and I started to miss home. And I started to have those feelings that I realized that millions of Irish people had had over the generations. And I started to count the days  I was going home at the end of it. But nonetheless the feelings were real and they became very useful and nourishing once I got home and realized that I had a story to tell. And there was a story that has not been told very much because of course a lot of the people who came as immigrants to England or America they were so busy in their lives that they did not end up writing books. Maybe their children did and their children became Eugene O'Neil or their grandchildren became Henry James. Or in later life they became Frank McCourt. But the immediate experience of those first months away realizing you would lost home and you would not gained a new one and that you were nobody in this place those feelings had not been explored in literature. And I realized that I had had the feelings and they were urgent for me and that I could deal with them in this way by finding a character and by giving the feelings to her.  I think a lot has been written about the immigration at the beginning of the 20th century from the potato famine immigration from Ireland to the United States. Much less has been written about the hundreds of thousands of people who left Ireland in the 1950s. Can you talk a little bit about that wave?  Yes. That every family in the town I am from people went to England or America. Now people really stopped going to America in the '50s say but they went in the '30s and '40s. The big difference with going to America is that often you never came home at all. But the other difference was that the  America was viewed as glamorous as a land of opportunity whereas England was viewed as a land where you would always be a secondclass citizen. It was always  the view was taken that in America you could become anybody. When  I mean when I was eight in the June of 1963 to see John F. Kennedy coming back to Wexford and we are from Wexford so you saw the president of the United States the most glamorous and suntanned man  he looked extraordinary  coming around the corner in an opentopped car and the crowd waving he was Irish. You know his greatgrandfather had come from very close to where we are from. So that America was seen as a land where you could become president or where your descendants could whereas in England obviously they had laws and they still do indeed to prevent your descendants becoming queen or king.  So did you have family who left in the 1950s?  Yes. I had an uncle who went to Birmingham. And the homecomings were always strange.  Birmingham England not Alabama.  Yes. And the homecomings were always strange. In other words he would be home for two weeks and you would notice him talking about people that everyone else had sort of forgotten. He was living still as though he was 20. He was going around to bars that he used to go to when he was a teenager that nobody went to anymore. And so there was a funny sort a brittle excitement about his two weeks home and there would be a sort of relief when he had finally gone back t