 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Here's a few of the things my guest Kate Bowler does not want to hear about living with her incurable cancer  everything happens for a reason. God is writing a better story. Heaven is your true home. God needs another angel. It is not that she is lacking in faith. She just wants to avoid trite life lessons. Bowler is an associate professor of the history of Christianity in North America at Duke Divinity School. Her new memoir Everything Happens For A Reason And Other Lies I have Loved is about how her faith has affected the way she deals with cancer and how her cancer has affected her faith. She also reflects on the paradox that her first book was about the history of the prosperity gospel which preaches that God grants health and wealth to those with the right kind of faith. Bowler was diagnosed in 2015 with stage IV colon cancer that had already metastasized. She is married has a young son and cannot bear the thought of him growing up without her. What is kept her alive in addition to colon surgery and chemo is experimental immunotherapy treatments that helped shrink her tumors. Kate Bowler welcome to FRESH AIR. I want to ask you to start with a reading from the preface to your book.  Oh sure.  Married in my 20s a baby in my 30s I won a job at my alma mater straight out of graduate school. I felt breathless with the possibilities. Actually it is getting harder to remember what it felt like but I do not think it was anything as simple as pride. It was certainty plain and simple that God had a worthy plan for my life in which every setback would also be a step forward. I wanted God to make me good and make me faithful with just a few shining accolades along the way. Anything would do if hardships were only detours on my long life's journey. I believed that God would make a way. I do not believe that anymore.  Thank you for reading that. So listen after finishing your book I need to know  how are you now? Where are you in your treatment?  Well I am moving from the crisis phase to the chronic illness management phase. So now I get scans repeatedly instead of having regular treatment and it requires a different kind of mentality. Before it felt like it was alarm bells all the time and now it is just sort of a distant alarm sound and a general sense of anxiety.  So what is the state of the cancer?  Well I have incurable cancer so the hope is just that it does not grow and that the treatment I am on keeps it at bay. And the goal with new developments in immunotherapy is that it could be like that forever and that cancer might eventually be a chronic illness. But we are so early on in immunotherapy as a treatment that no one really knows.  So in the book there is a period where you are getting  you are starting the immunotherapy treatment and you get scans...  Yeah.  ...I think like every two months.  Yeah yeah that still happens every three months.  Yeah and so after each one you were basically told  what?  you have got another two months or three months...  Yes.  ...For sure of life. But that was the only certainty you had. Are you in that same kind of period where you are living from short interval to short interval with no certainty beyond that?  Well before it was especially terrifying because with the experimental drug I was on if the tumors grew I knew I would get kicked out of the trial and that would be pretty much it for me. So thankfully now it is  scan to scan feels slightly less terrifying because they are starting to  I mean the longer I live the more information there is about someone like me. There is other little cohorts of folks like me but it still is really scary.  OK. Well since your book is about how your religious scholarship and religious practice is affecting how you cope with the illness and it is about how the illness is affecting your understanding of God let us start with religion. And let us start with the religion that you were immersed in for research the prosperity...  Yeah.  ...Gospel which was the subject of your doctoral dissertation and of your first book. So I want to start with that. And I will need you to describe what the prosperity gospel is.  Sure. The prosperity gospel is a movement that grew out of Pentecostalism that said that God rewards the faithful with health and wealth within the course of their human life if they have the right kind of faith.  So in the prosperity gospel there is a direct connection between your prayers and how you are rewarded by God. The rewards are our money and material possessions as well as good health. So what does it mean within that creed if you get sick like you have gotten sick?  Well that is the doubleedged sword of a movement like the prosperity gospel. For people who experience tough times it really can be tremendously empowering for a preacher to say look you might be experiencing the pitfalls but there is a cure. You just have to speak  positively confess is what they would say  your faith aloud and you will name and claim these incredible miracles. But of course the flip side is that for those who experience persistent misfortune the only conclusion that they can then draw is that they are not faithful enough.  So what did your friends within the prosperity church say to you about your being sick?  I mean they were  I think like any good friend they really tried to lead with love. I mean they felt genuinely awful for me. But in there somewhere was the hope that I really just needed to find my own spiritual power and harness it and beg God to give me a miracle. And so there was tons of compassion desire to pray for me but also the desire to have me admit that there was something that I could yet do to fix this. And it was hard for me as the recipient of all of these spiritual diagnoses to not feel a little bit blamed.  And you write that you would seen people in prosperity churches who were sick or who were dealing with tragedy...  Yeah.  ...And that they could not really grieve.  No. I mean that was  I think that was maybe the most depressing part of the research was there is all these beautiful jubilant services and maybe the best part of the prosperity gospel is the worship service. You go and there are singers and there is often dancers and the most sort of lively exciting sense that the world is new and full of possibility. And then there is a prosperity gospel funeral. And I could not find anything on Earth as depressing as that because it was a  people you know scraping and clawing for the meaning of someone's death as they are trying to grieve. And it was almost impossible for them to say that it was not somehow the person's spiritual failings that had led to this untimely death.  So when you were doing the research for your book and your dissertation did you find any of the prosperity gospel appealing? Do you ever want to believe that you had it in your control to just you know...  Yeah.  ...Get spiritually right and then be materially and spiritually rewarded for it?  Well if you would asked me at the time I would have said no. I mean I am just the kind compassionate observer. I am sitting with the people in the pews and I am thinking it seems so lovely to me that people would expect more from God. I loved their sense of wonder and possibility. There are a group of people who like comb through the details of their own biographies and look for evidence that God was there. So like somebody who applies for a mortgage and gets it says like praise God like God provided. But I never ever thought that I was one of the people who thought that God really had to  like it was some contractor deal we made  that God had to make a way for me until I got sick. And then I was genuinely horrified to realize that it was me. Like I was the unlucky one and somehow I was not actually the architect of my own life.  In the preface to your book you write I believed God would make a way. I do not believe that anymore. But you still believe in God. You have not lost your faith.  Yeah. I mean I am a big super Jesusy  heart over here.  .  I do . I mean it is so funny. It is just that I really had to rethink what trust and hope looks like if I am just living scan to scan. Like what does it mean to experience  I do not know  proximity to God or a sense of faithfulness without actually thinking that my life is supposed to be better because of it? Like I do not know if a lot of people think this but at least the hope is like if you are a good Christian or you are a good anybody that like maybe you will somehow get some sort of advantage at least in terms of spiritual enrichment or you know lifechanging perspective. And in the end like I do not know if there is really any advantage to  being spiritual except that you get to know a little something about the presence of God.  Have you asked God to heal you? Do you believe that that is something you can ask for and that is something  that it is something that God can decide to do? Like let...  I do. Yeah.  Uhhuh.  I like to be open to lovely things happening just as now I am trying to be open to the idea that terrible things happen. And I do like the  so the prosperity gospel movement comes out of the Pentecostal movement of the early 20th century. And they were all about signs and wonders and God just showing up and surprising you. And I felt like I learned something about not being so heavily  I do not know  rationalistic or something that I assume that the world always operates in this very predictable way. So I am open to being surprised. And I pray for  man from second one I prayed for health and I went through a very robust bargaining phase  in which I was like dear God comma please please save me. I will do anything. But I do not also then expect that just because I prayed it or because I am spiritually trying hard that it is going to work out.  So you grew up surrounded by Mennonites in Manitoba Canada. Your husband is Mennonite. You went to a Mennonite camp. Were you offered ways from that community to understand sickness?  Yeah. That is maybe one of my favorite things about Mennonites is they sort of expect life to be grisly and grueling and horrible in some way that I find really refreshing. They always have this big coffeetable book called the Martyrs Mirror which is this  really gruesome 17thcentury account of people's  early Mennonites' horrible deaths.  .  And I find that very compelling because they have stories circulating within memory of life not being fair and that part of the solution to that is community  is you just stand shoulder to shoulder with other people who are suffering. I mean they drained the swamps of Manitoba in like the twomonth summer that  that I have...  .  ... In Manitoba where it is either mosquito season or just this terrible winter. And like they drained the swamps of the piece of land they were given together assuming like oh we should probably live here. It will be the worst but surely we will be together. I find those kinds of stories really encouraging. They were never going to abandon me the worse things got.  And if you take a kind of lifeishard world view then when someone in that community gets sick they are not the outlier. They are not disproving...  That is right.  ...The presence of God.  Yeah. Yeah that is right. And I mean they have always been committed to simplicity pacifism ruining jello salads with deli meat...  ...  ...Just buried in there somewhere like a horrible surprise. They are really not expecting much in the healthiest way because they assume that most things have to be done together and that those who suffer are just experiencing one of the many pitfalls of this life.  Do you consider yourself Mennonite now or do you have another name for your own Christian practice?  Well I made a deal with Duke Divinity School where I work where I said look I will be Methodist here because you are team Methodist and that is what we are doing is we are training...  .  ...Methodist pastors  God bless them  but that I will be Mennonite in Canada where I am from.   So have your prayers changed or has the place of prayer or the meaning of prayer in your life changed?  I think maybe it has because I think I do not have the luxury of being too sophisticated anymore. I mean you just get infected with this urgency that comes with facing your death. And so I pray for very basic things. Please God make me kind and open to the pain of the world. Please God heal me. Make me less of a dink and help me be a good mom and a wife. I mean just really basic stuff as opposed to maybe the more layered prayers that I was raised with or learned in theological school which always have long gerund phrases like everloving and everliving God...  .  ...I come to you  and like there is no dignity now. I just go right for it.   You quote in your book something a friend with cancer said to you. They said I have known Christ in so many good times and now I will know him better in his sufferings. That obviously stuck with you. And it is similar to something that you say in the book which is that you have to seek God in the darkness and brokenness now.  Yeah.  So can you elaborate on that?  Well I mean  and this is part of the maybe spiritual excavation project that I started to see this book as where  I mean I did not write the book because I thought you know I have a lot of really important things to share  with other people. I initially wrote it because I was trying to get down to the deepest hardest truest things that I believed  like get down to those lies that I had perpetuated all along that I needed to be shiny to be worthy of God's love and the attention of others and that I needed to achieve and be master and commander of my you know everything. And so part of not being shiny  it was me coming to terms with my own frailty the fact that I probably was not going to be able to piece things together and learning to feel spiritually I guess accepted by God and by other people when I did not have much to offer people anymore.  Well I tell you what. Let us take a short break here and then we will talk some more. If you are just joining us my guest is Kate Bowler. She is the author of the new memoir Everything Happens For A Reason And Other Lies I have Loved. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Kate Bowler. She is the author of the new memoir Everything Happens For A Reason And Other Lies I have Loved. And it is a memoir about having colon cancer that metastasized being told she had a little time to live but then finding an experimental immunotherapy treatment that seems to be helping. But everything is still very indefinite in her life. And the book is a memoir about how her illness has affected her religious practice and how religious practice has affected how she deals with illness. She teaches at Duke Divinity School where she also got her doctorate. After you had your major surgery in which the large cancerous tumor was removed from your colon you were in the hospital incapacitated and somehow felt the presence of God in a way that you had not experienced before. And you write that when you were sure you were going to die you did not feel angry. You felt loved. And you say it felt as though I would uncovered something like a secret faith and kept thinking I do not want to go back. Is that something you could put more into words?  Oh man because it was so weird  I thought this is not a rational thought. I should want to go back. And of course I do because I would love to trade the life I have for one in which I imagined I could always spend it with my husband and my son. But it did feel like cancer was like this secret key that opened up this whole new reality. And part of the reality was the realization that your own pain connects you to the pain of other people. I do not know. Maybe I was just a narcissist before. But like all of a sudden I realized how incredibly fragile life is for almost everyone. And then I noticed things like  and that felt like a spiritual  I do not know  like gift. It is like you notice the tired mom in the grocery store who is just like struggling to get the thing off the top shelf while her kid screams and you notice how very tired that person looks at the bus stop. And then of course all the people in the cancer clinic around me. That felt like I was cracked open and I could see everything really clearly for the first time. And the other bit was not feeling nearly as angry as I thought I would. And I mean granted  like I have been pretty angry at times. But it was mostly that I felt God's presence. And it was less like here are some important spiritual truths I know intellectually about God. There are four of them. I have a PowerPoint presentation. It was instead more like the way you would feel a friend or like someone holding you. I just did not feel quite as scared. I just felt loved.  You write that you were afraid that that feeling would leave? Did it?  Yeah yeah it  oh yeah it did.  It totally did. Yeah it was there for like a few months. And I started to really get used to it because it felt like this nice floaty feeling where I was not quite scraping the bottom. And like at the time my life was characterized by so much fear. I was a normal person before and then suddenly I was someone with cancer. And I remember in those few moments when I would wake up I would remember it like it was the first time I would ever had that thought. Like I was just a regular person. And then all of a sudden I would think oh no like I might die this year. And I kept having to rediscover that every day as I entered into my conscious mind and lived my day. And so in all that fear that sense of spiritual proximity really helped you know like get that kind of metallic taste out of my mouth and start becoming more rooted and grounded in the day  able to see the lives and love of other people.  So because of that feeling of the closeness of God when you thought you were dying after the surgery in the hospital  when you were really like at the edge of a cliff.  Yeah.  When you pulled back a bit from that cliff did the experience give you confidence that you would experience that presence of God again when you do hopefully  when you do approach death hopefully sometime way in the distant future?  I cannot believe you said that because that is exactly the only certainty I landed on. I mean I gave up most of the spiritual cliches I think  that every good thing was going to come back to me or that I could be you know the architect of my own life. But one of the only certainties I actually truly latched onto was the sense that in the worst moments that there can be an unbidden God and that I do not have to earn it. And I do not even have to like worry that I will not have it  but that maybe the hope is that when we come to the end of ourselves that we are not alone.  My guest is Kate Bowler. Her new memoir about her illness and her faith is called Everything Happens For A Reason And Other Lies I have Loved. We will talk more after a break. I am Terry Gross. This is FRESH AIR.  the crap out of people's Lent where we just want to make it joyful. We imagine that because everything is going to turn out we can skip the suffering. And like guess what? The church is historically wonderful at teaching people how to be sad because as it turns out life is not always skipped to 3 p.m. with the resurrection.  So I take it Easter has taken on a new meaning for you.  Yeah. It is the great hope that in the end that the kingdom of God will be here a little more. In the meantime though things are quite grim . That is sort of the world we have to live in.  So you write in your book I am preparing for death and everyone else is on Instagram.   I try not to be  I was trying not to be the worst about that. But like it was weird to be 35 and I have this little kid. And when you look at your kid I think they just look like the future you know? Like everything about them is possibility and milestones and what you imagine they will be. And everyone I knew was living in that world of endless possibility. And it was really depressing sometimes to feel like I was always mentally trying to wrap things up.  Your son was 2 years old when you were diagnosed.  Yeah just turned 1. I just saw pictures the other day. And I have to admit that pictures still make me feel really sad. Like I think I just  like it is hard not to remember so clearly like he was too little. He was too little to lose me. And it is this feeling of endless gratitude I have every time I look at him. Like oh he is aging. I am doing this .  Do you think that his presence in your life affected your willingness to take on some really harsh therapies?  I think that is right. I think  he is the most hopeful thing I can imagine. And he is a perfect reason to try to be as brave as possible within the confines of my day. Like every day is some possibilities and some inevitabilities. And it is really hard to figure out which are which because sometimes you are so tired. Like chemotherapy made me feel really cold really...  You mean physically cold. You got  became very sensitive to the cold.  Yeah just physically cold  yeah. I was freezing. I am freezing all the time. Thanks chemotherapy. Yeah. It makes you feel really fragile. And then you have this permanent thing which is your love. And like that feeling makes you want to do anything. And so it made me write a book like something I never would have had the hubris to do before. It made me try to make my world as big and as ridiculous as possible. And I think so much of that is just the feeling I get when I look at him.  So at one point you asked your sisterinlaw to promise you that she would tell your husband to get remarried if you die and that you did not want your death if you died to end his life as well as your own. So this is a hard subject to broach. So if you do not want to talk about that that is fine.  No. It is fine.  But thinking about the possibility of him  of you being gone and him remarrying and your son having a different mother I just  I think that that is probably pretty unbearable to think about. I know you...  I think  yeah. It is impossible. I mean it really comes across as an impossible thought. Like not that other people can love  that the people you love can love other things. You want that. You want more of that. But the idea that they would go on without you  ugh  like it was impossible to conceive of. I mean part of it felt  weirdly the part that was easy was a reflection of the confidence that I have especially in the man I married man. Man he is so good. And he is exceptionally pretty. And I thought oh you will be fine. Like you are so good looking. You will be fine. I give it a month before someone's like knocking at the door. But I think it was  I think it is just almost  it just seemed inconceivable to imagine really coming to the end of myself. And so the hope was always that  and I mean that is why I was begging my sisterinlaw. It is like that people have to come alongside and try to imagine new worlds for the people that you would do anything for.  And to put aside your jealousy and envy the kinds of things...  Oh yeah.  ...Yeah  that kind of actually go along with imagining your spouse with somebody else. I mean...  Oh yeah. No no  impossible.  No one wants to do that  yeah.  Well luckily I have so thoroughly just ruined my family dynamics with how involved I am. I mean who could live without me at this point? They have known me since I was 14 so I have just ruined everything. I will be in every picture. But I will be totally honest. Like that was one of my saddest early thoughts is  I remember thinking like should I be in this picture? Like will not it be so hard for the person after me? And like that is the stuff you never say out loud. Like you never say that because it is so depressing . But the truth of it is like you are trying  your love makes you want to imagine worlds for them even if it does not include you.  It seems to me that you do not need to be worrying about how someone else in the future might feel if you are in a family photo.   Yeah. I think you are right. Like your brain is just so  it just  yeah  because I remembered it yesterday for the first time like my reluctance to keep living because I imagined  yeah. You are just doing triage right away. You are just doing triage on everything. The other weird thing I think your brain does is it assumes that you can save yourself or someone else some kind of future pain. Like I think maybe that is just what love does. But you take on these imaginative exercises. Like I mean I started giving stuff away that I thought my husband would not want. Right away I felt like whoa we have too many books. This is stupid. I am an academic. I have destroyed this house with books. We should get rid of all these books. And it was my attempt to start slowly erasing myself. And that is just  you know I have talked to people who say it took them a year to buy clothes because they cannot imagine still having their body. And that was true for me too.  And now?  I got to wear a dress the other day that I had in a box because it was my teaching dress. And I got to wear it at my book launch event and get my hair done. And I thought wow. Thank you. I am so grateful to be fancy instead of just in rough cotton in a hospital somewhere. So it felt good.  And I think it is great that you have been able not only to write this book but to be well enough to be at a book launch party and luckily for me to be on our show.  Thank you.  So I think this is a good moment to take a break. So let us do that. And then we will come back and talk some more. If you are just joining us my guest is Kate Bowler. Her new memoir is called Everything Happens For A Reason And Other Lies I have Loved. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Kate Bowler. She is written a new memoir called Everything Happens For A Reason And Other Lies I have Loved. And it is a memoir about having cancer and how her illness has changed her religious life and how religion has affected how she deals with her illness. She is an associate professor at the Duke Divinity School where she got her doctorate. And her doctoral dissertation was about the prosperity gospel which she studied and also wrote a book about. She is not a part of that church though. So your personal essay before the book was written was published in The New York Times Magazine on the front page of the Sunday Review. You got a huge response from readers. What was the range of reactions that you got from your readers?   I will be honest. Like I did not think that through. I wrote it so privately. And like I wrote it mostly in a hospital waiting room. And then I forgot that people will read it and then email you or send you things in the mail. So I got maybe 5000 6000 pieces of mail or emails. And the most  I mean the thing that stood out to me was the sheer number of people who said I am so afraid to  I am afraid that I have my own  I mean they would not say prosperity gospel. But like what happens if I just cannot keep this life together? What happens if my dad dies or my kid dies and I cannot control this? And I am so afraid. And that was the most beautiful part of that experience is that sense of fragility that we are all cracked open. And then we do not know what to do and we cannot pretend anymore. But I guess the other less helpful reaction I got was  I kind of thought the point of the essay was please do not pour your certainty on my pain. Like sometimes pain just cannot be explained. I do not know why this happened. And that is OK. And then people were like no no no. You really should understand why it happened. Let me explain it to you . So that was like the most common response I got as well. And that was just  that was super tiring.  So why did it happen to you? What were some of the explanations?  Oh lots of reasons  well that there was a spiritual process I had not adequately tried. Maybe I did not pray with enough faith or  or conversely that these are the wages of sin and surely God is just to allow me to die. There was a lot of that . And I was like  it was hard not to be judgmental because this one guy wrote it to me on the back of a church bulletin like clearly in the middle of a service and then just mailed it to me which I thought was a little lazy. So yeah. People really wanted me to know there is a spiritual reason for my death. And then other people were just kind of fixers by nature. And they thought well I really had not eaten the right foods or there were something from Whole Foods I should try or a special essential oil. Like there was a lot of fixers. And then as I mentioned before like a lot of rationalizers. Like this was going to be you and not me and here's my reasons why.  Was it part of God's plan? Did you get that?  Yeah yeah yeah yeah. I should accept that for sure. But like I do not know. Maybe it is just living. But it is very hard to be fatalistic like that about everything that is precious about you. So my reaction was like screw you . I am