 The Oscarnominated documentary The Gatekeepers centers on Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza but from an unusual vantage point  not the Palestinians or Israelis on the ground but six men at the pinnacle of Israel's security apparatus the former heads of the top secret Shin Bet. Film critic David Edelstein has this review.  The opening scroll of The Gatekeepers identifies the Shin Bet as the agency charged with defending Israel against terrorism espionage and the release of state secrets and asserts that its heads have never been interviewed about their work. That is actually not true  some of them have. But it is certainly a momentous occasion when all six leaders of the agency since 1980 appear onscreen to narrate a sort of intelligence history of Israel and the occupied territories since  the 1967 Six Day War. Director Dror Moreh never tells you why they have agreed to appear on camera. What I inferred from the first few minutes  without knowing where the film was going  was that they were there to answer charges of human rights violations illegal occupations torture and political assassination. I inferred that Shin Bet agents were tired of staying silent and thought it was time to justify what they do to a skeptical world for the sake of Israel's very existence. I inferred wrong. The Gatekeepers turns out to be not a defense of Israeli military policy. It is believe it or not a critique. It is a film in which your jaw drops lower and lower as you realize that these spooks these professional paranoiacs sound like peaceniks compared to much of the rightwing government. They believe in the tactics they devised. It is the overall strategy they think is blind. The Gatekeepers does not play like peacenik propaganda. It is made with cunning with suspense techniques not much different from Argo and Zero Dark Thirty. Moreh edits footage of riots and the intifada for shocking immediacy. The ambient score works on your nerves. And while you could call this broadly a talking heads documentary the six heads in question  there are no other interview subjects  are amazingly vivid. The oldest is Avraham Shalom scary even in his dotage. For some years after the Six Day War he and his colleagues did not have he says much to do aside from learn Arabic and study the Palestinians village by village. It was almost a relief he says when the terrorism began. He was in charge in 1984 when a Palestinian hijacker taken off a bus was beaten to death by security forces. And he has no problem with that. Forget about morality when you are dealing with terrorists he says. Other Shin Bet heads praise targeted killings of terrorists using words like clean and elegant. But The Gatekeepers takes a sharp turn when it reaches Yitzhak Rabin's second term as president when the Oslo Peace Accords are signed and when Shin Bet is blindsided by rightwing Jewish extremists who plot to blow up the Dome of the Rock. These were prominent Israelis say the Shin Bet caught attempting to incite a global war and politicians intervened to get them quickly sprung from prison to be greeted in their communities as heroes. One Shin Bet head Carmi Gillon says he tried in vain to get Rabin to wear a bulletproof vest. He would resign the same week when a punk named Yigal Amir killed Rabin and changed the course of history. After Rabin they say came the deluge of ultraOrthodox settlers moving illegally into the occupied territories while craven politicians did little. The Gatekeepers speak sadly of teenage Israeli soldiers thrown into situations that would challenge those with decades of experience. Avraham Shalom the scary man with no problem summarily executing prisoners says we have become cruel. And can you imagine an American hawk saying as exShin Bet head Avi Dichter does you cannot make peace using military means? Perhaps the most philosophical leader Ami Ayalon quotes Karl von Clausewitz Victory he says is the creation of a better political reality. The Gatekeepers hits with the force of a bomb  and for once in the bloody and terrible history of its region a smart bomb.  David Edelstein is film critic for New York Magazine. 