 This Monday NBC broadcast the premiere episode of its most aggressively promoted TV series of the season. The program is called Smash and it is a drama about the efforts of composers directors choreographers singers dancers and producers to put on a new Broadway musical a musical about Marilyn Monroe.    I can see it in my head.   You do not think it is the act break?   No. No. It is like this.    The stage is black. She stands alone in a pool of light. She is just Norma Jean. Behind her figures and shadow emerge.  The stars of Smash include Debra Messing Angelica Houston and American Idol finalist Katharine McPhee. The original idea for Smash the TV series which started at Showtime before moving to NBC came from Steven Spielberg who brought it to today's guests two of the show is executive producers Craig Zadan and Neil Meron. Zadan and Meron have been a producing team for decades and their credits include the TV adaptations of Gypsy and Annie the Oscarwinning film version of the Broadway musical Chicago and the current Broadway revival of How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying. They spoke yesterday with our TV critic David Bianculli. Here's one of the original songs from the series about Marilyn's time with Joe DiMaggio. It is performed by Megan Hilty star of Broadway's 9 To  The Musical.     Fellas.  Yeah?   Fellas.  Yeah?   Hey team.  Off the benches it is Marilyn.    I just got a date...   She is just got a date.    ...with baseball's Jolting Joe.   The lucky soandso...    So run me round the bases put me through my paces and teach me all the things a slugger's lover should know. What is that there?   That is the pitcher's mound.    Have ever seen a shape that is so perfectly round?   Batter up.    Play ball.   You better give it your all 'ecause a man likes to play at...    The national past time.  Craig Zadan and Neil Meron welcome back to FRESH AIR.  Thank you.  Thank you. We are happy to be here.  Why Marilyn?  Well that is interesting because the fact is when you are introducing a musical to the American public especially in a TV series we all felt it is best to go in with a subject matter that was somewhat familiar already. And it is an iconic huge story that just lends itself to be musicalized I mean in a very big glamorous sort of way. And there is a lot of tragedy. There is a lot of joy. There is a lot of splash to it. And we also acknowledged very much so that there were attempts of doing Marilyn onstage before and they all failed. So we acknowledged the risky nature of it within the show too.  Mmhmm.  The other thing was that what was the concept for going into each script? And that is really crucial I think because what we did was when the show was originating at Showtime it could have been more of a niche show like Entourage. And when it moved to NBC and became a more universal show it was very important that half of the piece really was authentic to the American musical theater but the rest was that it be truly universal for an audience where you have a divorce happening you have an adoption happening you have parents coming from the Midwest doubting their child's going into the show business. And we used West Wing as an example where you did not have to be obsessed with politics to really enjoy West Wing. You got into the personal stories of their lives  those character's lives. Their job  their day job  is that they do musicals. But their lives are not musicals. Their lives are dealing with issues that everybody deals with every day no matter what your job is.  If Smash succeeds it could change TV a little bit I think. And you guys have already changed film a little by mounting an Oscarwinning version of the Broadway musical Chicago which sort of said it was OK to have film musicals again. And I have a few questions about Chicago. Let us play the opening from Chicago. This is Catherine ZetaJones singing the opening song or a part of it. What do you want to say about this opening number or what did you want it to establish?  It is interesting. It was the first stuff we shot in the film. We started shooting with All That Jazz and so we have that image of Catherine to lead us into the rest of the filming. And when we saw the dailies we looked at Catherine and said this is really special because she kind of like just attacks and grabs that camera and just is ferocious. It is a ferocious performance and we knew that she set the tone and she set the bar for the rest of the film.  All right. Here we go. Catherine ZetaJones in the opening to Chicago.   That was Catherine ZetaJones in All That Jazz the opening number from Chicago. So are there any lessons from that that translated to Smash?  Oh yeah.  In terms of grabbing people quickly?  Oh yeah. I mean and it was also dealing with numbers that exist in fantasy. We have a great musical sequence in episode five of Smash called Let us Be Bad and it probably is the closest to Chicago that I think any of us have ever experienced. The whole backandforth between reality and fantasy is so Chicago  like. I mean Chicago kind of set the bar in terms of how we approach musicals and tone is one of the key elements.  And also you know when we did the movie of Hairspray that was particularly a challenge because the tone of that piece had to be really defined because the tone that is on stage is ultra campy and are hairdos sixfeethigh and the makeup is very strong. And you know the vision and the concept for the movie of Hairspray we decided along with our director/choreographer...  ...very strong and you know the vision and the concept for the movie of Hairspray we decided along with our director/choreographer Adam Shankman that we were going to first recreate the exact look and style of 1962 Baltimore but then we were going to add a couple of inches to it to make it heightened reality. So that you know Adam actually had a very funny description of what we were doing which is he said you to the authentic hairstyle and then you take a bicycle pump and give it two extra pumps.   And I thought that that was really clever because we were not going to the extreme and doing a campy you know overthetop version of it which worked brilliantly onstage but would not work on film. And we found that happy medium the right exact tone for Hairspray and we created a world where it was OK for John Travolta to be the mother.  Well it is another really interesting casting choice. I mean you had   as the mother in Hairspray you have Daniel Radcliffe on Broadway in How to Succeed in Business. And the thing that first drew me to you guys as producers was the TV version of Gypsy in 1993.  Mmhmm. I remember.  Yep.  When Bette Midler was the star.  Mmhmm.  And   That is  yeah.  So I mean that is a long time ago. It was such an important production.  Well you know something? We always looked to Bette to be the person that we have to be the most grateful to because of the enormous success of what happened with Gypsy because of Bette's agreeing to do it and because of her brilliant performance.  Well let us hear a piece of that brilliant performance. This is just a taste of Rose's Turn. So here we go. This is a CBS production from 1993 of Bette Midler in Gypsy.   That is Bette Midler as Rose in Gypsy. Hearing that I guess it is 18 years later what do you think? What do you hear?  You know whenever I see a clip or I hear a sound I remember exactly where I was while it was being filmed. And so I just go back to me standing in that theater in downtown Los Angeles watching this onstage and knowing that it was our first movie musical. It was one of those could it get any better moments.  We also  we did something on that one that was a little bit risky and at first Bette and Neil and I you know a major disagreement about it actually. We prerecorded everything in advance as we always do for a movie musical but we insisted that Bette do a couple of takes live. We did not want that speed bump that happens when you finish dialogue and then go into a song. So we did not want it to go from saying a line and then turning it into the recording studio. And Bette at first resisted it. She did not want to do it live. And we talked about it endlessly and then she said OK I will do it once. And she did it once and then she saw and we saw that she did it live brilliantly. And then she said all right I will do one more. And then OK let us try it again. And we were able to in the studio mix it in such a way where a lot of pieces of the songs that Bette did were live recordings and some of them were mixed with studio recordings. And you could not tell the difference once they were blended but the truth was that we had a much more naturalistic entrance into the musical numbers in that show than we would have normally had.  Why whether it is on Broadway or on television or in the movies why do musicals still matter?  You know there is a reason you know that was given for why people sing in musicals. And that reason is when emotions get so great you can no longer talk you sing. So I think it is about that heightened emotion that is translated and it is just that joy of the release of a song. And music heals. Music does a lot of things to people. And when it is done in the context of a dramatic story it is even better.  Craig Zadan Neil Meron thanks for being back on FRESH AIR.  Thank you David.  Thank you. Thanks so much.  Any time.  Craig Zadan and Neil Meron spoke with FRESH AIR's TV critic David Bianculli. They are producers of the series Smash which premiers on NBC Monday. Coming up Maureen Corrigan reviews several books about unemployment. This is FRESH AIR.  