 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. If you have followed the Republican presidential primary you are aware of the barrages of negative ads aired in the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire South Carolina and Florida primaries. One analysis concluded 92 percent of the ads in Florida have been negative. Our guest investigative reporter Joe Hagan says that is just the beginning of what is likely to be the most negative campaign in history. Hagan says a big factor in what he calls the tsunami of slime is the emergence of socalled superPACs. They are political committees closely associated with particular candidates often run by friends and former staffers of the candidates they support. But unlike candidates' committees whose contributions are limited by federal law superPACs can take donations of any size like the 10 million a wealthy couple gave to a Newt Gingrich superPAC. Hagan says the flood of money is allowing superPACs to hire armies of opposition researchers and ad makers who are changing campaigning and the reporting on those campaigns. Joe Hagan is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair and New York Magazine where he recently wrote about superPACs and negative campaigning. He spoke with FRESH AIR contributor Dave Davies.  Well Joe Hagan welcome to FRESH AIR. Now you say that the superPACs are really minicampaigns themselves  I mean MINI small campaigns or maybe not so small  and they employ all kinds of professionals who are prepared to slime the opposition. What kind of people are we talking about?  Well yeah I say these are like minicampaigns and campaigns are composed of  you have pollsters and focus groups that go out and try to test messages get info information about the opposition about What do people know? What can we say that will be novel and new that they have not heard before? They have researchers you know teams of researchers who are just  since last spring 2011 have been digging and digging and digging going through archives video archives print archives looking at their  what they call votes and quotes anything they ever voted for anything they ever said. And they are organizing it all and preparing it for negative ads leaks to the press you know all the different things they could tell surrogates to say on TV ways in which they can show that the opposition has contradicted him or herself and you know is therefore a hypocrite. You know the heads of these are former campaign advisors to the candidates they are supporting. Their job is to go on TV and give quotes to all the press and keep the press fed with all the information that the press needs to kind of churn the news cycle.  So campaigns always had opposition researchers. Now in addition to them we have the superPACs with even  you say even bigger armies of opposition researchers?  Oh yeah. See the superPACs in many ways have displaced or are doing a lot of the work that the Democratic National Committee or the Republican National Committee used to be doing. You know those people are doing it also but these guys are doing it with much more money. And so they can afford to hire more people to do more digging to buy more advertising  that is another one I forgot to ad. There is advertising consultants advertising makers. You know they are buying air time. And you know if Mitt Romney wants to do a certain attack on Newt Gingrich and say that he is grandiose well the superPAC supporting Mitt Romney Restoring Our Future PAC can begin to just go through its opposition research archives quickly slap together a bunch of ads and air them in Florida. And they have millions of dollars to do it.  Now the people who make negative ads and do all this opposition research have sort of made this into a science. And one of the interesting things you write about is the extent to which the effectiveness of a negative ad campaign depends upon the media's treatment and reaction to it. Explain that.  Well what these guys realize is that you can dig up all this negative information but if it is coming from like a Romney press release let us say about Gingrich it is going to have a lot less gravity with people than if it comes out in a newspaper like the New York Times or it comes out on MSNBC or CNN or what have you. So a lot of what the opposition research is about is getting the information to reporters getting them to report it and put the imprimatur of you know an objective outlet around it. And so this is the kind of warfare that is going on between these campaigns is trying to fight each other in the earned media what they call it the free press trying to get their message to win. And that is why money is such a big part of this because the press pays so much attention to how much you are spending on these ads and what the message is in these ads and that often gets that information deeper into the press cycle and into the press narrative.  And so it is one thing when you have the ability and the money to repeat a negative ad and reinforce the message. But there is this other phenomenon where you go to reporters quietly and say do you know about this this unflattering thing about my opponent in the hope that they will then print it and then eventually you have an ad which quotes them the reporter as the objective purveyor of this information.  No absolutely. That is the whole sort of cycle  the cycle of life as it were  of like a negative hit which they  this is their language a hit. If anybody who follows the Twitter feeds of all the political reporters all day long they are getting this information little  it is like they are just dropping little drops of negative information to these reporters all day long and they are tweeting them or putting them in their stories. And they are just being bombarded all day long with all these opposition researchers who have good relationships with the press. And you know they see the press as their quoteunquote missile delivery system. And so they are constantly trying to get them to kind of push this narrative push some storyline that they are trying to get. Just this morning you know I am hearing from you know the Romney camp from either a press release or talking to their people and they are trying to push this idea of Gingrich is grandiose. You know so they are just constantly trying to give you evidence of this quotes from the past things that he has said. You know as a reporter you do not have to even do any work. You just receive this gigantic archive of like quotes that go back dating back to the '80s. So this is why one of the opporesearchers for Obama told me that you know opposition research has replaced investigative reporting. Now this is a bold claim but to some degree it is true that the speed of the news cycle is so fast now reporters are under such pressure to deliver new information you know they do not even have time to do a lot of their own research. And they do not even have to because there are these researchers who have been working on this since like last May you know just digging digging digging all the information. And they have it all organized in these giant books and they are just constantly dripfeeding the press with it.  Right. And of course as you know media organizations have suffered economically in recent years there are often fewer reporters. So it is maybe a little more tempting to pick up the readily packaged investigation.  Absolutely and I think this accounts to some degree for the increasing focus on the consultants and the strategists of these campaigns. I mean because there is such a tight relationship between the political reporters and these consultants who are you know giving them all this information and all of their opposition researchers. And I think this also is a part of this larger trend we have seen in the last 10 years kind of a merging of politics and media. I mean you have got Fox News and now you have MSNBC that kind of represents the left. And the distinction between the messaging that is coming out of political campaigns and their superPACs and what is going on in the press is getting more and more blurred.  But you know I guess we should make a distinction here between the case where a campaign will tell a reporter something awful about the candidate but do it on the record or you know will make a change. And in that case the reporter might report it because if they do not everyone else is and to the extent you can vet the information. But you attribute it to a candidate. It is  they are taking responsibility for it. It is a different circumstance when a campaign or some other political operative comes to a reporter and says you can get an exclusive scoop here. You can have an investigation which breaks this thing wide open. Now in that circumstance surely no reporter worth his or her salt would do that story without carefully confirming everything and seeing whether it is fair whether the context is accurate.  Right well that is  that is absolutely true. You know there was a lot of speculation about this last fall when Herman Cain came under pressure from charges that he had had sexual harassment claims against him you know whether or not that came from an opposing candidate. And Politico did a story in which they did a lot of due diligence around it wherever it came from. But a lot of what is going on now is not just secret stories like that. It is like I am the campaign coming to you with a piece of video or some audio or things that they do not even really have to factcheck that much. I mean it is like here it is and why do not you run with this? I mean they are providing them not just tips about sort of you know radioactive really negative bad stories that could lead to the opposition being kneecapped for good but video content and archival information that they can use in their pieces like you know quotes and videos and things that they dug up that show Newt Gingrich saying something in you know 1998 that the reporter never would have found on his own. So it is not just sort of Deep Throat kind of information. It is just a daily barrage of wellresearched information.  And if the reporter takes the video they can get some attention have a little miniscoop. If they ignore it somebody else gets it.  Oh absolutely. Absolutely. You know what we are talking about right now you know in the past I think that a lot of this was more secretive. It is always happened you know through the ages like you know reporters getting something really  some damaging information leaked to them and then they are going to go use that as a basis for research. But you can go on Twitter now and you can see  the Democratic opposition researcher that I follow has a Twitter feed. You know his description of himself is I ruin lives. It is a living. You know this is like  it is all out in the open if you can go follow it and find it. Ben Smith of Politico and Buzzfeed all day long he is sort of churning this stuff from these people. Like on Friday he posted a nineminute audio clip of a phone call that Newt Gingrich had with his wife about some politics. You know where did he come up with this stuff? And I myself have received these calls. I mean you get a call from an opposition researcher hey you want a little photograph or a clip or this or that and you can post it on Twitter or write a little item about it? I mean all day long there is this churn going on. And the reporters have these you know daytoday conversations and relationships with these opposition researchers. They go out for drinks with them. They learn things. And you know this has been going on in the past but now it is much more out in the open. There are more of those opposition researchers and there are maybe less of the reporters. So you know the power here in many cases you know on the daytoday reporting in the news cycle is with these opposition researchers. They are very powerful.  Our guest is investigative reporter Joe Hagan. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us we are speaking with investigative reporter Joe Hagan. He is just written about the growth of superPACs and negative campaigning in the presidential campaign in New York Magazine. You know some of the really powerful messages that we have seen in the Republican primaries have been you know Gingrich attacking Mitt Romney as you know a filthy rich 1percenter who does not you know pay enough taxes and who got rich you know laying people off. He attacks Gingrich as a consummate Washington insider who has kind of a history of maybe some selfdealing and some character issues. Are  do these ads deal in inaccuracies or simply kind of selective recitation of stuff that is out there?  Those ads are more about emphasizing a label onto the opposition and make it stick. I mean and as soon as the  you know the press is sort of like the moderator in this you know over whether this is going to stick. And the you know I talk about in my story this availability heuristic  which is a term they use in psychology. It is about like if you repeat a message over and over and over again and it is the most available message that the voter or viewer or reader has about a subject then that will stick in their mind as that is the sum total of what they know about a person. For instance if I say that Gingrich is a Washington insider a million times and I can afford to put it on TV a million times at some point the viewer just decides well that seems to be what is true. I do not know any better than that. You know you have said it so many times to me it is the most available piece of information I have. So they are simplifying storyline attack lines so that they will travel. And...  You know I have to ask you since you spent so much time talking to these folks how do they feel about what they do  I mean people who just go about the business of grabbing whatever they can taking it out of context messing with people's reputations. What kind of people are they?   Well they are  they are a mix of different kinds of people the truth is but some of them are real cowboys. You know they are like mercenary characters who see themselves as like it is like a game a game of strategy and warfare. And they kind of love the juice of playing the line and causing controversy and doing all these things.  And they take none of it personally and expect nobody else to take anything personally right?  Well that is the thing. And you  I mean they are  they are definitely a different breed. Let us put it that way. I mean Stuart Stevens who is one of the top strategists for Mitt Romney is a true character. I mean the guy is an extreme sports nut who has written for television. He really sees himself as a storyteller. I mean at the end of the day he has very  talk about grandiose. I mean these guys have views of themselves as like able to steer history with their you know creative storytelling. And they see  you know seeing the candidates as so much of like a you know the actor in their big Hollywood production. But let me just  you know in the end of my story I talk about the  what I call the presidential election industrial complex. You know these people they come and go every election cycle. It is the same you know dozen consultants strategists and admakers working for these people all the time doing the same things. And you know one admaker Fred Davis told me you know we are not in the cause business right. You are in love with whoever's paying you. I mean that is how mercenary these guys are. You know I think some of them do believe in what they are doing and there may be a price over the long term for some of this negative stuff. It may turn out that people are so sick to death after this primary is done with of all the negative ads and all the attack and all the sort of blustery reality TV show stuff that they will be ready for you know some kind of positive message or to hear something other than the latest attack. But you know given the sort of American public's attention span and the bar for entertainment is pretty high at this point it is hard to know.  Another thing I wanted to ask was you know with a lot of people particularly younger people watching TV less and getting videos from you know other media Facebook YouTube whatever I mean will that undermine the effectiveness of the 30second TV spot? Are the consultants thinking about that?  Oh definitely. I mean the Romney camp sure showed me a report that kind of gets into all this. And they recognize that people between you know 18 years old and into their 30s are not getting most of their video content from live television. And so the suggestion was we need to drill down more into other kinds of media video online Facebook Twitter you name it. But these guys are very oldschool and traditional people in many ways and they recognize that they have all this donor money like the  especially the superPACs. They have all this donor money that they need to spend and they need to show that they have spent it. And what they often do is default back to TV. They default back to the 30second commercial because it costs a lot of money. You can show your donors hey we spent your money and look what we spent it on and maybe it moved the needle a little bit. And as we talked about before and as we have seen they are just running more TV ads not less. And they are still spending money on you know putting ads way down into the sort of like you know niche social media things like they are going to have ads in like Mafia Wars on Facebook you know trying to reach younger people. One person at Priorities USA the superPAC supporting Obama was telling me you know they recognize that a lot of people grandparents are reaching their kids and grandchildren through Facebook. So they are going to try to like you know really hone in on that older crowd on Facebook with ads. But bottom line is money has to be spent and it costs more to spend  it costs more to run TV ads. And so they kind of end up defaulting to running more and more TV ads.  You know Karl Rove is an interesting character in all of this because he of course is a you know a legendary political operative who has organized these vehicles  you know American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS  which have contributed tens of millions to candidates. He is also a media figure. I mean is  does what he  do his appearances on Fox News  how do his appearances on Fox News fit into what he does?  Oh I think they are integral to it. You know I profiled Karl Rove last year and wrote a little bit about this. His  he has  his main interest is keeping his ties to donors. You know he is got a huge Rolodex of very wealthy Texas oilmen and women who are sort of the life's blood of you know the political process on his  in his neck of the woods. So a lot of them  and when conversations I had with them  were given confidence to give money to any kind of organization that he would be leading because he is constantly telegraphing strategy on Fox News. They saw him as like you know he is got the smart way forward for our party. And so he is in both the position of using his media platform to collect money and to kind of lead as sort of strategic captain of that money and where to direct it. Now he is always saying that I am the cofounder of it but I am not  you know he is an advisor to it. He is not running it right. But he is the one creating the strategy for how to go about you know directing that money at Obama for instance. You know if you read his columns in the Wall Street Journal or listen to things he says on Fox he is constantly outlining a strategy for how to go after the opposition. And clearly the superPAC that he is associated with is prepared to carry out those strategic plans. So there is a real I think synthesis here maybe a questionable one between his platform that he is been given by Rupert Murdoch's news organs and his ability to direct millions of dollars in donor money.  Well Joe Hagan it is been interesting. Thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you very much for having me.  Joe Hagan spoke with FRESH AIR contributor Dave Davies. Hagan's article about superPACs The Coming Tsunami of Slime is published in New York magazine. You will find a link on our website freshair.npr.org. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR. 