 Two big commercial movies open this week. The Green Hornet is screenwriter and star Seth Rogen's update of the old pulp radio and TV show about a masked hero and his kung fu sidekick. The Dilemma is a comedy starring Vince Vaughn as a man who discovers a secret about the wife of his best friend played by Kevin James. Film critic David Edelstein has a review of both films.  The Green Hornet and The Dilemma are bigbudget male buddy pictures The first is a semisatirical action movie the second a comedy that turns serious. Both are well made and both are tiresome. Folks the bromance motif in which grown men wrestle with their masculinity while acting like juveniles has been wrung dry. The Green Hornet at least is likable and a refreshing change from all those heavy angstridden superhero movies. The director is Michel Gondry of Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind a virtuoso at making childish fantasies take wing. And I am not the first to notice a Bob HopeBing Crosby road movie vibe between the two stars Seth Rogen as Britt Reid aka The Green Hornet and Jay Chou as the kung fu master Kato both smitten with Cameron Diaz in the Dorothy Lamour role. Rogen's Britt is a ne'erdowell rich kid son of a disapproving media mogul played by Tom Wilkinson who dies suddenly. It is all quite Oedipal. In the prologue the father tears the head off his son's superhero doll. And The Green Hornet persona is born when Britt and Kato who was his dad's assistant knock the head off a statue of Britt's father. Their superhero gimmick is that they will pretend to be bad guys but really fight criminals. And Britt wants them to be best buds.  Mr.   We will need a car. Mr.   Hells yes. We will need a car. Mr.   With some weapons. Mr.   Hmm. Mr.   And armor. Mr.   Cool rims. Spinning rims. Mr.   I can do that. Mr.   Kato I want you to take my hand. I want you to come with me on this adventure. Mr.   I will go with you but I do not want to touch you. Mr.   Okay you do not have to take my hand. But will you come with me on this adventure?  The HopeCrosby thing might work better if the quips were fresh and Chou was comfortable with English. He speaks as if he learned it phonetically and unlike Bruce Lee's Kato in the old TV show he talks a lot. Both for P.C. reasons and because Chou is a big star in the allimportant Asian market Kato refuses to be Britt's sidekick. So he and Rogen trade lame insults while fighting off the bad guys. There are a few neat trick shots in which Kato moves at a different speeds than his slowmo adversaries and a couple of good 3D effects like the split screens in which each frame is at a different spatial level. But it is not worth the 3D glasses surcharge. There is little in The Green Hornet that jumps out at you. But it is The Dilemma that really lays there paralyzed by its seriousness. It is about two unemployed best friends veterans of the auto industry. Vince Vaughn's Ronny is a cando manager while Kevin James' Nick is the brilliant engineer. Vaughn cooks up a scheme to land a meeting with a big car company. And after it works they meet up at a crowded bar with Jennifer Connelly as Vaughn's girlfriend Beth and Winona Ryder as James's wife Geneva.  Mr.   You lying bastard. You are unbelievable. Did we get this meeting or not? I am hugging this man like I am some kind of ass. Ms.   Why were you hugging the man? Mr.   Because he is our guy's direct competitor. Ms.   Why would you hug the direct competitor? Mr.   Because he had a neardeath experience. Mr.   Actually no he did not. That never happened. I made that up. Ms.   Hoho shame. Shame. Shame. Mr.   What are doing? Mr.   What do you mean what am I doing? Did we get the meeting or what? Ms.   Come on Nick. Mr.   No I am never hugging again. I am not listening to you any  he sets me up. Mr.   What do you expect me to do? Geneva listen to me. You know him. He is way too honest.  Mr.   It might be completely necessary. Nick my man we got the meeting. Mr.   I am not going to lie. Sometimes I love your boyfriend. Mr.   You I will hug. Hug you right back. Mr.   Free this is free. Mr.   Come in here. Mr.   This is nothing. No charge. Mr.   My man. Oh do not ever  do not ever let me go.  These fleshy guys one tall one short and round have a quintessential manlymale project. In a scene that drew considerable advance criticism Vaughn's Ronny says of electric cars They are totally gay and proposes a new variation a responsible energyefficient car that makes loud vroomvroom noise like the old Fords and Dodges  like we need more road noise in this world. But The Dilemma turns on the women. Ronny spies Geneva smooching another guy  played by Channing Tatum with a lot of tattoos  and is torn. Should he tell his buddy and shatter him and maybe ruin the project on which everything in their lives rides? Or should he keep it a secret for now? His contortions moral and physical occupy the next 90 minutes. Maybe the late Blake Edwards could have found a balance between slapstick and psychodrama but director Ron Howard cannot get the pacing right. Vaughn has a couple of very funny scenes and Wynona Ryder a good demonic glint but the movie drags. And the central problem  the invention of that noisy engine ends up a nonissue. The Dilemma comes down to whether Ronny can help Nick recover his masculine pride symbolized by a scene in a pro hockey arena in which Nick competes to slap a puck into a slot. Even Freud would roll his eyes and tell the filmmakers to grow up.  David Edelstein is film critic for New York magazine. You can join us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter nprfreshair. And you can download podcasts of our show at FreshAir.npr.org. 