 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. It is been a good year for Benedict Cumberbatch. The English actor earned an Oscar nomination for his starring role in the film The Imitation Game and he is won critical acclaim and a big American following for his performance on the masterpiece TV series Sherlock. Its third season aired in 2014. He also starred in the HBO miniseries Parades End and played WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange in the movie The Fifth Estate. He also appeared in the films War Horse 12 Years A Slave August Osage County and in The Hobbit series where he played the voice of Smaug the dragon. In The Imitation Game Cumberbatch plays Alan Turing the brilliant eccentric mathematician who led the team charged with breaking the sophisticated code called Enigma that Nazi forces in World War II used to encrypt their radio transmissions. I spoke to Benedict Cumberbatch last week and we began with a clip from the film. It is 1939 and Cumberbatch as Alan Turing is being interviewed by Naval Commander Alastair Denniston played by Charles Dance about participating in a topsecret project. Turing who is figured out that it must be an effort to break the Enigma code speaks first.    Of course that is what you are working on. But you also have not got anywhere with it. If you had you would not be hiring cryptographers out of university. You need me a lot more than I need you. I  I like solving problems commander. And Enigma is the most difficult problem in the world.   Enigma is not difficult. It is impossible. The Americans the Russians the French the Germans  everyone thinks Enigma is unbreakable.   Good. Let me try and we will know for sure will not we?  Benedict Cumberbatch welcome to FRESH AIR. Alan Turing is an amazing man. It is an amazing story. How did you prepare for this role?  Through reading Andrew Hodges' biography after reading Graham Moore's superlative screen play. And I  that was  that is the only resource for an actor playing this really brilliant but at times difficult and interesting complex character in the name of Alan Turing. I mean there is no video. There is no audio recording. So it all had to come from written anecdote. And so Andrew's biography Andrew Hodges' biography was a bible for me. But the most sort of I would guess offthepage preparation I did read was meeting some of his family and a colleague who worked with him in Manchester and speaking to another colleague as well who had worked with him.  What did they tell you about him?  Well it was very revealing. I was very anxious to get his voice right. He had a very particular highpitched stammer and laugh and you know many other sort of peculiarities and eccentricities and sort of defining characteristics. But I  and I tried this voice on them. And they were like yes it is good  we will sort of know it when it is right when we hear it sort of thing. And I thought oh crikey well that might be when you are sitting in the cinema with me sitting beside you sweating nervously thinking God almighty this could be a disaster. But they have actually seen the film. And they were very very complementary about it. They said it was like being in the room with him and  which is a minor miracle but just a wonderful wonderful thing to hear from them. But back to their conversation what they opened for me was the idea that  well so for example the nieces I met who were fantastically candid and had incredibly fond memories of this wondrous man and talked of him as somebody who made them feel equals. As children they did not feel the Victorian standard of treatment which was being seen and not heard. They felt that they were being treated as human beings in their own right. They loved his company. They remember being very at ease. They do not remember being embarrassed or awkward about his stammer or him being embarrassed and awkward around them. And that told me a lot. That told me a lot about who this man was the arrested development in him the idea that he could sympathize with the innocence of children because of everything the world had done to throw at him to corrupt him to you know destroy him to sort of make him an outsider of every group he should have belonged to whether it was the sort of aesthetic gay post Bloomsbury Group at Cambridge whether it was being a war hero being a man of action as an athlete being a sports guy or a member of the intellectual scientific community. He was always slightly on the periphery of every single one of those groups.  He was really a very historically significant scientist. I mean he made advances in the digital revolution and of course breaking the Enigma code.  He is the father of modern computer science which means you know he took what Ada Lovelace and Babbage did hundreds of years before into reality a physical reality away from loom machines and other kind of you know early machinated calculating machines. He created the idea that we now hold of as the universal machine as well as the singular language that programs all computers. Any algorithm you use for a search engine to say  to put Alan Turing's name in which embarrassingly now links up with mine  that search engine that breaking down of the distance between Alan Turing and Benedict Cumberbatch that has come about  that is same algorithm that was used to crack the code in the Second World War. I mean it is it is extraordinary how important he is.  It is clear you have a real attachment to this character. Was it hard to let him...  Yes sorry. I keep on interrupting your questions to talk about him.  That is OK .   I am sorry; I cannot help it. It was not hard to let him go. But I  you know I felt incredibly  I do still feel incredibly loyal to him. But I felt very close to him yeah. I suppose in that way it was difficult. We filmed the last scenes very near the end of my filming schedule. And the first couple of takes those scenes with Kiera when she visits him in the '50s in Manchester after the treatment's well and truly underway the chemical castration...  And let us just explain for the audience. We are talking about treatments. He was arrested for  what?  indecency because he was homosexual. And there were these  he agreed to take hormone treatments to quote cure him instead of going to jail. And that was you know the beginning of a very awful end for him.  That is exactly right. The choice then for men who were arrested and prosecuted for being gay was the choice between two years' imprisonment or two years chemical castration through weekly estrogen injections. This is less than 100 years ago in a country that had just been liberated from the threat of fascism by the very  by one of the very men that they then punished for his sexuality. I mean it is barbaric. It is frightening. And sadly it is not a history lesson. It is something that we need to be equally wary of in our current climate of intolerance whether it is with fundamentalism whether it is nationalism. But we see the same people men and women being scapegoated the ridiculousness of transsexuals not being allowed to have a driver's license in Russia. I mean that is just  it is comic but actually it is not for people in Russia. It seems unfathomable to us but that is a reality. And to think that  and that is the tip of the iceberg of what is going on still  very very important part of his story. But what I was going to say was he in that period chose the estrogen injections rather than the imprisonment in order to be able to continue his work. And the estrogen injections not only corrupted his mind but started to eat away at his body. But it was a  ate away at his faculties and his mind  and he lost this athletic body. He also lost a mind that was attuned to the one thing he was left to love and to focus on which was his work. And I think ultimately that was the undoing of his strength and power to live.  Let us hear another scene from The Imitation Game. This is a moment where you are working with a part of the team that is working to break the Enigma code. And some of your mates come and try and invite you to lunch. We are going to hear from the head of the team who is played by Matthew Goode. Another intelligence officer played by Allen Leech speaks first.    The boys we are going to get some lunch. Alan?   Yes?   I said we are going to get some lunch. Alan?   Yes.   Can you hear me?   Yes.   I said we are off to get some  . This is starting to get a little bit repetitive.   What is?   I had asked if you wanted to come to lunch with us.   No you did not. You said you were going to get some lunch.   Have I offended you in some way?   Why would you think that?   Would you like to come to lunch with us?   What time's lunchtime?   Christ Alan it is bleeding sandwich.   What is?   Lunch.   Oh I do not like sandwiches.   Never mind.  That is our guest Benedict Cumberbatch playing Alan Turing in the new film The Imitation Game. You do not strike me as somebody who is particularly socially awkward. I mean...  Yeah...  Was it difficult to you to get into the mentality of this guy and come out of it?  No no. You know I have turned up to  I have turned up to costume parties in the wrong costume. I have made social faux pas aplenty. I have put one foot in front of the other and fallen over. I mean you know if you have ever experienced the idea of feeling slightly outside or that kind of  you know the creeping paranoia of a teenager where you just feel that you do not quite fit into anything where you are just finding out who you are and everyone else seems to have got it sorted... And only in your late 20s do you turn around and go did you have weird thoughts about not quite knowing where you were who you were what you were when you were growing up? And you realize it is a universal human trait. But you know he  I think what formulated very early in his life was this incredible sensitiveness to the world and his environment and the way people treated him in it. And that was born out of having a stammer. For me that was the key to understanding him as a child who did not have the parental nourishment he needed. It was very normal in those days for parents to be absent. But his parents were absent for long stretches of time. They worked in the diplomatic in India. And one year they came back probably after a whole year to discover their  I think he was about 3 or 4 by then  old child had a stammer. And his mother was shocked. And I think what he is become as a younger man is very closed off very single minded very purposeful acutely pedantic and accurate with language to a nearautistic level. But I think that word is banded around too much both for this character and for people who do have autism. And I think you know you just see  you see what has happened to him thaw when he meets and trusts someone else who he loves in the shape of Kiera's character Joan Clarke. So you know yeah I understood that. I understood it from my vague experiences of being an outsider. But I thought the map I got to understand through Andrew's biography and other reading and discussions I had with people who knew him really made that kind of journey and progression very clear my mind.  Benedict Cumberbatch stars in The Imitation Game. We will continue our conversation after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR and if you are just joining us we are speaking with actor Benedict Cumberbatch. He stars in the new film The Imitation Game. You grew up the child of two actors. Did they expose you to the business and did it have appeal?  You cannot not be exposed to the business if you grow up a child of two actors. It is just  it is everywhere. From you know their social life to the peripatetic and ever the sort of chaotic calendar affair of their work life. So yeah I was fully aware of the vagaries pitfalls and the ups and downs basically of a very unstable living.  How did they feel about you getting into it?  Awful. I mean they worked incredibly hard to afford me an education where I would be privileged enough to have the choice of pursuing anything but being an actor. So going into the law or medicine or teaching or anything other than you know doing what they did. And that was their choice as very selfless parents to try and give me a shot at having a better life but I just kept kicking it back. I kept on doing plays at school. I really enjoyed it. I pursued the idea of being a pastor for a while but I met too many people along the road saying turn back now and giving me the same reasons as I would heard for not being an actor. So I thought well why am I giving up on my primary dream for a backup that is equally risky? And my God you have to work hard to be a pastor so I went back to my primary passion.  You would not have been at the Golden Globes that way. I think that is fair to say.  Well no there were lawyers there last night. I am sure some of them were frustrated actors.  There are lawyers everywhere.  . Damn right yeah.  The lore is that your acting debut at age 12 was as Titania the queen of fairies in A Midsummer Night's Dream?  No way before that sadly. It was at primary school aged  dotquestion markcannot remember  but I mean I do not know maybe 4 or 5 as a rather impatient Joseph who thought Mary was taking too long and apparently pushed her off the stage much to the delight of the parents...   ...But probably not Mary. But that was a very sort of ungenerous and embarrassing beginning and especially for my poor parents who obviously you know people recognized from the television and theater that they would done. And to have their son pushing another child off stage must have been sort of funny but mortifying at the same time. Titania was the first play I did at my second boarding school Harrow which is an allmale boarding school quite sort of a machismo Army and sportsdeeming kind of environment. Very jocky rather than academic but it was an odd thing for someone who played flanker in the rugby team to do  by night to get dressed up in a wig and sort of pineappletype paper crown that made me look like you know Cleo Laine on a bad day swanning on being the queen of the fairies.  You studied drama in Manchester and did a lot of work on theater and film and television and best known to American audiences I suppose for Sherlock which we have got to talk about. I thought we would play a clip. This is from  I think this might even be the first episode where you are examining the body of a woman on the floor. With you are a detective inspector played by Rupert Graves and of course Dr. Watson who is played by Martin Freeman. You have just briefly as Sherlock looked at the woman's body but you have some observations. Let us listen.    Victim is in her late 30s. Professional person going by her clothes. I am guessing something in the media going by the frankly alarming shade of pink. Traveling from Cardiff today intending to stay in London for one night. It is obvious from the size of her suitcase.   Suitcase?   Suitcase yes. She is been married for at least 10 years but not happily. She is had a string of lovers but none of them knew she was married.   Oh for God's sake you are just making this up.   A wedding ring 10 years old at least. The rest of her jewelry has been regularly cleaned but not her wedding ring. State of her marriage  right there. The inside of the ring is shinier than the outside. That means it is regularly removed. The only polishing it gets is when she works it off her finger. So for work look at her nails  she does not work with her hands. So what or rather who does she remove her rings for? Clearly not one lover  she would never sustain the fiction of being single over that amount of time. So more likely a string of them. Simple.   It is brilliant. Sorry.   Cardiff?   It is obvious is not it?   It is not obvious to me.   Dear God what is it like in your funny little brains? It must be so boring.  .  What an assbleep.  . That is Benedict Cumberbatch as Sherlock. OK tell us about this Sherlock. What is your kind of psychological profile of this guy?  Well the same as the books. You know a very flamboyant flawed brilliant human being. Somebody who sacrificed a lot in order to gain an exceptional ability to interpret the world and the detail of the world around him. Someone who can look at the mundane and create popup adventure potential outcomes and adventures. Somebody who is irascible flamboyant arrogant and bullish. Vicariously pleasurably intolerant of mediocrity and the mundanity of bureaucracy. Somebody who underestimates the true value of kinship and friendship and being part of a world rather than just being the best in a field in the world and gets his comeuppance and slowly matures into somebody with you know a humanized edge to his otherworldly brilliance.  Yeah that is him. .  Yeah that is in the books. . That is the flyleaf cover.  You know as I listened to you as Sherlock kind of just rippling off these observations about this dead woman's body I am picturing you...  And I speak faster than that in some moments. This is the craziest. I was listening back to that now going it is quite slow really by now's standards. I can do it a lot faster. It kind of  yeah well because I was moving around probably so I could only fit certain paragraphs in with just  bending over the body getting up looking under the collar  you know there was all that stuff about Cardiff the weather the collar turned up against the rain  you know and that was to come after what is it like inside your tiny little brains it must be so boring. And it takes hours to learn. It takes one mistake for the whole house of cards to tumble and many sweaty takes especially when it is you know a oneoff shot or a single shot that Paul McGuigan in that episode for example wanted me to get it in. And a lot of very patient actors around me just waiting for me to get it right I guess. But it is a great challenge.  It sounded to me like you were just doing it just now. I mean you were just like speeding your voice up another two ticks no?  What just by talking about  well yeah that happens. It does. It happens. It reminds me I can actually talk faster and I start talking faster. I also get told that I can be impatient and kind of  yeah a little bit dismissive when I am playing him. I think you know you risk taking a certain amount of your work home as an actor. And when you play strong characters like that some of it rubs off on you.  His companion of course Dr. Watson is played by Martin Freeman who is a terrific actor. We are just seeing more and more of him as time goes on. And I read that you described him as one of the few actors who actually raised your game. Is that true?  In the audition yeah. The minute he came in to read  and we had some fantastic reads brilliant actors some of whom were a little bit too much in the vein of where I was going with Sherlock either because they were picking up on my energy or because that is what they could have contributed which made me a bit nervous. I thought Christ they will get my job. But Martin stepped in and I felt myself complemented in a really good sort of word of chalk and cheese mismatch kind of way which is our dynamic. And you know he is such a fine craftsman. He is so specific. He works incredibly hard but make it look effortless. It is breathing to watch. It is just you know there is nothing of hard work that he shows off with unlike me. Unlike you know the kind of flamboyance of that character who is very showy. There is this quiet kind of truth in everything Martin does. And he is painfully funny a very wise man to be around. So yeah he is a gameraiser for whoever is lucky enough to work with him. But the minute we met in the audition I thought this would be wonderful. And the door closed and I went please it is got to be him. And Steven Moffat I think in the same breath was saying well I think we just found our Watson.  Benedict Cumberbatch stars in the new film The Imitation Game. He will be back in the second half of the show. Here's another scene from the third season of Sherlock. His partner Dr. Watson is getting married and Sherlock played by Cumberbatch is the best man and is giving a toast at the wedding reception.    Let us talk about John.   Please.   If I burden myself with a little help mate during my adventures it is not out of sentiment or caprice. It is that he has many fine qualities of his own that he has overlooked in his obsession with me. Indeed any reputation that I have for mental acuity and sharpness comes in truth from the extraordinary contrast John so selflessly provides. It is a fact I believe that brides tend to favor exceptionally plain bridesmaids for their big day. There is a certain analogy there I feel. And contrast is after all God's own plan to enhance the beauty of his creation or it would be if God were not a ludicrous fantasy designed to provide a career opportunity for the family idiot. The point I am trying to make is that I am the most unpleasant rude ignorant and allaround obnoxious assbleep anyone could possibly have the misfortune to meet. I am dismissive of the virtuous unaware of the beautiful and uncomprehending in the face of the happy. So if I did not understand I was being asked to be best man it is because I never expected to be anybody's best friend and certainly not the best friend of the bravest and kindest and wisest human being I have ever had the good fortune of knowing.   We are speaking with Benedict Cumberbatch who is nominated for an Oscar for his starring role in the film The Imitation Game. He is also appeared in The Fifth Estate 12 Years A Slave and The Hobbit series where he played the voice of a fearsome dragon. He earned a big American following with his starring role in the Masterpiece TV series Sherlock. Now I have to ask you do think this character Sherlock  do you think of him as having sex appeal?  You are asking the wrong target audience really so no I do not...  Well I mean you are pretty insightful about characters.  ...But if I was a girl of a certain age.   Well OK. All right  being really sort of hyper objective about it...  Yeah.  ...I kind of do. I do understand it because he is aloof. He is pretty cold and mean but he is utterly brilliant can be incredibly charming incredibly capable and smart and funny but also floored. And I think  yeah I think he is rather a thrilling person to spend time with.  Well of course I asked because you know with this role I mean you became really popular in the United States and on all of these sexiestmanalive lists. And I am just  you know this was you know many years into your career.  Yeah you have got it.  I am just  what...  I mean that is the formula. It is a projection of work and that is why you are right to ask that question about whether Sherlock is sexy because I sure as hell as not. And you know I have been around for 10 or 15 years before this happened and I was not on any lists of the millionth most attractive on the planet you know so...  Well I can tell you two people ranging in ages 10 to 60 were just so excited and are totally in love with you. What does it do to your head to have these millions of women thinking of you that way?  It is just a very flattering and I kind of  and it makes me giggle as they know because it just  it is. It is sort of silly. And where it is serious and where it is a compliment is that I do  because of what we just discussed  I think it is a reflection of the work and hopefully how I come across when I am talking about the work rather than what I actually have got as a physical object on itself of itself every morning in the mirror. You know I kind of take it as a skewed compliment about  you know it as not what you got it is the way that you do what you have got with  sort of thing.   You know what I mean? It is like...  It is Sherlock they love huh? Not Benedict.  Well yeah. I do not know. Ask them. It might be a mixture of both. And you know I do do other roles that they seem to watch me in as well. So while that may have been the first kind of platform for that attraction I think  and I am the first to acknowledge you know that is first and foremost in that kind of  in that field. Yeah I think it travels. I think it is about more than that. I think it is about the work in general and I am very grateful.  It does mean that you are recognized now everywhere and I have read that you kind of have not changed your life that much. You still ride your bike around. You still take the tube  the subway in London. And I also read that you...  Yeah I mean I seem to be in the back of a car more than anything else because of work. But I do  well I mean anyone who lives in a city will tell you it is nice to sort of propel  yourself through it rather than be at the mercy of traffic and other people especially if you are on a motorbike or moped. But I  yeah I tried to normalize my life as much as possible by sticking true to who I have been. And obviously there are certain changes and  but I  yeah. I do not see why that is impossible really. You know I was always really interested in that thing that Marilyn Monroe said to a friend who was perplexed walking I think down Fifth Avenue saying Marylin no one's spotting you. What is going on? And she went oh I have not turned it on or something to that effect and then just threw her shoulders back lifted her head and suddenly everyone was sort of seeing this extraordinary woman pop in their presence  this person that they knew or felt they knew because of pop photographs and films of her. So I guess there is just a way you do not have to wear a wig and glasses or have a motorbike helmet on all of which helps. But it is tiresome or inappropriate at times especially if you are walking into a bank or security at an airport. I do not think you get very far with a bicycle helmet and a wig. But you know what I am saying is yeah it is an interesting thing. And I am still getting used to all of that. I am getting used to all of that. There are days when you know like everybody you feel not your best and not yourself and uncomfortable with who you are and not in your own skin and you know you would rather be at home under a duvet just doing what you do at home. You know you crave privacy basically and you have to get on in the world and go and see your colleagues  go into the office with your cold or hangover or just whatever the thing is that is griping you. And you know that is the same with fame I guess. There are days when you wear it lightly and you do not mind that people you have never met before sort of recognize you when you walk in a room or there are days you just wish you were invisible. But what is interesting for me is how to find that thing which you need as an actor which is to be able to observe human nature  to be part of the thing that you are portraying as a storyteller.   This is  you are just joining us we are speaking with actor Benedict Cumberbatch. He stars in the film The Imitation Game. You play the voice of Smaug the dragon for The Hobbit films. And you know when I heard the film when I heard your voice  I mean it is obviously not your speaking voice  and I thought well this is highly processed. But then I heard you on a talk show and you did the voice. And it was amazingly like that voice just plain. And I do not want to turn you into a parlor trick here but could you  I do not know  could you give us a little of Smaug like  I do not know  ordering lunch or a cocktail?   You are listening to NPR. I am Smaug. And I just burnt the microphone. That sort of  that is a little bit of him.  You can hear me but you cannot smell me or see me. I mean that you know that is sort of what I did. That is sort of what I originally did and I did it for a while. And my voice was going and Peter said look we have got this great thing that Andy used for King Kong. We call it the Kongolizer and it will just mean you will be able to get more variation in pitch into your performance. But you will be able to get that effect without having to trash your voice to do it.  Is it painful to do that?  Yeah yeah I mean you know listen to the normal pitch of my voice. It is not a natural thing to sort of switch to. It always leaves its sort of scars but you know how often do you get to play the dragon of all dragons? So it is something you commit to. It is just  it is endlessly dynamic and challenging both to how you produce the sound and what the sound is. In crawling around on your belly you know it is  you are stretching  you are overarticulating your neck. So there were all sorts of sort of journeys of discovery with that which were great you know? I was in a room much like this recording booth I am in now with kind of uninspiring gray carpet gray walls a bit of wooden cladding and these amazing sensors in the corners of the ceiling. And...  So you did the motion capture to portray the dragon as well crawling around...  Yeah and that is how the voice evolved absolutely. And they did a lot of facial recognition motion capture as well as full body. And if you see the DVD extras from The Desolation Of Smaug the second in the trilogy you have got some footage of me doing all of that. And yeah there is quite parity before  and that was before we used the Kongolizer. And you are a child. You are playing again. You are utterly free. There are no restrictions no hair and makeup continuity you know marks camera lens sizes. There is just  there are not even any other actors. I mean you can just  you are free falling. It is great great great fun. And you know you get Peter Jackson all to yourself which is a rarity on a production of that scale. But to have the man in the room...  You played Julian Assange the founder of WikiLeaks in the film The Fifth Estate  a fascinating story and a fascinating guy...  Yeah.  ...And presents a lot of issues. And I know that when you were preparing for the role you had some communication with Assange himself and this has been written about. Do you want to just give us an idea of what that was like?  Yeah no Julian wrote me a very thorough charming intelligent email pleading with me to walk from the project the day before we started shooting. I tried to contact him to not only reassure him that we wer