 This is FRESH AIR. Hinds is a Spanish quartet that is just released its debut album. The four women formed the band in Madrid and in the space of just a couple of years have toured extensively performing all over Europe and making attentiongetting appearances at festivals such as this past year's South by Southwest in Austin Texas. Rock critic Ken Tucker has a review of Hinds' album Leave Me Alone.    Sorry you are the one that I love. I can tell you that you are my favorite song. And darling you are the map to my town. You are never walking home alone.  The thin tinny sound of Hinds on the quartet's debut album Leave Me Alone  it is a sound designed to come across as accessible and democratic as possible. These four women revive the notion of doityourself punk musicianship in creating their songs.    How many secrets do you have that keep you smiling that way? You would better start to behave. And how many scars you dont share and why do I care? Still I can smell that something failed.  Hinds likes to sound messy as though their songs were tossed off  thoughts that had occurred to them while they had instruments in their hands and microphones in front of their mouths. But this is actually the strategy of selfconscious artists. That part of their approach consists of the importance of reproducing spontaneity. Take for example the song called Bamboo about a guy who is hot but not quite measuring up to Hinds' standards.    I want you to call me by my name when I am lying on your bed. I pray you to stay away while I am talking with your friends. I need you to be around my legs and stop complaining about the rain. And how could I show you without looking freaking mad that I am not always going to be around. How could I show you without loosing all our time that I am not always going to run behind? And why oh why your are on my mind?  I like this sloweddown girlgroup harmonies in that song  the way those harmonies collide with their guitar chords and the way the band phrases its sentiments. A line like I need you to be around my legs and stop complaining about the rain  well that distills entire decades of women's justifiable resentments about moody men does it not? In the video for the song called Chili Town the four young women dance aimlessly without much sense of choreography just feeling the beat of their own music while smoking drinking and making faces at the camera. The chorus is a dare  all I am asking is you to make a move  with great lines like I am flirting with this guy so you can watch my crime salted into the mix.    I am touching without hands because you are deaf and blind. Do not try to reach to reach my mind collecting my fake card. You are out of town man. I am swimming in the dark 'ecause all your friends are sharks. Keep fighting for your truth amazing feelings juice  you chose the wrong side. All I am asking is you to make a move. All that I am asking for is you to make a move.  Some of the best moments of on Leave Me Alone occur when the band shifts to a more quiet mode. They can sing in gentle tones that nevertheless do not soften their sentiments as can be heard in the genderswitching challenges laid down in I will Be Your Man.    Ten minutes of delay and your anger was no more dear. And I will clean your blood of all the venom that keeps you fighting with every mirror. I will not let you I will be your guide. And I will close your eyes and you close your eyes. I will make it simple. I do not need no gain. I could be your baby but I will be your man. I will be your man. I will be your man. I will be your man.  Right now Hinds is concentrating on getting itself heard  getting audiences familiar with its mixture of harshness and musical beauty. In emphasizing spontaneity over more finished creations they are like painters slathering their musical canvas in bold strokes. You get the feeling by the end of their debut that they are just beginning to explore other colors  other methods that might compel them to decide whether they want to work on a larger scale or remain quick sketch artists of immediacy.  Ken Tucker is editoratlarge for Yahoo TV. He reviewed Leave Me Alone the debut album from the band Heinz.   On tomorrow's uroscience of mindoverbody. We talk with science writer Jo Marchant author of Cure. For example taking a fake medicine  a placebo  can have a real effect causing a biological response in the brain that eases our symptoms. We will also hear about the benefits of mindfulness meditation and virtual reality. Hope you can join us. 