 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest Brittany Howard is the lead singer songwriter and a guitarist with the band Alabama Shakes. Their second album ''Sound  Color debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 chart and is now nominated for six Grammys including album of the year best rock performance best rock song and best alternative music album. Their inclusion in both the rock and alternative categories is an indication of how the band crosses genre lines. You can add rhythm and blues and soul to the genres it draws on. Howard received Billboard's 2015 Women in Music Powerhouse Award and she is a powerhouse. In early 2013 after the release of Alabama Shakes' first album she was described in Rolling Stone as a sort of soul queen antidiva not afraid to sweat howl or shred on her turquoise Gibson SG. The members of Alabama Shakes are from the small Alabama town of Athens where they played together in a local bar before they were discovered. Howard had a difficult childhood dealing with vision problems the death of her older sister her parents' divorce and the loss of the family home in a fire. We will talk about that and more but let us start with the Grammynominated song from their album Sound  Color. This is Do not Wanna Fight.    My line your line do not cross them lines. What you like what I like why cannot we both be right? Attacking defending until there is nothing left worth winning. Your pride and my pride. Do not waste my time. I do not wanna fight no more. I do not wanna fight no more. I do not wanna fight no more. I do not wanna fight no more. I do not wanna fight no more.  Brittany Howard welcome to ngratulations on all the success that you have been having. It is just great. So the track that we just heard Do not Wanna Fight that is some squeal that you start with. Like I do not know what to call it.   Yeah that is...  Do you have a name for it?  No that is something I was just messing with in the studio. And Blake  you know he was our coproducer  he said oh we will keep it. We will keep that. We will keep that. So that was just something I was doing just to warm up and it stayed in the song.  So now do you have to do that every time you perform the song?  I do. I do.  So Sound  Color is Alabama Shakes' second album. The first album was recorded basically in a local studio. I think you paid for a lot of it out of your own pockets. That was a hit. So you had considerably more money and more time for the second album. What are some of the things you wanted to try on the new album that money and time and experience gave you the opportunity to do?  Well I wanted to try everything because we finally had the opportunity. And it was also an exciting prospect that people were going to hear it. For some people that would be a lot of pressure but I was really excited about it 'ecause there is so many ideas I had and so many things I wanted to try not only musically but also with my voice with my instrument. And I knew I could do a lot more things. And the first record was recorded hastily but written really slowly because you know as they say you have all the time in the world to write your first record and we did. And we went in and recorded it in probably about a week or so. And this time was different. This time I could really think about what I wanted to say and how we wanted to express it. And also you speak of experience. The more music I was listening to since the first record the more I appreciated space and the ability to let the listener have time to think about what you are doing and not just being bombarded by all of the instruments.  So you said you wanted to try new things with your voice for the second album. Is more falsetto or head voice one of the things you wanted to play around with more?  Well when I am writing songs they are always different you know? The voice is an instrument and you can play your instrument any kind of way you want to. And I always think it is a shame that I would have to stay stuck in one kind of personality when it is like a palette. There is so many colors you could choose. So many things do not need that they need this. And I have always written songs like that. I have always  each one is different each one has its own landscape. And I was really just singing for each song.  I want to play another song of yours called Over My Head. And this is the last track on the Sound  Color album your second album. And it is very spare but you have overdubbed your voice for the chorus. And it is kind of like cumulative in the way like the voices keep getting added to each other. And I was hoping you could talk about what your intentions are with this and how you heard the song in your head that convinced you that this was how you wanted to produce it.  The meaning of the song was I guess existential. I was just thinking how neat it would be to have this belief that you know you have lived before. And if energy is not ever destroyed then anyone you have ever loved anyone that is ever loved you in a past life none of the love goes away. It never disappears. It is always around you. And the meaning of the song was realizing it. I am overmyhead in love. And it is not necessarily romantic love. It is love you know? And when I was singing those waves of vocals  and like you said they were accumulating  I wanted it to feel like you were being buried but not buried in a bad way buried in the best way possible. You are buried with love buried with sensation buried with memories that are never lost or forgotten. But you realize it and that is what I was going for there in the production.  Well I love this track. Let us hear it. This is Over My Head from Alabama Shakes' second album Sound  Color. And my guest Brittany Howard is featured on guitar and singing lead.    I am in over my head. I do not think of you in bits and pieces. I think of you only like a miracle. Loved him so deeply I feel it through all my past lives. It feels good. I am never saying goodbye. It feels good. I am never saying goodbye. I am in over my head over my head. I am in over my head over my head. Signs they explain it to me. There is no joy I can take with no one worth waiting. Here for now but not for long. When will my mind slip away? Explain that to me. I am in over my head. Loving so deeply I am in over my head. I am in over my head. Loving so deeply I am in over my head. I am in over my head. Loving so deeply I am in over my head. Loving so deeply I am in over my head. Loving so deeply I am in over my head.  That is Alabama Shakes from their second and current album Sound  Color which is nominated for a whole bunch of Grammy Awards. And my guest Brittany Howard is singing lead on that. When you were growing up who had the record collections in your family?  My mom. My mom had it. She pretty much collected one artist's records Elvis Presley. She had all of them.  That was it just Elvis?  Yeah she had a whole closet just full of Elvis.   So when you started listening to music that was not like your parents' music what did you start listening to?  I remember like when and where I was when I first heard Pink Floyd. I was 14 years old and I was getting a ride from school from a senior. And they started playing Pink Floyd. And I was like what is this? And they explained to me and I would never heard any music like that. It was not one genre or another. It was just whatever they wanted to create. And I thought it was so interesting. And I started getting into music around that time like Led Zeppelin Black Sabbath. I started getting into that kind of music and I thought I have been missing everything. It is like having blinders on. And I started really diving into the history of music when I was around 14 years old.  So describe where you grew up.  I grew up in a town called Athens. It is in the northern center of Alabama. When I was growing up it was really slow and there was still like a lot of farmers in the area. The houses were sparse. There was a lot of fields a lot of horses and people kept goats. And then yeah  you know about 15 minutes away from where I was growing up which was kind of like in the woods you know in Limestone County  out in the county. About 15 minutes away you got Madison which is the city. And in the other direction you have Athens City. And that is where you know you got Burger King and you can go get some McDonald's and got to Walmart. And our town was a town where all the people who worked in the cities they would come and that is where they lived. So it was like a really slowpaced place. And that is a good place to stay forever you know what I mean? It is a good place to raise your kids raise your grandkids take care of your parents. It is just a really nice peaceful town.  And correct me if I am wrong your father ran a junkyard and a used car lot?  Yeah that is right.  So did you have a lot of stuff from the junkyard around your home?  Oh yeah so...  What is some of the coolest stuff that you had?  So the way our house was situated is we live down a long gravel driveway. And you are driving through these woods and then you cross a bridge over a creek. And then you keep going up this hill. And on either side of you it just starts filling in with junk cars newer cars boats motorcycles a shop. And I mean it is all around you. And then you get to the top of the hill and that is where  you know we grew up in a little trailer but it was really nice. You know my mom was really good at making our home  no matter what our situation was  always felt like a home always felt really nice. And you know I just  I played with our animals. We had a lot of different kinds of animals. We had a  you know I grew up on a farm in a sense. But it was also a junkyard. So it was really interesting way to grow up because I would be playing on all these stacked up cars which is super dangerous. But then I would also go run around the woods with my dog and go play in the creek.  So the junkyard was basically in your backyard more or less?  Well the way I think of it is you are surrounded by the junkyard. And you are...  Right.  Think of it like a hurricane and you are in the eye of it  the little patch of grass that has the animals and the little trailer. And then the rest was just like to me it was like a labyrinth. It was an amusement park.  So you kind of lived in the junkyard is what you are saying.  Yeah absolutely.  Wow so that must have been an interesting experience. Did you grow up with an appreciation for how things could be reused  about like how one person's junk was another person's treasure?  I do not even think I even thought about that. My dad you know he is a usedcar salesman. And he is always making deals. So whatever I wanted I got. But it was used you know ?  Right.  It was not brandnew and shiny. It needed a little work. You know if we got a  I would say to my dad like Daddy I want a pony. And he would get me a pony except this pony bites. This pony's mean.  .  That is how it always was.  Were there animals in the junkyard?  Yeah but they had grass to graze and stuff. You know it is like there was a nice part in the center and then all around was the junkyard. So they you know  they had a good life.  My guest is Brittany Howard the front person of the band Alabama Shakes. Their album Sound  Color is nominated for six Grammys including album of the year. We will be back after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Brittany Howard who is the lead of Alabama Shakes and guitarist. And their second album Sound  Color is nominated for a bunch of Grammys. And I am going to play something from the first album. And this is the opening track of the first album which was also like the hit from the first album. And it is called Hold on. Let us hear it and then we will talk about it.    Bless my heart bless my soul. Did not think I would make it to 22 years old. There must be someone up above saying come on Brittany you got to come on up. You got to hold on. Yeah you got to hold on. So bless my heart and bless yours too. I do not know where I am going to go do not know what I am going to do. But must be somebody up above saying come on Brittany you got to come on up. You have got to hold on. Yeah you got to hold on. Yeah you got to wait. Yeah you got to wait.  So that is Hold On from Alabama Shakes's first album Boys  Girls and we heard my guest Brittany Howard singing on the song. She wrote the song. Brittany in this song you say that you did not think you would make it to 22 years old. Why not?  I think when I wrote that line it was more about look I am grown up now. Look at me. I have to make all these decisions for myself. I have to be responsible for myself. Here I am. I have to pay these bills. I never thought that my life would be like this. I thought I was going to be a little kid forever and I think that is where I was coming from.  Is there anything else you would like to say about writing this song? I mean this song helped put you on the map.  How the whole song started was it was me and our guitar player Heath our bass player Zac and Steve is our drummer. And when we got together all we had was music and I thought that the rhythm was really hypnotic. And it just kept going on and it did not really change so I used to try to write lyrics when I drove around in my work truck. I used to be a porter. So it is kind of like an outdoor janitor. So I would be outside all by myself all the time so I would keep a little book with me and I would try to write for it because it was just so  it was such a vast landscape. I could have done anything with it. And I was working every day and I was tired of working. I was not getting ahead. I was trying to pay for school. I was not getting ahead and I felt so downtrodden upon you know. I felt like I could not get no help and I was not going any place. I did not know what I was going to do and so I started writing based on that based on how I was feeling everyday  day in day out going in and out of work. And one night we were going to have a show and Heath said to me  he was like guys let us try to play that one track you know the one does not have words. And I said yeah let us do it and I will just sing what I have so far and make the rest up. And so we got on stage and here comes the part of the set where we are going to do the song and it starts going. I sang what I had and then after that I did not have a chorus and I just sang hold on. And people in the audience were immediately responding to it. And they thought it  because we were playing covers at the time they thought it was a cover song so they started singing it with us like yeah I know this song too.  .  But they did not know that we were writing it on the spot. And everybody just understood the structure kind of immediately and we just remembered it from there on. And we though yeah I like this song. Let us keep that song around. Keep playing it. And that is really how the song came to be.  That is great. So let us talk a little bit about your childhood. What I read was you have always worn eyeglasses. Did you have a problem with one of your eyes when you were born?  Yeah. I had what is called retinoblastoma and...  Which is  what is that?  It is like  I am not a doctor. I will do the best I can here but it is like having little tiny tumors inside of your eye. And so what they have to do is freeze them with a laser which can scar your retina you know depending on where those tumors are.  And did you have any permanent damage?  Yeah. That is what happened. Because of the location of it scarred my retina so my vision in my left eye is not you know 100 percent. I would say I could probably see about 10 percent out of it. And my sister had the same thing and I was fortunate enough that the tumors did not grow back. And I have been you know  I go every year but I am absolutely 100 percent fine you know?  But your sister  you said she was born on the same thing.  Right.  And when she was 12 she got it in her second eye and it was cancerous those tumors. And she died at the age of 13.  That is right.  What was your understanding of death when she died?  I think I was so young I did not understand the concept of what was happening. When she was really sick I was around 7 or maybe 8 years old. And I was concerned with things like getting a new doll or  why cannot the animals live in the house anymore? You know I was concerned about the way things were changing around me but I never had the concept of someone being terminally ill. I guess as a 8yearold I thought everything was going to work out.  My guess is Brittany Howard the frontperson of the band Alabama Shakes. Their album Sound  Color is nominated for six Grammys. After a short break we will talk about forming the band its surprising success and how that is changed her life. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Brittany Howard the lead singer songwriter and guitarist of the band Alabama Shakes. Their album Sound  Color is nominated for six Grammys including album of the year. When we left off we were talking about her childhood. When Howard was 8 her sister who was five years older died of cancer. Howard was saying that at the time she did not really understand what was happening. Was it very frightening to think that a sister could be taken away from you like that and that therefore maybe you were vulnerable too? You know not everybody is exposed to losing a sibling at a young age like that.  You know when I was  it is interesting.  Like being a kid it is just how life is.  You do not  never did I feel bad for myself. I did not know any better. I thought OK you know I have a sister she is sick. But in my mind you know I was like everything's going to be fine. We go to the doctor's the doctor's going to take care of everything. And really we just found out how do we live life? How do I play with my sister because she was blind. So how do we  you know we make games we play. She still  she taught me how to draw even though she was blind. She taught me how to write poetry.  She taught me how to play piano. It was just life. I did not feel bad for us. I did not feel sorry for us because that is just the way life was. And it was not until I got older that I started thinking about everything that our family went through.  Yeah. Well OK so your first album Boys  Girls starts with Hold On which we heard and with you singing about how you did not think you would make it to 22 years old. And the album ends with a song called On Your Way. And two of the lines in that song are on your way to God did you think of me? On your way to the promised land did you say she was such a friend? And in listening to that I could not help but wonder if that song was at all about your sister.  Yeah it was.  It is a beautiful song. Would you say a little bit more about writing it?  Losing my sister was something I did not deal with until recently because I just thought you know bad things happen sometimes and bad things happen to everybody. You know what I mean? You carry on. And we are just normal people. You know we did not have exorbitant amounts of money. My dad worked really hard doing what he does. My mom tried really hard to make us into good people. And I think that song  writing that song  was my way of trying to console myself because everyone tried to carry on the best. Do you know what I mean? And that was my way of having someone to talk to was writing this song and saying I acknowledge what happened; I need to make my peace with it.  Well let us hear it. This is Brittany Howard's song On Your Way and it is from Alabama Shakes' first album Boys  Girls.    On your way to die did you think of me? On your way to heaven did you say I will see you again? You and me why was not it me? On your way to the promised land did you say oh she was such a friend? Then they took you higher and I do not know if I can follow. You and me why was not it me?  That is Alabama Shakes from their first album Boys  Girls.  The song On Your Way was written and sung by my guest Brittany Howard who also plays guitar. So you know that song is about your sister who died when she was 13. How has your life changed being the only child after that?  It is weird the concept of before and after because to me it is all one timeline. You know I would say after my sister passed and my parents  it is hard to stay together when everybody's grieving. So they split and I went to live with my mom. We moved to the city in Athens and we lived in a little apartment. And that is really where I started learning how to play guitar 'ecause I was alone most of the time. She was working. And I was just like there is something to do. I have still got this guitar.  I am going to learn how to play it. And trying to find some stuff do with my time  I drew I wrote I learned songs. And that was  I think of that after  that is when I was really  I put importance in all the things that my sister had taught me when I was little  how to draw how to write poetry. And I took all those things I knew all those skills I knew and I started using them. So I think of it as a kind of nesting period for creativity because that was my thing that I had to do.  I had one thing to do because I was living in a tiny apartment and it was really boring you know.  There were not a lot of kids to play with.  So I spent a lot of time with myself entertaining myself.  I know your house was struck by lightning about a year after your sister died. Was that the place that you would moved into in town with your mother or was that the trailer you were living with you parents in before they separated?  No that was actually while my sister was still going to the hospital.  Oh.  Yeah so what happened was I was staying with my grandmother because I stayed with her a lot  my grandmother Ruby. I stayed with her a lot and I would do that when my parents were taking my sister to the doctor's. So nobody was home at the time. So all I know is you know wake up the next morning  as not got a house no more.  Wow to have such terrible things happen in such a short period of time  did you feel like you were being chosen for hardship? You know?   No you know that is the thing that keeps coming back to the resilience of children because I just thought this is how life is. This is how it goes. Stuff happens. It is not until I started getting older that I realized no stuff like that does not happen to everyone.  No that really does not .   It does not.  It really does not. So when you fell in love with music  both with listening to it and playing it  where could you go to hear it performed?  Oh I did not have anywhere to go. So I think the first concert I went to I was  I think I was 12  11 or 12. And it was actually  ironically  it was actually our guitar player Heath he had another bad. It was his band. That was the first band I ever saw. And I thought it was amazing. After seeing his band play  what they did was you know they had some bands that were going to our school. And what they did was they went to the principal and they said hey can we throw a concert in the old gym? We will donate the money to build a new football stadium. And he was like yeah do it. So probably about 45 50 kids showed up that night and we watched them play. And I was like that is what I want to do because I was so amazed at  it was like having a double life. It was like watching a James Bond film. It was like I did not know these kids had these talents. And look how cool they are. Look at everybody looking at them and thinking the world of them. I was like I want to do that. I could do that. And you know as soon as I saw that I was like I am going to start a band; I am going to be in a band. And I must have played with over you know 1000 kids trying to get a band together.  What are odds that in such a small town there was a group of musicians  you know you and your band mates  who were that good and who were able to do what you have done?  Well when I think back on it I think it is miraculous really because I been watching Heath. You know I used to sneak out of my house and go see his band play. And they were playing songs by Bowie. You know I was really into Bowie when I was coming up songwriting. They were playing songs by Prince. I have always loved Prince. Nobody else was playing music like that. A lot of the music was country or pop country. You know we had a lot of rappers. Nobody was playing rock 'n roll music especially not this kind  especially not like Black Sabbath and things that I respected and I enjoyed. So I used to sneak out  this was about the time I was 15 years old  I would sneak out and go see the band.  And you know of course everybody's underage drinking and all this stuff but I was not interested. I would always go with an express purpose of watching this band. Maybe I could talk to them. Maybe they will listen to my music. Maybe I could start playing with them. And I feel like everything was divine the way we got together because the first time I met Zac you know we did not really like each other. We did not like each other's personalities and that is OK.  But you know we both liked to play music. And I said  you know I did not know him. I approached him in school.  We shared a class together. I said I would really like it if you could listen to my music. I have been writing some music and I would like for you to listen to it. And at the time I was doing these demos where I had all the instruments laid out all the structure laid out. So it was like making you know your own little record. And we got in his little Honda and we drove around listened to it. And he said OK yeah I will play with you. And that is where it started. It was me and Zach and the floor of my father's trailer. We would get together and we would just play every day every day until he had to go home. And we never stopped.  So you mentioned that you used to sneak out to hear music. Your mother during one period to prevent you from sneaking out padlocked the door. Was it the door to your bedroom or the door to...  Oh my God.  ...The trailer?  So it was the  I had my own door that goes outside because we lived in this old house you know it was just an oldstyle house where you could split the house into a duplex.  So my room had a door to outside. And let me tell you  she sprayed some Great  I do not know if you know it what Great Stuff is...  no.  But it is like a hardening foam  I do not know it is like a hardening adhesive foam. She sprayed the door shut and she put a padlock on it. She was trying to keep me in there.  Was that a good idea?  It did not work.  How did you get out?  When she was at work I would just chisel the Great Stuff off and keep the padlock making it look like it was close when it was not closed.  And then I would turn my TV all the way up and I pushed the bed away from the door. She also put the bed in front of the door. I would push the bed away from the door and just sneak out.  If you are just joining us my guest is Brittany Howard and she is guitarist and lead singer for Alabama Shakes. And their latest album Sound And Color is nominated for several Grammys. Let us take a short break; then we will talk some more.  This is FRESH AIR.  This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to my interview with Brittany Howard the front person of the band Alabama Shakes. Their latest album Sound  Color is nominated for six Grammys including album of the year. So you have had the chance to perform with people who I am sure you never thought you would get to meet let alone play with. And I am thinking specifically of Paul McCartney and Prince. Did you talk to them before the performance and let like  do  in a situation like that do you try not to be the fan but to just be the fellow musician or  you know what I mean ? How do you...  Yeah yeah yeah.  How do you decide how to approach it when you are meeting somebody who is such  whose music was such a fundamental part of your childhood and who you look up to and so does everybody else in the world?  It is interesting because I never know who I am going to get starstruck by. You walk up to them. You can be nervous but then once you start talking sometimes the conversation just flows naturally and it does not feel awkward or forced. You know someone like that was Paul McCartney  meeting Paul McCartney. He is just a guy that was in a really good band. He is like super nice and down to earth and good at making you forget he is a Beatle. He is just a nice guy and I like him a lot. And that was really cool. It was a really cool experience but I did not fangirl you know? I did not ohmyGod ohmyGod. Prince  I was barely hanging on with Prince.  .  I was just thinking like do not blow this.  .  Do not say anything stupid. Quit talking. You are talking too much.  You know in my head I was really trying to keep it together but you know at the same time he started talking and I realized you know oh we are actually  you know we have a lot in common. He is just a dude just the dude who wrote a lot of really good song. And you know the person that I got starstruck by was Jeff Bridges.  Really? How come?  The Dude. I do not know. He was just  he is just such a legend on the screen you know when we were growing up as teenagers . And now here's the dude right in front of me and I did not know what to say. I think I just made a sound like a squeaky sound  and then I left the room. Oh man. So if you are listening to this Jeff let me try again man. Let me try again.  Let us close with the title track from Sound  Color. And this is another original song of yours that has a kind of science fiction space story behind it. What is the story behind the song?  Basically I had built a photo shoot set that looks like spaceship and I had it down there in my studio in my basement. And while it was still set up I went down there and I was you know writing for the record. And I was inspired by this setup I had done there and I wanted to write something different. And so I started writing about an astronaut that was sent on a mission to find a new Earth. And they put him to sleep and everything's going as planned. They put him out there and he wakes up and everything's wrong. Everything's chaotic. Everything's different and he is getting these flashbacks and his brain is not functioning. And he realizes that he is been asleep for 500 years. And once that sinks in the music kind of goes through these  sorrow and anger and all this grief. And then finally he just accepts it. You know I am out here alone. But at the end there is a new beginning because the sun rises over this new planet that he had found. And even though he is alone it is just so beautiful.  Yeah Sound  Color has strings. There is a vibraphone. Are these the kind of instruments you were able to do on the new album because you were able to be more ambitious? You had more money to make it.  Well yeah. You know I bought the vibraphone and you know we got a...  Oh it is yours? Are you playing?  Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah. I love vibraphones you know. And  yeah I was also playing it in the begin