 On Sunday night the Iranian film A Separation won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film. This was the 35th international award for the film including top prize at the Berlin Film Festival and major prizes from American critics organizations. It is currently playing in theaters in this country and our criticatlarge John Powers says that A Separation is not just a remarkable film but one that takes us inside a country that is far more complicated and fascinating than the one we get from the news headlines.  Over the years we have grown used to thinking of Iran and the United States as enemies  from the Ayatollah Khomeini dubbing America the Great Satan to the dispute over Iran's nuclear program which has led President Obama to spearhead international sanctions and some of his Republican rivals to talk of bombing Iran. It is beyond my pay grade to say what all this means in geopolitical terms. But I do know that such enmities had one obvious cultural consequence It stopped most Americans from seeing or even wanting to see Iranian movies. This is too bad for over the last quartercentury Iran has produced some of the best and most artful filmmakers anywhere. They take us inside the Iran we almost never see the country as it is actually lived day to day. No Iranian film has done this more accessibly than A Separation. Written and directed by Asghar Farhadi this domestic drama is smart beautifully acted and astonishingly gripping. It grabs you like a crackerjack thriller. I am not kidding when I say that it is better than any of the Hollywood films currently films being touted for the Oscar. The story begins with a wife Simin played by the ravishing Leila Hatami trying to convince a magistrate to let her divorce her husband Nader played with superb prickliness by Peyman Moadi. You see Nader refuses to emigrate with her and their teenage daughter Termeh. He will not leave because he insists on staying to take care of his aging senile father. While this may sound like a routine divorce picture  you know Kramer vs. Kramer Goes to Tehran  Farhadi quickly spins things off in unexpected directions. The uppermiddleclass Nader hires a devout workingclass woman Razieh to look after his father. But Razieh has not asked her hotheaded traditionalist husband Houjat for permission to take the job. Soon there is a scuffle the authorities get involved and through a series of clever revealing plot twists I will not spoil for you we start seeing everyone in a whole new light. If you look carefully at the film's architecture you can see a metaphor for today's Iran. You see how Nader and Simin's life is dominated by the needs of an imperious old man who is hopelessly out of touch just like those ruling mullahs. You see how Simin and Nader's story is emblematic of changing ideas of men and women. She wants to get away from the old patriarchal ways with all its kowtowing and lies while he though sensitive and decent is grappling with the loss of male prerogative. And in Nader's bitter dispute with Razieh and Houjat you see a clash that in both class and religious terms echoes our own culture wars between the socalled blue and red states. This is a country brimming with all manner of separations. Yet what makes the movie so good is that Farhadi never makes you feel you are watching a sociological tract. You are watching living breathing characters who just like real people turn out to be far more complicated than you first think they are. Nobody is a villain everybody has their reasons. The devout downtrodden Razieh has secrets up her sleeve. The angry Houjat is actually a decent man. Simin does love her husband while he adores their daughter Termeh and craves her respect. In fact it is the watchful Termeh like all the young of Iran who will pass the final verdict on who is right and who is wrong. A Separation is a movie that keeps expanding like one of those paper pellets that when you drop it in water blossoms into a flower. In the process Farhadi turns the story of one couple's collapsing marriage into a vision of an entire society. We see its tyrannies and fanaticisms its explosions of violence and small moments of tenderness its bullheaded men who refuse to lose even if it means lying and women who believe in telling the truth but not always.  John Power is film and TV critic for Vogue and vogue.com. So I have a doubledose of good music news. Catherine Russell a terrific singer has a new album and next week she is going to record a FRESH AIR concert. We will close with a song from her soontobereleased album Strictly Romancing. 