 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. Our guest Jeanne Lenzer is a former physician's associate who worked for years in emergency rooms until medical studies showed a treatment she and others used for chest pain was actually causing deadly heart rhythms. Her search to understand what went wrong led her to a new career as an investigative medical journalist. Her new book is about the potential dangers of the millions of medical devices implanted in our bodies  artificial joints cardiac stents surgical mesh and pacemakers among many others. Lenzer says medical devices are approved with far less scrutiny than drugs and many highrisk devices go to market without clinical trials. Lenzer writes about several devices that have proved problematic. And her book focuses in some detail on a treatment for patients with drugresistant epilepsy. An electrical device is implanted in the patient's body that sends regular impulses to the vagus nerve which runs from the brain down through the neck chest and abdomen. A review of clinical studies by the Cochrane collaborative found the vagus nerve stimulator effective in reducing seizures for people whose epilepsy does not respond well to drugs or for whom surgery is not a good option. The Cochrane review also found that more studies needed on the effectiveness and side effects of VNS therapy. Lenzer says there is reason to believe the VNS device can cause deadly cardiac symptoms and that it is been approved with virtually no research on how many patients implanted with VNS die. Jeanne Lenzer is a longtime contributor to The BMJ formerly the British Medical Journal and her writing has appeared in The New York Times Magazine The Atlantic and other publications. Her new book is The Danger Within Us. Well Jeanne Lenzer welcome to FRESH AIR. Do we know how often medical treatments cause problems and harm people  essentially the cure becoming the cause of injury?  We do not. There are people with the Lown Institute and other places that are trying to get some numbers on this but it is very hard to estimate how often drugs and devices are unnecessary and how many people they are harming. One of the problems with devices is that nobody's really tracking the numbers of harm  or the rates of harm I should say. So the FDA has a database where doctors and hospitals can report deaths and serious adverse events but they do not know how many people are implanted with a particular device. So if you have 100 deaths in a database from a particular device  I mean if there are only 200 of those devices implanted in people that is really scary. If there are 2 million people implanted that is another story. And that is exactly what we do not know because the FDA does not require manufacturers to report how many people are implanted.  And it is not that hard. We plant chips in our cats to keep track of them right?  Right yes. And Walmart tracks how many heads of lettuce they have on a shelf at any given time and they know exactly how many heads of lettuce they have to replace. They can track those a lot better than we are tracking medical devices implanted in people.  You know we are aware of some awful stories about medications  drugs that prove to be problematic like Vioxx. But you say we are a lot less skeptical about devices that get implanted in our bodies. There are a lot of them. Just give us some examples of things that we are carrying around in our bodies  medical devices.  So there is everything from what seem like very lowrisk devices like surgical mesh that is put in women to prevent stress incontinence  urinary incontinence used in men for hernias all the way up to implanted cardiac defibrillators and pacemakers all the way to deepbrain stimulators WiFienabled computerchipped devices as well as combination devices that actually have drugs embedded in the device. So there is drugeluting stents. There is spine implants that have biologic products implanted with it that have caused serious drug reactions and death. And the problem with devices is  you know there is several problems that are actually unique to devices compared to drugs that are actually far more concerning. One is that you often cannot remove the leads from drugs. So there is wire leads going from many devices  into the brain into the heart on the vagus nerve. And these often become embedded in scar tissue and you cannot remove them. They can also interfere with CAT scans. And turning them off electrically sometimes only the specialists know how to do that. And there is some horrific cases of patients being  where the electrical impulses are affecting them in a way that is very painful and it takes quite a while for them to turn off the device.  You know drugs are regulated and devices are by the Food and Drug Administration. And you note that for a new drug the FDA typically requires at least two randomized trials so there is some sense of whether it is safe and effective. What is required of manufacturers of new medical implants?  Well to explain that I have to go back to 1976 which is the year that devices came under the regulatory authority of the FDA. Prior to that there were lots of implanted devices. There were pacemakers. There were artificial hips. And what the FDA did in 1976 when they took control of approving devices is they said OK you guys are already all on the market. You can stay on the market. We will divide you up into three classes  lowrisk mediumrisk and highrisk. That is Class I II and III. And the highrisk devices you are going to have to prove that you are safe after you are on the market. Well the problem is most companies never submitted any safety studies afterwards. And in fact a study showed that five years after a device was on the market and they required a postapproval study 40 percent had never been conducted.  I just want to make sure I understand this. You had to show the studies after it was already on the market  after thousands of people have the devices implanted.  Sure. And even now when a new device comes on the market like the vagus nerve stimulator the company  it is not uncommon for companies to be required to prove safety after it is on the market. And the tragedy with the vagus nerve stimulator is they actually gave just conditional approval to the device. And the reason for that was they were concerned  and this is a direct quote from the FDA transcripts. During the scientific review one of the scientists said I am concerned about the high rate of deaths among these patients in test studies and who were implanted prior to approval. So the FDA panel decided that they would just give conditional approval  meaning that OK we do not know if it is safe but you will have to prove it is safe after it is on the market.  I want to talk about one very specific case that you discuss at length. But first you know you describe how we got to this situation where there are so many devices that seem to be relatively loosely regulated. And you are right. There are three major developments  one an explosion of medical technology starting in the '60s. A second development was the passage of Medicare in 1965 and the growth of private insurance. How did that affect this?  Well until the 1950s medical care was very cheap. I mean in fact a study in the early 1900s showed that the biggest loss when people were hospitalized was not medical costs. It was simply the loss of pay from work. There was not much that people did in hospitals other than have a nurse maybe to cater to them so they could stay in bed or some cheap antibiotics for pneumonia. That was about it. The problem with the explosion of medical technology in the '70s when the first CAT scans and MRIs came on the market is that they were so expensive that the average person could not afford it. And that meant there was a very limited market for those kinds of tests. But with Medicare  and at the time Medicare was enacted. It was opposed as socialized medicine but it was actually the exact opposite of socialized medicine. It was actually fee for service. Doctors could charge anything they wanted to charge  whatever they considered customary and usual costs which meant that their prices exploded. And they would charge that to the government. And there was no cap on the government payments. So we then had a whole group of older people who are insured essentially through taxes by the government. But doctors were charging on fee for service. Then what that meant was that regular care for people had really transformed. I mean now we had ways of treating people that were very different than before. But all the people who were not covered by Medicare certainly could not afford it. So then we got private insurance to cover those people.  Right so there was in a sense a huge market and a lot of money to be made if you could figure out a device that physicians and hospitals wanted to implant.  Absolutely.  You also  another develop you said was an act of Congress in 1980. Explain this and why it mattered.  So that was the BayhDole Act. And with that act what they did was encourage what they call technology transfer so that universities for the first time could actually patent rights. And academics were encouraged to partner with industry. And the whole point of a university theoretically was to have an independent place of inquiry where they did not have to have fear or favor regarding what they found. And if they found that certain chemicals were dangerous  environmental toxins whatever  they were supposed to be able to do that without  again without fear or favor. But by partnering with industry that all began to change. And we began to see research that was basically entirely controlled by industry. And that is what we have today. Most research is actually either conducted solely by industry or it is partnered with academia and with the national institutes of health.  And so  and if industry is funding a lot of research and funding chairs and positions and faculty there is a financial interest to you know to do things that gets the industry where it wants to be with a particular drug or device.  Yeah. And that is not just conjecture. There are multiple studies that look at behavior and outcomes and interpretations of medical studies when they are conducted by industry versus by truly independent sources. And invariably what we find is that industry accentuates the positive and eliminates the negative. I mean they have repeatedly been found guilty of suppressing bad outcomes and they get fines for this regularly. In my book I list numerous fines that companies have paid over and over again for concealing deaths and bad outcomes. And they just consider that part of the cost of doing business.  You know this collaboration between medical research and academic research and private industry I mean obviously presents at least the potential for conflicts of interest. The argument on the other side is you know we want these brilliant minds in academic institutions to be producing stuff that helps us  that actually improves our lives. That was the idea behind the act was not it?  Maybe. I mean I think we have to question how much we are being flooded with dangerous things when we do that. I mean there is upsides and downsides to every course of action. And certainly we want to be able to transfer the knowledge that is obtained independently to people who will market these products. But I think that what we need is a clear dividing line in these roles so that we do not have industry telling us what is safe and what is not safe. They should produce the products. And we need to have independent assessments of those products. I mean think of it like cars. Would you go to Toyota to ask which car is the best car on the road or the most fuelefficient car or the safest car? I mean most of us would want to go to consumer reports or some independent entity. And that is what most of us want for medical research. We should not have to go to Medtronic to ask what is the best way to treat back pain.  Our guest is Jeanne Lenzer. She is a medical journalist and has a new book about problems with implanted medical devices. It is called The Danger Within Us. We will continue our conversation in just a moment. This is FRESH AIR.   Our guest is Jeanne Lenzer. She is a medical journalist who has a new book about problems with implanted medical devices. It is called The Danger Within Us. There is a guy whose story runs through the book that illustrates one of these cases. He is a man named Dennis Fagan who was a firefighter and paramedic in Corpus Christi Texas. First of all just explain what was the medical condition that he faced.  So he had epilepsy. And he was managed with medicines for many years.  And they  the seizures became more and more troubling and he needed something different. And so he turned to this  his neurologists I guess suggested this medical device. Tell us what it was and what it  what it is and what it does.  So he recommended a vagus nerve stimulator. He was not all that enthusiastic about recommending it but it was sort of a lastchoice option. And Dennis was ready to try anything so he had this vagus nerve stimulator implanted. And it is like a little matchboxsized generator that is put under the collar bone a lot like a pacemaker. And then lead wires  these wires are tunneled under his collarbone up to the neck where the vagus nerve is. That was the idea  that it would stimulate the vagus nerve and therefore stop his seizures.  And explain...  Or at least reduce them.  And explain what the vagus nerve is.  So the vagus nerve is a long nerve that runs from the brain all the way down to the anus. And it basically sends branches out to every organ of the body regulating virtually every function in our body from heart rate to digestion to orgasm and elimination.  All right. So this was marketed by a company called Cyberonics right?  Yes.  Just tell us a little bit about what this company is and what made them think that stimulating the vagus nerve would have a positive impact on epileptic seizures.  It is not really clear. I mean there was a fellow who first got involved in patenting it for seizures and  Jacob Zabara. And he tells a story about watching his wife do Lamaze breathing during childbirth. And he says that that made him wonder if the vagus nerve could somehow mediate what was going on that she was moderating her pain with this breathing which is mediated through the vagus nerve. And he wondered if that could somehow affect seizures. And then they ran a couple studies. The first study the FDA did not approve. And the second study that they demanded was the basis for approval even though there are some questions about whether it really showed any significant difference in seizures. It depended on the way you looked at the study and the way you divided up the numbers. The bigger problem was that how many people died. And that was the rationale for FDA when it considered the device only gave conditional approval for the device. The problem is that the basis of that approval the conditional approval based on the concern about a high number of deaths high rate of deaths is that they were not required to tell patients this.  So the FDA gave it conditional approval because there was concern about deaths. What happened next? Did it go on the market?  Well the idea  yeah it went on the market in 1997. And the idea of conditional approval is that once the company proves it is safe after it is on the market then its approval is complete. When Dennis Fegan contacted me one of the first things I did was go to the company  and this is a dozen years after it was on the market  and asked them for the evidence that the device was safe. Had they ever proved it was safe? And they sent me five studies. And I read all five studies very carefully and not one of them reported any deaths. It is not that they reported there were no deaths it is that they had no report about deaths. So I called the FDA and asked them for what evidence they had the device was safe. And they said oh it is safe. We will send you our evidence. And they sent me the exact same five studies that the company had sent me. So I thought I must be missing some unpublished data here. I went back to the company and said do you have unpublished data about deaths? I need to know about deaths. That is why this device was approved conditionally. And they said we never collected data on deaths. So for the five studies that they submitted they never recorded how many people died if they died when they died. And then when I pressed them they said well we did collect mortality data from the Social Security Death Index. And I said well  you know at the time I was writing for the British Medical Journal. And I asked to release those data on behalf of the British Medical Journal. And they refused to release the death data. So I went back to the FDA certain the company was going to get slammed. I mean here it is. Here's a device on the market over a decade after it was approved and yet they would never done a study looking at deaths nor would they release the death data. And when I brought all this to the FDA the FDA said it is safe. And I said how can you say it is safe when we do not have death data? And their answer  and I have it in writing  is we never asked the company to count the number of deaths. We only asked them to characterize death.  Meaning what?   Well how you can characterize deaths without knowing if anybody died is anybody's guess. I mean theoretically you can say well the idea is did they die of pneumonia? Or did they die of sudden heart death? You know those might give you clues into the problem. But how do you report the nature of a death if you are not collecting any death data? And what I really think is important here is not just about the VNS device. VNS is just an example of many devices like this. Again like I said 40 percent of conditional approvals have not had a postapproval study five years after it is on the market. So people are being subjected to devices that scientists may have had serious concerns about and yet they do not even know if they are safe or not.  Jeanne Lenzer is a medical journalist. Her new book about medical devices is called The Danger Within Us. After a break she will tell us about Dennis Fegan's neardeath experience in an emergency room. Also David Bianculli reviews Electric Dreams a new Amazon series based on the works of Philip K. Dick and the new season of Black Mirror on Netflix. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. We are speaking with medical journalist Jeanne Lenzer who is written a new book about the risks and implanted medical devices such as artificial joints cardiac stents and pacemakers. She says they are approved with far less scrutiny than new drugs and some can cause serious harm. Her book is called The Danger Within Us. I want to return to the story of Dennis Fegan. Dennis Fegan this firefighter and paramedic who suffered from epileptic seizures and out of some desperation got this vagus nerve stimulator planted in him this little box with wires that would stimulate the vagus nerve that runs down his body and hopefully ease his epileptic seizures. He ended up in a lifethreatening situation in  when was this  2009 I guess.  2006.  2006. Tell us what happened.  So one night he was awakened about a  with a pain in his throat. About 2 in the morning he woke up. And he knew that the pain in his throat was associated with a seizure so he got up and he put a vertical mark on his calendar on that date. And he used that calendar for his neurosurgeon and his neurologist so that they could manage his medications.  So he could count...  Well by the...  ...He  it was a way for him counting them right? Yeah.  Yes. Yeah. And when his parents found him the next morning they saw him stumble out of his room and fall unconscious onto the floor. And when he came to he got up sat down on a dining room chair and immediately fell facefirst into the floor again. This time you know he is afraid of falling again so he wiggles across the room with his back against the wall. His legs are splayed in front of him. His jeans are soaked with urine. He looks half dead. His parents frantically call for an ambulance. By the time the ambulance gets there he is already passed out eight more times. The paramedics figuring he is having seizures  as Dennis thought he was having seizures  gave him seizure medication that they injected in his arm. But it did not stop the seizures. So they rush him to the hospital where the ER doctor also gives him more seizure medicine seeing his seizures. And again he cannot stop the seizures. And the ER doctor is frantic. He you know thumps Fegan on the chest trying to bring him back to life. And that is when he notices something very curious. Fegan's heart is stopping at precisely threeminute intervals. This makes no sense to the ER doctor. He calls in a cardiologist. The cardiologist rushes downstairs looks at him. They both see the same thing. And it is only when the neurologist arrives  Fegan's neurologist  who says oh Fegan has a VNS device and it is set to fire at exactly threeminute intervals. So the device instead of stopping his seizures was stopping his heart. So they rushed to turn off the device. And when they finally get it turned off the seizures stop immediately and Fegan does not have anymore. They send him up to the ICU to recover. And the next day Fegan learns that his heart has been stopped by the device. And that launches him into a decadelong battle with FDA regulatory authorities and the device manufacturer.  So to be clear there was this unanswered question about how many deaths might be associated with the vagus nerve stimulator. And in this one specific case we find that every three minutes as the stimulator fires its electronic pulse this man's heart stops. And that ends when the device is disabled right?  Right. And Fegan gets concerned about other people implanted with the device and wants to know whether it is happening to other people so he finds out about the FDA's MAUDE database. It is a database where all device adverse events are kept. And when he looks into the database he sees that many people have actually had very similar experiences to his own but also many have died. And he is wondering you know if I would been found dead he told me everybody would have said I died of epilepsy rather than the device. And it is only because he lived and there is a recording in the ER of what happened to him that anyone knows it was not because of epilepsy. It was because of the device.  This raises one of the interesting issues about these devices and their regulation. The FDA has this database at which physicians and hospitals are expected to report problems  adverse events with medical devices. Sounds like it would be a smart way  and the FDA says it is the way  we look for red flags. Why does not it work better?  Well first of all there is a study showing that only about 1 percent of all serious adverse events make it into the FDA's adverse event database. And something that really surprised me was it turns out that the more serious the event was the less likely it was to be reported. Manufacturers are supposed to report these adverse events. And there is some leeway granted to them about determining whether the device event was related or not to the device. So you know sometimes people cough and sneeze when they have a device. It does not mean the device caused it. The problem is is that there is no independent party assessing whether these problems are related to the device or not. So leaving that decision to the company presents a real conflict of interest.  Yeah. So for example if someone died because this stimulator had actually stopped his heart it could appear to be epilepsy and therefore would not appear as an adverse event associated with the device.  Absolutely.  Right right.  That is a big problem. And that is something that I refer to as cure as cause where  doctors assume that when a patient dies  and I did too when I was in practice  that a patient has a heart attack they died of a heart attack and the bad heart rhythm that went with it. We do not assume that it is the drug or the device that we prescribed for the patient. And that is a real problem because it turns out that the kind of studies we need  there really should not even be a decision about whether a side effect is due to the device or not. We should just count up all the adverse events all the deaths that occur in the patients who are implanted and in the control group. And that would give us a far better picture because it turns out that the kind of studies we need  there really should not even be a decision about whether a side effect is due to the device or not. We should just count up all the adverse events all the deaths that occur in the patients who were implanted and in the control group. And that would give us a far better picture of what is going on.  Coming back to Dennis Fegan he was obviously deeply troubled by what happened in the emergency room and started gathering information about this. He also decided he wanted the vagus nerve stimulator removed and he consulted a surgeon about that. What did he learn?  Well he was told that he could have the generator taken out but not the lead wires the lead wires that tunneled up to his neck and were wrapped around the vagus nerve because many surgeons have found that the wires become enmeshed in scar tissue. And it just becomes too dangerous to try to tease those wires out of the scar tissue. They can tear and destroy the very nerves that are next to them and even the jugular vein and the carotid artery that are right adjacent to the vagus nerve. So it is too dangerous a surgery and they left the lead wires in but took the generator out.  Dennis Fegan was frustrated by what happened to him and one of the things he considers is a lawsuit. It turns out he is unable to sue and he learns why. What is going on here?  Well it turns out there was a Supreme Court ruling in 2008 called Riegel v. Medtronic and it is also called the preemption ruling. And what it means is that patients who are implanted with highrisk devices that went through the premarket approval process called PMA are not allowed to sue. And the basis for that is  is that supposedly they underwent rigorous testing proving the device was safe.  So patients can sue in the case of a drug that they think has harmed them but not in devices that have gone through this process.  Not in certain devices  that is right  certain highrisk devices.  Jeanne Lenzer is our guest. She is a medical journalist and she has a new book about problems with implanted medical devices. It is called the danger within us. We will talk some more after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is 're speaking with Jeanne Lenzer. She is a medical journalist. She has a new book called The Danger Within Us America's Untested Unregulated Medical Device Industry And One Man's Battle To Survive It. You argue in this book that the FDA does a bad job of regulating these devices because they have become heavily influenced maybe even captured by the industries they regulate. This is a big subject but briefly what is the evidence of that? What is happened here do you think?  Well part of the problem is  is that the FDA commissioner the lead legal counsel used to be civil servants who came up from within without having to fear political interference. There is a former FDA scientist who told me that decades ago  yeah they might get a call from a politician now and again and say hey what is going on that you are holding up this device approval or that problem? And he said you know we would explain it and that would be the end of it. That is no longer the case. We have had a number of instances now including an episode dubbed Devicegate in which all of the scientists agreed that certain devices should not be approved because they were unsafe and ineffective. And yet the devices were put on the market over the unanimous opinion of their own scientists when politicians made phone calls to FDA superiors. This is really stunning that politics is trumping science. And it is getting worse now with 21st Century Cures Act that was passed in late 2016 which essentially is deregulating even further.  You know most of us ordinary patients in the world are not going to do research about medical devices right? We are going to trust doctors to know what works and what is safe. Broadly speaking should we?  This is a terrific problem. I mean I have a medical device implanted. I am very happy with it but I got to confess. I did not research it because the truth is we are dependent on the research that comes out of these companies. And that is where I wanted to alert the public that we need to make some structural changes so that we can trust these devices. As you said we cannot individually research them because we do not have the capability to do it. Even if we read the studies that are released we do not know that we can trust them. And I will give you two examples of just how difficult the situation is. One of the people I talk about in the book is a man who was harmed by a hip implant. Well it turns out that man is also an orthopedic surgeon who specializes in hip replacements and yet he landed up being poisoned by his hip implant from cobalt that leaked out of the hip and destroyed his muscles and tissues and even caused some degree of heart damage. Another example is a Medtronic executive that I report on who had a Medtronic device implanted in her spine and suffered just terribly disabling and painful effects from that device. So even people who are insiders and who should know do not really know.  So how do we protect ourselves? What should we do?  I do not really think there is any individual way to find out which devices are really safe except I will say this. You can go and check the FDA's database and look up the device and see if there are warnings about it. But beyond that if it is a device that is recommended many of them do work great. I mean lives are being saved and transformed in many positive ways. And that is part of what troubles me. I mean I would not have bothered with this if I did not feel that there was some merit in the field. Medical devices can be wonderful. What we need is to be able to tell the difference between the ones that do not work and the ones that do work.  You know we focused a lot on this one case  the vagus nerve stimulator. You write about several others in the book. Are there other devices that are particularly problematic?  Yes. The Sprint Fidelis leads that go to defibrillators pacemakers were found to have fractured and cause serious injury and death. And these were implanted in hundreds of thousands of people. And this is one of the problems with devices  is that you know what do you do once you are implanted with something that may be dangerous? Having them removed in 15 to 18 percent of people nearly 1 in 5 people suffered serious adverse events or death when they tried to remove the leads. Hip implants have leaked chromium and cobalt and there are other problems. Pelvic mesh  again a seemingly simple device. It is just mesh after all  surgical mesh. And yet it has grated through tissues like a cheese grater through cheese and caused what is called fistulas  holes between the rectum and the vagina and causing serious pain infections hemorrhage. There are all kinds of problems with medical devices that people might want to think about first. And one of the common things I hear from patients is you know now that I think of it my problem was not that seriou