 This is FRESH AIR. Rosanne Cash's new album The River  the Thread is her first record of original material since her 2006 recording Black Cadillac. It is based on a series of trips she took in recent years throughout the South. Rock critic Ken Tucker has a review.    I am going down to Florence going to wear a pretty dress. I will sit atop the magic wall with the voices in my head. Then drive on through to Memphis past the strongest shows. Then on to Arkansas just to touch the gumbo soul. A feather's not a bird. The rain is not the sea. The stone is not a mountain but a river runs through me.  For the past two decades Rosanne Cash has lived with her family in Manhattan but in 2008 she was asked if she wanted to help with a project to restore the childhood home of her father Johnny Cash in the small town of Dyess Arkansas. She agreed and went down there to do some fundraising. And in the process she and her husband producersongwriterguitarist John Leventhal took some car trips throughout the South soaking up history and music. The creative result is The River  The Thread an album that works as a travelogue a series of vivid history lessons a memory piece.    Well you are not from around here probably not our kind. It is hot from March to Christmas and other things you will find will not fit your old ideas. You will learn on shifting sands. Walk across a ghostly bridge to a crumbling promised land. If Jesus came from Mississippi if tears began run I guess I will start at the beginning. It is a world of strange design.  Throughout this album Cash and Leventhal  she wrote most of the lyrics while he wrote most of the music  have found canny mixtures of country folk rock pop and even jazz to create atmospheric songs about things they saw and remarks they overheard. One of the album's most striking compositions is Money Road. It is a road in Mississippi where within the space of a few miles can be located three important cultural occurrences the site of what is now considered the grave of blues innovator Robert Johnson; the grocery store in which the black youth Emmett Till flirted with a white woman and was hung for that transgression in 1955; and the Tallahatchie Bridge the site of Ode to Billie Joe Bobbie Gentry's 1967 hit about two lovers who drop something forever mysterious off that bridge. The result is an eerie evocative piece of music that braids all these strands together.    I was dreaming about the Tallahatchie Bridge. A thousand miles from where we lived. But the long line at the pearly gate the keepers of our fate none of them will congregate out on Money Road.  All is not spooky ominousness to be sure. The album is filled with lovely melodies and vocal performances that match anything Cash recorded at the height of her 1980s fame on hits like Seven Year Ache. Take for example the beautiful song 50000 Watts a kind of gospel song with a shuffle beat.    It is a hard road but it fits your shoes. Son of rhythm and brother of the blues. The sound of darkness the pull of the oak. Everything is broken and painted in smoke. But there is a light on Sunday a new old desire the sound of the whistle across the radio wires. Love and your future await for you there. Fifty thousand watts of common prayer. Fifty thousand watts of common prayer. Fifty thousand watts of common prayer.  One of the recurring themes of The River  The Thread is the notion that music can be a repository for history as well as a way to heal old wounds old heartache. On When the Master Calls the Roll two lovers  based loosely on two of Cash's relatives from the Civil War era  are reunited in death in everlasting bliss. On other songs that kind of healing works on narrators who grapple with contemporary struggles. Taken together the result is a concept album  a timeless work of comfort and quiet joy.  Ken Tucker reviewed Rosanne Cash's new album The River  The Thread. 