 Eleanor Friedberger is best known for the numerous albums she is recorded with her brother Matthew as the band The Fiery Furnaces. She also has a new solo album  her second  called Personal Record. Her collaborator here is songersongwriter John Wesley Harding. Music critic Ken Tucker has this review.    In the back of the taxi you turned off the TV and read me a book on your phone. Here's the return of your skeleton key. Oh baby the places we have gone. If that was goodbye then I must be high. You know I will be seeing you soon. If that was goodbye then the snow in July is in your hand in the middle of June...  One major source of pleasure in the music Eleanor Friedberger makes as half of Fiery Furnaces is a matter of sheer density  the density of The Fiery Furnaces' musical ideas the thick layers of words lyrics that operate as dense sounds with meaning to be extracted from them. By contrast the music and lyrics Friedberger has crafted for the aptly titled Personal Record are not of lighter weight  as an artist she is never a lightweight  but these new songs possess a buoyancy that can belie the words.    I do not want to bother you but there is something to say that I want you to hear. It is hard when you are far out; I forget when you are near. I would rather be two inches from your face than floating about in a different state. I do not want to bother you but there is something to say. I do not want to bother you...  That is I Do not Want to Bother You a lovely melody that contains a lyric in which the narrator protests against complacency and mere contentment. She sings that while the person she is addressing the song to has given her everything she would ever wanted she wants something riskier. Quote I want to be scared and I want to be haunted Judgment impaired by despair. Doubtful unsure and thrown offbalance by someone else's opinions and desires  these are some of the elements that inspire the sound of this new album.    I could see the tops of her white socks just beneath her desk. Her pants did not reach all the way down her legs. And you know what happened next? I said hi politely and we went to town for coffee. Yeah yeah yeah yeah. And that was when I knew oh that was when I knew I was wrong wrong wrong all along. Oh that was when I knew yeah...  Eleanor Friedberger has collaborated on all of these new songs with John Wesley Harding the British singersongwriter and novelist. It is always dicey for an outsider to try and guess who contributed what in any given composition but generally speaking what I hear on this album that distinguishes it from Friedberger's previous solo and Fiery Furnaces work is a certain tightening of the rhyme schemes and a narrowing of focus. A song such as My Own World for instance sounds like the sort of composition that could have been written by British novelists of small quiet moments such as Henry Green or Ivy ComptonBurnett. It prizes quietude and the way small everyday actions  working at a desk clipping coupons  can illuminate a state of mind.    I was living and breathing and sitting quite quietly watching the TV and minding my diet. Oh I moved from my desk onto my treadmill and I tried to move mountains or nothing but molehills. So what do you what do you want to interrupt me for girl? Leave me in my own world own world.  In a recent interview Friedberger said that one goal of this album was to quote write beautiful love songs that could be about you your exboyfriend or your aunt. That is actually a very ambitious goal couched in modesty. And that is what the best of this socalled Personal Record attempts to locate the wonder and elation to be enjoyed from living the most ordinary moments of one's life with as much awareness as possible.  Ken Tucker reviewed Eleanor Friedberger's new solo album called Personal Record.    You will never know me but it is not from any lack of trying...  You can download Podcasts of our show at freshair.npr.org. Follow us on Twitter at nprfreshair and on Tumblr at nprfreshair.tumblr.com. 