 This is FRESH AIR. After writing books and essays about endoflife issues and advocating for the right to die my guest bioethicist Margaret Battin has had to wrestle with the issue in her own family. Her husband Brooke Hopkins an English professor at the University of Utah where she is also a professor broke his neck in a bicycle accident in 2008. It left him with quadriplegia dependent on lifesupport technology. In order to breathe he requires a ventilator some of the time and a diaphragmatic pacer all the time. He receives his nutrition through a feeding tube. This is technology his living will gives him the right to decline. Although he is chosen to keep living there have been times he is told his wife he wants to die and she is had to decide how literally to interpret that. Battin and Hopkins are in their early 70s. She is a distinguished professor of philosophy and still teaches fulltime. When he is doing well and not suffering from one of the many infections that have plagued him since the accident he is able to do some teaching from his home talk with friends who come to visit go in his wheelchair on walks with his wife and even occasionally get taken to a concert or museum. Battin and Hopkins were profiled in the cover story of last Sunday's New York Times Magazine. Peggy Battin welcome to FRESH AIR. At what point were you able to talk with your husband and ask him what his wishes were if he preferred to live or to die? And I am making the assumption here that that was a conversation you felt you needed to have that his quality of life was so drastically different from what he thought he would want to live with that you felt the need to have that conversation?  It is odd that we did not have that conversation. At least I do not recall that conversation. And I think it is because in those early days you are so intent on survival  can he pull through these respiratory problems? And once those were a little more stabilized and he was able to communicate there is a whole new  phenomenon and that is the enormous expression of love and affection and concern from family members friends people you have not seen for five years this overwhelming involvement and concern by other people. So your circumstances are so altered and altered by this phenomenon that does not occur for most people in their ordinary lives; you do not have all of your entire family and your entire range of friends all showering you with love all at once. That is quite heady in a way. You might even say it is even sublime in its extraordinariness. That made a huge amount of difference. So at the beginning we would been told that the initial paralysis would last five to six weeks anyway and only after that would you have some sense of realistic prognosis. So while you worry about it you knew that there was no point in thinking about it until after this period. Would he be able to get up and walk away eventually? Well maybe. That is the kind of thing you cannot tell. So such a choice would have been premature. Also walking is not the only thing in the world.  So when was the first time that you were actually able to talk with your husband about whether he wanted to live or die where he had enough information so he knew something of what his future would be?  I cannot recall Terry exactly when that might have happened. It is one of those things that comes as an understanding. But for the first couple of years I do not think we talked about it very much at all.  For the first couple of years you did not.  That is right. I do not recall talking about it very much. We kept a detailed account of our thinking about things and there are reflections in that account about how one's existence has been transformed how one's way of seeing things  everything from eating to sex to friendship to how those are transformed. But I do not recall discussions of dying.  The impression I have gotten reading about you both is that there is times when your husband has told you that he wanted to die and there is other times when he is told you that his life feels full and has some rewarding aspects that it did not even have before his accident and injuries.  Mmhmm.  But how do you as a bioethicist who is advocated for the right to die feel about  like how do you interpret it when your husband says he wants to die? How do you know whether that is something that he is going to change his mind about in five minutes or whether that is something that you need to take seriously and honor?  Well I think you have to take it seriously. That does not mean that because he says I want to die right now that you have to marshal action about it. He has said that he wishes to die. I have heard this however a number of times in situations in which he is  in which typically an infection is brewing. And he also recognizes that. So he will say but I do not really mean it or I really really desperately want to stay alive. So it is in a way it is up to me to try to sort out whether the request to die is an expression of distress or whether it is genuine.  That is some huge responsibility.  Well it is not easy I can tell you that. It does not diminish in any way my belief and firmly considered position that people ought to be able ought to be legally protected legally empowered to control the character of their own deaths. I do favor legalization of Death with Dignity laws but that does not mean that these decisions are always easy. I am not a physician I do not pretend to be so under the Death with Dignity laws it would be the physician who made the determination of whether acceding to this request was appropriate or not.  If your husband reaches the point where he feels life has lost any pleasure or meaning for him and that the pain or the helplessness or the despair is more than he wants to handle any longer and he decides that he would prefer to end his life if that ever happens somewhere down the line what would his options be? And I ask this knowing that you are not only his wife but you are also a bioethicist who is an expert on the right to die.  Mmhmm. I can tell you it is a very very strange experience to have spent 20 or 30 years  30 years actually thinking and writing about these issues and having been involved in various sorts of public defense of the right to die favoring...  Court cases probably right?  Court cases right teaching courses writing papers writing books doing research all those things. You try to always take account of what folks on the other side of this issue say. So I have been interested in conjectures about the possibility of abuse for instance or inadequately reasoned choices. But to have it become so real...  Mmhmm.  ...that someone you love  and love a lot deeply  would be enmeshed in the same  it is not quite the same but in the very kind of choice that you had been thinking about academically for so long is an extraordinary experience. In one way it is a healthy experience. That is it forces me to rethink everything. And even doing that and even given the acute you might almost say agony of being so close to something that is so difficult it does not change my basic position that people should be recognized to have the right to not only live their lives in ways of their own choosing but  be the architects of their own lives but that includes the very to the ends of their lives especially since the very end makes the greatest amount of difference to some people.  Your husband once asked to be taken off the ventilator and to be allowed to die. And he was removed from the lifesupport technology that sustains him. So before we get to what happened how did he reach the point of asking to do that and how did you reach the point of going along with him on that?  Well this was together with one of our staff who is a respiratory therapist and she and I were there and he had said he wanted to die a number of times. And this moment was just a moment where this seemed to be the right thing to do. So he said I want you to disconnect it all. He was in a state of considerable anguish. I want you to disconnect the ventilator. We did that. We turned off the oxygen and showed him that it was off. So there he is without any of these things. And he sat in his wheelchair. This was in the middle of the afternoon. It was a very gray  happened to be the first of April April Fool's Day although there was nothing fooling about this. And he sat there as upright as he is able to make himself sit with his eyes closed. And he sat there. And he sat there. It was completely silent in this room. After some very very long minutes he opened his eyes and he looked around and he said am I dreaming? Am I alive? And it took the respiratory therapist and me quite a while to have him understand that yes he was still alive. He was not dead. And when finally he understood that he said oh I am so happy. I am overjoyed he said. And this is a phrase he would not characteristically use but he said I am a particularly happy camper. He was elated. So what lesson do we draw from that? Now...  Did he not realize and did you not realize that he was capable of breathing on his own for several minutes without the life support machinery?  Yeah. No both the respiratory therapist and I knew that he would not die or not die immediately. That is because he is often not on the ventilator. It is also the case that he often does not require supplemental oxygen. So we did not think that that would be fatal. In fact we both knew that even though we did not have to say so at the moment. And furthermore we have all this rescue equipment around. We have the ventilator right there in the room...  Would you have used that though? Because that would have been violating his wishes. If he was serious about dying and then he started choking as if he were in the process of dying would you have revived him?  So that is a very hard question Terry. I think we would have tried to revive him right? Because you still do not know how serious his wish is. Now supposing though he had opened his eyes after a few minutes just the way he did and said what I am still alive? Are you serious? I am so disappointed. Oh no. This is wrong. Right? Would you have done it over again? Would you regret that you had done it? I do not know how to answer that.  Were you very relieved that he would reached this realization he actually wanted to live?  It was very  it was a huge relief for me and it was also a huge relief for him. And the respiratory therapist went home and cried she was so relieved. And we were all relieved.  Yeah. No let me just pose a question here. Because like say there was physicianassisted suicide and he was so convinced he wanted to die and he would been administered a lethal dose of something when it turns out there was still a part of him that really wanted to live. He did not know that? And he would not have been allowed to discover that. What kind of second thoughts does that give you as a bioethicist?  It does not give me second thoughts in the following respect because if you take these steps under the instruction of the law so to speak under the protection of the law there  it requires a much more formal process in the sense of making formal requests signing papers. There is a waiting period.  So it takes a lot of time.  It takes time. Under three of the statutes there is a waiting period of I think it is 15 days. There have to be two oral requests at least and a written request. And as I said there has to be a psychiatric or psychological consult if there is any question about mental capacity. And the kind of situation that he was in this sense of agitation at that time I think would not have passed those psych  that is they would have said that there is some extreme temporary anxiety here. I think. But a more considered more discussed more openly disseminated decision one that does not show any hints of ambivalence that I believe should be respected.  My guest is bioethicist Margaret Battin. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   My guest is bioethicist Margaret Battin. After writing many books and articles about end of life issues and the right to die she is had to deal with related issues in her own family. Four years ago her husband Brooke Hopkins broke his neck. He has quadriplegia and is dependent on life support technology but he can still talk and manages to teach some classes from his home. Besides teaching what gives your husband pleasure now? It is not food because he cannot eat. He gets his...  Well actually we have talked about food. He does have a feeding tube now and he has the if you can call it pleasure of being less likely to contract aspiration pneumonias. But we also thought about eating. Well if you think about eating what does eating involve? It involves the appreciation of the presentation of food. It involves the aroma of food. It involves the taste of food. Right? And you can still do all those things. You can see it. You can smell it. You can put it in your mouth and taste it. And then do what a wine taster does  spit it our discreetly. And so what you do not do is swallow it right? Well swallowing is the least interesting part of eating. Right? The pleasure is not in the swallowing. It is in all the stuff that comes before that.  Your husband was raised Catholic but identifies now as Buddhist and there is a Buddhist teacher who has visited him and talked about how the body is ephemeral. You know one...  The body is nothing he said. The body is nothing. The mind is everything. The thing about Buddhism  I do not have a sense that he is particularly interested in the theology of Buddhism such as it is but the sense of not looking backward at what you have lost  and he has not ever really done that very much nor has he been angry nor has he wanted to blame other people...  Including himself?  Including himself. Also this tradition discourages worrying about the future. But the thrust of Buddhism that was the most helpful for him was the focus on the current moment. Now that can be exaggerated and can be a source of philosophic complexity. What is the moment? How big is it? You know problems like that. But just to focus on what is here and now. So a way of thinking about it for me Terry is that well in my life what is here and now? Well I am talking with you. That is rather wonderful. Right? So I do not need to be worrying about what was in the past or what might happen in future if I enjoy the pleasure of this conversation. Even if it is about painful things it is still something good about this moment.  So Peggy I have one other question for you. Of all of the bioethics writing you have done over the years of all the writing you have done about the right to die is there anything you wish you could change now because of what you have experienced with your husband?  Well at one point I said I am tempted to go back and look at everything I have ever written on this topic and maybe throw it all away but as I do go back and look at it I do not see much that I would change. Except that the issue has become much much more subtle complicated. But it is not that the issue is more subtle it is that people are more complicated. A decision in any situation where right to die issues are coming up and as I said it is mostly terminal illness that every single one of the people facing death will think about it differently. These are all still people facing an end and considering how they hope to do this. I sometimes use the expression the least worst death. It is the notion of individual reflection on how given that death is coming anyway you could make it the least worst for you. That is the thinking that I do that has not changed at all. And it has not changed in Brooke's situation either. What would he regard as the least worst? Well that we will see.  Well I want to thank you so much for talking with us and I wish you well. And your husband too.  Thank you.  Margaret Battin is a professor at the University of Utah. She and her husband Brooke Hopkins were the subject of the New York Times cover story last Sunday. You will find a link to that article on our website freshair.npr.org. 