 This is FRESH AIR. I am David Bianculli editor of the website TV Worth Watching sitting in for Terry Gross. Our guest is Willie Nelson who at age 86 has a summer tour and a new album. We will listen back to two of Terry's conversations with Willie Nelson but let us start with our rock critic Ken Tucker and his review of Willie Nelson's new album. It is called Ride Me Back Home and Ken says Nelson sounds vigorous and upbeat on an album about aging and the passage of time.    Time is my friend my friend. The more I reject it the more that it kicks in just enough to keep me on toes. I say come on time. I have beat you before. Come on time. What have you got for me this time? I will take your words of wisdom. I will try to make them rhyme. Hey it is just me and you again. Come on time.   Time is my friend Willie Nelson sings on his new album Ride Me Back Home. The notion that time is a friend to an 86yearold man is more than a bit surprising but Nelson seems to have come to terms with what it means to get old. Deep into the song he sings time as you pass me by why did you leave these lines on my face? You sure have put me in my place. Anyone else would have set such sentiments to a melancholy tune or a grimly contemplative one. Willie however sings his words over a giddyup prancing beat. He rides both the melody and the lyrics on other songs here as well.    We rode into battle barebacked and saddled. You took the wound in your side. You pulled the sleds and you pulled the wagons. You gave them somewhere to hide. Now they do not need you and there is no one to feed you. And there is fences where you used to roam. I wish I could gather up all of your brothers and you would just ride me back home.  That is Ride Me Back Home the title song. Nelson makes it another metaphor for a more permanent kind of resting place. You can hear this album as the completion of a trilogy of albums about aging begun in 2017's God's Problem Child and continued in 2018's Last Man Standing. I think it is the best of the three as well as the most idiosyncratic. Only Willie Nelson master interpreter could coax me into listening to a cover of Billy Joel's Just The Way You Are a song I would otherwise happily go to my own grave never hearing again. Nelson's other covers include this gorgeous version of a Guy Clark song My Favorite Picture Of You.    My favorite picture of you is the one where you are staring straight into the lens. It is just a Polaroid shot someone took on the spot  no beginning no end just a moment in time that you cannot have back. You never left but your bags were packed just in case. My favorite picture of you is bent and it is faded. And it is pinned to my wall. Oh and you were so angry that it is hard to believe that we were lovers at all.  My Favorite Picture Of You very much fits into this album's recurring theme as Nelson comes down hard on the line just a moment in time that you cannot have back. Willie is thinking these days about all the moments he is experienced the pleasures he is had the work he is done. And he is savoring the labor he still can do addressing all this directly on One More Song To Write.    I got one more song to write. I have got one more bridge to burn. I have got one more endless night one more lesson to be learned. One more hill to climb and it is somewhere in my mind. I will know it when it is right. I have got one more song to write.  This album Ride Me Back Home certainly does not sound like Willie Nelson's final statement about anything. It is a lively restless collection that contains solid new material and a keen sense of selfscholarship. Perhaps only Willie himself remembered Stay Away From Lonely Places a song tucked deep into a 1972 album. But he breathes new life into it here. His voice and his spirit remain strong and supple. Interested in mortality but never its slave Willie Nelson may be preparing to greet death. But if so he is doing it in the most jaunty way possible.  Ken Tucker reviewed Ride Me Back Home the new studio album by Willie Nelson. Nelson's first album called ...And Then I Wrote was released in 1962 when he was primarily a songwriter and featured him singing his own compositions which included the Patsy Cline hit Crazy. Since then Willie Nelson has established himself not only as a recording artist and performer but as a movie star a selfdescribed country outlaw and one of country music's biggest living icons. When Willie Nelson spoke with Terry Gross in 1996 he brought his guitar along. She asked him about the first time he stepped into a recording studio to record one of his songs.   Rhino Records put out a box set  a threeCD box set of your recordings and they reissued this first recording that you made called No Place For Me one of your songs. Why do not I play that very early recording?  Sure.  And we will see how it sounded.    Your love is as cold as the north wind blows and the river that runs to the sea. How can I go on when your only love is gone? I can see this is no place for me. The light in your eyes is still shining. It shines but it do not shine for me. It is a story so old another love grown cold. I can see this is no place for me.  That is Willie Nelson his very first recording made in 1957. What were the circumstances under which this record was made?  Well I wanted to make a record and wanted to sell it over my radio program. I was with KVAN in Vancouver Wash. And I pressed up 500 copies and sold them on my radio show.  And the kind of echo effect the reverb  was that intentional or was that just the sound of the room?  Well I think there was a little echo in the room. But the  most of it was  there is a  there was an echo attachment on the recorder that we may have overdone a little bit.  Right. So then what would happen with this record? You sold 500 copies on your radio show. Did you send it to a record company?  Well there was a company out of Texas that if you sent them the money they would press you up their copies. And they would sell them to you at their cost. And you could sell them and make a little profit if you wanted to or just sell them and  for the advertisement. And that is basically what I did. I sold them over the air sold them a 8x10 picture and a record  I think both of them for a buck which is about what it cost me to make it.  You said when you were growing up all the music kind of blended together. You were a disc jockey for a while. So did you have a persona on the air? Did you go by your own name? Did you have a different voice that you used?  Not really. I did not have a different voice. But I used to open my show  when I first started out I had some disc jockey heroes that I ripped off pretty thoroughly. And there was a guy named Eddie Hill out of Memphis that I stole a lot of his things from. But anyway the way I would wind up opening my show I would say this is your old cottonpicking snuffdipping tobaccochewing stumpjumping gravysopping coffeepotdodging dumplingeating froggigging hillbilly from Hill County Willie Nelson.  Whoa . And did you write that yourself?  Well as I said I wrote a lot of it myself. And I ripped off Eddie and some of the other guys .  Right.  But it is some of theirs and some of mine all put together.  Now how did you get to Nashville where you started writing songs professionally?  I was living in Houston  in Pasadena really outside  working at another radio station there and playing clubs at night and writing songs. And I had written  one week I would written Crazy Funny How Time Slips Away and Night Life.  I am sorry. Did you say you wrote that in one week?  Yeah. I was working...   Geez. I wish I had a week like that.  That was a great  that is when I decided maybe I ought to go to Nashville. And so I took off to Nashville in my '46 Buick that just barely made it. I think it died when it hit the city limits. I went immediately to a place called Tootsie's Orchid Lounge where I had heard was the spot to be in Nashville if you want to find some songwriters and hang out a little bit. So  and sure enough it was the spot to be.  So just to make sure I am hearing correctly you wrote Crazy Funny How Time Slips Away and Nightlife in one week?  Yeah.  Did you say to yourself wow these are three great songs that will become classics?   Well I am afraid I was not that knowledgeable. I wish I had known then what they were going to do. Maybe it is better that I did not. I made enough mistakes as it was. But no I had no idea that these songs would be as successful as they have been.  Would you play one of those three for us now?  Sure.  Thank you.   Crazy crazy for feeling so lonely. I am crazy crazy for feeling so blue. I knew that you would love me as long as you wanted. And then someday you would leave me for somebody new. Worry why do I let myself worry wondering what in the world did I do? I am crazy for thinking that my love could hold you. I am crazy for trying and crazy for crying. And I am crazy for loving you.  That is such a terrific song. What came first when you were writing it? Was it the hook of crazy?  Yeah. You know everything sort of came from that. And I do not know where that one came from. Maybe it was a selfanalysis.   It must have been.  Now how did Patsy Cline end up recording it?  I went to Nashville and had that song and  with some others. And I met Hank Cochran who was with Pamper Music. Hank knew Patsy. He knew her husband Charlie Dick. And he took the song to Patsy and to Charlie. I think maybe Charlie heard it first and thought it would be a good song for Patsy. She was not too sure about it. It took her a little while to  I think the first day she went into the session she spent about four hours trying to sing it the way I was singing it. And it was not working for her. So the next day the producer Owen Bradley said why do not you sing it like Patsy one time? And that is what she did. And that is  and that song has gone on to be the top jukebox song of all times with Patsy Cline's recording of Crazy.  Willie Nelson speaking to Terry Gross in 1996. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to Terry's 1996 interview with Willie Nelson who has a new album called Ride Me Back Home.   I think it was before you went to Nashville that you wanted to record your song Night Life and one of the producers you were working with at the time  Pappy Daily  told you that you were not country enough. Do I have that right?  Actually I recorded in Houston for Pappy Daily. And I recorded Family Bible a couple of other songs. But Night Life they would not record it because they said it was too bluesy. It was not country. So I recorded Nightlife under the name of Hugh Nelson on another label across town just to prove a point.  And did you prove it?  Yeah. That particular record Night Life  I think it is still the best record of it. I did it with Paul Buskirk Herb Remington Dean Reynolds some of the greatest jazz musicians around Houston.  Would you sing the song for us now and maybe tell us about writing it?  Well this is one of those songs that I wrote on the same week I wrote Crazy and Funny How Time Slips Away driving back and forth from the Esquire Club to Pasadena every night.  When the evening sun goes down you will find me hanging around. The nightlife as not no good life but it is my life. And many people just like me dreaming of old usedtobe's. And the nightlife as not no good life but it is my life. Listen to the blues they are playing and listen to what the blues are saying. Mine is just another scene from the world of broken dreams. And the nightlife as not no good life but it is my life.  What was your nightlife like when you wrote that?  I do not remember .  Oh as if to prove a point .  Yeah .  Well were you really cutting loose for a while? I mean you were on your own and you were starting to make money with your career as a songwriter.  Well yeah. I was you know throwing it away with both hands.  .  The faster I would make it the faster I would spend it. Everybody else would travel on the bus and  I was still playing bass for Ray Price when Hello Walls made a hit and I got my first royalty check. So I you know started flying first class to all the dates  Ray's bass player right? I am making 25 a day. And I would get a suite at the hotel. Ray's got a regular room at the Holiday Inn you know and I got the penthouse. So the checks came and went  but I had a lot of fun.  Were you married at the time?  Yeah I was.  And did that bother you?  It bothered her.   All right. No when you really started recording in Nashville  your own songs  did you feel you had any trouble fitting into country music as it was?  At those  at that time?  Yeah.  Yeah. Well I did not. There was no slot that I fit in. My chords  my songs had a few chords in them and the country songs were not supposed to have over three chords according to executive decisions . And if it had more than three then it was not country and it should not be recorded. And my voice was not exactly  I was nowhere near Eddy Arnold. My phrasing was sort of funny. I did not sing on the beat. I had too many chords and I just did not fit the slots you know? And I would not take orders . I just  I could not you know? I did not know how to take direction that well. So I would not fit in any of these slots and so I became one of those guys that you know they had to call something else.  What were you called?  Well troublemaker at first. And then they found the word outlaw and they decided that smoothed it out a little bit. So they started calling us that.  Willie Nelson interviewed by Terry Gross in 1996. He has a new album called Ride Me Back Home and resumes his current summer tour in August. After a break we will listen to a more recent conversation featuring Willie Nelson this one a decade later from 2006. I am David Bianculli and this is FRESH AIR.    Stay away from lonely places. Just follow the crowd. And stay around familiar faces. Play the music loud. Be seen at all the parties and dress yourself in style. And stay away from lonely places for a while. Stay away from lonely places until you learn to live alone and someone's outstretched arms are waiting...  This is FRESH AIR. I am David Bianculli in for Terry Gross back with another of Terry's conversations with country music singer and songwriter Willie Nelson. He has a new album out called Ride Me Back Home. Willie Nelson was born in Texas during the Depression in 1933 and at this point is famous not only for his songs from Crazy to On The Road Again but for organizing his Farm Aid benefit concerts starring in such films as The Electric Horseman and Barbarossa and touring in a bus powered by biofuels. He is written more than 2500 songs. Terry Gross spoke with Willie Nelson again in 2006 and asked him about some of his earliest compositions.   There is a great album that came out oh about three years ago called Crazy The Demo Sessions. And it is demo recordings that you made after you were a DJ  when you got to Nashville. And these are  some of them are from the early 1960s. This one is. It is from 1961. It is just voice and guitar. It is a demo of his song Opportunity To Cry.    Just watched the sunrise on the other side of town. Once more I have waited. And once more you have let me down. This would be a perfect time for me to die. I would like to take this opportunity to cry. You gave your word. Now I will return it to you with this suggestion as to what you can do. Just exchange the words I love you to goodbye while I take this opportunity to cry. I would like to see you but I am afraid...  That is Willie Nelson in a demo recording he made of his own song in 1961 when he was trying to interest people in recording his songs. What was the fate of that song? Did anybody ever do it?  I do not think anybody'd done it but me. I would recorded it maybe a couple of times since then. It was one of those really sad almost pitiful songs.  In your new book you write I have always had my own way of singing and it was nothing like the way other Nashville stars sang. What did people think of your singing on the demos before you recorded yourself?  Oh I think a lot of the musicians understood what I was doing. And my phrasing was a little different and my chords were a little strange too. They were not your normal threechord country songs. And that was a little strange for a lot of the people in the industry at that time because country and pop had not really melted together like they have today in some instances so a song with a lot of chords in it was not considered to be that commercial. So I had fun trying to get those songs done.  When you said that your singing was different and your chords were different do you think that the chords and the singing were more jazzinflected in some ways? And had you listened to a lot of jazz?  Well I had listened to a lot of different kinds of music and I grew up listening to everything from Frank Sinatra to Hank Williams so I am sure I picked up a lot from you know every one of those guys. I lived across the street from a whole gang of great Mexican friends of mine who played music all the time so I was influenced by all that music. I worked in the fields with all kinds of people who sang and played in practically every language from Bohemian to Czech to Spanish so I heard all kinds of music. It was like being in an opera out there in the cotton fields. And picking cotton was not that fun but the music out there was incredible.  Did you sing when you were picking cotton?  Oh at the top of my voice.  Yeah.  Yeah .  What would you like to sing?  Oh I would sing what they were singing you know? I would  they would be singing over there singing some blues and I would sing some blues with them. I had no idea what I was doing but I was trying to sing. And I would just sing songs that I knew back then. I did not know many songs other than gospel songs back then. I sang you know Amazing Grace and songs like that.  Now in your new book The Tao of Willie you say that you wrote your first cheating song when you were 7 long before you knew firsthand anything about broken hearts and cheating. When you started writing songs when you were older did you know anything about like the structure of a 32bar song or how to write the bridge to a song? Did you think of the song in technical terms when you started seriously writing them?  No I never did and I still really do not. I just kind of write and sing what I feel like writing. And my timing is pretty good so you know I do not break meter that much. And my ear is pretty good so I do not play a lot of wrong chords. But you know as far as the lyrics and the singing itself everybody has to judge that for themselves. But back in those days I was writing about things I had  you know like you say at that age I could not have possibly known what I was writing about unless you happen to believe in reincarnation which I do and I firmly believe...  .  I come here knowing some things that I wrote about before I knew I knew.  You know in talking about country songs like  country songs have certain conventions in a way you know? Like a lot of country songs are about cheating or drinking too much or falling in love. I guess you could say the same thing about rock songs . But there is also like a subcategory of country songs where like you are feeling so bad you are just overwhelmed with selfpity. And one of the most selfpitying of the selfpitying songs is a song that you wrote that is included on your demo sessions that I really want to play and hear the story behind. So here it comes. This is Willie Nelson singing a very selfpitying song.    If I would only had one arm to hold you  better yet if I would had none at all then I would not have two arms that ache for you and there would be one less memory to recall. If I would only...  Then in the next verse you imagine having only one eye so he would have only one eye to cry . Did you think of...  That is pitiful.   Yes so selfpitying.   Did you think that when you sat down to write this that you would write the ultimate selfpitying song?  Well actually I did not sit down to write that one. The way that song happened I was lying in bed with Shirley and I woke up in the middle of the night wanting a cigarette. And her head was on my arm so I had to reach over on the side of the bed and get a cigarette and put it in my mouth and then get a match with that one hand and then try to strike that one match. So it all started from that.  Oh because you only had one arm?   Really? Is this really what happened?  That is true. That is a true story. So from the one arm I went into the one eye one ear one leg.   That is really funny.  .  And what was the fate of this song?  I recorded it a couple of times. Other people have recorded it. Merle Haggard recorded it. I think George Jones did. So it is got a pretty good history.  Willie Nelson speaking to Terry Gross in 2006. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to Terry's 2006 interview with Willie Nelson. He has a new album called Ride Me Back Home and he is on tour this summer with some dates featuring such other country stars as Alison Krauss and Bonnie Raitt. Through the years Willie Nelson shared the stage with lots of other musicians on tour including Kris Kristofferson Johnny Cash Waylon Jennings and on several separate memorable concert dates through the years Bob Dylan.   What do you feel you and Bob Dylan have most in common as friends or as songwriters or lovers of music?  Well I think all those things. I enjoy his friendship because he is a great guy. He is a little shy and reserved but you know so am I in a lot of ways so I understand that. We have written a song together one time. We wrote a song called The American Dream. And it was written in sort of a different way I guess because he sent me the melody that  a track that he would already recorded where he just hummed a melody. And so the whole thing was like . So it was kind of a strange demo. But the track was great so I wrote lyrics to the  to his instrumental. And it turned out I thought pretty good. We recorded it here in New York maybe just a month or so after we finished it.  My guest is Willie Nelson. Here he is with Bob Dylan singing Heartland which they cowrote.    There is a home place under fire tonight in the heartland and the bankers are taking my home and my land from me. There is a big gaping hole in my chest now where my heart was and a hole in the sky where God used to be.   There is a home place under fire tonight in the heartland. There is a well where the water's so bitter nobody can drink. As not no way to get high and my mouth is so dry that I cannot speak. Do not they know that I am dying? Why as not nobody crying for me?   My American dream fell apart at the seams. You tell me what it means. You tell me what it means.  Now you have a very recent CD of songs by Cindy Walker who is most famous for You Do not Know Me and Bubbles In My Beer. Did you know her well? She died just at about the time your CD was released.  Yeah and at the time we started doing this album I would  yeah I had known her a long time. She was a very good friend. And I had talked to her and we talked about doing an album of her songs for years. And she had sent me songs. And I had quite an accumulation of Cindy's songs and I knew a lot of them. But I just had not got into the studio to do it you know for one reason or another. And I am glad I did it when I did because Cindy's health was deteriorating pretty well at that time. And I was just hoping that I could get the album completed and out while she was still here to listen to it. And as it happened she did get to hear it before she died.  What did she have to say?  Oh she loved it. She called me up and told me you know a lot of great things about how she enjoyed it. And she really made me feel good about getting it done.  I would like to play a song from that CD. And I am going to give you your choice of one of her two most famous songs  You Do not Know Me or Bubbles In My Beer.  Well you know Bubbles In My Beer is a great uptempo song that I first learned from Bob Wills and the Texas Playboys. I had no idea who wrote the song when I started singing it. But I was a huge Bob Wills fan and I just tried to sing and play every song that they recorded. So when Bubbles In My Beer came out it was a natural because I was you know beer joint operator  I mean beer joint club player. So naturally it was a good song for where I was play it and it still is. It is a great piece of literature. And  so let us play Bubbles In My Beer.  Good enough. And this is from Willie Nelson's CD of songs by Cindy Walker.    Tonight in a bar alone I am sitting apart from the laughter and cheer while scenes from the past rise before me just watching the bubbles in my beer. And I am seeing the road that I have traveled a road paved with heartaches and tears. And I am seeing the past that I have wasted while watching the bubbles in my beer. A vision of someone who loved me brings a lone silent tear to my eye. As I think of a heart that I have broken and of the golden chances that have passed me by oh I know that my life's been a failure. And I have lost everything that made life dear. And the dreams I once dreamed now are empty as empty as the bubbles in my bear.  That is Willie Nelson singing the Cindy Walker song Bubbles In My Beer. We will hear more of Willie Nelson's conversation with Terry Gross after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us return to Terry's interview from 2006 with country singersongwriter Willie Nelson who is been recording albums for more than 55 years. His latest called Ride Me Back Home was released last month.   You know there is a couple of people who have been on FRESH AIR in the past year who have talked about how you changed their lives. And one of them was the songwriter and singer Billy Joe Shaver who talked about how you helped him the day his son died. And what he said was he was told that his son died in a heroin overdose. But Shaver says that his son had fallen in with some bad companions and he was not sure what really happened. And I want to play an excerpt of the tape here. I would like you to hear this. And in this part Shaver told me that the police took him to the hospital where his son was. And I will let Billy Joe Shaver take the story from here. It is the story of the day of his son's death and how you helped him.   I do not know what happened. I really  it is still  to this day I do not know what happened. And I tried to stay in there with him while they were checking to see if he is braindead. And the police ran me off and would not let me back in told me they are going to arrest me. Oh my God. And Willie Nelson I got to give him credit. He is the one that talked me back out into the world. He said come on Billy. He said you are supposed to play tonight. It is New Year's night. He said I will throw something together. And Willie sat up there and played all night long. And I would go up and sing every once in a while. I owe Willie a lot. He is been such a good friend. And he took me down to his house. And we spent a night there and had not talked in quite a long time. And he told me a lot of things because he knew a lot  he is a wise man. And he gave me some money. And you know it is hard being broke when you are in a situation like that. And then he paid for my son's burial. I did not have any money at the time. I later got some money from Sony. And I tried to pay him back and he would not take it.  That was Billy Joe Shaver on ngwriter and singer. And my guest is Willie Nelson. And Willie Nelson when Billy Joe Shaver told that story and he talked about how on the day his son died you got together a band and basically forced him to perform that night. It made me wonder if part of the reason that you did that was because you thought that the stage was the only safe place for him that night. Because it sounds like he was so upset about his son's death that he might have like drunk himself into a bad place or done something taken some action that he might have lived to regret.  Well I always find that on the stage is the safest place for me no matter what I have been into. If I get up there for a couple hours I can sometimes work it out. Most of the time during the show I can sort of clear my mind of whatever. So I knew that at this particular time Billy Joe needed to be working. We were at this club. And we were trying to make the best of a really bad situation. And I figured that that was the best way that I could help Billy Joe was just to get him back on the stage singing and playing and sort of living in the moment again and forgetting about what just happened if he could.  Did the audience know what had happened?  I think most everyone there knew what had happened. And they were all happy to see Billy Joe there because they also knew that this was where he needed to be  out with friends fans rather than trying to hole up somewhere.  I figure you must have known something about what Billy Joe Shaver was going through because you lost a son too. Did you perform after that? Did the stage seem like the best place for you?  Yeah. Right after my son died I had a gig booked in Branson Mo. And it was on New Year's Eve and he died on Christmas so it would have been real easy for me to cancel and go off somewhere and you know grieve alone somewhere for months or a long time. I could have done it. It was  it would have been the easiest thing to do but I did not. I just knew instinctively that my best place to be was somewhere on the stage. And it just so happened that I had a sixmonth gig there in Branson Mo. So I had six months and I think it was the best place for me especially at that time.  I want to ask you about somebody else who you were very close to and that is Johnny Cash. You knew him for years. You played together in The Highwaymen. How would you describe him as a friend?  Well a friend is a friend you know? A friend is with you good or bad any time. So John and I have always been friends and whenever  you know he would call me up several times when he was having a bad day just to hear a joke. So I would tell him my latest dirty jo