 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross.   Please welcome Miss Sharon Jones.  My guest is soul singer Sharon Jones. Her music is inspired by the classic soul and RB she grew up with by performers like James Brown and Aretha Franklin. She is backed by the horns guitar and rhythm section of the band The DapKings which also backed Amy Winehouse on her album Back To Black. Sharon Jones  The DapKings are known for their showmanship reminiscent of '60s soul revues. Jones is a powerhouse but in 2013 she was diagnosed with Stage II pancreatic cancer had extensive surgery and months of chemo. After finishing chemo recovering from the surgery and getting clean scans she returned to the stage and did a world tour with The DapKings. But then the cancer returned. The new documentary Miss Sharon Jones! is about the first seven months after her initial diagnosis. The film was directed by Barbara Kopple who won Oscars for her documentaries Harlan County USA and American Dream. Let us start with a song from the soundtrack of the new film a recording that was also used in a Fitbit commercial. This is 100 Days 100 Nights.    One hundred days 100 nights to know a man's heart. One hundred days 100 nights to know a man's heart and a little more before he knows his own. You know a man can play the part of a saint just so long. For a day comes when his true his true self unfolds. Yes it does. He may be mellow. He may be kind treat you good all the time. But there is something just beyond what he is told. One hundred days 100 nights...  Sharon Jones welcome back to FRESH AIR Congratulations on the new movie. Can I start by asking you how your health is now?  Well I had chemo yesterday. The doctors took me off of one chemo medicine the one that is causing the neuropathy. I told them I did not want to take that anymore because it is really causing more pain and stuff in my legs and causing a problem. But today is one of my  I feel one of my best days in the last few days. You know I am on and off. I take it one day at a time. And being on the stage with them performing and opening up for Hall  Oates for the last two and a half weeks and then doing three nights in a row one day off three  so I did like nine straight nights and a day off in between there so  but I feel pretty good.  That is an insane schedule when you are in chemo. That is just insane.  Yeah you know but that is my therapy being onstage. You know I mean it is like this cancer is here and I have to take the chemo but I want to perform. I do not want to be home just taking medicine and waiting to die you know? I  that is not something I am about. So as long as I got my health and the energy to  my voice is great so there is nothing wrong vocally. I just want to be able to get onstage and move and move around.  So making a documentary about you after you were diagnosed with cancer in 2013 that was the idea of your manager Alex. Why did he want to basically commission a documentary?  Well he went to VH1 and knowing VH1  'ecause I know the story now hearing it from Barbara Kopple and everyone. It is great. And he was like there is a story to be told here and VH1 been fans and wanted to do it. They took it on and they asked Barbara Kopple to direct it. And she is been a fan read up on me and what it was about and chose to do that. And here we are today.  What did you initially think of the idea and forgive me for asking something so straightforward...  Excuse me.  ...But if I were you I probably would not know whether this was going to end up as an obituary or a triumphant return to the stage.  Yeah. Well you know I think once Barbara Kopple took it on and the band  my goal was to  I had a February date and my goal was to be back at that date. And everything in the filming and there is a scene with  the church scene that was my first time even attempt to sing after months. And that is when I knew from the church scene that I was ready. I was going to be ready for February. I knew I was going to have the strength. You know my faith and my belief and and in myself I knew I was ready to go back out. And I knew that sickness was not until death. After  I thought I was going to die maybe a couple hours you know after the doctor hit me with everything. You know you go through that. So for a few  a couple hours I was on my deathbed . But other than that yeah I overcame that. And doing the film was also my therapy. And I knew that it would help someone out there with cancer or going through it. As long as I inspired someone because I was  that is where my health came from my energy came from knowing my fans was out there and I am getting back to them and I wanted them to see me go  what I am going through.  The impression I take away from the film is that you had a great feeling of responsibility for the band because the band is centered around you. You know there is horns and drummer and you know guitarists and everything but like you are the singer. You are the focal point so if you are not there the band's kind of out of work. And...  It is not only  it is not only the band. It is the whole  my whole I mean management my whole you know we got posters out. We got  it is so much you know. It is a whole big  we got an LLC. We got  it is a company here. And so  with a lot of people not getting paid including myself and one of the doctors was not included in the insurance so we have to pay out of the pocket money for you know. So it was  and believe it or not I did not know what was going on with one of my members. Thank God they kept that away from me. But I found all that out the night I watched the film for the first time in Canada.  Wait what did not you know about?  Like Binky going through divorce and then you know losing stuff and the gang...  Oh your guitarist yeah.  ...Not being able to get the loan and just different people in the band you know lost apartments and you know they had to move in with  so it was a lot that you know they did not put that on me you know. But I found out about it later you know in the filming so  but I had already knew I had to get back out there. I knew we had to. You know our money is when we work.  Well why do not we hear another recording? And this is from an album  you had to hold back an album when you got sick. And the album was...  Give The People What They Want.  Yeah the album's called Give The People What They Want. And there is a track from it that is on the soundtrack from the new documentary about you. The documentary is called Miss Sharon Jones! And so here's a song from the soundtrack and it is called People Do not Get What They Deserve. Do you want to say a few words about this song?  Oh no it was just  when we recorded that song you know we was trying to think should we have named the album People Do not Get What They Deserve or  I mean  but it came out to be Give The People What They Want. So that song was going to  it is going to be the title of the album. Are we going to just you know? And that is just a great song out you know. It is just a song we wrote and it is one of our first ones that we wanted to push out to get out there on a single.  OK. So this is a song included on the soundtrack of the documentary Miss Sharon Jones!    When I was a child I believed what they told me. To each one shall come what each one shall earn. And if I worked hard nobody could hold. And cheaters will fail. That is what they all learned. But there is a man who was born with a fortune. A hard days work he is never done. He lives from the sweat of other men's labor as he sips his champagne and lays in the sun.  That is my guest Sharon Jones singing People Do not Get What They Deserve from the soundtrack of the new documentary Miss Sharon Jones! which was directed by Barbara Kopple. And that featured The DapKings the band that backs her. You watched a lot of TV when you were sick but you do not say anything in the film about listening to a lot of music. Did you listen to a lot of...  I did not. I did not.  How come?  Because I could not sing. I could not get air because  people did not realize I was cut across the diaphragm all the way up from right under the midcenter under my breast all the way down to the top of my navel almost. They had to cut through the diaphragm through the stomach remove stuff. They removed like  10 pounds of things was taken out of my body.  You are kidding.  Ten pounds that I never gained back...  Gosh.  ...You know.  So you can only listen to music when you can sing?  Well I did not want to. I was just down. I mean here I am not performing. I have been working almost 20 years on the stage. And here it is these months  I went from May 'til actually September  when you saw me in that church sing was the first time I sang in months. You know and then I had to get prepared to do the  the Thanksgiving Day Parade in November. You know I had to get out there lipsync. Even though I lipsynced I still had to be up and be around you know.  And waving  I mean that is pretty strenuous when you have had major surgery.  Oh my God yes. And then December I had a lot of TV shows different things that opened up before. And then January I am doing all the TV shows and all this stuff and then February boom the stage. So I was preparing myself. Everything that I  you know the singing was there. It was not  I was not ready to do it. I could not get the air in. And to breathe you know to push it back out and so until we started rehearsing and yeah.  If you are just joining us my guest is soul singer Sharon Jones. And there is a new documentary about her called Miss Sharon Jones! Let us take a short break then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is soul singer Sharon Jones. And there is a new documentary about her called Miss Sharon Jones! It covers the time when she was first diagnosed with cancer in 2013 and went through her first round of chemo. And then ended up having to get right back to work go right back on the road. And amazingly she did like a world tour basically as soon as the chemo ended. And now the cancer has since returned. She is getting chemo again. There is a scene in the documentary Miss Sharon Jones! when you go to a church in Queens N.Y. and you sing His Eye Is On The Sparrow. And it is a really nice scene. I thought we could listen to you singing that. And this is  as you said this is the first time that you sang after getting the surgery and starting chemo. So why do not we hear that?  OK.  And then we will talk.   Again I just want to give my heart to God. And right now I am going to try to sing a little bit of His Eye Is On A Sparrow.  And I sing because I am happy and I sing because I am free. And God's eye is on a sparrow. And I know  oh yes I know he watches over me...  You were not holding back .  No I was  I was letting it all out. And I was  you know and that is a difference and an anointing came over me. I just opened my mouth and they just come out you know the air just flowed. And  and that was like I said from that day I knew that God had watched over me and he had me ready. I was going to be ready for February.  Why did you choose that song to be the first song and to be the song that you sang in this small neighborhood church?  Because if he watches over a little sparrow you know if he take care of the birds a little sparrow here I am one of his children you know? He got so many of us down here human beings that send our faith up and believing. If he watches over a sparrow I know he watches over me. And that was the song. And it is about I am singing you know because I am happy and I am free. When I get in church and I sing and  I mean singing is my life. And when I can do that that is when I am free. That is when I am at my happiest I am at my most.  What was the importance of the church in your early singing life?  I think it just prepared me for what to come out here. I mean to prepare me for when I was told I did not have what it took which I knew I was a singer. But you all was looking  they was looking for looks and style and...  Right you were told you were too short and too black and...  Too fat.  ...Too fat and...  And I just  I did not make it there with that  the younger  you know when I was in that youth in my late 20s 30s. And 40 was my first album. I got a chance to record and that  and the reason why I got a chance to record that because we built our record label and started Daptone. And then they finally got a label so I could have an album out Dap Dippin'. We do not have to worry about if I sold five or 5000 or 500. I was not  the record label was not going to fold under  fire me because I did not sell you know a million records or whatever. So we started that so we can do our music the way we wanted to and get me out there.  Since we just heard you sing in church tell us about the early churches that you sang in when you were a girl.  One of my church was in the south South Carolina right across the bridge from Augusta Ga. But that was the church  my first time ever attempting to sing for the nativity Christmas play. I played an angel and I got to sing Silent Night. And I was like maybe 8 9 years old. And I remember you know doing that and I was like hmmm. And those people that  true that little girl can sing. And I think right then and there I knew that I was going to be a singer. You know God had blessed me with a gift to sing.  Did you sing in choirs or did you usually sing solo?  Well at that time I was young. I just sang with my sister my sister Willa. We used to sing a little duet like  take the love with you oh. And she will take a verse and I will take a verse and you know that is how it just go on from there. You know and then later on in the church in New York I started going to that church at 14. And I just direct the choir. I never took any kind of vocal lessons or teachings of how to. I never even took piano lessons. You know a voice just came to me and said go play the piano in church and I...  .  And I followed my bass player my guitar player. And I just started playing piano with two fingers and I just started playing my chords. And that is where I am at  and listening to Aretha who was my biggest inspiration. And when I saw her on the Amazing Grace album and she had that dashiki on and she did this song Mary Do not You Weep and that was one of the songs  I said I am going to play this piano. And I can actually play a couple of Aretha songs but only can play gospel on the piano and stuff. But that was a big  and Mary Do not You Weep was one of my songs that I learned how to play and sing of Aretha Franklin.  In the documentary you say that you feel like a different person than you were before you got sick and that when you started performing again you wanted to  you basically wanted to figure out who you were. Who was this new Sharon Jones and who was this new Sharon Jones going to be on stage? So do you feel like you have been able to answer that for yourself as a performer?  Yeah the night I went out there it was like a different Sharon because the hair is gone. That energy  I mean everyone said my energy was great but I did not feel at all. Like Binky would always say oh 110 pounds of soul. I felt like that night maybe I gave like 90 of it or you know a little less. And even now the days on the stage I am just not myself. I do not have that energy and that leg stuff that lift up like I want to with the pain the neuropathy from certain chemo is like  it is a hinder. But I do the shows but it is not the same.  Right because you  for anybody who has not seen you perform you do a lot of dancing and jumping around on stage. You are not still.   So I could see how it would be very difficult to do that with neuropathy.  Yeah yeah. It is  some nights it is tough like I said. And to get past that pain and  you know and each night it seems like once Binky say Ms. Sharon Jones and I walk out there all the nerve's gone all the nervousness. And the pain you know I fight through it. You know those first couple of seconds or the first five minutes it is  you know it is the most that I could get through it.  I have to say though there is a point in the movie where you say if it comes to a point where you have to sing while sitting in a chair or on a stool that is when you are going to retire. And I thought that is ridiculous.  .  I mean. There are so many singers I love like jazz singers who spend so much of their career just sitting in a chair or sitting on a stool singing. And like that was great for me. I mean I love your voice. Like why would not you just sing sitting down if you needed to?  Well I guess  I guess I might have to if something like that happens the way you just put it. Like OK...   I mean really like do not retire if you end up having to sit down and sing.   Maybe then I will hire some dancers to come out and start dancing...  Fine.  ...Around the stage.  Fine.   My guest is Sharon Jones. She is the subject of the new documentary Miss Sharon Jones! We will talk more after a break. And our linguist Geoff Nunberg will trace the evolution of the slogan law and order. This is FRESH AIR.    You call me your woman. Then you go and do me wrong expecting me to carry on like it is good. We always hurt each other even though we are miles apart. You leave me with a wounded heart over you. Loving you it is so easy to do. You can say that we are through I will still be true.  This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with soul singer Sharon Jones. The new documentary Miss Sharon Jones! is about the first seven months after she was diagnosed with stage II pancreatic cancer in 2013. During that period she recovered from extensive surgery and had a long round of chemo. She returned to the stage after those seven months. But the cancer returned and she is back on chemo but still performing. Let us hear a song that is included on the soundtrack of the new documentary. Here Sharon Jones  The DapKings with If You Call.    I have been laying alone for hours. But I have not slept at all. These eyes are closed but I am listening for your call for your call. These feet too tired for walking. And these knees too weak to crawl. But these arms are strong enough to hold you if you call if you call. Am I dead or am I living? I feel no blood in these veins but I could live live and die like this forever if I know I will taste your lips again. Doctor doctor come cut my heart out.  That was Sharon Jones  The DapKings And that song is featured on the soundtrack for the new documentary about her which is called Miss Sharon Jones! and the documentary is about when she was diagnosed with stage two pancreatic cancer and had to go  undergo a pretty serious surgery very serious surgery and have a long round of heavy duty chemo. We were talking about returning to performing after the surgery and the chemo and figuring out like who is Sharon Jones now now that you have gone through all of that? And it seems to me like you are trying to be this like powerhouse on stage but allowing yourself to be just a little vulnerable onstage like when you first return at the comeback concert at the Beacon Theatre in New York. You still have a little bit of chemo brain and you are worried you are going to forget the lyrics. And you do on the first song. You blank on a couple of words.  First couple yeah.  Yeah. And you explain it to the audience. You tell the audience...  Oh yeah.  ...What is happening. They are totally...  Oh yeah.  ...With you. But I bet being even like the least bit vulnerable onstage was something kind of new to you.  It was new to me and that is why I take the time. I have to talk about it because if I do not talk about it it will hold me back and I will not concentrate. I will be concentrating on that you know  of what is going on. And I  even now when I get on the stage I tell the people what my day you know it is tough back here. I have been sitting back you know I have been in pain but I get through it. You know and I let them know that you know I am not wearing my little fancy dancy heels and I got to wear these shoes because they are comfortable. You know I just  and you know just got to wear what is comfort or I take them off and then I  and then once I tell the audience how I feel I relax. The pain go away or I can deal with it. And I am like thinking about it and I am just there to let the audience know and they see that I am you know  that is my therapy. That works for me. So I talk about it and go ahead and do it.  So you said that when you are onstage like the pain is gone you know  you just  you are totally in the music. But do you have to pay a price for that like the day after?  Sometimes or not even the day after  soon as I get off the stage I can go to the dressing room and maybe another half an hour hour later I can barely stand up you know. I could stiffen up again or you know sometimes. And then any other time I am like whoa I feel great today. You know so yeah  it is all  it is like a bomb. I just keep saying that over again. It is one day at a time. Each day is a little different.  And the band understands?  Oh the band I  and I learned certain things even if I am not like feeling  like I be in a lot of pain and if I tell them I am in a really lot of pain and they see that in my face it sort of gets them down because all night they watching me now. You know and sometimes I might tell them I am really you know  little pain so Gabe will start off too slow or calling slow songs and I look at him like pick it up pick it up you know. And so I have learned. Now I am like no matter what I am going to throw  look at them and flash a smile. I am OK guys you know. I am all right. Pain is pretty good. I do not feel that much pain. Even if I do feel a little bit more pain I have to get that smile and let them know that that pain is not that bad because they will read it differently. You know and I have to get through with it so they are watching me.  OK. This is not exactly like having a documentary but your record 100 Days And 100 Nights was used as music in a FitBit commercial. And so...  A coffee commercial yeah. That was in a couple.  Oh OK. So...  Yeah.  ...I know you watch a lot of TV. So what is it like to put on the TV and have one of your songs in a commercial?  Well wait it was that one and then also I did September for the Target. They had the  I did the cover of  what was that?  black   everybody dance ya'll. That was me when they...  That was you?  ...Did the summer denim stuff. Yeah that was me.   I did not realize that.  And so I had all of this just this year you know just from summer on up to the three commercials. Then the fourth one with the  and then this one  the Lincoln. I am  you see me in the commercial so...  With Matthew McConaughey?  Yeah so that was like exciting you know. Just all the stuff happening in the last few months and so it is really good to sit back. And you know those things was like great for me because everything I have done and everything I have gained in my life has been with my music. Thank God I got my manager before Alex came in and started managing me. I got the opportunity to be with them. The Crazy Love album with Michael Buble  and that Crazy Love album that recording was the down payment on my home for my mother. That is how I got my mother out of the projects and into the home from that. And believe it or not this September past up it is been six years now since I got the home and everything. And the commercial for the Target paid off my mortgage so my house is paid for  so two good jobs that helped me that I would not have had this thing if I had not had those opportunities to do that stuff.  That is great. My guest is soul singer Sharon Jones. She is the subject of the new documentary Miss Sharon Jones! We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to my interview with soul singer Sharon Jones. The new documentary Miss Sharon Jones! is about the first seven months after she was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in 2013. So I want to play a song that I suspect has different meaning for you now than it did when you first recorded it. And the song is called Retreat! and it was on your album Give The People What They Want which is your  the album that you had to hold back in 2013 when you were diagnosed with cancer. And it is also on the soundtrack album for your new film. So what did that song mean to you before and what did it mean after the diagnosis?  Well when we had recorded that I had not even thought about that song anymore  Retreat!  until I am laying in the hospital. And Gabe comes up like well we got to do a video. I am like of what? And he was like Retreat! You know that is the only that  we had released that. That was going to be for me to you know promoting  so that was already released so now what are we going to do? Now people are not going to hear from me again until months you know? So  and he is like well we are going to animate it. And they did the animation.  Right since you could not appear in it live.  Yeah. I could not appear in it so they did the animation and I was like oh that is going to be great. And I am laying in the hospital and I see this. I was like wow. I mean for one thing the drawing and the shoes and the dress  it was so cute. And I said they even put my mole. They had the mole on the side of my head which was great. And I am looking at this film and I am like wow it is like it is telling another story. And Saundra my background singer Saundra comes up you know Sharon that video is like just telling the people like the little wolves chasing you around that is like the cancer and how you just outgrew it and you just came back and you broke your mic out of the rock and you picked it up and you start walking over the world like tell them hey world I am back. I am back. And that  so that video and the scene in it took on a different meaning just like another song Get Up And Get Out that took on a different meaning. We changed that from  you hear Get Up And Get Out on the album and sounded almost like a country western a gospel  and but then when I do it live it is like a Tina Turner Rolling On The River type. I start it off slow and do it fast and I say  not only do I say get up and get out I tell the cancer to get up and get out. And if you do not get up and get out I am going to shout you out. And I get to shout. And I do that song each night because that lets the people know that if I got the energy to stand there and shout and sing that song  that is a highenergy song. And I do that for me to let me know that I still got the energy. And at night that is sort of like a ritual song for me to do. I get to express myself.  All right. So this is Sharon Jones singing Retreat! with The DapKings and this is on the soundtrack for the new documentary about her Miss Sharon Jones!    I see you coming from a mile away and you are looking real cocky. You think that you can keep the sea at bay. But it is about to get choppy. Play with me and you play with fire. I can make you pay. I will burn you up if it is my desire. Do you hear what I say? Boy you do not know what I am all about. I will chew you up and then I will spit you out. So if you know what is good for you retreat. Retreat yeah. Step back boy because you cannot fix crazy  retreat retreat retreat yeah. Raise your wife at night 'ecause I am coming in blazing retreat...  That is Sharon Jones singing Retreat! with the DapKings backing her up. And that song is on the soundtrack for the new documentary about her which is called Miss Sharon Jones! I want to go back a little bit to your very early singing career before you made it as a singer with the DapKings doing your songs doing the songs that were really for you. You sang in a wedding band. Did you do covers?  Oh yeah. Oh that is what we did was covers in the wedding band. The name of my wedding band  well we had two names. They started out with the John Lawrence Orchestra. And then later on it turned to Good and Plenty. And believe it or not that is how I met Saundra and Starr. So Saundra and Starr have been in...  Your backup singers.  Oh yeah they have been with me since the early '90s. And backup I you know we did the like the I Learned The Hard Way album. And you know you go in the studio  some of the first early recording I did a lot of the backgrounds myself you know tripled up on them. And then later we would get a couple of singers in and I still would sing with them too. I would be third person in that backing up of the album. But Saundra and Starr have been singing so long together and the three of us  and after going on the road what I learned the hard way  and no harm. I have you know Binky and Gabe and Fernando my conga player. They are like oh do not worry. We do the background for you. And you know Fernando have that little accent. And so we went on the road and I am hearing  I learned the hard way.  I learned the hard way baby. I was like oh my God. We are going to get some background singers right now.  .  And so you start traveling and they would hire some  you know like if we go over in Europe  over in Australia they had some sisters that got them. We would be in the States. I said look we got to get somebody that is permanent and along came Saundra. And Gabe  and I am like this would be good for Sharon. She needs this you know and I am back out there on that road and there you go. They came in and they was there with me and been the support. They helped me over the last five going on six years now. So they have been behind me these last six years. Then being away from the wedding and knowing each other so we have been around each other a good some years in here with us  18 20 years. We got some time in our friendship and backing up and singing together. So it is great having them  such an ease such a comfort. And now that they have their own album out  Saun and Starr Big Wheel  they also get to open up for me those nights that I have that long show now. And if I have to do an hour and a half they come out and do three or four songs maybe you know. And if I need to go off and come back they got me you know there. So it is all working out for the great in this. I am so glad they are there.  The DapKings has a great horn section including baritone horn so that gives such body to the sound like rhythm and body. And what is it like for you as a singer to have these great horns behind you?  That is all  they are there and you know and it reminds me of you know  you look back on the day you get records and you put them on. And to hear a good horn solo to like be playing something  go around like take a solo right there you know to hear that. And these guys  they are being such great musicians you know instead of that synthesizer  anybody can go up and press a button  you know. And you know like go  you know you get the drum machines. I