 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Maybe you have had the experience of living far away from aging parents in their 80s and feeling guilty about being too far away to help on a daily basis. You know your parents wish you were closer. But on the other hand they do not want you to meddle in their lives. That alltoocommon situation is central to the new novel They May Not Mean To But They Do by my guest Cathleen Schine. The daughter in the novel is a middleaged woman Molly who left her husband and her home in New York to move to LA to be with the woman she fell in love with. She is now on the opposite coast of her parents who are still in New York. When the novel opens Molly's father is terribly ill. He has a colostomy bag and urinary incontinence and dementia. And Molly's mother is struggling to take care of him at home. Our book critic Maureen Corrigan wrote I bet some of you are thinking who needs a novel about colostomy bags and grief? Oh but you do need Schine's novel at least you do if you are a reader who relishes acute psychological perceptions and lots of laughs to leaven the existential grimness. Cathleen Schine welcome back to FRESH AIR. Let us start with a reading from your novel. And at this point in the book Molly the daughter  the adult daughter is living in LA. Her mother's living in New York. Molly calls her mother every day. The mother is named Joy. So  this this passage is one of those phone calls were Molly's making a longdistance call to her mother.   You are too far away Joy said. So are you Molly said. But she said it gently and she meant it. She also meant to visit every six weeks. It did not work out to be quite that often. Do not come. Do not come. This is the worst winter we have ever had. It is not even safe to go outside Joy told her? And Molly pretended she thought her mother meant what she said. She put off her visit for two weeks three weeks then a month. The snow fell in New York then fell again. The sidewalks are sheets of ice Joy would say treacherous sheets of ice. The weathermen warned the elderly to stay inside. It was too cold too windy too icy. I went downstairs just to stick my nose out the door just to get some fresh air just to walk to the corner. But the doorman would not let me leave the building not one step far too dangerous. The doorman takes better care of my parents than I do Molly said to Freddie her wife one morning a beautiful morning the air brilliant and blue. Freddie handed her a cup of coffee. Thank God for those doormen. My mother says she has cabin fever. You know I could not do anything about that even if I were there. I cannot change the weather. And she will not come out here even to visit even for a week. Well how could she? She cannot leave Daddy and he certainly cannot come. So what good would I be there anyway if they cannot leave the house? I mean I spend more time with my mother on the phone now than I ever did in person when I lived in the city. Am I supposed to leave my job? Leave you? Leave my whole life?  Thank you for reading that. And that is Cathleen Schine reading from her new novel They May Not Mean To But They Do. So many of us have experienced what that reading was about living far from a much older parent. You want to be there for them but you have a life far away a job a family. And you do not want to give that up to move to where your parent is. But you feel guilty all the time. Imagine you experience that too?  Well yeah. I  the guilt  I mean I have so many sources but this is a big one. And I lived in New York for 40 years. And my mother lived there and I was very  you know I am very close to her. And I did move to California like Molly. And it was something I wanted to explore and to write about because I felt  I thought I would never leave New York. But at a certain point I fell in love with someone. My life changed. And also New York  I mean we lived in New York together for 10 years but at a certain point New York got to be too much for me. And I love it here. I love Los Angeles. And at the same time leaving my family behind my  you know was very very hard. And I do speak to my mother every day and we have gotten into you know certain habits of when we talk and what goes on. I find when I go back to New York and I stay with my mother we both instantly regress. And she starts telling me you know  she will say you cannot go out it is raining or do not you have a cardigan? Are not you going to wear a cardigan dear? And you know  and I will say mom leave me alone  I  you know like a teenager. And so that is sort of very intimate but  so all of that I just felt was worth looking at and exploring which is what I like to do when I write a novel.  I think your novel gets at that  for your character Molly for the middleaged daughter who lives in LA  that it is  she feels terribly guilty that she is far away from her mother. She misses her mother. She talks to her every day. At the same time she feels some sense of relief that she does not have to actually visit her mother every day and take responsibility for the clutter and the bills and the medical appointments and all the problems that are piling up.  Well I think that is where a lot of the you know guilt comes in because a part of us of  a part of the grownup children is thinking run away run away. And another part is thinking you know this is the person who has looked after me my whole life. And in my case my mother you know  I mean when I was much younger looked after me when I was in the hospital and was very sick. So it is a very complicated emotional relationship and a kind of stretching of the relationship across the continent. And I started the book wanting to look at the feelings of an adult child in this situation because you know it turned out  I mean it is what everyone I know talks about. We used to talk about our kids and what kindergarten they were going to go to. But you know  and then it was our kids and would they ever get a job and that kind of thing but I have noticed over the last few years that this is all we talk about. And so that is where I started from. But then I got much more interested not in the complicated guilty feelings of the adult children in this family; I got much more interested in the feelings of the mother who you know after all is this woman in her 80s who is an accomplished person and suddenly has to listen to the pontificating of her very bossy children  so just because she is old. And that then really interested me and brought me to another level of understanding of this complicated dance that goes on.  Did you almost like interview your mother not that the character of Joy is your mother but still to understand the character of Joy? I am sure it would be helpful to understand how your mother felt about aging about taking care of her husband about being separated from you about her own body being in decline. So did you use this as an opportunity to ask her things say you ordinarily might have felt uncomfortable pointblank asking about?  Well see you clearly have not met my mother...  .  ...And me in one room. We do not need to  I do not need to ask her anything and I do not need to feel uncomfortable where you know she is  first of all she is the funniest person.  .  We do not need to  I do not need to ask her anything.  .  And I do not need to feel uncomfortable where  you know she is  first of all she is the funniest person alive. And I  on the phone she would be saying these things. And I would say Mom I am going to use this. I am writing it down. I just want you to know. I want you to understand. I am appropriating this section of your life. I am sorry but that  and she would say oh it is OK.  So I believe that your father and your stepfather died while you were writing the book. Is that right?  Yes that is true. And it was a really  it was a very hard time. I mean my father lived on the West Coast in Vancouver Canada. And Bobby my stepfather was in New York. And I was extremely close to Bob and admired him a great deal. And he had a very difficult time. And my mother was taking care of him. And I was helping whenever I could. And then you know I would go and see my father. And it just felt like you know in my selfcentered way I felt quite oppressed as one does  you know as if it were happening to me. And I think a lot of us feel that way. And I think that is natural. But I also  you know it is really happening to people who are having to  to the immediate caretakers you know? So the children are often  one of the things I noticed as I was writing the book was how disrespectful adult children can be to their older parents as if they were children. But I started to examine it and think about the position that you are in where you you know  and the sudden switch from being the head of a family and the most powerful person in the family emotionally to suddenly being someone who needs help and needs attention in a different way. And having  basically having your children roll their eyes at you every time you you know look at an iPad or you know push the wrong button on the television and  you know and it just seemed  it seemed like something important.  If you are just joining us my guest is Cathleen Schine. We are talking about her new novel which is called They May Not Mean To But They Do. Let us take a short break here. Then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is novelist Cathleen Schine. Her new novel They May Not Mean To But They Do is about a middleaged woman who lives in LA and her 86yearold mother who lives in New York and the kind of strains that old age puts on the relationship and the love between them. I think a lot of us know what it is like to watch one parent have to become the caretaker for another parent who is very sick. In the case of your novel the mother is taking care of her husband which requires changing his colostomy bag dealing with his dementia dealing with his urinary incontinence dealing with things like  he wanders into the elevator with peesoaked pajamas and an adult diaper around his ankles  and insisting that she can do it all herself. So I do not know what your mother had to go through when she was taking care of her husband. But was there a point where you tried to convince her that she needed help and that she would not accept the help?  Yeah I think so. I think  and part of this is from you know other people I know whose parents have been in similar situations. It is very hard when you are used to being a couple to have other people around. And a lot of people just reject it and do not want it. And also there is a  you know there is a certain feeling of  I can do this. I am a grownup person. I can handle it. And it is very hard to give up that authority I think. And I think that the  you know I wanted  I realize now how much  how important it was for me to write about the body almost as a character  this has been pointed out to me by a friend  that a lot of times I write about things and a place is a character. And in this case it really was the body has a real role to play in this because  you really have to become very aware of your body of other people's bodies when there is illness and aging involved. So that was something I needed to do. I hope I did not do it too much. But I thought it was necessary. And then of course there is also the comic element too because of the absurdity of it. And that comes into it too. And so for me the  in terms of writing about this the issue was how to include that and also include the deep respect and warmth that one feels  that I felt for these characters and their suffering.  One of the things you write about is the death at home the middleaged woman's father's death at home. And you know they have the hospice guidebook. And a lot of us have seen these guidebooks. And you are used to having  you know to going on the internet or having some kind of book to help you understand your symptoms or diagnose your rash. But like the hospice guidebook is all about you know the last  the last few weeks or months or days of life or hours of life  and in this case how to tell if somebody is actively dying how to tell when they are actually dead. And you know the father dies at home. The daughter Molly realizes he is dead. But the mother is like talking as if he is still alive and saying  shh  do not say these things in front of Dad. You know the hearing  the book says that hearing's one of the last sense to go. And we should not say negative things in his presence. And meanwhile he is you know kind of in the earliest stages of rigor mortis already. So I am wondering if you can talk about that and if you have been in a situation like that yourself.  What you do  you see the comedy there right away the dark comedy. And I think that there is such a  death is inevitable but it is also impossible. It does not make any sense. And I think that that is what Joy is experiencing. This person she is lived with for over 60 years is suddenly not there but there he is. And  so I think that that is where there is room for both a comic look at that and also the you know the kind of horror of it and disbelief. And yes I have been in that situation and seen someone die. And it was just hard to  it just did not make any sense. It seemed absurd. Death is absurd.  So after Molly the middleaged woman  after her father dies she has to watch her mother live on her own after you know 60 years of marriage. And again I think so many of us have been through this watching one parent try to carry on after their you know  their spouse of many many years has died. And what often happens is that the survivor's health immediately declines. And they suddenly become the one who needs help as opposed to the one who is giving help. And this happens to an extent to Joy to the 86yearold mother. And there is a paragraph I would like you to read on Page 156.   Joy began to feel that there was another person in the apartment a stranger. And it was her. She had to watch over this person this boring fearful sickly person. She had to make sure it took its pills. She had to watch it step so it did not fall. She made sure it chewed its food so it did not choke. She worried about the person constantly. The worry was a weight heavy on her shoulders on her mind on her heart. It followed her as she followed this person from room to room this awful needy person who was herself.  I remember when my mother was very sick before she died she basically said  looking really confused about it  I have become a different person. And she seemed just like baffled how that could possibly have happened.  I understand your mother and I understand Joy. I just thought it was such a poignant thing to feel the  a decline and know it is yourself but have the distance to know how annoying that is to everyone who takes care of you including and particularly most particularly yourself. I think that is important for people to remember that while  if you are helping someone who is in some sort of decline or having some sort of physical issues it is  they are more annoyed at their body than you are at them so I thought it was an interesting insight.  Has your mother read the book?  My mother has read the book. My mother reads all my books and she is the most supportive person of my writing of anyone ever. And she did say it was not her favorite of my books.  Did she say why?  Yeah. Well she said two things which I found very interesting and very revealing of her as a  she is a wonderful reader and literary imbiber. And she said it was very strange reading the book because she recognized things that she  it was like  it was as if I were inside her head sometimes and yet it was not her. And so it was a very peculiar experience and I think also the subject matter is very painful.  My guest is Cathleen Schine. Her new novel is called They May Not Mean To But They Do. We will talk more after a break. Also John Powers will review Alex Gibney's new documentary about malware and cyber war. And jazz critic Kevin Whitehead will review a new album by pianist Dan Cray. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with writer Cathleen Schine. Her new novel is about a middleaged woman Molly who is left her husband and home in New York to move to LA to be with the woman she fell in love with. That move has also meant being on the opposite coast from her parents. When the novel opens Molly's father is very sick and Molly's mother has become the fulltime caretaker. After Molly's father dies Molly's 86yearold mother is left living alone and Molly feels very guilty about living so far away. The novel is called They May Not Mean To But They Do. The 86yearold mother Joy has an old friend Karl who she dated when she was young before she would met her husband. This man was also a friend of her husband's  of her late husband's. And after her husband dies Joy and this man Karl become good friends. And he you know  he confesses he loves her and that he loved her many decades ago. And Joy's children are very upset that so soon after their father has died their mother is spending time with another man. And the children also fear that their mother will become Karl's caretaker. And I think you really hit on a fear there that I know adult children have about parents  and I do not know if the older people themselves worry about this  but if you start a relationship a couple relationship very late in life one of you is going to become the other's caretaker pretty quickly probably. And what does that mean? What is that like when you have not spent decades together? What did you...  Yeah and...  ...What did you go through trying to really understand the children's point of view and the mother's point of view on this lateinlife relationship?  Well I think for the mother you know it is a wonderful moment for her. It is a wonderful recognition that she had a life before where she was beautiful and appealing and alluring and loved as a young woman and to have that resurrected to have a person from her past who has shared a past with her to have that born again is a wonderful gift for her. But she is not an idiot and she knows she is not a stupid person. And she is wary but I think you know wary of moving in with someone and becoming a caretaker but also wondering what it would be like if she moved in with him.  So in your novel Molly the middleaged woman leaves New York which is where her parents live because she is fallen in love with a woman and she would been in a heterosexual marriage for years. But she leaves her husband to be with this woman and they move to LA much to the mother's dismay because now she is so far away from her daughter. This happened to you. You left your husband after 18 years of marriage after you fell in love with a woman and a few years later you moved to LA. Can I ask if you were surprised to fall in love with a woman after years of being married to a man and raising a family?  Yes.  Like did you always know that that was a possibility for you?  Not really. Yes. You know there was college...   But no not really. I mean I had a actually wonderful first marriage and I was quite happy. And I am still very close to my exhusband who is a truly wonderful man. And no I did not expect I would fall in love with anybody other than the man I was married to. And it was a bit of a shock but it turned out because I think that everything that we did we did very gradually. And both my exhusband and I and our now spouses  new spouses  all have worked very hard to keep things not just friendly but family. And I feel that you know we just have a bigger weirder family now. And I think I am incredibly lucky to have that.  With identity politics being what they are did your sense of identity change and your sense of community change when you became a lesbian or you know when you entered a lesbian relationship? I mean because...  I...  ...We talk about things like you know the gay community. And suddenly  you know like to the extent that any like large community like that exists like you were a part of a community that you had not been a part of before. And  yeah.  You know I thought  I thought things might change a lot at the very beginning. And it actually  you know it worried me and I thought well will this friend still  will this couple still be friends with me and stuff like that. But the truth is I was living in New York City. I mean that community is so mixed up anyway that  and certainly my life in that way did not change. It opened up. I know more people. I know people out here. But you know I am not part of a  you know I do not live in  I do not know you know a gay neigh  well I live in Venice. I do not know what kind of neighborhood that is.  .  Right now it is a  it is full of techies buying huge houses. But  and occasionally you know the crazy people still wander by. I was surprised. I thought my life would change. Socially I thought my life would change tremendously and it has not. It is grown in the way that if you married anybody you would become friends with their friends and they would become friends with your friends. So that really surprised me and I think that is a matter of the times. I think that I have been  I was very lucky the time when I sort of realized what was going on with me and  was a very open time when there was a lot of discussion about all of this. And you know I did not lose my children. It was not the movie Carol. So I have been very lucky. And most of the people I know  I do not even think about it anymore in those terms...  Well...  ...Except when there is some political thing going on. You know I mean we never planned to get married. And then as soon as we were  I always thought second marriages were sort of silly like why  why would you? You are not going to have children and you know you have to deal with everybody's estate such as they are. But the minute we were told we could not in California then I suddenly started realizing the difference between being married and not. So it comes up in ways like that.  If you are just joining us my guest is Cathleen Schine. She is the author of the new novel They May Not Mean To But They Do. Let us take a short break. Then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Cathleen Schine. Her new novel They May Not Mean To But They Do is about a middleaged woman and her 86yearold mother who lives on the opposite coast. In your novel there is an incident in the past that is alluded to in Molly's brother  when we learn that Molly's brother when he was 18 had to spend a year in the hospital. The last time you and I spoke which was in 1995 you talked about how you would been in a car crash when you were 16. Your boyfriend had rounded a curve at like 70 miles an hour. You went through the windshield. Your face was lacerated. You broke two vertebrae in your neck. And then there was also a year  I think this was maybe when you were 20  when your legs were paralyzed as a consequence of a medication you were taking for another problem. So you had two incredibly serious issues and the car accident you nearly died. And how did it affect your relationship with your parents? It was the summer of Woodstock and you were still determined to go which you obviously could not. You know you could not be independent. You really had to rely on your parents for help. Now this was a period  you are talking about the late '60s and early '70s  when teenagers in New York where you lived were just rebelling like crazy against their parents  middleclass teenagers your friends probably. And instead of like rebelling against your parents and being able to say I am going to live my life my way you were stuck in bed. And you were recovering and you really needed their help.  Well that is one of the ways in which my mother really came through because she decided that if I had to be stuck in the hospital I should still be able to live my life and be rebellious. So I smoked. I smoked at that time. And she just said to the nurses too bad. She smokes. That is it. So I  you know there are pictures of me in  you know in my hospital bed  with a cigarette hanging out of my mouth. I mean I  you know that is the great gift that she gave me during that period. And it brought me very close to her. And a lot of things were going on with  you know my parents were divorcing. It was a very complicated time so  but when I was 16 and I was in that car accident I was so annoyed. I mean that is the word. I was annoyed. I was not devastated. I was not scared. I was annoyed  and mostly because I could not go to Woodstock. And that is a young person. And that was something I  you know I found looking back on it  I find kind of amazing. Although I do think even now when things happen physically to a person you just get annoyed. It is like why cannot I just go on doing what I do? Why is this getting in my way? But it does.  So finally I want to ask about the title of your book which is called They May Not Mean To But They Do which is a line from a Philip Larkin poem. And it has  the poem actually has a word in it that we are going to have to bleep because we cannot say it on the radio. But I would like you to read that poem for us.  OK. It is called This Be The Verse.  They  you up your mum and dad. They may not mean to but they do. They fill you with the faults they had and add some extra just for you. But they were  up in their turn by fools in oldstyle hats and coats who half the time were soppystern and half at one another's throats. Man hands on misery to man. It deepens like a coastal shelf. Get out as early as you can and do not have any kids yourself.   Why did you want to take your title from that poem? What does that poem mean to you?  Well at a certain point in the book  first of all I love the poem. I have always loved the poem. And you know when you are feeling a certain ironic dismay then Philip Larkin is where you go. But there is a part in the book where Joy actually twists the first two lines so that it is  they mess you up your son and daughter. They may not mean to but they do. And that was really the point that it goes both ways and that we are all wellmeaning usually. And yet we may not be right. And that was really the the basis of the whole book.  Cathleen Schine thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you.  Cathleen Schine's new novel is called They May Not Mean To But They Do. 