 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. The new Showtime series Masters of Sex that premieres in September is based on the book about sex researchers William Masters and Virginia Johnson by my guest Thomas Maier who is also a consultant for the series. Masters and Johnson became famous in the 1960s for their groundbreaking and controversial research into the physiology of human sexuality. Instead of just asking people about their sex lives Masters and Johnson actually observed volunteers engaging in selfstimulation and sexual intercourse. Changes throughout their bodies during arousal were measured with medical equipment. Until Maier's book Masters and Johnson research techniques remained shrouded in secrecy but he was able to uncover information through interviews with their friends family and former colleagues as well as extensive interviews with Johnson. She died last week at the age of 88. Maier's book Masters of Sex which was first published in 2009 has just been published in a new paperback edition. Maier is an investigative reporter for Newsday and is also the author of a book about the famous pediatrician Dr. Benjamin Spock. We are going to be talking about sex research and getting into birds and bees territory you may not have explained to your children. So parents use your discretion. Let us start with a clip from the pilot of the Showtime adaptation of Masters of Sex starring Michael Sheen as William Masters and Lizzy Caplan as Virginia Johnson. In this scene Masters has asked Johnson to assist him with his research. She is been working as a secretary in his OB/GYN office knows nothing about his sex research and is surprised to see him carrying a handful of girlie magazines.    I hired you because I need an assistant and because I suspect you might have a gift for the work. That said if you are uncomfortable with what I am doing here speak now and I can make other arrangements.   I am not sure what it is you are doing.   I am wiring Ms. DiMello to monitor pulse heart rate and brain waves to illuminate to my patients and to the general community what happens to the body during sexual stimulation and orgasm. The magazines are to help with the stimulation part because unbeknownst to me Ms. DiMello prefers women which to be frank concerns me because it may in fact throw off my data.   Why would it throw off your data? Is not an orgasm an orgasm?   That is one of the many questions I hope to answer but as she is my only subject it really means I have no choice whatever her orientation. So are you interested in the job or not?  Thomas Maier welcome to FRESH AIR. You describe Masters and Johnson as having medicalized sex. Would you explain what you mean?  Sure before Masters and Johnson came along the realm of sex the subject of sex was usually something that you talked to your priest your rabbi or your minister or you found yourself lying on a couch talking about your feelings about your mother to a Freudiantrained analyst. Bear in mind when they came along in the mid'50s it was the height of Freud's impact on America. So they brought the realm of sex they thought that the answers the questions that  the questions that people were posing and the answers that people were looking for were best addressed to a doctor who was welltrained in the subject of sex.  And they also used medical equipment to study sex. So just tell us a little bit about the tools that they used.  Well Masters wanted to understand exactly how the body worked so that they could come up with therapies to fix the various different problems that married couples would have in the bedroom. So they used a variety of different instruments. One of the instruments that they used was to trace the breathing and the heart rates and such. There was also a device that was used to internally observe sexual response by women and that had a nickname called Ulysses but it was something that was all part of their clinical observation of how both male and females responded during sex.  Ulysses was basically like a large clear plastic tampon that was attached to a camera so that you could see and monitor what was going on internally.  Yeah in fact there was a fellow who was an expert at the medical school at Washington University Kramer Lewis was his name and he was still alive when I was doing the research for the book. And he described how it was made of Plexiglas. And it was quite a contraption a little bit of Rube Goldberg there but it was something that was quite effective and eventually they would send the color photos to this lab at Kodak that basically dealt with medical schools and was accustomed to you know taking photographs of various different patients in the nude for a variety of different reasons. And they would get that back and that is how they kind of traced this whole thing.  So basically when you are talking about medicalizing sex what you are saying too is that they studied sex like scientists not like psychologists. They wanted to see like what is happening physiologically in a woman's body in a man's body when they are becoming sexually aroused or when they are reaching orgasm. And had anybody done that kind of clinical approach before?  No it was kind of the holy grail of OB/GYNs in a sense that in other words they were all aware that there had never been a study of human beings. They had studied rabbits and they had studied apes and in fact that is kind of how Bill Masters studying anatomy both in Rochester and later at Johns Hopkins became aware that this was something that had never been done. He traveled in the circle of doctors that were looking to win the Nobel Prize for identifying estrogen and progesterone. And he felt though that this was if you will the grand prize that this was something that would win a Nobel Prize if he could fully document over a long period of time exactly how the human body responded during the central act of procreation.  What are some of the breakthroughs Masters and Johnson were responsible for in our understanding of human sexuality?  Their major first book dealt with the power of female sexuality. Masters and Johnson really underlined the power of female sexuality and in their longterm study what they showed was that women were  had the capacity for multiple orgasms in a way that men would go into what they called the refractory period after having the initial sexual orgasm. Women were capable of multiple orgasms and the second and the third was more intense than the first and that they did not necessarily need to have a man to have an orgasm. And this was something that was done with about 380 women and almost an equal number of men and they recorded something like 10000 orgasms over a decadelong study that formulated their major book Human Sexual Response that came out in 1966.  And you also wrote that they said that women could enjoy sex long after menopause that penis size was not related to sexual adequacy.  Their empirical studies showed the power of female sexuality and that their studies underlined that women had a much greater capacity for sex and that this informed  it came right along with the advent of the pill came along and kind of helped spark the feminist view about sexuality of the late '60s and the '70s. And you can see that Masters and Johnson's medical studies had a huge impact on people's understanding the popular understanding of what was capable in the bedroom.  If you are just joining us my guest is Thomas Maier and he is the author of the book Masters of Sex about the sex research of Masters and Johnson and about the lives of Masters and Johnson. And that book is the basis of the new Showtime series Masters of Sex. So it is kind of amazing to think that what they did was watch people in the act and record what was happening. He started doing this with prostitutes before he started recruiting people who worked at the university where he taught. Why did he choose prostitutes for his early research?  Well that was really the only female subjects that he could get to study. He was going it alone initially. And you know Masters had an OB/GYN practice in St. Louis where he was in many ways like the best doctor in St. Louis. He kind of had a lot of rich clients. So he was very aware that the experiences of prostitutes were different than everyday women.  But when he was studying prostitutes one of his methods of observation was to go to a brothel and look through a peephole or a twoway mirror that had been designed for voyeurs at the brothel.  Right.  This is kind of remarkable to think of him...  It  oh sure is.  Doing that as a scientist like peering into a peephole at a brothel and taking notes.  Yeah it really is and it also made me wonder how in the world did he even get the  how was he not arrested for doing this? And one of the things that I found in doing research I found the police commissioner in St. Louis a guy named Sam Priest  he had been the OB/GYN for Mrs. Priest when she delivered her babies. So Sam Priest the top cop in St. Louis he loved Dr. Masters. He thought he was the greatest the way that anybody who would have  that you know that we all kind of venerate doctors who are terrific. And so whatever Masters wanted to do in that regard he was more than willing to accommodate. So he had Priest Commissioner Priest allowed the vice squad to act as almost the accomplices with Masters in going to various different brothels in the city and observing prostitutes all in the name of science. And because Bill Masters said it and the power of both his position the veneration that parents had for his work as an OB/GYN but also just the power of his personality people trusted him. So he was even able to do something this extraordinary all in the name of science.  My guest is Thomas Maier author of Masters of Sex about the famous sex researchers William Masters and Virginia Johnson. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Thomas Maier and he is author of the book Masters of Sex about the lives and the sex research of William Masters and Virginia Johnson. And Virginia Johnson just died last week at the age of 88. His book has been adapted into a Showtime series that premieres in September which is also called Masters of Sex. One of the things that you say Masters learned by observing prostitutes at work was that they would sometimes fake orgasm to encourage the man to hurry up and finish. And he was just amazed. That was a huge revelation to him. And that propelled his research forward in what way?  What happened with Masters is that he was using a number of different prostitutes and one of the prostitutes was actually a graduate student I believe and he would debrief them after observing this and kind of talk about it. And he asked about orgasm and she said well that she often faked orgasm. And he said what do you mean faking orgasm? And she said are you kidding something to the effect of buddy you have got to be kidding. And she explained that virtually most women at some point in their life if not almost every night will fake orgasm that you know it was a common thing. And he seemed like he was struck by lightning that the light bulb went off on his head. And it was this student this graduate student who said to him that he should get a female partner. And it was something that he really took to heart and he realized that he was not going to go anywhere unless he had a female partner.  And he hired a woman who became his partner in research and that was Virginia Johnson. How did he find her?  Well Virginia Johnson was a 32yearold woman twice divorced. She was on the heels of her second divorce. She had two children and she was going back to school Washington University in St. Louis. She was essentially a secretary filling out insurance forms. In fact she was not even in an office. She was sitting at a desk in the middle of the hallway when she started there. She came along just as Masters was looking for a female partner. There were no virtually no female doctors and the few that were out there they did not want to go near this type of study. This was playing with dynamite. It was virtually career suicide. He had actually broached the subject with his wife but his wife Libby had had difficulty getting pregnant and they were just having children. She did not want to have any part of this type of study. So Virginia Johnson this woman going back to college looking for a degree became eventually the ideal associate for Masters.  And at this point Masters and Johnson started using not prostitutes but you know volunteers. Paid volunteers?  Sometimes sometimes and sometimes just sheer volunteers. Virginia Johnson had  she was the exact opposite in many ways of Bill Masters. Masters was a hard science guy. Virginia was very good with understanding human beings what made men and women tick the emotional aspects of it. And that was part of her skill set that would prove to be very very important to their work. And one of the first things that she did was able to convince nurses and graduate students and some patients and other various different people in the St. Louis community to become volunteers in their study essentially to drop their pants if you will all in the name of science.  But was it in her nature to do the work to you know recruit people to participate in their sexual studies to make sure that they were calm and relaxed and willing and then also to observe? I mean usually if somebody is watching somebody else perform a sexual act it is called voyeurism but in this sense it was called research. Did she  did you ask her about that like how she felt when she started doing this research watching people in the act?  Oh sure yeah.  What'd she say?  Well she said a couple of different things. One is she said well Tom I grew up on a farm. And you know I am a farm girl. So I was aware of animal husbandry if you will. And so there was that level of clinical aspect of it. And you know after a while it did not become at all difficult for her. In fact there was an early part in their relationship in which Masters asked Virginia whether or not this would bother her whether or not she would be somehow upset by observing this and she said no why would it? You know there is a story that was told to me by Paul Gebhard who was the person who ran the Kinsey Institute after Alfred Kinsey died. And Bill Masters very much coveted the approval of Paul Gebhard. So he invited Gebhard to come and see their contraption this Ulysses the Plexiglas device that was able to internally be inserted and observe female orgasm. Indeed they had a show for him and they observed it. And Gebhard one of the things that he pointed out he marveled that day. Among all the things that he marveled at and there was plenty to marvel at was the behavior of Virginia Johnson and the interaction with Masters because at one point this object was perhaps a little bit cold. She came in  Virginia came in with a warm compress the way in which you know people that go to a barber shop might get a hot towel around them. And she put it  she wrapped it around the device to make it warm and comfy just so that it could be used by this by the willing female graduate student I believe it was who displayed that  exactly what was going on that day to Gebhard. So it was those type of details that were quite impressive to me. She had a real intuitive sense of how to make things work. And for that Masters always adored her.  One of the things that Masters and Johnson wanted to do was offer sexual therapy to couples who were having difficulty in their intimate lives. And one of the ways of doing that was to have sex surrogates. And just explain a little bit how Masters and Johnson used sex surrogates in their therapeutic work.  Well in their therapy they always wanted to study how the body works so that they could fix it  medicine could deal with the various different problems that couples had individuals had and one of the problems was impotence for men. And they found that sex surrogates could be quite effective with men who were having problems performing. And Bill Masters had a certain utilitarian  an allAmerican utilitarianism to his view. If it worked it was the job of the doctor to make it happen for the patient. And so he believed in sex surrogates. But what happened there were some legal consequences that came across there and I think Masters and particularly Virginia but Masters became aware that he could have his medical license perhaps even taken away. So the lawsuit was quietly taken care of by their lawyers and they kind of vowed that they would not do that even though they said well you know it did work it worked remarkably well but they would not do it again. And I found later on that they had surreptitiously particularly Bill Masters had brought back a couple of different surrogates because these were people patients men who had profound sexual problems and he felt it was his role as a doctor to find the cure find the solution for them and that there was nothing wrong in doing that.  You quote Xaviera Hollander who wrote the bestseller The Happy Hooker she was a madam and she wrote about sex surrogates My method is basically the same principle as Masters and Johnson only they charge thousands and it is called therapy; I charge 50 and it is called prostitution. What do you think of what she is saying there?  Well I think they felt as long as it was within the realm of medicine and that people were following things here and keeping an eye on it and that it was effective for patients that it was the appropriate course to pursue. And ultimately it was just too difficult it was too hot to handle frankly politically. And that was always the problem for them that they  the subject of sex was something that medicine they felt should get involved in but medicine was not really willing to do so.  Thomas Maier will be back in the second half of the show. His book Masters of Sex has just been published in a new paperback edition. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Thomas Maier author of Masters of Sex about Dr. William Masters and Virginia Johnson and their groundbreaking research into human sexuality  research that remains controversial because it was based on observing volunteers engaging in self stimulation and sexual intercourse. The researchers also used medical equipment to monitor the volunteer's physiological responses during arousal. Masters of Sex has been adapted into a new Showtime series  of the same name  that premieres in September. When Virginia Johnson joined William Masters as his associate you know her job was putting the people at ease who were participating in the subjects in the research preparing them making them understand the you know medical and scientific importance of the work that they were doing. But she became more and more an active participant in the research. And then at some point Masters basically says to her that he and she should be engaging in sex with each other as part of their ongoing research.  Yeah. I was really shocked by that.  Yeah. What was the proposition that he made to her and what was her reaction?  When they began their studies it was very much the power situation between them was that Bill was the big boss  Bill Masters  and Virginia was the secretary who was very desperate to keep the job. And so what happened was after a few months their laboratory studies was almost like that Frankenstein lab where you know where you see everybody's hair all jumping up out of the  there was a certain kinetic energy coming out of this lab. And what he theorized what he said suggested to Virginia  quite improperly  was that there would be a transference  he actually used a Freudian term  that there would be a transference if they did not act out this sexual energy and that the best way it could be channeled was among themselves. And it was something that I found out in my research and it was something that she kind of admitted somewhat reluctantly was told to me by another associate initially and then she confirmed it. And it was something that was it underlined that the beginning of their relationship their professional and personal relationship was quite an uneven. He was in a power position. He was the boss and if she did not say yes in a sense she would  one not only not have a job tomorrow but that she was beginning to really love this work and that it would be over tomorrow if she did not agree to Bill's requirement that they have sex together. From this beginning began a very complicated relationship in which it became more and more equal and that is probably one of the most fascinating aspects of their relationship. On this very inauspicious beginning began a much more equal relationship. And that Masters a doctor who would probably be most like most doctors would be unwilling to give equal billing to a secretary and one without a degree that he was willing to do that is one of the most paradoxical and ironic aspects particularly when you think about the beginning of their relationship.  Well also they went on to be married  although we will talk about the marriage a little later. It did not sound like the greatest marriage in the world. But you know so when he makes this proposal to Virginia Johnson that they should be having sex with each other as part of their research did he intend to you know like measure their responses and treat their sexual encounters as part of the research?  I gathered that was part of it you know how things would work but I also think it was the entree for their relationship  or at least their sexual relationship. And you know indeed it became an affair a fullfledged very hot hottotrot affair there over a number of years on and off. And Virginia had her own life; Bill maintained his marriage out in the suburbs his wife and his two children. And often the way in which their average day  if you will  would work was that he was an OB/GYN by day and then after hours they would have the sex studies that would take place and then after that they would sometimes go off and have sex themselves. And that was kind of their relationship for a number of years at the outset.  Eventually Masters and Johnson married. And what is your understanding of why they got married?  Well they got married at the very height of their fame. They were on the cover of Time magazine and this was about 1970. And by that point they had become quite worldfamous. Virginia Johnson had made more money frankly from somewhat to a surprise to her than she ever imagined and she had met a man who had funded  a millionaire here in New York who had provided money for their study about the impact of scent and smell on sexuality. This was a guy who provided the lemon in Lemon Pledge and all these various different scents and he felt that you know somehow they found the link between scents and sexuality that this was well worth funding. And it turned out as much as Masters liked that idea he did not like the idea that this fellow Hank Walter was his name wound up having an affair with Virginia Johnson and that eventually Virginia wanted to get married to Hank Walter. When Masters found that out he finally decided that he was going to end his marriage that the thing that was most important to him was not his family was not even necessarily a relationship with Virginia it was that work that they were doing  the brand name of Masters and Johnson. And so Masters ended his long marriage told his kids that he was divorcing their mother and got married to Virginia.  My guest is Thomas Maier author of Masters of Sex about the famous sex researchers William Masters and Virginia Johnson. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Thomas Maier and he is the author of the book Masters of Sex about the lives and the sex research of William Masters and Virginia Johnson. And that book is the basis of a new Showtime series that premieres in September. Some of their later work was very controversial  not because of the techniques that they used but because a lot of people just thought it was out and out wrong. And one example of that is their 1979 book Homosexuality in Perspective. What was most controversial about that book?  Well they had developed a therapy that was remarkably successful. They claimed an 80 percent success rate among people who would come to their clinic for two weeks and miraculously were changed that they had whatever problems sexual problems they had were somehow dealt with and  if you will  cured. That 1979 book dealt with the subject of homosexuality. And a lot of the book dealt with homosexuality in the same way that they had documented in their first book with heterosexuality just exactly how things worked and such. But they put  Masters insisted on pushing the envelope  if you will  by suggesting that their therapy with a handful of cases had been able to help quoteunquote convert homosexuals into heterosexuals if the patients wanted to do this. Now in doing the research for this book I came across the understanding both from Dr. Robert Kolodny and then eventually from Virginia Johnson herself that there was no proof of that  that that handful of cases there were not files on that. And that when Dr. Kolodny asked Bill Masters about it he said well he insisted on it that it happened but there was no proof. There was a lot of backandforth and Masters prevailed and it went into the book and it caused a great deal of mischief because it became one of the things that a number of different usually rightwing folks would say that homosexuals could somehow convert to heterosexuality if they really wanted to because Masters and Johnson  among others  had insisted that it would be possible if the patient really wanted to do that. And of course it caused a lot of heartbreak a lot of difficulty for people in the years after that book appeared.  And they also wrote in Homosexuality in Perspective that sexual orientation was a learned behavior. So implying that you learn to be straight or gay and implying after that that therefore you could unlearn being gay.  Yeah. You know I think you have to look at that book also in its time. Bear in mind they were on Meet the Press for the entire halfhour or hour of that program back in 1979 and you had the leading medical writers at the time quizzing them about it and there really was not much in the way at that time of people contesting some of their theories such as that about learned behavior or whether or not it was genetic. And so they have to to some extent be viewed in the time period in which they operated. They were still very much pioneers. Their work particularly their early books were so easily documented. And Masters you know some people have asked me whether or not he was antigay or such and I I do not think that is quite right because in the early '70s when homosexuality  believe it or not  was taken out of the textbooks as a mental disorder it was Bill Masters who was one of those doctors who helped push that out of the textbooks. He was one of those people that helped make the world more progressive in their understanding about homosexuality. I think it was more hubris on his part a certain arrogance about the success rate and their willing  his fundamental nature of being a risktaker saying that he believed in their therapy so much that this might be possible that they could quote convert homosexuals into heterosexuals if they really wanted to. And it is quite unfortunate particularly as we look back on it.  I am going to ask you a question that I imagine a lot of people asked about Masters and Johnson or may be particularly Masters who initiated the research  even when they were at the height of their fame  and that is do you think that part of his reason for doing this sex research is that he was a bit of a voyeur?  Maybe. If you delve deeply somewhere into his psyche I would not be able to say with certainty. I do not think so though. The way he started was as a medical student studying anatomy and there was something even more appealing than any realm of sexual titillation; it was ambition. That is what fueled Bill Masters. He was somebody who had been who felt he wanted to show that he could make something of himself. He was a risk taker. And I take it was sheer ambition raw ambition that drove him that was  tantalized him more than anything else here. I think that is what really was at the heart of his drive. He learned about it as an anatomy student and realized that perhaps he could win a Nobel Prize. So it was his raw ambition I think that drove him to do all of this.  Well Thomas Maier I want to thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you so much for having me. I appreciate it.  Thomas Maier's book Masters of Sex has just been published in a new paperback edition. The Showtime series based on the book premieres in September. You can read an excerpt of Masters of Sex on our website freshair.npr.org. 