 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Robert McNamara who is considered the architect of the war in Vietnam died early today at the age of 93. We are going to listen back to a 1995 interview with him and an interview with Errol Morris about his movie The Fog of War 11 Lessons from the Life of Robert McNamara. Let me quote the New York Times McNamara obituary by Tim Weiner. Quote Robert McNamara was perhaps the most influential defense secretary of the 20th century. He helped lead the nation into the maelstrom of Vietnam and spent the rest of his life wrestling with the war's moral consequences. Serving President John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson from 1961 to 68 McNamara oversaw hundreds of military missions thousands of nuclear weapons and billions of dollars in military spending and foreign arms sales. Half a million American soldiers went to war on his watch. More than 16000 died. Fortytwo thousand more would fall in the seven years to come. The war in Vietnam became his personal nightmare. He concluded well before leaving the Pentagon that the war was futile but he did not share that insight with the public until late in life. In 1995 he took a stand against his own conduct of the war confessing in a memoir that it was wrong terribly wrong unquote from Tim Weiner's obituary. Here's an excerpt of the interview I recorded with Robert McNamara when that 1995 memoir was published. In the interview he refers to Dean Rusk who was secretary of state during the years McNamara was secretary of defense. I asked McNamara if he saw his book as an apology. Mr. ROBERT Mc Some people have used redemption apology. Forget redemption and apology and say that I think those us  assuming for the minute I am correct  as I say in the preface I believe it was an error a tragic error. Assume for the minute that my judgment is correct then I think we owe an explanation to future generations of what happened and how to avoid that in the future. That is the purpose of the book.  To explain. Mr. Mc To explain and more than explain to draw lessons and suggest how to prevent similar tragedies in the future.  Do you think an apology is appropriate? Mr. Mc Well if you want me to apologize of course. But that is not the issue. The issue is not apology. You do not I will call it correct a wrong by apologizing. You can correct a wrong only if you understand how it occurred and you take steps to ensure it will not happen again.  Let me ask you about the antiwar movement. I think some of the conclusions you reach in your memoir about why the war was unwinnable and why it was a mistake leaders of the peace movement were saying for many years for example that the communist threat was not as great as it was represented to be that the North Vietnamese even though they had a small and lowtech army had strong nationalistic feelings and a will to keep fighting and then that would inspire them to just keep pushing. I am wondering if you listened to the peace movement at all or if you shut it out and just thought you know they are wrong and I am not going to pay any attention to what they are saying. Mr. Mc No. I listened to the peace movement. One of the close friends of my middle child a daughter organized and led thousands of individuals to march on Washington demonstrate against the president against me. My daughter on several occasions brought him home to dinner after that. On one occasion after dinner we went into the library. We talked till 30. As he left his last words very serious were No man can be all bad who loves the mountains as much as you do. I listened to the protestors. I had them in my home. So that is one point. Now the second point you have to understand where we came from. And many of the protestors had not. President Kennedy Dean Rusk and I and many others of us had fought in World War II three years four years five years. Churchill said millions of men lost their lives in that war because the West reacted too late to Hitler's menace to the security of Western Europe. And by God says Churchill we should never do that again. Just after that war the Soviet Union took control of Hungary Poland Czechoslovakia. After that in my period in August of 1961 the Soviet Union sought to take Berlin. General  I called Norstad the supreme allied commander in Europe to my office and I asked him how we would have to react. He said you may well have to use nuclear weapons. This was a dangerous world. A year later Khrushchev put nuclear missiles into Cuba. To this day the American public does not know how close we came to nuclear war. In June of 67 the Egyptians vowed to eliminate Israel from the face of the earth. The Israelis learned of it in advance. They attacked Egypt knocked the hell out of them hit Jordan as well. Kosygin used the hotline for the first time  the Soviet prime minister  to Johnson said if you want war you will get it. It was a dangerous world. That was driving us to our action in Vietnam. We were wrong. The protestors turned out with hindsight to be right. We did not believe it at the time.  You raise a question in your book you know why did not you and other government officials spend more time on questions that seriously challenged some of the rationales of the war? And you write readers must wonder  readers of your memoir  must wonder how presumably intelligent experienced officials failed to address questions whose answers so deeply affected the lives of our citizens and the welfare of our nation. An orderly rational approach was precluded by the crowding out which resulted from the fact that Vietnam was about one of a multitude of problems we confronted. Mr. Mc Let me digress just a second to say I signed a contract to write an autobiography and when I presented the book proposal to publishers I outlined how I was going to do it and I had a section on the Defense Department. I was there seven years. Vietnam was just one of a hundred problems if you will we were dealing with at the time. I mentioned  I forgot I did not mention one the Bay of Pigs which occurred within 90 days after . It was a total debacle. Then we faced Berlin and we faced Cuba both of which we handled I think very very wisely and very well. Then we faced the June 67 war. Again I think we handled it very well. But in between this the cities were burning. We had racial problems. We had riots in the cities and Vietnam fitted in all of this and we did not organize properly to deal with it. I think we organized admirably to deal with the nuclear danger in the Cuban Missile Crisis but it was a relatively simple thing to deal with. It was a short period of time a simple narrow issue. We should have organized  I will call it a war Cabinet Churchillian war cabinet to deal with Vietnam. We did not. That is one of the reasons we failed to address the questions you have outlined.  But Vietnam was a place where you know thousands and thousands of young Americans were dying. I guess it is a kind of frightening thought that you felt you were all just too busy and that is Mr. Mc No no no. No no no. You are  no no no. You are  no no. You are  no no you are conveying a misimpression. It was a  my God we were working you know 18 hours a day seven days a week.  But you were too busy to see more clearly is the point you are trying to make. Mr. Mc No no no. Well the point I am trying to make is that we were overwhelmed with problems and we had not organized to segregate out from those people to work solely on Vietnam at the upper echelons of the government. And that is one of the lessons. And in the last chapter I point to 11 lessons of which that is one. For God's sakes Mr. America when you face military conflict organize to deal with it effectively.  I want to get back to the peace movement for a second and ask you if this kind of behavior had any effect on you. You write in your memoir about how after speaking to students at the Harvard Business School a group of students surrounded your car and were shaking it and I mean you were surrounded and felt quite under attack. You were at the Seattle airport after climbing Mount Rainier and a man came up to you and spit on you and called you a murderer. You were at a restaurant. A woman comes up to you and calls you a baby killer. What impact did that have on you? Mr. Mc Well I relate all that in the book to emphasize that were protests and I was aware of them as I have just outlined. My children were of the generation that was protesting. One of them was at Stanford for example and was involved in the protests there and he would point to the protests  Actually let me focus my question a little bit more so you understand more of what I am getting at. Mr. Mc No I understand.  No but allow me to just focus it a little more. I am wondering if that kind of direct confrontation put you in a position of hardening yourself more against protestors or whether that behavior reached you and made you think more gee maybe something wrong is happening here. Mr. Mc Oh yes absolutely. It was the latter. No no no. It did not harden me. How could it harden me when I have mentioned that my daughter brought protestors into the home and when my son was associated with them in California? And as a matter of fact I was meeting with one of the major protestors a chaplain at Yale at the time and I met with many others because I felt we had to stay in touch with them. And you have not begun to deal with this issue of protest. Let me tell you something. It is in the book and I hope your listeners will read it. A man a Quaker one of the finest human beings his name was Morrison. He burned himself to death under my window in the Defense Department and yesterday  the first point I want to make is I was aware of the way people felt. I was aware of the problem. They did not see the danger of Soviet communist aggression leading to the world war that Dean Rusk predicted would happen if we did not save Vietnam. But yesterday I received from the widow of Mr. Morrison she is now remarried. Her name is Ann Morrison Welsh  a letter and I want to read one paragraph. To heal the wounds of that war we must forgive ourselves and each other and help the people of Vietnam to rebuild their country. I am grateful to Robert McNamara for his courageous and honest reappraisal of the Vietnam War and his involvement in it. I hope his book will contribute to the healing process. She was a protestor. He was a protestor. She is a noble lady. She understands we should look back in retrospect. We should draw the lessons to try to prevent that from happening again.  I guess what I think a lot of people want to know is this During the period when you had grave doubts about the war and 1000 Americans a month were getting killed in that war was it hard for you to not speak out publicly? And then also after you left the administration and the war continued for seven more years and American casualties continued to mount up if you had such grave doubts how did you not manage to share them? Mr. Mc Well you misstate my position. It was not that I had I will call it grave doubts about the war. I had grave doubts that we could win it militarily and that is a major distinction. At the same time I had grave doubts about winning it militarily I along with my associates believed that if we did not prevent communist domination of Vietnam and use of that to obtain communist control of Thailand Indonesia Malaysia Laos Cambodia we would be moving to a World War III. And therefore what I had to do was reconcile this fear that we could not win militarily with the fear that if we just disengage we would be on the way to World War III. And the way I brought those together in these memoranda of May '67 and November '67 was to say to the president Mr. President I do not think we can win militarily. We have got to use our military pressure as a basis for negotiation that will permit us to disengage militarily without leaving South Vietnam to communist control and the start of World War III. That was the basis.  Let me tell you something a friend said to me when she knew I was going to interview you. She said Oh I bet he wrote this book because he knows he is going to meet his maker. Mr. Mc Look when I meet my maker the book is not  he is not going to consider the book. The book was not written for redemption. Redemption is between me and my maker and the book will have no influence on how he responds to that.  Robert McNamara I want to thank you very much for talking with us. Mr. Mc Thank you indeed.  Robert McNamara recorded in 1995 after the publication of his memoir. He died today at the age of 93. Coming up Errol Morris talks about his Academy Awardwinning film The Fog of War 11 Lessons from the Life of Robert McNamara. This is FRESH AIR. 