 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guests comics Bobcat Goldthwait and Barry Crimmins are good friends who each became important in the '80s comedy scene and both have been through a lot of changes since then. Goldthwait was first famous for his manic persona for which he used a highpitched screechy voice. Many people knew him from his role as Zed in the Police Academy films. Goldthwait has dropped the persona and become a director of independent films and TV shows like Jimmy Kimmel Live and Maron. His new film is a documentary about Barry Crimmins. In 1979 Crimmins founded a Boston comedy club in a Chinese restaurant called Ding Ho. A few years later he founded another Boston comedy club called Stitches. Many comics got their start in Crimmins's clubs. It was not until the early '90s that Crimmins revealed he was raped several times at the age of 4 or 5 by a man brought into Crimmins's home by his babysitter. After going public he started exposing pedophiles on Internet chat rooms. We will talk about that a little later. Goldthwait is documentary about Crimmins is titled Call Me Lucky. Bobcat Goldthwait Barry Crimmins welcome to FRESH AIR. Bobcat I am going to ask you to start and to introduce us to Barry Crimmins for people who do not know his comedy and his place in the comedy world. Just place us for us.  Well Barry is a mentor of mine and a guy who I really look up to. His place in the comedy world is he is been an influence on many comedians that are really popular and wellknown. And he started the comedy scene that was in the late '70s early '80s in Boston. He is a political satirist. He is quite brilliant and I am not sure I think he is Gemini. I could be wrong.   Barry you started two comedy clubs in Boston. In 1979 you open a comedy club within a Chinese restaurant...  Right.  ...Called The Ding Ho. And then a few years after you started a comedy club called Stitches. And Bobcat did you ever perform in either of those clubs?  Oh sure. I bombed in both those venues.   I  yes I started doing comedy when I was a teenager with Tom Kenny who is the voice of SpongeBob. I do not want to name drop but  and I have known him since I was 6. Tommy and I saw an ad that Barry put out in Skaneateles N.Y. We went. He put us on stage. It was bold of him to put some snarky teenagers on. And then when Barry moved to Boston I actually followed him there and that is where I got my start doing comedy. And you know in my standup act back then there was even  there was not material even. You know I would go on stage and cry and read a Dear John letter or gut fish on stage. And let us just say the other club owners were not really excited about what I was doing . Barry  Barry  and my act could not be further from what Barry was doing on stage but Barry encouraged it. And you know he just encouraged me to be as odd and as  and in what interested me as a comedian.  I do not think I have ever heard the expression gut fish before.  Well you know I would just say  you know I would come out of  the character that people know me for it was  people would say stop doing that character all the time. So I went on stage and I said hi this is my real voice. This is who I am. This is the part of the show I like to gut and clean a fish. Does anyone have a fish in the audience? And my roommate Dan Spencer  would pull out a fish. And here at The Ding Ho I actually  this fish was a little rancid from being in the trunk of a car. And I opened it up and then there was immediately the smell  a woman in the front row vomited. There was fish entrails.  .  Oh gosh .  And then a friend of ours Bill Campbell who does observational humor about relationships had to go on stage after me with all this...  Right right.  ...Fish guts and vomit and...  Odor.  And the club owner...  Barry did you talk to him about that afterwards about not wanting people to vomit in your club?  I laughed. I mean I laughed but I cannot  I might have been somewhere  I do not think I was there for that one and...  Well Shun Lee who owned the club came up to me and he just said Bobby you weird. You weird.   Well what  so Bobcat for people who do not know how you sounded on stage back in the '80s and who do not know the kind of persona that you had then...  Sure.  ...I am now going to play an excerpt of something...  Oh no.  ...You might not remember .  Oh I remember.  You remember. OK.  I am sure.  In 1987 Bobcat Goldthwait was a guest on FRESH AIR. I was not hosting that day. There is just...  Oh OK.  This was my first...  It must have went really well that I am back now.   How many years did it take?  Eighteen years later here he is.   The return triumphant appearance.   So just to set the scene it is like  the show had just gone national in May. It is now August. It is my first week away from our new national edition of the show. Liane Hansen who later becomes the host of Weekend Edition on NPR...  Right.  ...Is filling in for me. And you are going to be on the show. I am on my way to Cape Cod tuning in the radio. And here's what I hear  Dan Hansen...   Liane Hansen is introducing Bobcat. And it is just like long intro detailing his career a little bit about his early life; it is really in detail so here's the tail end of the intro. Here we go.   Goldthwait gained the nickname Bobcat during his mischievous teen years. And he first began writing comedy material right around the time he reached puberty. And he was already performing in clubs when he was 16 years old. Bob Goldthwait welcome to FRESH AIR.  Well thank you very much. That was quite an elaborate research. I feel like I am dead actually. In fact if I did die now it would be pretty good because that is not  you know outside of being in the police lobotomies that is pretty an impressive you know array of things.  That is a good resume. Gave me an A on it  you gave me a little star.  Yeah yeah I did not mark it correct and I guess that is kind of rude of me. Actually thank you very much. It is really nice to be on FRESH AIR. Something I have never been accused of you know?   OK let us go back. Let us...  No let us bring it right to the toilet immediately.  No no .   I am actually embarrassed and also my voice was higher. I mean not only the character but my voice was higher.  No but the character  like how did you come up with that voice for your character?  Yeah well I...  And I just wanted to  let me just back announce that tape. So that was Bobcat Goldthwait on FRESH AIR in 1987 with Liane Hansen guest hosting and me listening in the car driving to my vacation and thinking what ?  Did you turn around? Did you go...  .  I got to the end of this.  I thought like he is really hard to interview I was thinking.  Yeah yeah.  And I thought like this is going to be a rough ride .  Well I  you know my heroes growing up were people like Andy Kaufman and Groucho Marx and people that very rarely dropped the persona. And I  despite  you know I am a very private person and I use this persona to hide behind. And it was something that started when I was a young comedian working with Barry. Actually the first time I think it was this guy who had seen Bigfoot and went onstage I think at Under the Stone where we started.  Yeah in Skaneateles my hometown.  So it just became more and more easier for me to hide behind this persona. But you know I had  I used to direct the Jimmy Kimmel show and I had done that for years. And I was going back to doing standup and I really hated the idea of doing standup again. And it was not  it hit me. It was not the comedy clubs. It was not the traveling. It was not the wacky morning radio shows. It really was like oh I hate this persona . And so I had to jettison it just for my own sanity.  What did you hate about the persona?  I did not realize I hated it. I think  I do not know. I just  I think I  or maybe it was  maybe it is just a different time and different place. And I know that for some people that character resonates but I think it was a bit of a backlash for me because you know people knew me from Police Academy and things like that. And they would  there was always  and I sound like I am tooting my own horn  but there was always content underneath it that I think is not remembered and is not even put in perspective. You know I think people  you know quite often people come up to me and they are like you know oh  they do what you actually did but they  that was something I do not remember. But usually they will come up and they go do you remember this movie? Do you remember that?  .  And it is like I remember all of them. I was there. You know I have not had head trauma you know? But I am excited as a comedian now 'ecause I am performing often for young people who were not even born when I was relevant. So it is exciting for me to now have an audience that knows me just as a comedian or as a guy who makes movies.  I am excited to hear your real voice. Like when I started hearing your real voice because I do not  as an interviewer I do not like interviewing people in persona because I like interviewing actual people. And a persona is  it is  it could be a very entertaining persona but it is still...  Right.  ...Something of a facade.  Yeah and I felt like...  And so you do not feel like you are talking to a real person when you are talking to a persona.  But there was also a thing you know as  I was very protective of it you know? I remembered how sad I was when I found out that Alice Cooper liked to golf. And  you know so...   I remember when I found that out too.  Yeah and I was like oh no. Et tu Alice?  .  So you know I think golf killed more rock stars than heroin.   But I  you know so I was always protective of the persona. I did not feel ever that people needed to know who I was. I do not  even to this day to an extent. You know I think if people really want to know how I see the world go check out these movies you know? My  I know you know my movies are very small and they are not mainstream but that is how I see the world. You know that  and that is why I love making movies. I can be way more personal with people than I could ever even onstage.  So Bobcat as somebody who performed a lot of clubs including at Barry's clubs did he do anything different as a comedy club manager or owner than other clubs did?  Yeah Barry would  you know the prerequisite for Barry was that you were not only just funny but you were original. And that was what was a lot different than the way most comedy clubs are still ran you know? So that was the big difference between him and the other club  oh and he also paid us. That was pretty  Earthshattering back in the day too.   Revolutionary.  Yeah that was a bold bold move. So yeah  so he did run the clubs a little differently.  So Barry Crimmins could we just like tick off a list of some of the names of people who got started at your clubs?  Yeah sure. Steven Wright whose  you know remains one of my dearest friends in the world and is just brilliant and hilarious always. Bobcat Goldthwait Tommy Kenny  let us see  Lenny Clarke Steve Sweeney Mike Donovan in Boston wellknown acts and Mike McDonald. Let us  God everybody came through. People...  Kevin Meaney.  Kevin Meaney.  Paula Poundstone.  Yes. And then people like Kevin Rooney and A. Whitney Brown came through town who I knew or was connected with it in other ways. A lot of great acts  Kevin Nealon came and played The Ding. So it was...  Also there is folks that later after these clubs gone away that Barry either influenced or worked with. People like David Cross and John Ennis and  it is interesting. Patton's in the movie because I found out...  Patton Oswalt?  Yeah I found out  well I am on a firstname basis but whatever  so...   No so he was on  you know I found out that he was a huge fan of Barry's and knew his history. You know he  these are guys that Barry influenced you know and  yeah.  Barry when you started your comedy clubs in the late '70s and early '80s it is a period or at least a period leading into one  and you can correct me if you think I am wrong about this  when a lot of comics were incredibly sexist and homophobic. And a lot of the sex jokes I think from a woman's point of view were really kind of like insulting to women. And I am wondering what it was like for you to run a comedy club in that period when so much of the humor was you know  and not necessarily the humor at your clubs but maybe  I do not know I was not there  but so much of the humor was like that?  That is right. I might even have been guilty of a tiny bit of that early on you know trying to find my way. But it was a boys' club back in those days. I tried to do what I could to get some women involved. But I understand why a woman would not walk into a comedy club back then. I now understand why they would not feel particularly you know welcome there. But I tried to be as welcome as possible  Lauren  Paula.  Yeah Barry was encouraging female comedians when he booked the clubs. The first time I went into The Ding Ho the door person was Paula Poundstone. And then the show started and she went up onstage . And I was like oh.  Everybody covered something.  Yeah so he was encouraging it.  My guests are comics Bobcat Goldthwait and Barry Crimmins. Goldthwait has made a new documentary about Crimmins titled Call Me Lucky. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us I have two guests. Bobcat Goldthwait is a comic and a director and has made a new documentary about his good friend Barry Crimmins who was also a comic who founded two important comedy clubs in Boston. And this documentary is about his contribution to the comedy scene but it also is about his childhood when he was abused as a child and then later as an adult tried to out child pornographers and did a pretty successful job at getting some of them put behind bars. Bobcat Goldthwait why did you want to make a film about him?  Well I have always wanted to make a movie about Barry. I am jumping ahead of the story  when he was testifying  after he testified in a Judiciary Senate Committee against Internet child pornography it was a real catbrass  kind of thing that happened. And he really was amazing and that was the germ of the idea. I originally wanted to make a narrative movie which someone else was playing Barry. And I  because I did not want Barry to have to relive the events of his childhood  and so it became a documentary only recently. I had struggled with getting a screenplay made and so  Robin Williams was my best friend and he had  he was a big fan of Barry's and knew Barry's story. And he suggested that I make this movie as a documentary. And in fact his involvement was the  how the movie got started. You know he gave me the initial money to start filming it which was just two Februarys ago. And that is how this movie all came about.  And Barry Crimmins how did you react to the idea of a documentary about you a documentary that would include you talking about being raped as a child?  Well I have no problems talking about it because I have kind of learned not to be complicit in the crimes that were committed against me. And so I was happy when Bob called and said he wanted to do a documentary because trying to make you know a narrative about it was pretty complicated. And I took one swipe at a script for him. I guess you cannot have a 340page script so...   You know people frown upon that. It  Barry actually...  You know I tried to be inclusive.  It opened with him on a jet. And I was like well OK I cannot afford a jet so...   So we are already in hot water. You know my  you know I am used to making my movies for very little money and way outside the system. So yeah there was going to be a lot of problems making it as a narrative. But I had heard Barry on Marc Maron's podcast on WTF and then I heard him on Dana Gould's podcast. And I  when I heard him talking about the events I  you know often as his pal when we would talk about these events I would see him go into some forms of shock. And when I heard him discussing these things and I felt it  I felt that it was almost ready to pull the trigger on Barry doing a documentary because I felt that he could be in touch with these things but I did not feel I would be putting my friend in peril in asking him these questions about these very hard events.  Barry you were known for being a very angry comic onstage for sometimes heckling the audience for sometimes berating other comics for being shallow. So now it is assumed that the anger came from having been raped repeatedly as a child. Do you think that that is true? Do you think that that is the source of the anger?  Oh that is certainly a source of some stuff. First off I did not berate that many comics really. I mean I would  you know I would give them some...  I do not know. In the movie it seems like you did .  Well yeah it is not the whole  you know I mean there were no cameras at The Ding Ho at 10 of the clock in the morning when I was talking to them on the phone you know? So you know  but you know after three shows on a Saturday night some guy comes in with a camera and  I was relaxing by then. But I really did not  I mean I think you can see how many good friends I have who are comedians and you do not make you know...  Oh no absolutely yeah. I  yeah.  So I did not  I would try to convey vital information to them at times and just insist on originality. That was about as tough as I got about berating anybody. I just did not want people  other people doing other people's stuff. I wanted original stuff at my club.  And Barry you know the fact that not being derivative was so important is why he was responsible for this greenhouse that started so many people with completely unique different styles. You know Barry was there you know helping people like Steven Wright and Paula Poundstone get started and Lenny Clarke Steve Sweeney Kevin Meaney  all these folks  Denis Leary. And because there was an emphasis on being original that came from Barry that is why there were so many different kinds of comics that were original that came out of that scene. Yeah and you know I will say in his defense Barry never  he never attacked the audience first. It was always  he was never first blood. He was not like a guy you know...  I was never one of those guys  well where you from? What do you do you know and harassing someone in the front row because they have got a funnylooking shirt on. I would like to  but going back to  'ecause this is a very important question Terry asked  I would like to think that I would have been upset and angry about many of the social issues I have been upset angry about whether or not I would been raped as a child. You know I know all sorts of people that have stood in those causes with me and have stood up for justice and fought for you know social justice who had perfect childhoods. So you know it is certainly the idea that I really root for the underdog and I know what it is to be oppressed and overwhelmed and have no chance. That certainly plays a part of it with me. But I would hope that I would have ended up in a similar place anyway because I would like to think I have a good heart.  My guests are comics Barry Crimmins and Bobcat Goldthwait. Goldthwait has made a new documentary about Crimmins titled Call Me Lucky. We will talk about how being raped as a child changed Crimmins's life as an adult after we take a short break. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Let us get back to my interview with comics Bobcat Goldthwait and Barry Crimmins. They both became important in the '80s. Crimmins founded two Boston comedy clubs which launched or gave a boost to the careers of many performers including Goldthwait. Goldthwait was known for his manic persona in comedy clubs and in movies a persona which he is since abandoned. He now directs TV shows and independent films. Goldthwait is new documentary Call Me Lucky is about Crimmins focusing on both his place in comedy and the trauma of having been raped several times as a child which eventually led him as an adult to track down pedophiles operating in Internet chat rooms. This part of our conversation may not be appropriate for young children. So Barry Crimmins let me just ask you a little bit about those formative experiences when you were repeatedly raped by  was it your babysitter's father?  It was  I did not  it was some sort of relationship that would not have been made clear in the late '50s but probably like a boyfriend or something of the kid's mother. And she would come over for a while and then this guy would show up. You know my parents would you know  like he would make sure my parents were clear of the house and then he would show up. And I have no animosity in my heart for the babysitter because I am pretty sure it was me or her you know so  in one way or the other. She was not compliant you know with setting me up because it was her idea. She was a young kid and I always wondered what happened to her.  Yeah I certainly wonder that too. Was there anyone you could tell or ask to protect you?  I was pretty young you know? So  and then really put into shock so I guess that is why  I mean I cannot really figure it out to a T. My sister did end up protecting me when she finally discovered it. She made a run for it and you know the babysitter...  She walked in on you as it was happening.  Yeah well she came down  yeah she come down the basement stairs. In my head I always had this picture of her being caught by the foot. You can see in the movie at one point I am looking at the stairs and I am  that is just really vividly coming back to me. The thing I always remembered was her being caught you know and she was trying to go get help. But in the end she did get help but it ended up being this thing where my parents did not find out what happened but Mary Jo said they were mean to Barry. They hurt Barry and whatever and that  but the babysitters had a counter story in there and it just became  you know they just stopped using that babysitter is basically what happened.  How old were you and how old was your sister?  I was 4 and she does not  she says 5 in the movie but she was actually about 8.  How long did it go on?  It is hard to say. I would say over a period of weeks. It happened several times.  Did you remember this happening? I mean did the memory always stay with you or do you think you repressed it for a while?  Well I mean what I  I say I always knew and I never knew. But when I would have flashbacks or whatever I would be  it is hard to be verbal because I mean when you are 4 years old you do not have a big vocabulary you know so...  So it was your sister who brought it up with you that helped bring back memories and helped you get to the point of talking...  Well yeah I mean I was really at the end of my rope. I was in LA writing The Dennis Miller Show and I was  and this is a scoop for you  I was a bit suicidal at the time so  but then when she you know disclosed to me then we  then it all sort of pulled together. And I just realized that this pain I would been walking around in and the selfloathing that I felt to make sense of the world because you know why did I feel like this all the time? It must be me. There must be something wrong with me and you know there was nothing wrong with me. I was just in someone else's pain in somebody else's you know  I was carrying that guy's poison around. And so you go through a period after that where  when you divest yourself of that you are kind of hollow for a while and you have to kind of  you feel like the wind's whistling through you. But eventually I you know began to fill that hole in. And then as a few years passed I began to work on behalf of contemporary abused children. And that is how I ended up doing the confrontation of AOL about the child pornography trafficking that was going on. And that was probably the turning point and the most healing thing I ever did.  So you wrote repeatedly to AOL and asked them to shutdown these pedophile chat rooms.  Right and they were making a lot of money on it so they just filed a  because in  back in those days the modems were really slow. And so it took like a halfhour to upload a you know lowgrade picture.  We are talking dialup era.  Right right and so it took a long time to upload each photo and all these  and then if you are on AOL for more than 12 hours or something a month they started charging you 3 or 4 an hour. So when you find you know thousands of people that are you know in the same chat rooms all the time or you find that one of the chat rooms that are named thusly  I mean like anyone else when I first went in there I just said what  are you people out of your minds? And they started talking to me about the First Amendment and stuff. And as Andrew Vachss said you know you can mug somebody and try to call it performance art but that does not mean you are going to get away with it. And I just realized  you know I would go in there as an adult you know with my own AOL name and people would just start sending me child pornography immediately. Like no sort of  they just oh that is what you are here for here. And they expected you to send child pornography back to them. And so I immediately contacted AOL and they said oh thank you very much for being you know a bunch of corporate  good citizen of our community blah blah blah. But as time passed and I watched the problem grow exponentially their answers became you know they  the back and forth between us just became more and more ridiculous.  So you eventually testify to the Senate Judiciary Committee. They were investigating child pornography and you brought it to the area of Internet child pornography only to find that most of the senators on the Judiciary Committee had never been online. They did not understand how the Internet worked and they did not really comprehend the concept of a chat room.  Right.  So it was hard for them  as my understanding  it was hard for them to really comprehend what you were talking about.  They were  I mean...  Nevertheless what was the outcome of  what do you think was the final outcome of your protest to AOL? You are testifying to the Senate Judiciary Committee and you are going to  was it the DAs office in Cleveland?  Right. Well yeah the  no the  well the FBI picked up all the information from me at my  they picked up all the files I had. I know that some arrests were made because that  I could not quantify it for you. But I know some arrests were made. As far as that company's concerned I always feel that its cornerstone is very bloody. You know they made a lot of money off those people and they played it dumb for as long as they could. After the hearing they were embarrassed. And after that they  well they went to a flat rate too so that might have been part of it. But they cleaned it up pretty quickly after that so I publicly embarrassed them. But they you know they stalled for a long enough time to make an awful lot of money.  My guests are comics Barry Crimmins and Bobcat Goldthwait. Goldthwait has made a new documentary about Crimmins titled Call Me Lucky. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to my interview with comics Bobcat Goldthwait and Barry Crimmins. Goldthwait has made a documentary about Crimmins focusing on his place in comedy and on the trauma of having been raped as a child. When we left off Crimmins was talking about tracking down pedophiles on Internet chat rooms. Barry Crimmins do you feel like you were ever psychologically hurting yourself or risking hurting yourself by looking at so much child pornography in an attempt to bring down the child pornographers?  Well I mean it was a difficult period for me. But it just came down to  it was a more difficult period for those children. And there were more children out there who had not been harmed yet you know who might be harmed. And I contacted a lot of people a lot of authorities a lot of different people and not that many people were interested. And the other thing was I  you know I mean I have PTSD so when I am doing stuff like that I am  you know I know how to  I knew by then very well how to operate in a state of shock. I would done it most of my life. So basically they make their own worst enemies. You know I could deal with it to some extent because part of me would always be shut down but not the part of me that saw those kids' eyes. You know it was not pleasant but I mean I can  as I often say  you know I would much rather live with the world's disdain than risk my own selfloathing. And you know if I turn my back on what I saw there you know I could have never lived with myself. And I was immediately trying to get other people to take over and kick in and be a  you know be a civilization and do something about this but they were not. So I had no choice. So I just kept going. And it was not about me. It was about those kids and it is about all the kids walking around. Now we go out and do the film and people come up to me. They are 30 years old or whatever and they say to me hey thanks a lot. You know I was on AOL. Some creeps approached me and they did not get too far. And then it seemed like that stuff kind of stopped for a while. And maybe it did. I mean it is still  the Internet's still a nightmare for that stuff. But at the time you know it was a nightmare that no one knew about. And so I could not have helped keep that secret.  So the man who abused you who knew your babysitter  and you are not quite clear what his relationship to her was...  Right.  ...You eventually found out he did time in prison for abusing boys. What did you learn about him?  I learned that he came from a you know a tough background and he had spent a lot of time in the system as a child in foster homes and so on and so forth. And you know he had a terrible life and  although most people who are sexually abused as children do not become pedophiles I am convinced that almost all pedophiles were abused as children. And so when I wrote a piece for the Boston Phoenix about it it got picked up by the Syracuse New Times. And this wonderful social worker from Syracuse had just been part of a case and she had  well a couple years earlier  that put this guy away for the last time because he died in prison. So I heard  he was identified to me. We had his location. He was the guy you know? And the first I  found out who he was. I  you know then I  for a second I was thinking I am going to go talk to this person. And then within 30 seconds  no he died in prison. And then I lea