 This is FRESH AIR. Nobel Prizewinning playwright Samuel Beckett wrote the screenplay for only one film and made his only trip to the U.S. to shoot it. It is a short silent film called Film released in 1965 and starring Buster Keaton. Film has now come out on DVD along with a documentary called Notfilm by film restorer Ross Lipman about the making of Film. Classical music critic Lloyd Schwartz is a passionate admirer of both Beckett and Keaton. Here's his review.  We all know the image of the tragic clown. From the beginning of silent movies the great comedians  Charlie Chaplin Buster Keaton Harold Lloyd  seem to understand the inextricable connection between hilarity and pathos. Yet by the 1950s audiences seemed surprised when veteran comic actors began playing serious roles. This trend seems to have started in 1955 when Arnold Stang beloved for his cheeky puncturing of the ego of Milton Berle on Berle's weekly comedy show and the whatachunkofchocolate commercial gave a heartbreaking performance as drug addict Frank Sinatra's loyal sidekick in The Man With The Golden Arm. A year later Ed Wynn known as The Perfect Fool appeared in the original TV version of Rod Serling's Requiem For A Heavyweight. And soon Jackie Gleason Red Buttons  who won an Oscar  and Berle himself were also proving they could act. In 1964 Buster Keaton was offered the most serious role of his career. Samuel Beckett was working on his only screenplay a short film called Film depicting a character who like a cockroach seems terrified of being seen. Beckett calls this character O for being the object of E the eye of the camera that is obsessive like following him. Beckett first wanted Chaplin but finally turned to Keaton whose great stone face and haplessbutintrepid character have often been compared to Beckett. The playwright had previously asked Keaton to play the beleaguered slave Lucky in the American premiere of Waiting For Godot but Keaton bewildered by the script turned him down. The new DVD also includes the memorable 1961 television version of Waiting For Godot directed by Alan Schneider with two great comic actors Zero Mostel and Burgess Meredith performing Beckett's existential vaudeville.    You must be happy too deep down if you only knew it.   Happy about what?   What about being back with me again?   Would you say so?   Well you said even if it is not true.   What shall I say?   Say we are happy.   We are happy.   So am I.   So am I.   We are happy.   We are happy. What do we do now now that we are happy?   Wait for Godot.   Oh.  Ironically Keaton down on his luck had played a small part in a minor 1949 movie based on a Balzac play in which everyone keeps waiting for a character named Godeau. Eventually Keaton got talked into doing Film. For most of this 22minutevirtuallyplotless silent movie Keaton's back is to the camera. And a kerchief under his trademark pork pie hat covers most of his face yet his expressive body even from the back projects human isolation fear and misery. At the end the camera stares into Keaton's worn tragic inscrutable face and it is one of the most powerful closeups in all of movies. From Ross Lipman's revealing and poetic documentary Notfilm we learn that Beckett and his American stage director Alan Schneider had to keep stopping Keaton from adding funny bits though an element of Beckett's humor underlies and maybe even intensifies the claustrophobia. In one sequence Keaton wanting total isolation keeps trying to lock out his pet dog and cat yet they keep slipping back in. It could be a bit from one of Keaton's 1920s silent comedy shorts. In the crushing silence of film the only sound we ever hear is ironically a woman saying sh. But what stays with us most is the bonechilling sense of despair as when the Keaton character coldly tears up all his surviving family photos. I have been watching Film over and over and each time it gets even more mysterious and disturbing. The combination of Keaton and Beckett seems both uncanny and inevitable. Keaton himself had mixed feelings about it.   Well it is one of those art things. I was confused when we shot it and I am still confused.  In Ross Lipman's documentary we can now look at oncethoughtlost outtakes and hear Beckett himself recorded without his knowledge discussing how to film Film.   Well the space and the picture is a function of two perceptions both of which are diseased.  Two perceptions both of which are diseased. Beckett's Film captures that same unsettling mixture of tragedy and comedy underlying all his plays and books. This little film and its history make up one of the most fascinating artistic projects of the 20th century.  Lloyd Schwartz teaches English at the University of Massachusetts Boston. His latest book of poems is called Little Kisses. He reviewed Samuel Beckett's Film and Ross Lipman's documentary Notfilm both just released on DVD by Milestone Films. Tomorrow on Bragg brings his guitar and play some old and new songs. And we talk about his new book Roots Radicals And Rockers a history of skiffle the British adaptation of American blues and folk music that became popular in the '50s and influenced the Beatles Pete Townshend Van Morrison and other British rockers. I hope you will join us. I am Terry Gross. 