 This is FRESH AIR. The TV series Veronica Mars created by Rob Thomas starring Kristen Bell as a young private investigator already has had several lives. It began as a drama series on UPN in 2004 back when the title character was in high school. It lasted three years outlasting UPN with its final season moved to The CW network. Then there was a standalone reunion movie in 2014 funded by Kickstarter and shown on HBO. And now there is a new eightepisode sequelseries available on Hulu one that arrived earlier than expected and according to our TV critic David Bianculli is even better than expected too. Here's his review.  The original Veronica Mars premiered on television 15 years ago which in TV terms was a whole different era. David Milch's HBO series Deadwood which just reunited its cast for a fabulous TV movie premiered that year. So did two major hits for ABC  Lost and Desperate Housewives. And the year 2004 also brought us the premiere of NBC's The Apprentice. Kristen Bell hit the ground running that year as Veronica Mars an outcast high schooler in the fictional California beach town of Neptune. She worked parttime as an investigator for her dad's privateeye firm like a modern day Nancy Drew. But her narration in the opening episode showed she had a little Sam Spade going as well.    This is my school. If you go here your parents are either millionaires or your parents work for millionaires. Neptune Calif. a town without the middle class. If you are in the second group you get a job  fastfood movie theaters minimarts. Or you could be me. My afterschool job means tailing philandering spouses or investigating false injury claims.  A lot of time has passed since then and a lot has happened to Veronica. By the end of the original series she had gone from high school to college. In the 2014 movie she abandoned law school. And now as the new eightepisode Veronica Mars begins she is on familiar ground again  back in her hometown working again for her dad's detective agency and still providing her very own wry narration.    I spent my first 19 years trying to escape my hometown of Neptune made it out then after a decade away decided Neptune needed me. And I needed it. I was wrong on both counts. Neptune did not need another private investigator. It needed an enema.  This new season of Veronica Mars was supposed to arrive this Friday. But Hulu presented a Mars panel at the San Diego Comic Con fan festival last Thursday which happened to be Bell's 39th birthday. Hulu surprised the actress and the fans and TV critics by unveiling the entire new season early as a sort of birthday present. So viewers can now see all of Veronica Mars. The telemovie is available on HBO and the show is first three vintage seasons and the new fourth one are streaming now on Hulu. The new season borrows a bit from Jaws with a series of deaths threatening to close down the beach town during the summer tourist season. Except it is not a shark doing the killing it is a serial bomber. And there are plenty of suspects to go around. The new players this season are all very strong additions. Patton Oswalt plays a pizza deliverer and conspiracy theorist. J.K. Simmons plays an excon working for the town bigwig. And Kirby HowellBaptiste plays a bar owner who is even tougher and more independent than Veronica. But the best element of this new Veronica Mars season by far is the returning cast. Give Kristen Bell lots of credit. She is as good with a rapid dialogue and shifting emotions here as she is with the surrealistic sarcasm of NBC's The Good Place or her musical numbers as Anna in Disney's Frozen. And while she gets to play opposite many old familiar characters and actors to identify them would be to ruin part of the fun. The heart of this new season comes from Veronica's interactions with two key men in her life. One is Jason Dohring's Logan who was described in the original Veronica Mars pilot as the school's obligatory psychotic jackass. Veronica's opinion of him has grown significantly and so has Logan. The other prominent person in Veronica's current life is her father Keith portrayed as always by Enrico Colantoni whose playful parental byplay with his daughter is as funny and as fast as anything ever heard on the Gilmore Girls. In this early scene Keith stops by the office to find his daughter brandishing a check for a recently completed assignment a check with an amount much higher than he expected.    What exactly did you do for that lady?   Feminist stuff. We got mad. We got even. Some scissoring.   All right how did you make this much?   Celebrate with me. How I made that is between me and my maker.   I am your maker.   You are really not making my office dropby everything I was envisioning.   Oh and what were you envisioning?   Well a balloon drop for starters maybe an 'atta girl. Oh no. Feeling emasculated is that it?   Honey...   Yeah.   ...If feeling emasculated by my daughter was going to dampen my spirits you would have found me out in the garage a long time ago  Cheap Trick in the tape deck tube in the tailpipe.   What is a tape deck?   I hate you.  There is a lot to enjoy here. The characters are drawn so deeply by Thomas and his staff that you truly care about them  the new ones as well as the returning favorites. And like the recent Deadwood TV reunion movie there is a lot more going on in this new Veronica Mars season than mere nostalgia. The show is theme song is sung by a new artist this season but still begins with the same telling cleareyed lyrics  we used to be friends. The character of Veronica Mars does not have it easy in this new batch of shows. But like the show itself she is a survivor. And I am betting this new excellent season of Veronica Mars will not be the last we will hear from her or see of her.  David Bianculli is editor of the website TV Worth Watching and teaches television studies at Rowan University in New Jersey. Tomorrow on est will be sleep disorder specialist Guy Leschziner. He is seen it all  insomnia night terrors narcolepsy sleepwalking sleepeating sleepdriving and something called sexsomnia. He will tell us about some of his cases and discuss the growing body of research on our slumber. His new book is called The Nocturnal Brain Nightmares Neuroscience And The Secret World Of Sleep. I hope you will join us.   FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham. Our associate producer of digital media is Molly SeavyNesper. Therese Madden directed today's show. I am Terry Gross.  