 Patti Smith has just released her eleventh studio album. It is called Banga. It is her first collection of original material since 2004 and it is the first album she is released since the publication of her awardwinning 2010 memoir Just Kids. Rock critic Ken Tucker says the music on Banga rarely looks back on Smith's life but instead explores other people's lives and present day situations.    Come be my April fool. Come you are the only one. Come on your rusted bike. Come we will break all the rules.  That is April Fool one of the prettiest songs on Banga featuring  Patti Smith's former New York punkera colleague Tom Verlaine on solo guitar. Verlaine sends out long thin delicate tendrils of sound as Smith's voice suffuses the melody with fullthroated urgency. Although Smith has said with typical artdemocratic directness that almost everybody in the world can sing a few songs on Banga that make you aware of what a good voice she has. Over the decades Smith has recorded so many songs in which she speaks or declaims or howls her words it is always something of a surprise to me at least when she sounds as polished she does as on this piece of modified modern doowop called This Is the Girl.    This is the girl for whom all tears fall. This is the girl who was having a ball. Just a dark smear masking the eyes spirited away hurried in size. This is the girl who crossed the line. This is the song of the smothering fine. Twisted as laurel to crown her head laid as a wreath on her bed. This is the girl.  That song This Is the Girl is one that Smith says she wrote for Amy Winehouse soon after the latter's death. This is the girl who crossed the line Smith croons blithely avoiding undue melodrama or feigned closeness. Smith has been known to go off on flights of fancy and lord knows she can be longwinded but there is an admirable flintiness about her that nearly always as in that song saves her from sentimentality. She recognizes in Winehouse a fellow artist  pays her respects and moves on. Moves on to the glorious combination of whimsy and vehemence that she cultivates. The title song Banga with its opening drums thumped by no less than Johnny Depp achieves a trippy poetic state. And if you think I am being disrespectful to Smith's process let me add that she herself has said that Banga is quote an absurd kind of song that means nothing except that we are all together.    Loyalty rests in the heart of a dog that sail all your eggs on the back of a frog. You can lick it twice but it will not lick you. And salivating salvation's gone too long. So. Loyalty rests and we do not know why and the paw is pressed against the nerves of the sky. You can leave him behind but he will not leave you and the road to heaven is true true blue.  So banga. So. So banga. So. Loyalty lives and we do not know why...  Smith's righthand man since she started making music is the guitarist writer and cultural historian Lenny Kaye. Patti and Lenny have collaborated on this album's designated doozy the sort of Patti Smith music that separates the true believers from the dilettantes. Constantine's Dream is a 10minutesplus composition inspired by a 15thcentury painting by Pierro della Francesca The Legend of the True Cross. It is a swirling mixture of Smith's prosepoem lyricism and Lenny Kaye's swooping diving guitar figures.    In a rat's soul I dreamed a dream of St. Francis who kneeled and prayed for the birds and the beasts and all humankind.  I have noticed that once a pop musician turns older than 60  Smith is 65  the bynowidiotic almostmeaningless word icon is attached to the musician in reviews like a leech  a leech that sucks out the complexity of the artist if she or he is an interesting one and replaces it with banal compliments. Thus this marvelously uneven frequently transporting new album Banga has been greeted with not a few reviews padded out with meaningless phrases describing Smith as a shaman and a punkrock goddess. This is lazy and condescending  things Patti Smith never is. Just listen to this new music.  Ken Tucker is editoratlarge at Entertainment Weekly. He reviewed Patti Smith's new album Banga. 