 Elizabeth Cook is a Floridaborn singer and songwriter who first performed on Nashville's Grand Ole Opry stage in 2000. She has not become a star over those past 10 years but she is attracted a following within the industry for her emotionally raw lyrics and for working with wellrespected producers such as Rodney Crowell who produced her previous album and Don Was who produced her new fifth one called Welder. Rock critic Ken Tucker has a review.  Ms.   I am crazy about you baby. It do not do no good. I could tell it to the movie out in Hollywood. I tell it when I am sober and I tell it on the wine. I tell it to the judge I love you all the time. I chase you down that mountain and I chase you up that creek. I chase you starting Sunday through the end of the week. Now go ask your mama and see if she do not mind. You got to know by now I love you all the time. You got to know by now I love you all the time.  That is Elizabeth Cook kicking off her new album with a rolling and tumbling country song. Its twangy vocal and harmonies with Buddy Miller let you know that she is locating herself just outside the mainstream of the countrymusic industry. If we did not get that outsider message clearly enough on that opening number she invokes hiphop gangsters and the movie Boogie Nights on the next song El Camino. And by the fourth song she is making you wonder just how much the tune Heroin Addict Sister is autobiographical and how much is fiction.  Ms.   She asked for her momma's bathrobe and a pot of potato soup. She is gonna dry out this time if it kills her. She wants the whole family in the loop. She can outsmart death like a stuntman. She is a cat with 99 lives. She is my heroin addict sister and I have known her all my life. She is my heroin addict sister and I hate to see her go. And I hate to see her holding on at the end of the same old rope. She pushes tiny...  As I suggested earlier you do not start competing with Carrie Underwood and Sugarland for big stadium tours and country music awards with songs about heroin and joyriding with guys who do cocaine. But if you are good you do something more than become the latest generation of country music outlaw and Cook is good on almost every song on Welder. She sings in a highpitched curl of a voice that can suggest innocence she shrewdly contrasts with her lyrics  such as this one a jaunty novelty song called Yes to Booty.  Ms.   Why cannot I just let you love me? We have been working all week and it is Saturday. The weekend rolling 'round's like a weight off our back. You thought you would celebrate with an icecold 12pack. When you say yes to beer you say no to booty. You holler come on baby. Why you acting so snooty? Well if you have slept with a drunk man you understand it is not that hard. It is common knowledge around here when you say yes to beer you say no to booty.  The album's title Welder is taken from her father's workingclass profession and throughout the album Cook hits all the country music touchstones. Song about laboring on a farm? Check. Rowdy song about drinking? You just heard it. Song about Mama dying? Check. And just when you start thinking that Cook is a bit of a puton artist she gives you a firstrate honkytonk duet with Dwight Yoakam called I will Never Know or this song a beautiful ballad that resists any sort of easy classification called Not California.  Ms.   Who is the girl inside of the blue screen light? The sun is just pouring out. Everything's out of sight. Turn around the room is just black and white. She is whispering nah nah nah nah nah nah nah. Nah nah nah nah nah nah. And it is not true. And it is not fair. And it is not new. And it is not California here.  Welder is the kind of album that certain sorts of country music fans are going to buy and pass around like a talisman valued by the initiated as impure stuff to be savored. Elizabeth Cook may be content with this sort of cult status. But on her best songs she demonstrates the ability to transcend a cult career. Whether or not that even matters to her well that is another subject a subject she could probably write a whole other album about.  Ken Tucker is editoratlarge for Entertainment Weekly. He reviewed Elizabeth Cook's new album Welder. You can hear three tracks from it including Not California and I will Never Know on nprmusic.org. 