 This is FRESH AIR. Our film critic David Edelstein has a review of the new espionage comedy Spy which stars Melissa McCarthy and features Jude Law and Rose Byrne. McCarthy's breakout performance in the 2011 comedy Bridesmaids earned her a supporting actress Oscar nomination.  Back when Hugh Grant made his name as an adorably abashed romantic lead in Four Weddings And A Funeral I remember a showbiz paper reporting the one question on the lips of studio executives  can Hugh Grant hold a gun? That is still what executives ask when an actor gives a breakthrough performance. And it is even more important now when so much revenue comes from foreign markets that prefer action over comedy. The first thing that happened to Melissa McCarthy after Bridesmaids was that she was paired with Sandra Bullock in the female buddy cop movie The Heat. Now she has her own big budget action vehicle Spy which reunites her with Bridesmaids and The Heat director Paul Feig. The central joke of the movie is what if we made a comic actor who looks like McCarthy a James Bondlike undercover secret agent? It is a good joke similar to lots of movies over the last well century from at least Buster Keaton in which hapless clowns are forced to impersonate manly heroes. The difference obviously is McCarthy is a woman and so there is a female disempowerment backstory. Her character Susan Cooper has settled into the role of a subordinate a headquartersbased CIA analyst assigned to help a 007like smoothie she adores played by Jude Law. The story calls for Susan to go into the field because unlike the other agents her identity is unknown to Rose Byrne's Rayna the heir of a recently deceased Eastern European arms kingpin. The disguises the agency gives Susan are ostentatiously frumpy and she is warned to observe and not act. But if she did not act there would be no movie. By definition films like Spy are mixed bags lurching between slapstick and violence. And this one is unusually mixed. Feig moved the boundary posts on TV with Freaks and Geeks but he settled into Hollywood conventionality and apart from a gory fight scene in a kitchen between McCarthy and an assassin he does not really hit his action marks. Even a lot of the comedy is in a crude whacking style. Early on Susan is mousy and feels inferior requiring McCarthy to stammer stupidly opposite Law who is good despite obvious material. For a while McCarthy is paired with another overlooked female analyst played by the tall flamboyantly gawky British comedian Miranda Hart. The movie will win the lovable Hart a new audience but the timing of her scenes with McCarthy is horrible. Jason Statham is a droll presence in conventional action movies  his slow cockney burn a delight. But as a macho braggart agent who turns out to be a stumble bum he tries too hard to be funny and kills the jokes. Oh but things improve with the arrival of Rose Byrne an actress who seems to be able to do anything. Her breezy meangirl putdowns are exquisitely underplayed. After Susan buys a fancy gown slips into a luxe casino and ends up saving Rayna's life the villainess takes her aboard a private airplane and attempts to bond.    Why are you being so nice to me? It cannot just be because I remind you of some sad Bulgarian clown.   You remind me of my mother.   Oh really? You know that I mean you and I are  you and I are pretty close in age.   You are funny. It is the Bulgarian clown in you.   OK.   She was marvelous but she was different  eccentric like you are. The moment I saw you standing there in that abortion of a dress as if to say this is what I have got world. It is hideous but it is mine. This was her.   Hey how did you get that picture of me? I look amazing. Hello doppelganger.   She was the only person I could ever trust.   Well here's to your mom.   To my mother and to you.   And here's to you. I mean you may never be as wise as an owl but you will always be a hoot to me.   What a stupid f toast. You are delightful.   As are you.  What saves Spy apart from the arrival of Rose Byrne is that halfway through McCarthy gets to drop her character's mousiness and become the foulmouthed insult comedian that made her famous. She can spin your head with her timing. The only other performer to match her lineforline is British TV's best kept secret Peter Serafinowicz as an Italian agent who takes every opportunity to grab Susan and attempt to make wild love to her. Serafinowicz's diction is in the strange overdeliberate style of Christopher Walken. He makes even his bad lines hit you like wobbly sinker balls. Spy keeps throwing stuff at you  jokes chases violence and finally wears out your resistance. It will be a huge hit. It will cement McCarthy's star in the firmament and the Hollywood executives who had their doubts about starring a woman so heavy in a big budget movie will smile. Melissa McCarthy can indeed hold a gun.  David Edelstein is film critic for New York Magazine.   If you would like to catch up on FRESH AIR interviews you missed like yesterday's interview about the encrypted underworld on the Internet that hides black markets trolls and pornographers or hear our recent interviews with people like Louis C.K. Tom Brokaw Sally Mann and David Oyelowo check out our podcast which you can find at itunes.com/freshair or where ever you download your podcasts. FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit Phyllis Myers Ann Marie Baldonado Sam Briger Lauren Krenzel John Myers John Sheehan Heidi Saman and Therese Madden. Our engineer today is Adam Staniszewski. WHYY's chief content officer is Christine Dempsey. I am Terry Gross. 