 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. The lineups for the Major League AllStar Game will be announced Sunday and a lot of people think the starting pitcher for the National League will be a 37yearold righthander whose life and career were kind of a mess until he got therapy and mastered the wackiest pitch in the game. R.A. Dickey is the only guy in the big leagues who relies on the knuckleball a pitch that dips dives and swerves in ways that make it hard to catch and harder to hit. Dickey explains how he mastered the pitch in a new memoir but the book is more than a baseball story. He reveals his troubled youth and childhood sexual abuse his retreat into the refuge of sports and years of struggle in the minor leagues trying to become a quality bigleague pitcher. Dickey eventually got there in part he believes because he got help in dealing with demons from his past and because he finally figured out that crazy pitch the knuckleball. Dickey's now a starter for the New York Mets and one of the game's dominating pitchers. He has an 11 and one record with 106 strikeouts so far. Dickey's featured in a new documentary called Knuckleball and he has a memoir with writer Wayne Coffey called Wherever I Wind Up My Quest for Truth Authenticity and the Perfect Knuckleball. We spoke in April and it began with a reading describing a turning point in his career. R.A.   I am 31 years old and darn tired of being mediocre. Ann and I have two young daughters and a baby boy on the way. I am living in a Hyatt and getting around on a borrowed bicycle because I do not want to spend money on a rental car. One part retread one part restoration project I am a decade removed from my years studying English Lit at Tennessee forgetting a lot of Faulkner and firing a lot of fastballs.  I have become the quintessential 4A pitcher baseball code for a player who is too good for AAA but not good enough to stick in the majors. I had already spent two full extremely undistinguished years in the big leagues. I know that I cannot reasonably expect to get another shot if this does not work out.   You want to know how desperate I am? I have turned myself into the baseball equivalent of a carnival act maybe not a twoheaded turtle or a bearded lady but close. I am trying to make a living throwing the ugly stepchild of pitches a pitch few in the game appreciate and even fewer understand.   Almost nobody starts out planning to be a knuckleball pitcher. When was the last time you heard a 12yearold Little Leaguer say I want to be Hoyt Wilhelm when I grow up? You become a knuckleball pitcher when you hit a dead end when your arm gets hurt or your hard stuff is not getting the job done.  Tim Wakefield was a minorleague firstbaseman with a lot of power and a bad batting average. That is when he made the switch. I made mine when the Rangers told me in the middle of 2005 that I was going nowhere with my regular stuff an assessment that I could hardly argue with.  Well R.A. Dickey welcome to FRESH AIR. Let us talk about the knuckleball. Not many people throw it. Now you know most  there are a lot of pitches that pitchers throw conventional pitches that are designed to break or dip or dive. What distinguishes the knuckleball from all those other pitches?  Well the knuckleball is very unique in that as a conventional pitcher you throw a fastball a curveball a slider a changeup and those pitches are all thrown with a certain amount of spin on them. You are trying to impart spin on the baseball in order to manipulate the break whichever way you would like. With a knuckleball you are doing the opposite. You are taking spin completely off the baseball and you are kind of leaving it up to the physics of air resistance and seams on the baseball and the way that the air impacts the leather and the indentations on the baseball make the ball move. And so when you throw a knuckleball a perfectly thrown knuckleball has a little less than a quarter rotation from the time that it leaves your hand until the time that it gets to the catcher's mitt. And that is a very tough mechanic to get down. It is a very hard pitch to be consistent. And so that is why you do not see a whole lot of knuckleballers around I think.  Right and if you execute that well and get the ball started toward the plate without spin how does it behave? Why is it effective?  Well I have heard it said that you know a knuckleball is like trying to hit a butterfly in a typhoon. You know it shakes side to side it may go straight left on one pitch. It may go down and then to a righthander on another pitch. It may stay on the very same plane the whole way on one pitch. So the thing that makes a knuckleball effective is that you cannot predict which way the ball is going to move which makes it an extremely hard pitch to hit as well as a hard pitch to throw.  Right. Now how do you grip it?  Well I grip my knuckleball in the way that Joe Phil  Joe Niekro Phil Niekro and Tim Wakefield grip theirs and I tutored under Charlie Hough who was a longtime knuckleballer for the Dodgers and the Rangers the White Sox and the Florida Marlins. And I take my pointer finger and my middle finger and I dig my fingernails beneath the horseshoe of the baseball. There is a seam on the baseball that runs over the circumference of the ball and it makes a shape of a horseshoe on one particular part. I take my fingernails and I dig them in the leather. And I take my thumb I put it on the side and my index finger on the other side and I use those points as stability points so that when I throw the baseball I keep my wrist very stiff and when I release it I try to release it at the opportune moment where there is no spin on it. And so if you can do that over and over and over again then usually you are going to have a pretty good game. It is when the ball starts rotating a little bit or tumbling forward and the hitter can pick up that tumbling and predict where the ball is going to end up and hit it very hard. If you through a good knuckleball you can make the best hitters in the world look very foolish.  Yeah have you had particular moments that you enjoyed them flailing away at your  a good knuckleball?  Indeed indeed. I have thrown a few times I pitch a knuckleball to a lefthanded hitter in particular where I have thrown the pitch and I had zero spin on it and they have actually swung the bat and the ball has broken after they have swung and actually hit them.   So they have swung and it is hit them either on the back of the leg or the back foot. Or one time I hit a guy in the waist and he swung at the pitch. And when they are swinging at the pitch and it ends up hitting them you know you have got some pretty good movement that day.  Yeah and they often lose the bat right? It is just so out of control?  Yeah oftentimes they will sling the bat into the stands which has happened on a few occasions as well.  Now the conventional pitcher is always trying to hit a spot. I mean you work the corners of the strike zone. You do not want to leave it in the fat part of the plate. The knuckleball is a pitch that by design is unpredictable. What do you aim for?  Well I try to get it started at the right height. I think for me that is what is most important. It is impossible in any knuckleball pitch a true knuckleball pitcher will tell you it is impossible to you know be able to throw a knuckleball on the outside corner. You just simply get it started in the right direction at the right height and the ball's going to do what the ball's going to do. I aim for about two baseballs above the catcher's helmet and if I can get the ball going on that trajectory I know more or less if it is going to fall within the strike zone. And the key to throwing a knuckleball and Charlie Hough told me the first day I ever worked with him he said it took me one day to learn how to throw a knuckleball and a lifetime to throw a knuckleball for strikes. So you have got to be able to throw strikes with the pitch so that the hitter can  will respect you. That is the rub. And so I start my knuckleball about two balls above the catcher's helmet.  Yeah that is what I have always been puzzled by. That is what they always say because a knuckleballer if they are not throwing it for strikes will walk many many batters and get guys on base and lose the game. So you are actually trying to hit the strike zone huh?  Well certainly. You know I better be because if  I am not going to last too long if I cannot throw strikes with it. You know and it is taken me a long time to get to that place. You know it is been a long journey for me learning the pitch and learning how to change speeds with the pitch and learning how to throw it in the strike zone consistently. All that is been a real journey and it certainly did not start that way. I certainly was all over the place early on in my career as a knuckleballer and you know I would have games where I would walk five or six guys and have four or five wild pitches and three or four passed balls. You know I actually set the Major League record for most wild pitches in an inning in the Metrodome in Minnesota one day. So it is a very unique interesting pitch. It can be really ugly when it is ugly but when it is on it is fantastic.  How many of your pitches these days are knuckleballs? Do you still have other pitches fastballs and sliders?  Yes I do and in fact that is one of the things that helps me to pitch deep into games is when I have innings when I do not have a good knuckleball I can kind of rely on my sinker or my cutter or my changeup to help survive the innings when I do not have a good knuckleball going. If I throw 100 pitches in a game ideally I want 85 of them to be knuckleballs and the other 15 will be other pitches sinkers fastballs curveballs changeups what have you. But it is important for me and it can be a weapon for me if a guy's thinking I am going to throw a knuckleball and I through an 85mileanhour fastball inside. It is hard for him to pull the trigger and that can be a weapon as well.  Now in addition to being hard to hit the knuckleball is hard to catch. Do catchers hate having a knuckleballer on the mound?  Well you know if you are Bob Uecker who said the best way to catch a knuckleball is to wait until it stops rolling and go over and pick it up then yeah.   But I have been blessed with some really good catchers that have really good hands. You know the key to catching a knuckleball is to try to let it get as deep as possible because when you go out and try to catch it before it kind of gets to you it will break and you will end up chasing it to the backstop. So I have had a couple of guys who have really struggled with it but for the most part the guys really accept it as a challenge and I work really hard at trying to do it well and so I have benefitted from that.  You wear a big oversized catcher's mitt right?  Yeah the catcher has a kind of  I have a special glove by Rawlings that is made up that is a knuckleball mitt that is unique for the knuckleball to give them a little bit better chance.  Now can umpires accurately call balls and strikes with a knuckleballer? Is it harder?  You know it is hard. But I have found that most of the Major League umpires really give me the benefit of the doubt because they do not want to miss a strike. It really reflects poorly on them if they missed a strike. So if there is a borderline pitch or a marginal pitch that could be a strike or a ball a lot of times I will get that call because they think that they do not want to be the guy who cannot call a knuckleball right. They really take it as a challenge. And the guys up there are so good the umpires are so good that most of the time you know they might miss four or five a game but over the course of a 250pitch game that is pretty remarkable.  OK so umpires if you are listening R.A. Dickey says you are great. So this season give him a break.   You know there are only a handful of guys in the major leagues that have done this over the years. I think you are probably the only knuckleballer out there right now is that right?  That is right Tim Wakefield retired last year. He was the other one.  Are you guys a special club? I mean do you get to know each other?  Certainly. I mean we are a very tight fraternity. It is interesting because if I want to get better at my craft of being a knuckleballer I cannot necessarily turn to one of my peers and say hey how do you throw yours or you know what am I doing on this pitch or I cannot turn to my pitching coach and ask him to help me. I have to lean on someone who is done it because it is such a specialized mechanic. And so I will call or reach out to Charlie Hough Tim Wakefield or Phil Niekro. Those are kind of my goto guys that I really talk to quite a bit when I am struggling. But it is because it is something that is so seldom done and it takes such a very committed disciplined longstanding time commitment to try to perfect there is not a lot of people who have walked a mile in your shoes. And so you definitely want access to those people and for me those guys have been incredibly generous with their acumen and their wisdom and really poured into me in a way that has made a difference in my life.  We are speaking with R.A. Dickey. He is a starting pitcher for the New York Mets and he has a new memoir called Wherever I Wind Up. We will talk more after a quick break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us we are speaking with big league pitcher and knuckleballer R.A. Dickey. He is a starter for the New York Mets and he has a new memoir. It is called Wherever I Wind Up My Quest for Truth Authenticity and the Perfect Knuckleball. The great knuckleball Phil Niekro you wrote in one of your conversations with him he watched you throw and he said you have an angry knuckleball. What did he mean?  Most knuckleballers the velocity of the knuckleball is anywhere from 62 to 69 miles an hour. My knuckleball is anywhere from 69 to 81. And so I think he was speaking to that effect is that you know when I throw mine with greater velocity and I am able to take spin off of it you know it comes in like a bucktooth termite trying to saw through that wood.   You know and so that is kind of the image that I always took from it.  You know baseball is such a team game and there are hitting coaches and pitching coaches and guys who are struggling you know will get advice and encouragement from other people on the team who do what they do. You know knuckleballers are in a situation where nobody does what they do. I mean you get the feeling that managers and pitching coaches run you out there and cross their fingers and hope for the best because they cannot really help you. Does that make for kind of a different relationship in the dugout?  That is a great question and the answer is yes it does. And it is not necessarily a bad relationship or it does not worsen the relationship. It is just different. It is very unique because the pitch is not thrown very often and a lot of managers do not really know how to manage a knuckleballer because it can be great one inning and then the next inning you go out there and you do not have a great feel for it and you throw some tumbling balls up there and they get hit around and then the next inning you get it back and all of a sudden nobody can hit you. So you know Terry Francona had a quote where he said when he was managing Tim Wakefield with the Red Sox he would just sit on his hands and wait for Tim to tell him when he was ready to come out of the game. And I have found that same relationship with Terry Collins and the New York Mets. He is fantastic and we have a very open line of communication and we overcommunicate which really enables us to have a good relationship and know when to put the relievers in and I can be honest with him when my knuckleball is really not very good and he can have somebody ready to go and things like that. But it is a very  and it can be a very lonely place you know because you do not have someone to turn to and say golly what am I doing wrong. It is up to you; you have got to be your own best coach. And so I have spent a greater part of seven years trying to figure out what makes me good and what makes me not so good.  A knuckleball is hard to master but the one great thing is that it is less punishing on your arm and you see some guys throw it into their 40s right I guess maybe even 50s?  Yeah yeah you can certainly throw it into your mid40s and a lot of knuckleballers their best years come from ages 38 to 44 right in that area Charlie Hough Phil Niekro Tim Wakefield all won a great number of games during that age period. You are able to do that because I am out there as a knuckleballer operating at about 75 percent capacity whereas as a conventional pitcher you are fulltilt all the time. It enables you to recover a lot better. It is a lot easier on your body. So if the other parts of your body hold up well there is no reason to think that you cannot pitch as long as you want to pitch.  You grew up in Nashville you tell us in this book and your dad left your mom early and your mom had a drinking problem used to take you to a bar called Joe's Village Inn. And you know it is gotten a lot of attention in the book that you revealed that you were abused sexually in your childhood you know once  well repeatedly by a teenage girl who was your babysitter when you were eight years old and then on another occasion more brutally by I guess a 17yearold boy. This is tough stuff. Did you tell anybody about these incidents at the time?  No I did not. In fact it was not for 23 years until I uttered a word of it to anybody. I think one of the tough things about being sexually abused is you  you know right away you feel like you have been a part of something incredibly wicked that you have had something to do with it even. I now know it has nothing to do with any fault of your own. But you certainly feel like it was partially your fault. And so I always just stuffed it away and would build up mechanisms for dealing with that pain.  You became a great athlete. I mean you were a great athlete and you played you know sports many of them well in junior high and high school. Did you think much about the abuse at the time or had you repressed it or thought you would repressed it?  Well I certainly had repressed it but there is not  you cannot really repress something like that to the extent that you never think about it. And one of the mechanisms that I had developed was pouring myself into athletics. You know the baseball field the basketball court and the football field were all kind of my refuges places I would take sanctuary from the pain of feeling like you know I was a fractured lessthanhuman person you know and that is when you are given. When you are sexually abused that is what you feel like. You feel like you are not worth anything. And so I would try to gain back some of that worth by pouring myself into athletics in a way that was you know at times probably pretty dysfunctional.  You went to live with your dad I guess in your teenage years right because your mom's drinking was becoming more apparent to you. And we should say that she is been in recovery now for many years and that is great.  Yeah she is great.  But that was a rough time for you and it is interesting that you say there became a point where you began sleeping at times in vacant houses. I mean just what made you do that? How did you figure out where to go?  Well I was a high school student at Montgomery Bell Academy which was an allboys school in Nashville and it was just lonely. It was lonely at home and it did not necessarily  it had to do with so much more than just you know being the only child in a house with a father and a stepmother. It was just loneliness that had probably gotten its genesis from the sexual abuse and other things that had happened along the way. But I would go into the library and look at the classifieds in the newspaper the Tennessean or the Nashville Banner the two newspapers at the time and I would look at the classified and find houses that were for rent that were close to school. I always knew that I was going to be at school sooner or later because you know there was always some kind of practice or game that was going on. And I would just tell my dad that I was spending the night out and I would find a vacant home that I had found in the classifieds in the library and kind of scope it out and usually there was always a key under a mat or under a flowerpot something like that and I would just let myself in. And at least you know it was a loneliness of my choosing you know at that point. I was not reminded of how lonely I was you know. And that is kind of how I started doing that.  R.A. Dickey will be back in the second half of the show. His memoir is called Wherever I Wind Up My Quest for Truth Authenticity and the Perfect Knuckleball. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. As the Major League All Star game approaches we are speaking with R.A. Dickey who is certain to make the National League roster and is the only big league pitcher who relies primarily on the knuckleball. He has a new memoir about his struggles to overcome childhood trauma and make it in the big leagues called Wherever I Wind Up. Dickey was a great conventional pitcher at the University of Tennessee where he pitched several games in the College World Series and made the U.S. Olympic Team. Now you become a firstround draft choice for the Texas Rangers. This was a big deal right? I mean what did it mean to you to get that kind of an entree into the big leagues?  Oh well it was what  immediately what it meant was that I was going to be able to sign a contract that was at least on the frontend in the way of a signing bonus worth close to 1 million. And that was something that we came from a low to middle income type situation when I was growing up so I had plans for the money to do things with and that is what it meant right away. And then it certainly also you know I think I took for granted the fact that I was going to be a professional pitcher which is something that I would always had always wanted to be from an early age. And when I was drafted I was the 18th pick overall by the Texas Rangers in 1996. And I would made the Olympic team and we went to Atlanta in '96 to compete for a gold medal we ended up winning the bronze and then that is when I went down to Texas to sign my contract and get on with my big league career.  Right. And we say 18th pick. That is in the first round. I mean that is a really high quality  that is a prestigious place to be for a kid entering the big leagues. So your dreams are coming true. You are going to be financially secure in a way you never have been and then it all falls apart. What happened?  Well when I flew down to take my comprehensive physical which all first rounders do they did this test called the Valgus stress test where you put your elbow into this apparatus and they apply pressure from the back and they take an Xray from the top. And it revealed that I had a little bit extra laxity in my right elbow in that joint than my left elbow. By the time I had left the doctor's office and got to the general manager's office to sign my contract in Arlington Texas the doctor and the general manager had talked and my agent was there and we were going up the elevator and you know I am thinking I am about to do the  you know throw out the first pitch of the game meet Nolan Ryan who was my boyhood idol and sign my contract for 850000. Doug Melvin was the general manager at the time called my agent into the office and I went on and stood out on the balcony and watched batting practice take place while my agent and the general manager talked. Well the agent comes out of the office and gets me and he is got kind of a pale look on his face and says you know we need to go in here right away. And I sit down across from Doug Melvin. And Doug Melvin commenced to say that they were going to take the offer off the table because they felt like there was something wrong with my arm. And of course  and in that moment you know I was having a million different emotions least of which was to jump over the table and choke him to death because I had spent a lifetime trying to get to that very point and he was taking it all away at least that was what I thought. But I quieted my spirit and thankfully I did not burn a bridge in that moment and I went on to see Dr. Andrews in Birmingham Alabama the next day and he advised that I get an MRI. So I got in an MRI and sure enough the MRI came back that I did not have the existence of an ulnar collateral ligament in my right elbow at all which is the ligament inside the elbow that keeps that joint stable. In my mind I was thinking this is great we should get more money. I am never going to have to have that ligament replaced.  Because that is a typical injury...   That is a typical injury for pitchers the...  That is  yeah  the Tommy John surgery is a typical injury for a Major League pitcher. But of course the Rangers did not see it that way. They thought they had drafted damaged goods. And I went back to Nashville Tennessee thinking that I may never throw for a professional team ever again because with that kind of hanging over you you never know what is going to happen. So my options became go back to school for my senior year. I had been drafted after my junior year of college go back from my senior year and try to play well enough to get drafted again  albeit it would not have been in a high round because of the condition that I had. And about 24 hours before my first class at the University of Tennessee the general manager Doug Melvin called my agent and said we will give him 75000 take it or leave it. And I prayed about it and talked about it with Anne who is my wife now and felt led to take the contract. And so I did and started my professional career as kind of this freak that did not have the ulnar collateral ligament.  So with this bizarre injury I mean your dream is shattered. You do not get the 850000 signing bonus. In the end they give you I guess a 75000 contract. And you go to their minor league system and you start there grinding away in the minor leagues Port Charlotte Florida initially then you spent a lot of time in Oklahoma City toiling away in the minors. Do you remember when you first went up to the big leagues that first game? I am sure you do. Tell us about that.  Oh certainly. Certainly. I had spent parts of five seasons in the minor leagues and played everywhere from Port Charlotte Florida to Venezuela to Puerto Rico and Tulsa Oklahoma and then finally Oklahoma City before I got called up to the Texas Rangers in 2001  was my first call up. And my first outing was against the Oakland Athletics in Texas and I just remember it being almost surreal kind of experience. So many people thought that I would never get there simply because of the condition I had in my elbow and I had made it and I was able to celebrate that with my family and they were there in the stands. And I had a three up three down inning against the Oakland A's in the ninth inning and it was just a fantastic experience all around.  But in the end it did not go well did it?  Well not as a conventional pitcher. You know I kind of was up and down for the next four years as a conventional pitcher and I was very mediocre by my own admission you know I never could get to that next place that I wanted to get to. You know I wanted  I felt like I was capable of so much more but the guys in the big leagues are just so good you know? If you are not pinpoint you know you are going to  your weaknesses will be revealed very quickly and mine were often revealed. And so I had to come up with something else if I wanted to hang onto the dream of being a Major League pitcher and that is in 2005 when I made the transition to being a fulltime knuckleball pitcher.  You know I was going to ask you about coming back to the minor leagues so many times because when you start the minor leagues it is exciting right you are a professional baseball player.  Sure.  And then there comes a point at which you are one of the oldest guys in the dugout and this place is not exciting because you have been to a big league park and I do not know did you worry that you were going to be one of these guys who just has a minor league career and then moves on?  Certainly. Certainly. You know and you hit the nail right on the head. The first couple of years of minor league baseball you are like all right you know you are here you are chasing your dream and then all of a sudden five years go by and you have had a child and you are married and you have been in Oklahoma City so long you could run for mayor you know and you are looking for that opportunity. And so when it comes you are certainly elated. And I got the call. I remember in 2001 when I first got my call to go to the big leagues I was in Colorado Springs and I remember being so happy because it was the first time that I ever flew first class somewhere and that was a real treat.  We are speaking with R.A. Dickey. He is a starting pitcher for the New York Mets and he has a new memoir called Wherever I Wind Up. We will talk more after a quick break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us we are speaking with big league pitcher and knuckleballer R.A. Dickey. He is a starter for the New York Mets and he has a new memoir. It is called Wherever I Wind Up My Quest for Truth Authenticity and the Perfect Knuckleball. So you describe the moment that you made this transition to being a knuckleball pitcher I mean two greats of the game you know Buck Showalter and Orel Hershiser tell you we think you know you have been fooling around with this pitch you can do it well and then you begin in a way in this second pitching career learning it. And it is a hard craft to master and you went up to the big leagues a few times and got  did well but also got knocked around plenty and when it is not working it is a rough day on the mound.  Sure.  And you ended up back in the minors again. And there is this bizarre I do not know if we could call it a turning point in your career that involved you trying to swim across the Missouri River in Iowa. What happened?   Oh man. What did not happen? That is exactly right what happened. Well you know I had been coming  like I said I spent so much time in Oklahoma City one of the places we would always play was Omaha we would play the Royals and the Omaha Royals which was the AAA affiliate of the Kansas City Royals. And I had been going through there for years and we always stayed at this hotel and overlooked the Missouri River. And for years I would go up the elevator looking out over the river thinking I wonder if anybody can swim across that. Well in 2007 I thought I am going to do it. You know I have spent a lifetime of not taking any risks; I am going to take one and try to do it. And so word spread around the clubhouse and all my teammates got out there and they watched me derobe and get down onto the shallows of the Missouri before I took off and tried to traverse it.  That is a big fastmoving river right? What happened?   Well it is  it is big it is dirty and it is fastmoving and it is  come to find out it has a significant undertow.   But I set out and I would always been a pretty good swimmer. I felt like I was going at a pretty good clip. And you know I had gone about 100 yards upriver so that I felt like if I got across you know I would kind of be in the place I need