 This is FRESH AIR. This week two drama series with ties to CBS return on the recently launched Paramount streaming service. The Good Fight a sequel to the CBS series The Good Wife began its fifth season yesterday moved from the now renamed CBS All Access. And earlier this week a drama series called Evil formerly televised on the CBS broadcast network returned with its first episode of Season 2. Our TV critic David Bianculli loves both shows but does not like the way they are distributed. Here's his review.  I am really really impressed by what I have seen of the new seasons of The Good Fight and Evil two drama series from the husbandandwife writerproducer team of Robert and Michelle King. But with The Good Fight especially I am also very very frustrated and close to angry. It is so good so clever so cutting edge. It would be CBS' best TV series by far except it is not on CBS. Like Evil which used to be on CBS it is now on Paramount. That bothers me for two reasons. But before I get to that let me make a case for just how good these shows are. The Good Fight like its parent CBS series The Good Wife has been brilliant from the start. It is impeccably cast and intelligently written and loves to take deep dives into technology politics and current events. The new season's opening episode for example is an extended flashback taking the characters and us back through the pandemic. In March 2020 a televised press conference announces a governmentmandated stayathome order in Chicago while the law firm's senior partners played by Delroy Lindo and Christine Baranski gather their troops and issue some marching orders.    We have looked closely at the trajectory of this virus in countries like Italy and China. If left unchecked cases in Illinois will rise rapidly.   All we know is that this stayathome order will last until April 8. At that point you will be getting invitations to come back to work.   Are we all being asked back?   I hope so but we really do not know.   How do we know whether we still have a job?   We will be calling you guys hopefully within a week.   So we just wait by the phone.   In the meantime we are setting up a teleconferencing infrastructure so download a program called zoom.com.  Before the episode is over two of the show is stars  Delroy Lindo and Cush Jumbo  say goodbye. But other actors step up to fill the void or are newly introduced and there is no shortage of talent. Four episodes in and you not only get returning regulars Christine Baranski Audra McDonald and Gary Cole but Wallace Shawn Jane Curtin Bebe Neuwirth Stephen Lang and more. Charmaine Bingwa comes on board playing Carmen a brandnew associate at the firm and she gets a juicy storyline almost immediately. So does Sarah Steele who is been around since the days of The Good Wife playing Eli Gold's daughter Marissa. But now she is offered a job from an eccentric judge who is set up a sort of underground people's court behind the storefront of a copy machine business. He is played by new series regular Mandy Patinkin who as usual steps into the spotlight and absolutely shines.    I cannot. I have a job. I want to pass the bar. I want to be a real lawyer.   You know why all these people are here? Because the courts and the lawyers and the appeals have made justice unattainable out of reach to anyone who does not have a sload of money to wade it out. That is why Exxon beats out Mr. Nobody. Read Kafka's Before The Law.   Now I have got homework.   It is one page long. Do not be a philistine. Justice is only just if it is available to everyone.  The Good Fight in its first few episodes this season tackles everything from the January 6 insurrection to cancel culture. And while being topical it is also unpredictable because its characters always are evolving and often act in surprising ways. That is true as well of the Kings' other Paramount series Evil. Its new second season begins with the show is central character Kristen played by Katja Herbers visiting her psychotherapist played by Kurt Fuller. Her admission is indeed surprising to say the least.    We have patientdoctor privilege right? Jaffee v. Redmond's Supreme Court decision demands absolute protection from communication between psychotherapists and their patients.   Kristen what is this about  a parking ticket?   And it cannot be reported to the police as long as it is not about a future crime.   OK. Yes. We both know the rules.   And I also know how psychiatrists sometimes bend these rules and tell anonymous stories to the police in order to achieve what they consider justice.   That would never happen.   Kurt I worked with the DA's office. It happens all the time.   Kristen you know how seriously I take confidentiality. It is absolutely sacred. I will in no way share or hint to the police. Now what are we talking about here  shoplifting?   I killed someone.  Both these shows are delightfully entertaining. So why while watching them am I bordering on angry? Because viewers cannot watch them without paying a streaming fee. I get that this is the future and not just for Paramount. NBC has Peacock and ABC has Disney. But the broadcast networks themselves are not offering hardly anything worth watching. If these turn out to be the dying days of broadcast television it is because the networks are killing themselves by putting their best stuff behind one paywall after another.  David Bianculli is a professor of television studies at Rowan University in New Jersey. On Monday's show threetime Emmy Award winner Uzo Aduba. She stars in the HBO series In Treatment as a psychotherapist. In Orange Is The New Black she played Suzanne Crazy Eyes Warren and in Mrs. America she portrayed Shirley Chisholm. We will talk about her roles colorism and being the daughter of Nigerian immigrants. I hope you can join us.   FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham with additional engineering support by Joyce Lieberman and Julian Hertzfeld. Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit Phyllis Myers Roberta Shorrock Sam Briger Lauren Krenzel Heidi Saman Therese Madden Ann Marie Baldonado Thea Chaloner Kayla Lattimore and Joel Wolfram. Our associate producer of digital media is Molly SeavyNesper. Seth Kelley directed today's show. For Terry Gross I am Dave Davies.  