 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Late night TV is now filled with hilarious political satire. What sets apart Full Frontal With Samantha Bee is not just that it is hosted by a woman it is that Bee is a feminist. And the head writer and showrunner Jo Miller is also a feminist. And that is the perspective they bring to their satire. And the Trump administration is giving them plenty of material to work with. Samantha Bee and Miller cocreated Full Frontal. They first worked together on The Daily Show where Bee was a correspondent and Miller was a writer. When Jon Stewart left The Daily Show Bee was offered her own show. And she enlisted Miller to help her create it. Full Frontal airs Wednesdays on TBS and just started its second season. Let us start with a Full Frontal clip from the night after Election Day when Samantha Bee was still shocked by Donald Trump's victory.   How did everyone get this so spectacularly wrong? Pollsters the media the Keepin' It 1600 crowd nerds us. What was the X factor that none of the forecasts accounted for? OK. I have a confession to make. A few years ago I appeared on a little show called Law  Order.    You may know Vanessa Carville. She is being blackmailed.   And soon after it aired the 20season hit series was canceled even though there were still six people in New York who had not yet appeared on it. And then last year I gave a tasteful interview in Playboy. The next day Playboy canceled nudity.   I guess I did not notice the pattern because yesterday I voted in an American election for the first time and I broke America.   I am so sorry. And please do not even think of writing something stupid like what one lucky break a Trump presidency is for comedians. The jokes just write themselves. No no no. Shut up. Jokes do not write themselves. Jews write jokes. And they are scared expletive.   Samantha Bee Jo Miller welcome to FRESH AIR. .  Thank you for having us.  Thank you Terry.  So what was it like doing a show right after the election? I mean had you planned on doing a show about Presidentelect Hillary Clinton?  Listen. We had a balloon drop planned. I will say that.  We did.  We had balloons in our rafters. And it was you know not   we had to call it. We donated our balloons to a different show.  We did prepare. I mean we had...  Did you really? Did you really...  Well for things that were pretaped we did tape  like for the cold open where everybody is running around celebrating that the election's over. We had taped an alternate ending for just in case because we are stressed anxious people who kind of Cassandra  around expecting the worst.   And we  the field department had shot some wonderful footage at the polls that day and planned a field piece and then needed to make a completely different field piece out of the same footage and...  At 2 of the clock in the morning.  Yeah. And Tyler  just sat down in that edit. And we checked in on him from time to time like you OK? Yeah. I got it. It is great. Fine. And he turned out a beautiful field piece.  How did you come up with the idea that Samantha Bee broke America because every time she does something it is cancelled or changes in some dramatic way?  I can tell you. I remember  I knew at 01 that...  I know.  ...What was going to happen. And everybody was still in denial. And around 10 I think I...  I think it  around 10.  Yeah. I pulled everyone in the writers room. And they just sat there staring into space. And most of these people had not been through 2004 and did not know that feeling. And Sam then told everybody the story about the other thing the Law  Order and the Playboy...  Breaking our cherished cultural institutions.  And that was  yeah. That was like throwing out this life preserver to everyone in the room. And we all grabbed onto it. And then we started talking about how to make it funny. So.  So you all...  Before that it was silence.  Silence. Silence.  So how did Trump's election change the role you want your show to play?  By the time the election rolled around we were all so excited and joyful. We saw you know we could see a different future for the show. We wanted to stop talking about the election...  God.  ...So many other things that we wanted to cover are  you know was kind of just this endless pool of stories we wanted to tell. And we thought...  We had to get back to the states.  Get back to the states. Get back to  have a you know some predictability.  Cover Europe.  Yeah.  Or feminist issues.  So then in that moment you know we were having a crisis in the office a crisis of citizenship and a crisis  an American crisis but also looking toward a future in which we knew we were going to have to dig in deep on this. And we knew that it was going to change the future of the show for however long it changed it. It just felt like we could see something dark on the horizon. And that was overwhelming for a long time.  I  the poor guys who do the Trumpcast at Slate were completely planning to end their podcast...  Right.  ...At Election Day and were  had clearly kind of calculated it so that they were coasting in on fumes at the end...  Right . I know .  ...And then to realize they had to do it forever. I feel like they probably felt like we did.  I think so. An interesting thing happened also as the election results were becoming more clear. I checked into my Twitter feed. And the tone of people's at mentions to me went into violence. Like I cannot even  it is indescribable what happened. But it just  like I felt like the whole world shifted in those few hours in a way that was very I mean just everything about it was so unexpected. But I could feel this seismic shift in the way that people were interacting with me. It was ugly.  So what were you reading like misogynist tweets directed at you?  Oh my God. It was unbelievable. I literally had to turn my notifications off actually.  We took your phone away.  Everyone took my phone away because it put me into such a dark place for a couple of really bad days. And...  So  wait  so President Trump won and you became more of a target? Is that what you are saying?  Yeah. And I could feel me personally being a target but the show.  It was vicious.  It was was vicious.  And a little kind of scary.  Right out of the gate. And I  in that moment I kind of understood the way it was going to be from then on. And at that point everyone took away my Twitter because it was making me too depressed .  And it was like night and day when we took it away. It is like oh Sam's back.  I know . Yeah. Yeah. I really needed to  I really needed to lose touch with that element and which has been very effective. My notifications have been off ever since.  It is good to be reminded that that is not the real world.  It is not the real world.  But it is a dark rabbit hole to go down.  So a few weeks ago you announced that you were doing an alternative to the White House Correspondents Dinner. And this is the annual dinner held by the White House Correspondents Association. It is a formal event at a big ballroom. A lot of people from the press are there a lot of celebrities politicians and the president. The president is usually at the head table. And the president does standup. And often it turns into a roast. And then there is a guest comic who usually does not only standup but tends to roast the president . And comics have included Stephen Colbert Larry Wilmore Seth Myers and...  Do not leave out Rich Little. Come on man.  Yeah you left out Rich Little.  After Trump was elected you decided you were going to do an alternative to the White House Correspondents Dinner called Not the White House Correspondents Dinner and that you are going to do what? What are you going to do?  In the weeks following the election we were struggling so much to find joy and things that just made us genuinely smile. And Jo and Alison and I  Alison is one of the producers on the show  and she  the three of us were sitting together and thinking about what was going to happen with the White House press corps. I feel like it was Newt Gingrich who made some statement at the end of November about why the White House corps felt like an anachronism to him and why did it even exist? And we sat together. And we were just having a nice conversation and thinking what is going to happen with it? How is this dinner by way of example going to exist? Is he going to come to it? Are they going to cancel it? There was so much animosity.  Well he loves jokes. He is so able to...  He is so able to...  He understands  humor about himself  unbelievable. And so really together in the moment we all thought the idea. That  we all went oh my God we should have our own. And it made us smile for the first time in a long time  genuinely smile.  So when you try to imagine what the White House Correspondents Dinner would be like with President Trump what did you imagine?  I imagined it would be canceled.  I imagined it would be canceled also. Yeah.  OK. And the dinner itself was not canceled but Trump has said...  No.  ...President Trump has said he is not attending.  Right correct.  So does that change your plans at all? I was wondering like...  No.  ...will you maybe now be doing it...  Fair enough.  ...as part of the White House Correspondents Dinner?  No. I think that we see our event as a standalone event. I mean we you know as the idea grew and changed over time we want to make it a celebration of free press. And certainly we have used so much great research and so much great work in the service of our own show you know without people on the ground doing all of that really difficult work...  Like local newspaper gumshoe reporting in Tampa and Atlanta.  It is essential to how we put the show together. And so this event is a chance for us to celebrate the people who have  who have helped us lift our show. It is also just objectively going to be fun for us. And we think it  I really do think it stands alone. It is essentially our show is version of that event with our own perspective. And it will be a completely different type of event.  So you are going to record it and then play it as a special or play it on your show?  It will be a special.  It will be recorded a couple hours before it airs.  Yeah.  Oh so it is going to air the same night as the White House Correspondents Dinner?  Yeah.  Yeah.  Wow. Any clues you can drop about who is going to be there?  No . No because we do not know.  We do not...  We really do not know.  ...We have just started reaching out like...  Yes.  ...today .  Yes. Yeah yeah. We are really  we are putting it together. You know it is a little bit like planning a wedding with about six weeks' notice.  It is like planning a wedding when you just found out you were pregnant.  Yes.   OK. Well I am sure it is going to be fun so I look forward to it. Let us take a short break here. And let me reintroduce you first. My guests are Samantha Bee and Jo Miller who created Full Frontal With Samantha Bee. And it is a weekly satirical news show with a feminist point of view on TBS hosted by Samantha Bee. And Jo Miller's the head writer. So we will be back after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guests are Samantha Bee and Jo Miller who created Full Frontal With Samantha Bee which is a weekly satirical news show with a feminist point of view on TBS. And Samantha Bee is the host. She is also a former Daily Show correspondent. Jo Miller is the head writer and show writer for Full Frontal. They first worked together on The Daily Show. OK. Let us hear another bit from Full Frontal. And this is your take on Kellyanne Conway...   Oh great.  ...that was recorded on January 18. So this is just like a couple of days before the inauguration. And she of course was Donald Trump's campaign manager now counselor to the president who is being seen increasingly less and less over time. So here's Samantha Bee a couple of days before the inauguration.   Welcome back to the show. As one of the top five or six feminist shows in late night we are all about celebrating the achievements of fierce brave strong women  well that and dildo jokes  but mainly women. And tonight we want to celebrate a truly special female woman  Donald Trump's omnipresent spokescobra  Kellyanne Conway. Or as Fox News calls her...   The first woman to run a winning presidential campaign in the history of this country.  First woman to be ever  lead and win a presidential campaign.  The first woman to run a successful presidential campaign.   Jesus Fox stop ramming your feminist identity politics down America's throats. But they are right Kellyanne did turn Trump's upended portapotty of a campaign around and get him elected pretty much singlehandedly while raising four children and probably being interrupted every three minutes by the alpha bro jockstraps Trump likes to surround himself with. She is expletive amazing at her job. And she deserves credit. But for some reason not everyone is celebrating Kellyanne's victory for womanhood.   I got to think that if Kellyanne Conway was on the left I would be seeing her on the cover of Vogue. But the left's not big fans.   Oh my God you guys it is so unfair. A woman pulls off the historic feat of electing a sexual predator who thinks women should be punished for having abortions and feminists do not celebrate her with a Vogue cover.   Although she did get the cover of expletive Grabber Enabler Monthly so I guess that is something.  So I think it is very interesting that you came up with a feminist take on Kellyanne Conway. So can you talk a little bit about the process of figuring out what your angle was going to be to talk about Kellyanne Conway?  Well she is an accomplished professional.  She pretty much did pull that off singlehanded. I mean...  She really did.  ...She is very good at her job. She will do or say anything. And she was surrounded by a bunch of male boobs who could not find their own ass with a map.  Yep she does  I really absolutely think that she does deserve credit for that.  Yeah.  I wish that she had not done it .  Right I mean I feel the same way I did about Thatcher. Like I you know lived in Britain then. It was not a pleasant time. But props to her and you know what she had to put up with on a daily basis. She is another one who had to change her voice because it was too shrill.  Right.  And also we disagree with Kellyanne on everything and hate watching what she does on the news shows. But I know that she is gotten the same kind of personal nasty misogynist attacks that Sam has. And she gets called names and called ugly and really inappropriate horrible things the way that any public woman does. And that is wrong. We had a whole  we had this whole...  Yeah.  ...Debate in the rewrite because we wanted to make sure that we did not say anything that could be construed by anybody as being lookist  or sexist or you know a personal attack on her instead of the way she lives her life and does her business or her work and everything.  Yeah you did in another edition call  in another edition you did call her a flaxenhaired fountain of lies.  .  Well that is accurate.  Yep.  I will stand behind those words.  OK.  Flaxenhaired is pretty. That is a compliment.  Yeah that is nice.  OK.  And she is a fountain of lies ...  And she is a fountain of lies .  ...I mean I do not...  A beautiful cascading Bellagio of mendacity.   So you have been working together since you were on The Daily Show.  God it feels like a thousand years.  It feels like another person's life...  Really?  ...In a lot of ways. Yeah.  Did you feel on The Daily Show that you had to prove yourselves as women or just as comics?  .  I did not really  I personally did not have a very gendered experience there. More  it is  for me as a comic for me  comedy my sensibility and  I am a hard worker. And I am a gold stargetter. I like to put my nose down and do the work. That is how I felt about the experience. No one ever did not listen to my ideas there because I was female. People did not listen to my ideas because they were sometimes bad ideas .  No. That is  at the time in 2009 when Hallie Haglund and I were hired as writers there  it was an allmale room at the time. There had been women there. There were not at the time so we came into a very masculine environment. And whenever you are in a room with 16 guys you get talked over. People pick up the thing you said five minutes ago and say it and then get heard. Jon was always the best about making eye contact with the person who was quiet or who had just gotten talked over and locking eyes with them and saying no wait talk you. And I really appreciated that. And I think I was completely shy and scared for a while. And then something flipped. And I just started being a complete bitch with sharp elbows...   ...And talking over other people. So being in a room with 16 guys  but they were very kind.  So when you decided to work together to create a new show how did you figure out what the format was going to be? How did you figure out what you wanted?  Well we knew from the very beginning what we wanted. And we knew that we wanted the show to come from a very visceral place. We knew that we wanted it to be a really authentic expression...  Kind of rip it out of hearts.  ...Of what we are feeling. We did not know how the you know the acts would break down. And we did not know what the set would look like or what it would  we knew  and we also...  We knew no desk.  We knew that there would be no desk. That is also something that we knew.  Yeah you just Sam you just stand...  We did not know blazers yet.  Yeah.  Yeah. Why no desk and...  We just could not. I am just  personally as a viewer and as a consumer of late night shows I just cannot  like I did not  want to see another one. I just did not want to see another desk. You know it is  it does not feel  it would not feel right to  we knew that our show would be different in many ways. I do not think we knew exactly how it would be different. We just knew that it would be. And part of that was just breaking that format just this really simple gesture of breaking the format of sitting behind a desk. When I sit behind things I cannot move my body. It is very constricting. It becomes like  well for me it would have been a crutch. And believe me I thought  I was very scared to not have a desk because I thought would not it be great to have something to hide behind? I need something that I can scoot behind so that  I just need it. But in the end I did not need it at all. And I am so glad that we really do not have anything for me to hide behind. It is better that way.  My guests are Samantha Bee the cocreator and host of the political satire show Full Frontal and Jo Miller the cocreator head writer and showrunner. Full Frontal airs Wednesday nights on TBS. We will talk more after a break. And Ken Tucker will review the new album by The xx. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR. . It is like it is my uniform. And when we were in the early days of doing test shows I had it in my head that I had to wear a dress and high heels. I really did. I thought OK when you are a woman and you are on television you have to wear a dress and you have to wear high heels. And then we did another test show and I was wearing high heels. And the heels were so   they were such stilettos that the heels were poking through the   they were poking through the floor of the set and it was terrible. And we were like what is she going to do about the high heels? Can you wear a block heel? And I was like no. They have to be stilettos. And then   and actually a couple of executives from TBS were there. And they pulled me aside after and they were like you were so comfortable  seemed to be having so much fun in rehearsal when you were wearing sneakers and a blazer and then you put on your outfit for the show and you seem like you are having a terrible time. And they were right. I was having a terrible time because I was so physically uncomfortable. And they were like why do not you just do the show in the clothes that you want to wear? And I was like you can do that? I think I will. Thank you. So it was actually a really great  it was a really excellent network...  That was a good network note.  Yeah it really was.  So when you started Full Frontal after working on The Daily Show were the things you learned about running a show from The Daily Show that you put into effect for your new show that you might not have thought of had you not worked on The Daily Show?  Yeah. I mean of course.  We learned everything from John.  Yeah. Yeah. It was an incredible training ground  I mean comedy college.  And that was a  I mean they had a welloiled machine 16 years plus  16 plus years in the making that we were lucky enough to work in. So anything that worked there we were happy to steal...  And I think that...  Processwise.  ...I think the  I was there for 12 years. I was there for a really long time. And toward the last few years of my tenure there  let us say five years  Drumm  was always very encouraging for me to go further into my point of view. So it was always point of view point of view point of view point of view. And we definitely took that to our show. I mean...  Point of view always.  ...In a big way  always point of view.  Keep your boot on the neck of the story or it will eat you.  Oh that is an image .  Fun was another one. We used to have a little Postit note stuck up on the wall that said fun...  Fun .  ...For when we forgot.  It could be fun could not it?  .  Is it easier to forget that comedy is fun when you are actually responsible for coming up with the funny stuff because it is so hard?  It is when there are things that kind of hurt us to our core like the treatment of refugees who are fleeing for their lives.  Yeah. Nothing inherently hilarious about that.  Yeah. No we get so upset that it is hard to  it is hard to find the way to comedy.  Well OK we actually have an example of how you found a way to comedy with a related story. And this is from February 1 a few days after President Trump signed the executive order directing a travel ban on seven countries with predominantly Muslim populations. And it created chaos for people at the airports. It upended the lives of people who'd been saving money for years to come to America and then could not be admitted here. So here's Samantha Bee on Full Frontal.   I will not mention that this refugee ban is immoral embarrassing and inhuman. I will just point out that it is the act of giant expletive. Here is a man who is afraid of  germs stairs books unprocessed food women birds Muslims Russian pee tapes inner cities and of course strong winds.   But he cannot recognize the courage of people who survive literal war zones to come to a new country start over with nothing and keep going each day despite the contempt with which we are horrible enough to treat them. You want a Muslim ban? We know you do so say it already Mr. StraightTalker and face the legal consequences like a man. Do not expletive by banning territories that just happen to be Muslim. Territories is a politically correct  I do not know. What is the word?   A euphenism .  That is it. Forget the coy euphenisms and own your pointless cruelty. That is why America voted for you except for the majority of America that did not. We will be right back.  So in trying to find an angle on a story that is not funny  the Syrian refugees  you found the angle that President Trump is actually a coward and he is not respecting the bravery of the people who are trying to immigrate to the United States. So talk about finding that angle when you knew that  you wanted to do something on the Syrian refugees and other Muslim refugees but where is the comedy?  We found it in our nauseated stomach ?  Yeah. Yeah. I mean that particular segment is pure catharsis. It is  there are jokes in there but it is  comes from such a heartfelt place. It is  it is satisfying to be able to say those words ultimately. It is so up  it is still so upsetting. It is still so upsetting that these  that this has occurred. It is still so upsetting that this is such a pervasive attitude.  And that they are deliberately eliding the distinction between immigrants and refugees.  If you are just joining us my guests are Samantha Bee and Jo Miller and they created Full Frontal With Samantha Bee which is a weekly satirical news show with a feminist point of view. Samantha Bee is the host. Joe Miller is the head writer and show runner. We are going to take a short break and then come right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guests are Samantha Bee and Jo Miller. And they created the show Full Frontal With Samantha Bee which is a weekly satirical news show with a feminist point of view on TBS. And they previously worked together on The Daily Show when Samantha Bee was a correspondent there. And on Full Frontal Jo Miller is the head writer and the showrunner. So you are both from really different backgrounds. Sam I remember one of the times I interviewed you you told me that when you were a teenager you stole cars with friends.  Yes I did...  Whereas Jo...  ...Boyfriend.  With your boyfriend OK.  My bad boyfriend.  Yeah. You went to Yale. You were a Fulbright scholar then went to Cornell where you received your Ph.D. in...  No. I left before I got my Ph.D.  Oh I thought you got it. OK I have been misinformed. But your area of specialization as I  as far as I know was medieval Jewish history.  Yep. Laugh riot.  Laugh riot.  I never would have known that those...  What were you thinking your future was going to be when you were studying medieval Jewish history?  I was going to be a history teacher like some of the people I admired the most. I was going to hole up in the academy and let the temporal world slide by outside barely noticing it. I did comedy on my own time. I mean I was  an improv group at college that  actually last weekend I just went back for the 30year anniversary of the group. They are still going strong. Steve Bodow who is the show runner over at The Daily Show and I were the founding directors of that group. Steve was the one who called me and asked me to apply at The Daily Show. And so  I  there was comedy. I mean if you are studying pogroms you kind of have to do something to make yourself laugh.   Well while we are on the subject when you were studying antiSemitism in medieval times are there some kind of tropes from then that you are seeing now like...  Yes.  ...Were gravestones overturned in medieval times?  That is not recorded. I mean at the you know at Passover there are all these  the responsa literature by the rabbis saying that it is OK to drink white wine at Passover so that if someone's looking in your window they will not think you are drinking blood. The responsa literature describe all of these practical accommodations that people had to make to antiSemitism and to threats. There are common themes. One is the popular notion among people who study medieval Jewish history that there is a sort of natural antipathy among the uneducated masses that just bubbles up from time to time because you know the masses the peasants hate Jews. And that is not how it works. It is always engineered from above. It is engineered through propaganda campaigns by people with vested interests in using prejudice and outbursts of popular hostility. It comes from above. The myths like blood libels they emerge as later justifications for the violence that has happened. Which is also what you see in the South with lynchings. The violence comes first. Then you have to justify the violence because if  you need to have had a reason otherwise you are a bad person. So you know black men rape white women. That is  the violence comes first. And it comes from the top. Yeah.  Back to comedy.  Anyway Full Frontal.   Is there any language...  You should never ask me about this.   No no. I am going on. Is there any language or any stereotypes any myths that you are hearing today that date back as far as medieval times or further that you are aware of?  Yeah. I remember when I was in grad school and the ritual murder accusations cropped up again in Bosnia and were used against Muslims. They  they are always lying around there these weapons lying around for you to just pick up and...  What are those  the ritual murder accusations?  That Jews or in the case of Bosnia Muslims would kidnap Christian children and either crucify them in a reenactment of Jesus' crucifixion or bleed them to death to drink their blood or mix their blood into the food which I should add is not true.  You said these waves of antiSemitism always come from above and then trickle down. So is that...  The ones that I have experienced yeah.  ...Is that what you feel like you have been witnessing?  Now we have the internet. Old libels and old antiSemitic myths particularly Nazi ones are pressed into service again. This is how you see the lugenpresse the lying press bubble up again. It'