 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. In the days when westerns were big box office and TV attractions cowboys and their horses often shared equal billing. Champion wonder horse of the West was Gene Autry's mount. John Wayne rode Duke his devil horse and of course there was Roy Rogers and Trigger billed as the smartest horse in the movies. Our guest Petrine Day Mitchum has written a book about horses in movies and television called Hollywood Hoofbeats. She says some horses were specially trained stunt horses others bonded with actors who rode with them for years. And many she says developed an actor's affection for the camera coming to life when the director said action. Petrine Day Mitchum is a former Hollywood story editor and script analyst who is also worked as a photojournalist and essayist and she is the daughter of Robert Mitchum. She spoke to FRESH AIR contributor Dave Davies. She said that back in the silent era some horses were the box office attraction.  Petrine Day Mitchum welcome to FRESH AIR. Fascinating stories in here about horses in Hollywood. Let us talk about one of the big stars of the silent era a horse named Rex. You would see Rex's name on a marquee?  Absolutely.  What made him special? I mean he could perform well  I mean seemed to take training well. Was there something about his look something in his eyes? I mean what makes...  Yes absolutely. There was a wildness to him that you know many people who worked with him described and he just had this incredible presence really. He had star power . He had a gorgeous conformation a beautiful arched neck very very pretty face but he just had a wildness about him that never left. And he was not that easy to work with on the set. Sometimes he would run off and he was sort of a diva. But he was worth it because he was such a box office attraction. Hank Potts who was a movie horse handler at the time said that he had an unusual and arresting gleam in his eye like the unattainable stare of an eagle. So he really did have a charisma that was very unusual.  There is a famous trainer named Yakima Canutt  do I have that  the name right?  Yakima Canutt. Yakima was more of a stuntman than a trainer...  OK.  ...He is quite a famous stuntman and horseman. And yes he had to work with Rex and Rex actually attacked him.  You tell a story of where they were on the set. They were taking repeated take after take of a particular scene. And...  Yes.  ...Canutt warned Rex is getting a little edgy here. What happened?  Yes. Yakima Canutt costarred with Rex in a movie called The Devil Horse in which Rex was playing  guess what?  the devil horse. And in one scene Rex had to run to Canutt's character during an Indian battle and that is the kind of liberty work that he excelled at running from point A to point B completely at liberty just watching the trainer offcamera give him a cue. And he had done it many many times and was getting tired as horses do. And Canutt told the director you know I do not think we should press him for another take but the director wanted another take. And Rex just completely snapped and charged at Canutt with his teeth bared and really went after him and he bit him got him on the neck and knocked him to the ground reared up and was striking at Canutt. And Canutt managed to roll away and he kicked Rex on the nose. And Rex just kept coming after him even when the trainer Swede Lindell tried to call him off. And Canutt finally just was able to roll over a bank and escape and run away so he was not completely tame. I have seen the film and it is pretty frightening.  As you researched these horses and their trainers and what they were like on movie sets do you  were horses aware of when the camera was on? Did they behave differently in rehearsal than they did when it was a real take?  I have heard many stories of horses that absolutely came alive when they saw the little red camera light blinking. And jumping ahead in time Jimmy Stewart's mountain 17westerns Pie was one of those horses who Stewart said he just felt him come alive underneath him the minute the camera started rolling. So yes the answer is some horses actually  they know when they are on camera.  It is interesting that you mention that pair. I do not know that people think of James Stewart as necessarily a Western star but he did a lot of westerns. And this horse named Pie was his horse in 17 films right?  Yes James Stewart rode this horse called Pie in 17 westerns and he tried very very hard to buy him from his owner a woman named Stevie Meyers. And she would not sell him but she did let Stewart ride him in 17 films. And they just became so attuned to each other that in one film The Far Country Stewart had developed such a rapport with him that he was able to get the horse to do something at liberty all by himself when the trainer was not around. They were on this location. The trainer was not on the set. And the horse needed to walk from one end of a street to another with no ropes on him or anything and Stewart just went up to him he said he whispered in his ear and told him what he needed him to do. And the horse did it. And everyone on the set was absolutely amazed and Stewart just said that was Pie. That is what he did. So he absolutely had an incredible bond with the horse.  Let us talk about one of the most famous cowboy and horse pairs Roy Rogers and Trigger. How did they get together?  Well Roy Rogers was looking for a horse to be his movie horse and he went to the Hudkin Brothers Stables. The Hudkin Brothers were an outfit that supplied movie horses to many of the studios mainly Warner Bros. And Roy got on that horse and he said I got on the horse that was to become Trigger and rode him down the street and back and never looked at the rest of them. I said this is it. This is the color I want. He feels like the horse I want and he is got a good rein on him. So I took Trigger and I started my first picture. And they really became the most iconic pair Trigger being a gorgeous golden palomino horse with a white mane and tail very very flashy. And he was trained by a gentleman named Glenn Randall who is considered to be one of the finest movie horse trainers in the business. And one of the things that Glenn Randall taught his horses  the ones that had the physical ability to do it  was to do a beautiful rear standing up on the hind legs almost vertically and that Trigger could do just beautifully. So that was one of his trademarks but he also had a number of tricks on him.  Does a particular stunt or trick come to mind?  Yes there was a film where Rogers and Trigger were jumping over a series of 50gallon drums that were rolling off the back of a truck. And it was a completely unrehearsed scene and Trigger just did it all perfectly in one take. He just was a great horse in terms of being confident. He and Roy had confidence in each other which was so important and just  and took this crazy stunt in stride. I mean it is really quite astonishing I would imagine for a horse to see a bunch of barrels running straight at him and then just to have the presence of mind to just jump them and not flinch and not try and shy away from them. So it was a really spectacular scene.  We are speaking with Petrine Day Mitchum. Her new book is Hollywood Hoofbeats. We will continue our conversation after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR and if you are just joining us we are speaking with Petrine Day Mitchum. She has a new book with Audrey Pavia about Hollywood horses. It is called Hollywood Hoofbeats. You see horses fall a lot in film. And I gather that there were ways that this was done years ago that was kind of harmful to horses. Explain that for us.  In the early days of filmmaking falling horses were often tripwired. And that means that they had wires attached to the front of their feet. And those wires were run up under their girth and attached either to a stationary pole or in some cases the rider would actually hold the wires and pull the horse's legs out from under him at a gallop. This was really an incredibly brutal inhumane way of doing it. Broncho Billy Anderson the very first cowboy actor employed this method. He did not know anything about horses. You know he did not have any sentimental feelings towards them. He just wanted to get his movies made. Another way of tripping horses was to dig holes in the ground and they would just gallop into the holes. And the most egregious and famous example of that is in Charge Of The Light Brigade Cecil B. DeMille's film.  That film was particularly tough on a lot of horses right?  Yes. That film  that 1936 movie Charge Of The Light Brigade is just stunning in the amount of carnage of horses and injuries to stunt riders as well. Errol Flynn the star of the film was really unaware of what was going to happen to all these horses when the charge began. And he was completely sickened to see horses go down. And you know they shot it over and over again so there were  just  it was appalling. Interestingly enough as a sidebar there was one trained falling horse in the film. But that is one out of many. Anyway Flynn was so outraged and so despondent about this that he actually went public and talked about the misuse of horses. And this was the beginning of the American Humane Association's oversight of animal actors in film which endures to today which is a wonderful wonderful thing. And when you go see a film and you see their little imprint and the noanimalswereharmedinthemakingofthisfilm you would better believe that no animals were harmed in the making of the film. So we have Mr. Flynn to thank for that wonderful advocacy for equine actors.  And in that film The Charge Of The Light Brigade were horses actually killed?  Yes they were. If they were not killed on the spot their legs were broken so badly they had to be destroyed.  So what was the more humane way of making a horse fall?  Well the humane way of making a horse fall is actually centuries old. It is an old battlefield technique of teaching a horse to fall so that  I mean it is not for a very good reason on the battlefield  so that you can fall a horse and use him as a shield. But as it has evolved as really an art in the film business it is a process by where the horse is trained very very slowly starting at a standstill. The trainer will pick up the horse's  one of the horse's front legs maybe tie it up and slowly push him over  always onto soft ground  very very carefully done so that the horse lands on his shoulder and he is not hurt. And once the horse is confident doing that  that he is not going to get hurt  then they will start doing it at a walk and then at a trot and then finally at a gallop. This can take months to teach a horse and not every horse is going to go for it. I mean it is a very strange thing to do. But some horses just trust their trainer enough and have the athletic ability to do it. And from what I heard from talking to stunt men who trained their own falling horses which is usually the case they had horses who actually came to love it and anticipate it and were real star athletes.  Yeah. So you have the horse galloping along and there is an appointed spot which  where the ground is softer and there is a bit of padding  and then they give the horse the signal and the horse rolls in a way that is safe.  Yes. And you can tell a trained fall when you are watching a film by looking for the horse's head  looking at the horse's head. And as the horse is galloping along the trainer will pull the horse's head usually to the left and he will fall on the opposite shoulder. So he is taking the weight off of the outside by pulling the horse's head to the inside and then cueing him to fall over onto the other side. And of course the stunt man is wearing a saddle that has rubber stirrups on that side so when the horse is falling he is not falling on anything hard. And of course the rider has to get his leg out of the way if possible. So it is a very very carefully orchestrated  almost dance move if you will.  Horses did funny things too right? I mean are  do you have some favorite I do not know examples of horses being funny in the movies?  Oh absolutely. Well certainly going to television there is Mister Ed...  Sure.  ...With his clever talking.  But in film I would say one of the funniest horses was a horse called Dice who was a blackandwhite pinto horse. And he made some movies in the 1940s. They made a series of Dagwood and Blondie movies. And Dice appeared in a Dagwood and Blondie movie called It is A Great Life in which Dagwood is sent to buy a house and instead he buys a horse by mistake. Now he has to hide the horse and it is just this whole silly setup. And Dice is fabulous. He does things like he hides behind a sofa. And he walks into Dagwood's office building and takes the elevator upstairs and just performs a number of really clever tricks. And he just had a very  a very sort of cute look to him. He was a blackandwhite pinto and he was just kind of a  really a natural clown. He also appeared with Gregory Peck in Duel In The Sun where he has a very flashy little cameo scene where he does some tricks to impress Jennifer Jones  picking up a hat and whinnying and counting and making faces so he was quite the comedian.  A lot of movie stars particularly in Westerns you know rode with the same horse for years and really developed really a close affectionate relationship that extended after the horse retired. You want to just I do not know pick one or two and tell us about those emotional bonds?  Well one of the best examples I can think of is James Stewart and his wonderful mount Pie who he rode in 17 westerns. And when Pie passed away Stewart had him buried in a secret grave in the San Fernando Valley. He would never tell anyone where he was. But he just  he wanted to make sure that the horse was buried and you know not sent off to be slaughtered or anything like that. So he made sure that he had a dignified death and had a good resting place. William S. Hart the very first movie cowboy  he had his horse Fritz buried on his ranch out in Newhall Calif. which is now wonderful museum. And he just absolutely loved his horses and you know treated them like members of his family. So yeah those are two good examples.  As you researched this subject was there something that really surprised you?  One of the most surprising things for me to learn was that stunt horses really love doing their work. You know you would think it would be hard on them and that they might sort of sour after time. But the really good ones apparently really loved to do it. Whether it was falling or jumping through candy glass or doing some other outrageous behavior they really seemed to take pride in their work and loved their work and that they lived really long times despite the fact that what they were doing was dangerous and difficult.  Well Petrine Day Mitchum thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you Dave. It is so wonderful to speak to you. I am really thrilled to have been part of FRESH AIR.  Petrine Day Mitchum is the author of Hollywood Hoofbeats. She spoke with FRESH AIR contributor Dave Davies who is also WHYY's senior reporter. Here's Jimmy Stewart telling the story we heard about earlier when he was working with the horse Pie on the 1954 Western The Far Country.   It was almost a human thing between us. I think we liked each other. And I got so  I really talked to this horse. I know he understood.  I know. I know one night  boy I am coming into a town and I have a little bell on the horn of the saddle. And this sort of identifies me. And the bad guys are in the saloon. They are going to get me. And they hear the bell and they say here he comes. Now what Pie had to do  the camera goes on Pie's legs and then cut to the bad guys and goes on as Pie's walking. And then it goes up and there is nobody on Pie and he is walking. And they say  now how long is it going to take you to get Pie to walk? And it was 3 of the clock at night and there were lights and everything. How long is it going to get you  take you to get Pie to walk down this long street all by himself? And I said well I will talk to him.   And I went back and I really  I said Pie...   Now this is tough because you are horse.   But you have to walk straight down there and I am not going to be on you you see. But you have to walk right straight down and clear to the other end of the set. And the fellow says  how long is it going to take? You are going to talk all night?   I said no. I think he will do it. So they  it was a dolly shot. you know. So they rolled the cameras and Pie did it the first time. It was amazing amazing.   I loved him. I loved the horse.  That was Jimmy Stewart. Coming up a poem by our classical music critic Lloyd Schwartz that is been set to music. This is FRESH AIR. 