 From WHYY in Philadelphia I am Terry Gross with FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. What is the story of Jesus's birth? How did Judas die? What did Jesus say when he was crucified? It depends on which gospel you read. Bible scholar Bart Ehrman says there are irreconcilable differences among the gospels. Those differences and what they tell us about Christianity and the authors of the gospels is the subject of Ehrman's new book Jesus Interrupted. Ehrman is a distinguished professor of religious studies at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill and he is the author of many books about bible history including the bestseller Misquoting Jesus. As a young man studying at the Moody Bible Institute he was an evangelical Christian who believed the Bible was the inerrant word of God. But later when he was a student at Princeton Theological Seminary and started reading the Bible with a more historical approach analyzing the contradictions among the gospels he lost faith in the Bible as the literal word of God. He now describes himself as an agnostic. Bart Ehrman welcome back to FRESH AIR. In your book Jesus Interrupted you compare the gospels and discrepancies from one gospel to another in everything from factoids to what Jesus said before he died. Why is it important to consider these discrepancies? Dr.  I think it is important to know that each of these authors of the New Testament had a different message. What people tend to do is ally to the various teachings of say Matthew Mark Luke and John  so that if Matthew portrays Jesus in one way and Mark portrays him in a different way what people do is they conflate the two accounts so that Jesus says and does everything that he says in Matthew and in Mark. But when you do that you in fact rob each of these authors of their own integrity as an author. When Matthew was writing he did not intend for somebody to read some other gospel and interpret his gospel in light of what some other author said. He had his own message. And so recognizing that there are these discrepancies is a kind of a key to the interpretation of these books because it shows that they each have a different message and that you cannot smash the four gospels into one big gospel and think that you get the true understanding.  Let us look at one of the most significant moments in the story of Jesus and that is Jesus's death on the cross. In Mark Jesus dies in agony unsure of the reason he must die and he asks God why have you forsaken me. Whereas in Luke he prays Father forgive them for they do not know what they are doing. Can you talk about those two different points of view of what happens to Jesus as he is dying on the cross? Dr.  Right. People do not realize that these are very different portrayals. But when you read Mark's account very carefully Jesus seems to be in shock. He does not say anything the entire time. He is mocked by everybody  by the Roman soldiers by people passing by. In Mark's gospel he is mocked by both robbers who are being crucified with him. And at the end his only words are his cry of dereliction as it is called My God my God why have you forsaken me? And then he cries out and dies and that is it. And so it is a story that is filled with pathos and emotion and Jesus is clearly in great agony going to his death. Whereas in Luke you have a very different portrayal. Jesus is not silent in Luke while being crucified. When they nail him to the cross he prays for those who are doing this. Father forgive them for they do not know what they are doing. While he is hanging on the cross he actually has an intelligent conversation with one of the other people being crucified. One of the others mocks Jesus and the second person tells the first to be quiet because Jesus has not done anything to deserve this. And he turns his head to Jesus and he says Lord remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus replies truly I tell you today you will be with me in paradise. And so Jesus knows fully well what is happening to him and why it is happening to him. And he knows what is going to happen to him after it happens. He is going to wake up in paradise and this guy's going to be next to him. And the most telling thing of all is that in Luke instead of crying out my God my God why have you forsaken me instead of that Jesus says Father into your hands I commend my spirit. And so what happens is people take this account of Luke where Jesus seems to be calm and in control and knows perfectly well what is happening and combines it with Mark where Jesus is in doubt and despair. And they put the two accounts into one big account. So Jesus says all the things that he says in Mark and in Luke and thereby robbing each account of what it is trying to say about Jesus in the face of death.  And those two stories are so contradictory it kind of makes no sense to combine the two? Dr.  I think it makes no sense because Mark is trying to say something quite specific about what it was like for Jesus to go to his death. And if you bring into Mark the details from Luke then Mark's message is lost. Jesus is no longer the way Mark wanted to portray him. And then of course what people do is they also bring in what Matthew has to say and then they bring in what John has to say. And you end up with this massive account in which Jesus says and does all of these things which is unlike any of the gospels. So in effect what people do is by combining these gospels in their head into one gospel they in effect have written their own gospel which is completely unlike any of the gospels of the New Testament.  What is typically brought into the story of Jesus's final moments of earth from Matthew and John? Dr.  Well an example from John is that Jesus is hanging on the cross and he cries out I am thirsty. And the author tells us that the reason Jesus said he was thirsty was not so much because he was thirsty but because he wanted to fulfill the scripture because there is a scripture a Hebrew Bible passage an Old Testament passage where it talks about being thirsty. And so in John's gospel in particular Jesus's death is not an agonizing moment for Jesus. It is an opportunity for Jesus to fulfill scripture. And so you combine that with what is going on with Mark and Luke and then you throw in the material from Matthew and what you end up with is this famous idea that Jesus had seven last dying words  the seven last words of the dying Jesus which becomes important in churches today that celebrate these seven last words. But in fact they are not found in any gospel. They represent conflations of the accounts of Matthew Mark Luke and John.  Now let me bring into these versions of Jesus's last moments on earth a story from The Coptic Apocalypse of Peter which is what? What is this book? Dr.  Well this is a book that was discovered in 1945 in Egypt along with a number of other gospels that are  apparently were written apparently by gnostic Christians Christians who believed that the way of salvation was not through believing in the death and resurrection of Jesus but in knowing the truth about who they really are and about who Jesus is and the truth that Jesus reveals. And so The Coptic Apocalypse of Peter tells an alternative version of what happens when Jesus is crucified. And to modern readers it sounds very peculiar indeed. Peter is standing on a hill talking with Jesus and then all of a sudden he sees down below an image of Jesus being arrested. And he cannot understand how he is seeing both things at once. But then he sees Jesus get crucified and above the cross he sees another image of Christ who is laughing. And so Peter  so Peter sees three different representations of Christ. And so to the Christ next to him he asks what am I seeing? I do not understand. And Jesus replies to him that the soldiers think that they are actually crucifying him but they cannot crucify him because he is a supernatural being. They are only crucifying his earthly shell his body. But his real self is above the cross laughing at them for their foolishness in thinking that they can hurt him the Christ when in fact they cannot harm him at all because he is not a physical being.  Does that story in a way combine the two conflicting stories of Mark and Luke because you have like the mortal Jesus being crucified but that is just his shell? But the more  but the spirit of Jesus is kind of laughing at the Romans who do not realize that they are just killing the shell and not the soul and not the spirit. So you have got this  in a way you have got the suffering of the body but the transcendent soul. So you have in a way got two Jesuses there One who is suffering and one who can also say forgive them Father they do not know what they are doing. Dr.  Yeah  no that is a really interesting way to look at it because the The Coptic Apocalypse of Peter was written after these other gospels and he may well have known them. And in a sense you could say that it is even more influenced by something like the Gospel of John because in John's gospel  John is the only gospel where Jesus is explicitly identified as himself being a divine being being himself God. In the other gospels he is talked about as the son of God but in Jewish circles the son of God was not a divine being. The son of God was always a human being. But in the Gospel of John Jesus is absolutely a divine being. And so when he gets killed in John's gospel there is some question about well how physical is it really? I mean Jesus talks about his death as his exaltation in the Gospel of John. And so it is his chance to return to his heavenly home. And that is kind of like what happens in this Coptic Apocalypse of Peter that the death of Jesus is not a serious moment of agony. It is simply a way of Jesus getting out of this world.  Well if you are just joining us my guest is Bible scholar Bart Ehrman and we are talking about his new book Jesus Interrupted Revealing the Hidden Contradictions in the Bible and Why We Do not Know About Them. We will talk more about some of those contradictions after we take a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   My guest is Bible scholar Bart Ehrman. He is the author of several bestsellers. His latest book is called Jesus Interrupted Revealing the Hidden Contradictions in the Bible and Why We Do not Know About Them. And we are talking about some of the differences from one gospel to another. And what that says about different interpretations of Jesus and how Jesus was seen in his time and shortly after his time. And another difference from one gospel to another that you write about in your new book is John's version of Jesus has Jesus talking about himself and proclaiming who he is saying I am the bread of life. I am the light of the world. Whereas in Mark Jesus teaches principally about God and the coming kingdom and hardly ever talks directly about himself. Can you elaborate on those two different visions of Jesus? Dr.  Right. A lot of people who read the Bible do not see the difference because  I guess because of the way they read the Bible which is they simply open up and read a portion here or a portion there but they do not do a careful comparison of what one author says with what another author says. But the reality is that when you read Mark's gospel which was probably our first gospel Jesus says very little about himself. He talks about how he must go to Jerusalem and be rejected and be crucified and then raised from the dead. But he never identifies himself as divine for example. He never says I am the son of God. The only time in Mark's gospel that he admits that he is the Messiah is at the very end when he is put on trial and the high priest asks him are you the Messiah and he says yes I am. So in Mark's gospel Jesus is not interested in teaching about himself But when you read John's gospel that is virtually the only thing Jesus talks about  is who he is what his identity is where he came from he came from above with the Father  where he is going  he is returning to the Father. And he himself is in some sense divine As he says in John Chapter 10 I and the Father are one. Or as he says in Chapter 8 before Abraham was I am. Abraham was the father of the Jews who lived 1800 years before Jesus. And Jesus actually appears to be claiming to be a representation of God on Earth. This is completely unlike anything that you find in Mark or in Matthew and Luke. And it  historically it creates all sorts of problems because if the historical Jesus actually went around saying that he was God it is very hard to believe that Matthew Mark and Luke left out that part. You know as if that part was not important to mention.  Dr.  But in fact they do not mention it. And so this view of the divinity of Jesus on his own lips is found only in our latest gospel the Gospel of John.  So do you have any explanation about why John's version of Jesus would be so much different than the other gospels? Dr.  What scholars have thought for a long time now is that John is the last gospel to be written and that the understanding of Jesus had changed dramatically in the years between the gospels. And that typically John's gospel was written in a community that was a heavily persecuted Christian community that started out probably as a community of Jews worshipping in the synagogue who had come to believe that Jesus was the Messiah but had been kicked out of their synagogue  probably because they were trying to convert people and people did not want to be converted. And they ended up making themselves into a nuisance. And they got kicked out of their synagogue. And so they started their own community of faith. And in that particular community  the community that John out of which John wrote his gospel  this community tried to understand why it is we have been rejected by our Jewish families and friends. And the way they started imagining it was that the reason they have rejected us and have rejected Jesus as the Messiah is because Jesus actually does not come from this world. And these other people are thinking just in worldly terms. They are from the Earth and Jesus is from heaven and they cannot understand a heavenly being because they are earthly beings. And so with this process of thought over time Jesus becomes more and more of a heavenly being who is a mystery on Earth that only the insiders can understand. And so with the passing of years Jesus develops a kind of an exalted status in this particular community until by the time the gospel of John is written Jesus is understood as being equal with God himself A divine being who came down from heaven to reveal the truth that can set people free so that those who believe in him will have eternal life up in Heaven with God. And so this is a distinctive teaching of this particular community that  an understanding  that developed because of the social history that took place before the gospel was written.  Now earlier we were talking about contradictions in the gospels about Jesus's final moments on Earth. There are different interpretations in the gospels about why Jesus died. You write that for Mark Jesus's death is an atonement. Whereas for Luke it is the reason people realize they are sinful and need to turn to God for forgiveness. Can you discuss these two interpretations? Dr.  Right. This is another thing that a lot of people do not pick up on because everybody assumes that the entire Bible must have the same view about why Jesus died. But in fact if you read the different authors there are markedly different views. The earliest account we have of Jesus's life of course is the Gospel of Mark. And in Mark there is a fairly unambiguous view. In Mark's gospel Jesus states during his ministry in Mark chapter 10 that he the son of man came not to be served but to give his life as a ransom for many. So this encapsulates Mark's views  that Jesus's death somehow brings about an atonement for sin that because Jesus dies people can have a right standing before God through the death of Jesus. Luke was writing probably 15 years maybe 20 years after Mark  and actually knew the Gospel of Mark. He reproduced a good bit of Mark's gospel in his gospel in the Gospel of Luke. What is striking is that he took out this verse that  where Jesus says that he is come to give his life as a ransom for many  Luke took out that verse. And when Luke portrays the crucifixion of Jesus there is nothing about the crucifixion scene that makes you think that this death is meant to be an atonement for sin. In fact Luke also wrote a second volume that we have in the New Testament. He also wrote the Book of Acts which talks about the spread of Christianity through the Roman Empire. And there are a number of sermons in Acts in which the apostles are trying to convert people. And in these sermons they talk about the death of Jesus but they never mention that Jesus's death is an atonement for sin. Instead what they say is that Jesus's death was a huge miscarriage of justice. The people who did it are guilty before God and they need to turn to God so that God  in repentance  so that God will forgive them. In other words the way the death of Jesus works in Luke is not that it brings atonement for sin. It is the occasion that people have for realizing their sinfulness so that they can repent and God will forgive them.  So that is a pretty fundamental difference in the perception of the symbolic significance of Christ's death. Dr.  Absolutely. And it is not the only  these are not the only two views. The early Christians had a lot of different views about the significance of Jesus's death. The thing that made them all Christian I think is that all of them thought that Jesus's death in some way was important for human beings standing before God. But as it turns out there are some groups of Christians  in the first second century  who did not think that the death of Jesus actually mattered that much for salvation. And so some of gospels that did not make it into the New Testament see the death of Jesus as just kind of a blip on the screen. What really matters is not Jesus's death. What matters is the secret teachings that he delivered. And it is these secret teachings that can bring salvation. This is a view that ended up being opposed by other Christians and so the books containing this particular view did not make it into the canon.  One of the things that Christians say about Jesus is that he died for our sins. So how does that statement fit into these conflicting stories about Jesus's death? Dr.  Well I think that that statement would be true for some of the authors of the Bible who do think that Jesus died for sins. This is true of Mark and it is true for example of the writings of the apostle Paul. But I do not think it is true for the Gospel of Luke. In the Gospel of Luke Jesus dies out of a  because of a miscarriage of justice. He is an innocent man who is unjustly put to death. And the way it relates to sins is not that he dies for sins. He dies and when people realize this huge mistake they made in crucifying Jesus they feel guilty and they turn back to God and God forgives them. So that the death is not what brings about an atonement for sins. It is a forgiveness that God gives them. And the death of Jesus then is simply an occasion to repent.  Bart Ehrman will be back in the second half of the show. His new book is called Jesus Interrupted Revealing the Hidden Contradictions in the Bible. He is a distinguished professor of religious studies at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Back with Bible scholar Bart Ehrman. His new book Jesus Interrupted is about the contradictions in the different gospels' versions of Jesus's life and death. Ehrman also analyzes what those contradictions tell us about the authors of the gospels and early Christianity. Ehrman is a distinguished professor of religious studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He is also the author of the best seller Misquoting Jesus. In which gospels is Jesus portrayed as an apocalypticist? Dr.  Right. So this is a term that scholars have used about Jesus that he was an apocalypticist. For over 100 years this was the view that was popularized  especially by Albert Schweitzer. Before he became a great medical missionary he wrote his most important book The Quest of the Historical Jesus in which he argued that Jesus had an apocalyptic view which was the view that this world we live in is controlled by forces of evil. But God is soon going to intervene in the course of the affairs and overthrow the forces of evil and bring in good kingdom on Earth. And in three of our gospels Jesus takes on this point of view predicting that the end is coming soon and people need to repent and prepare because the kingdom of God is soon to arrive. And when Jesus talks about the kingdom of God in these ways he does not mean heaven when you die. He actually means a kingdom here on Earth. There is going to be a kingdom that is going to be ruled by God as opposed do these crummy kingdoms ruled by Rome or whatever other power. Now God's kingdom will arrive. So this point of view is taught prominently in Mathew Mark and Luke our three earliest gospels. In Mark's gospel Jesus is quite clear that this end of the age this cataclysmic judgment of the world is going to happen very soon. As he tells his disciples in Mark some of you standing here will not taste death before they see that the kingdom of God has come in power  or as he says later in Mark chapter 13 after describing how the heaven will turn dark and the moon will turn to blood. And the stars will fall from the sky. In other words the whole world is going to be uncreated when this catastrophe hit. And he says to his disciples this generation will not pass away before all these things take place. And so this was a view found in the earliest documents we have about Jesus.  So as you write as an apocalypticist Jesus preached that you should change your behavior not necessarily for moral reasons  not to make life on earth better  but to save your soul and get entrance into the kingdom of heaven when the apocalypse comes. Is that a fair way to look at it? Dr.  Yeah that is right that is right. I mean today people have all sorts of grounds for ethics. But one of the major grounds that people have is they think that you should be ethical so that we can all get along for the long haul. You know it would make Earth a better place for everybody. And so because that will put us in good stead over a long period of time. Well Jesus did not think there was going to be a long haul. So when people say that Jesus was a great teacher of ethics I think that is absolutely true. But one needs to understand that his ethical teaching is rooted in a completely different world view from the one that most people have today. For Jesus the reason that you needed to start following God and doing what God wanted you to do  the reason to behave ethically  is because the judgment day was coming and it could be sometime next Thursday. And you need to be ready for it by behaving in the ways that God wants you to. So that when this cosmic judge of the earth arrives and catastrophe starts happening you will be on the right side. And you will be able to enter into this good kingdom that God's bringing because if you disobey God and you are acting badly you are going to be destroyed when this cosmic judge arrives.  But I  you know I have read several scholars of the historical Jesus who see it very differently. And they see Jesus as the social activist of his era somebody who worked on behalf of the poor. And who had egalitarian impulses who is almost a socialist in his thinking. Dr.  That is right there is a wide range of opinions about who Jesus is. And in the last 20 years there have been people who wanted  scholars  who have wanted to redefine Jesus so that he is not an apocalypticist. But the majority of scholars do not agree with that. But there is something to be said about Jesus as a social reformer and somebody who promoted egalitarian principles. But the reason is not the one that is sometimes given. The reason Jesus wanted to reform society in support of things such as the roles of women in society and such is because he thought that is what the kingdom was going to be like. In the kingdom there is not going to be inequality. There is not going to oppression. There is not going to be war. There is going to be equality of all people. And so you should start implementing the ideals of that future kingdom in the present.  Could you say that the apocalyptic utopian vision of what the future would be like is used by Jesus as a kind of metaphor as a utopian ideal that should be that one should strive for even if one cannot fulfill on earth? One should strive for this utopian ideal. Could you see it in a metaphoric way like that? Dr.  Right.  As opposed to like he literally believed that there would be an apocalyptic endtimes and then a literal heaven. Dr.  Right. There are scholars who want to see all of this talk about this coming judgment of the earth and the catastrophes that are going to happen as pure metaphor. And I think the reason they want to see it that way is because if you think that Jesus literally thought that there was going to be a coming end of the age well it did not happened. And so Jesus would have been wrong. And some scholars are uncomfortable with the idea that Jesus could be wrong. I think the only way though to decide whether this is metaphor or meant to be taken literally is by looking at what other Jews in the first century were saying. And as it turns out there were a lot of Jews who were talking about the literal end of the world as they knew it including for example John the Baptist who thought that the end was coming right away and that people needed to prepare or they would be judged including the people who produced the dead sea scrolls which are filled with this apocalyptic kind of thinking and including Jesus's own followers. The apostle Paul definitely feels that Jesus is coming back right away that Jesus is going to be this cosmic judge. And that the earth is going to be transformed. And Paul describes it not in metaphorical terms but in literally what is going to happen at the end. And so I think the desire for Jesus not to be literally meaning this is rooted in an understandable theological move that you do not want him  have Jesus say things that did not come true. But if we actually situate to Jesus in his own historical context this is the sort of thing that a lot of people expected was going to happen just as people today. I mean in evangelical Christian circles today there are many people who think that Jesus is coming back and they do not mean that metaphorically. They think that Jesus literally is going to comeback. And I think they had their predecessors in the first century.  I am interested in what you think of the popularity of that point of view  and there is the Left Behind series of novels which have sold a remarkable  I do not having figures on hand but like tens of millions of copies. And that is a novel  a series of novels based on the apocalypse. A lot of people today believe in the rapture that the second coming of Jesus is imminent and the people who are believers will rise to heaven will be raptured to heaven and everybody else will be left behind to face the trials and tribulations and wars and plagues and so on. And there are several very politically powerful people who believe that now. Dr.  Yeah that is right. And you know the Left Behind series sold far more copies than The Da Vinci Code.  Dr.  As hard as that may be to believe but in fact it did. And what is striking is that this idea that we are now living at the end of time and that current events are showing us fulfillments of Biblical prophecy  exactly the same thing was being said 10 years ago about things happening 10 years ago  and 10 years before that and 10 years before that and 10 years before that. You can go all the way back in Christian history and every decade thought that they were living at the end of time and that the prophecies was being fulfilled in their own day. You can trace this back through the Middle Ages all the way back to early Christianity. In fact you can trace it back to the apostle Paul and the historical Jesus. People have thought this from day one. And what I sometimes tell my students is that you can say two things about these people who think that the end is going to come within their lifetime. One thing is that everyone of them bases it on their certain interpretations of the Bible  especially for example the Book of Revelation. And the second thing you can say is that every single one of these people has been completely wrong. The point though is that this view actually does go back to the historical Jesus. Jesus also predicted that the end was going to come within his generation and of course it did not.  If you are just joining us my guest is Bible scholar Bart Ehrman. He is the author of several best sellers including Misquoting Jesus. His new book is called Jesus Interrupted Revealing the Hidden Contradictions in the Bible. We will talk more about some of those contradictions after we take a short break. This is FRESH AIR.  My guest is Bible scholar Bart Ehrman and his new book is called Jesus Interrupted Revealing the Hidden Contradictions in the Bible. And the book is largely a comparison of what the different gospels has to say about Jesus and analyzes where the contradictions lie. How did the historical approach to reading the Bible affect your faith? You know what you have told us before that you had been a devout evangelical Christian. You studied at the Moody Bible Institute. Then you went to Princeton Theological Seminary and there undertook a historical reading of the Bible as opposed to a devotional one. So what impacted the historical reading of the Bible and seeing the contradictions  many more contradictions than you have been telling us about today you know from one gospel to another  how did that affect your faith? Dr.  Right. So when I started off studying the Bible I had had this born again experience in high school and had become an evangelical Christian. In some ways I suppose I would have been classified as a fundamentalist. I believed that the Bible was completely inerrant that there were no mistakes in it whatsoever of any kind. When I took Greek in college and realized that I was pretty good in it I decided that I wanted to pursue the study of the Greek New Testament  largely for religious reasons because I thought these are the words that God has given us and I want to know these words in the original language in Greek. And so I went off to study the Greek manuscripts of the New Testament at Princeton Theological Seminary because the leading scholar in that field a man name Bruce Metzger happened to teach there. Princeton Seminary  the faculty there  did not share the view that the Bible was inerrant word of God. They were all Christians and many of them had very high views of scriptures. But they were not fundamentalists or even strong evangelicals. Many of them recognized that in fact there are lots of discrepancies in the Bible. And that the Bible might convey the word of God but the very words were not dictated by God in any way. And so I resisted that view for a long time while I was in seminary. And then I went on and did my PhD at Princeton also with Bruce Metzger. But the more I studied the Bible the more I started realizing that in fact you know I could say there were not any errors in the Bible but the closer you looked at it it sure looked like there were errors in the Bible. And many of the ones that to got my notice were very small little details here and there. Discrepancies between where 