 This is FRESH AIR. Robert Forster is probably bestknown as the coleader of the critically acclaimed Australian band The GoBetweens which released its last studio album in 2003. Forster has maintained an active solo career and rock critic Ken Tucker says his new album titled Inferno contains some fascinating observations about success and failure.    The jungle is coming up to the door. The birds that are calling are hard to ignore. The heat of the morning...  In the video for that song Robert Forster is outside mowing a lawn in the summer heat. He is wearing a black suit and a white shirt. He is tall and slim an elegant silverhaired man in his early 60s singing to the camera with a fierce frown. The song is called Inferno  and this native Australian is being playful yet intense. It is a mood that fits much of this album.    My mother hangs the washing and my father has jobs to ignore. The weekend that has come is the same as the weekend before. And if I bust out and the highway is really the key everyone can follow everyone can overtake me. I do not need no fame. I do not need no fame.  That is No Fame one of three songs on this album that address creative success and commercial failure. The song is the reverie of a young man who is rejecting the settled lives of his parents striking out on his own. He talks about writing a novel or doing something  anything that'll leave a mark on the world. He insists I do not need no fame. It is difficult to believe him. Forster picks up this notion of finding one's place in the world in a subsequent song called Remain.    There was a time there was a time that I have known when my work when my films just were not shown. Big city screens big city dreams remain. I did my good work while knowing it was not my time. Sometimes this world...  In Remain Forster speaks in the voice of another neglected artist a filmmaker this time whose movies have not been hits. I did my good work while knowing it was not my time he sings over a lovely guitar and violin melody. There is a wistfulness here a looking back. Along with his fellow songwriter Grant McLennan Forster led The GoBetweens starting in the 1990s a superb rock band that was a modest success overseas. In this country not even that I am afraid. McLennan died of a heart attack in 2006. Inferno is Forster's seventh solo album. He would started doing independent projects while still with The GoBetweens.    I have got a story. I will tell it to someone  full of the things that have happened to me love. It is in my head. It is in my head. And I am gonna tell it.   Tell it for sure.   I am gonna tell it.   Tell it some more.   I am gonna tell it.   Tell it for sure.   I am gonna I am gonna I am gonna I am gonna  people get love...  At one point on that song called I am Gonna Tell It Forster says people fall down midcareer and then blow it. He knows there are all sorts of careers that what counts is doing the work. Forster is bookish and literary. The new album contains an adaptation of a William Butler Yeats poem. And you would do well to read Forster's 2017 memoir one of the best rock biographies ever called Grant And  Inside And Outside The GoBetweens. Forster is a very fine pop musician. He is spent four decades proving it. And with this album Inferno he is telling you quite confidently that he has nothing left to prove.  Ken Tucker reviewed Robert Forster's new album Inferno. Tomorrow on st will be comic and writer John Mulaney. His comedy special Kid Gorgeous is streaming on Netflix. He is a former writer for Saturday Night Live and he is returned twice to host. He is also one of the voices on the animated series Big Mouth. I hope you will join us. FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham. Our associate producer of digital media is Molly SeavyNesper. Roberta Shorrock directs the show. I am Terry Gross.    I am late. There is no one I can see. They have gone and left the scene for me. There is little on the bones just some dust and stones nothing no one owns. They carried what they could. They told me what was good and are gone. 