 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Brazilian percussionist Cyro Baptista has played with everyone from Paul Simon to Herbie Hancock to YoYo Ma. On his new CD Baptista and his band interpret the music of composer and saxophonist John Zorn. Music critic Milo Miles has a review of Caym on Zorn's label Tzadik.   Back in the heyday of worldmusic fusions in the 1980s traditionminded players and fans worried that too much mixing of styles would result in a dreaded generic worldbeat that was a bit of everything and a lot of nothing. The neotraditionalist movements that countered runaway fusions were worthy attempts to keep old styles alive in specific regions and languages. And eventually the idea of huge crossover hits in world music faded away. But the ideal of blending diverse styles never went away. And one of the most enduring proponents is percussionist and bandleader Cyro Baptista. He is from Brazil but his real native land is the recording studio and on stage. Baptista is a regular collaborator with John Zorn and like Zorn you never quite know what his records are going to sound like. Indeed Caym Baptista's latest project with his group Banquet of the Spirits uses a dozen themes written by Zorn as starting points. But all the tracks take off in unpredictable though satisfying directions.   On the first cuts Baptista and Banquet of the Spirits evoke and play around with the sounds and textures of North African gnawa music and even the horndriven clamor of Morocco's Jajouka musicians. But just when you think Caym is settling into a panMiddle East mode the album swerves into a delightful evocation of Indonesian gamelan.   Most impressive is that all this variety comes from just a quartet. Producer and arranger Shanir Ezra Blumenkranz plays oud and the gimbri African lute as well as bass. Tim Keiper does drums and percussion as well as the ngoni guitar from Mali and Brian Marsella excels on piano harpsichord and pump organ. Leader Baptista plays a slew of instruments that throb and rattle including some of his own invention. Everybody does some affable chanting from time to time. But more than virtuosity it is the harmonious positive spirit of Caym that makes it a fine introduction to Baptista's way of performing. The session ends with a number called Phaleg featuring Marsella wailing on the pumporgan in a workout that is both witty and eerie a sort of Phantom of the International Opera.   The strong group unity and interaction helps Caym avoid the typical downfalls of eclectic worldmusic albums fancy empty playing and superficial dabs of exotic styles. Instead you feel like you are listening to a captivating travelogue told by a group of nomads who are at home everywhere.  Milo Miles lives in Boston. He reviewed Caym on the Tzadik label. 