 This Sunday HBO Films presents a new madeforTV movie called Phil Spector. It is about the famous  and infamous  record producer as he and his legal team prepare his defense in court on charges of murdering a female companion. The movie stars Al Pacino as Phil Spector and Helen Mirren as the lawyer who ends up leading his initial defense. Our TV critic David Bianculli has this review.    See the way he walks down the street. That is the way he shuffles his feet. My he holds his head up high when he goes walking by. He is my guy...  The HBO movie Phil Spector is a production that demands attention because of the heavyweight names attached. First of course there is the subject of the drama  Spector himself the man who invented the Wall of Sound and recorded hits for everyone from the Crystals Darlene Love and Ike and Tina Turner; to the Beatles and The Righteous Brothers. Oh and who also went on trial in 2007 for the 2003 shooting death of actress Lana Clarkson. He claimed she shot herself with one of his many guns. The prosecution argued that he put the gun barrel in her mouth and pulled the trigger. Then there are the names attached to this dramatization. Barry Levinson is the executive producer. David Mamet is both writer and director. Jeffrey Tambor plays the leading defense attorney Bruce Cutler who brings in attorney Linda Kenney Baden as a last minute cocounsel. Linda is played by Helen Mirren and Al Pacino plays Phil Spector. Almost the entire movie focuses on those last two with Linda trying to get to know Spector quickly while mounting a defense and assessing whether he should be put on the stand. But what demands the most attention here to me is not the subject or the production team or the stars. It is the opening disclaimer written by Mamet as a preface to his story. I have been a TV critic for more than 35 years now and I have never seen anything quite like it. Even though it is based on actual people and concerns an actual event here is the disclaimer to the movie called Phil Spector. Quote This is a work of fiction. It is not based on a true story. It is a drama inspired by actual persons in a trial but it is neither an attempt to depict the actual persons nor to comment upon the trial or its outcome unquote. Mamet may as well have written Do not anybody sue us. I am just making stuff up using names and a few bits of court testimony that are in the public record  except if you look closely at the credits for this HBO work of fiction you will find that Linda Kenney Baden  the attorney played by Helen Mirren  serves as a consultant. So even though her exchanges with the real Phil Spector are protected by attorneyclient privilege you get the feeling  at least I do  that Mamet may not be winging it as much as he claims to be with that disclaimer. But take that disclaimer seriously. You cannot trust what you see in this HBO movie. But you can and should enjoy it. This Phil Spector movie essentially is a twoperson play  an awkward dance between Linda and her eccentric client as he reveals his shifting psychological states by jamming his mental gears between charming remarks challenging questions and emotional rants. Pacino is an actor set at hurricane force here and Mirren matches him by countering his fury with her calm. Mamet's dialogue as expected is crisp and thoughtprovoking; and these two acting pros make the most of it. Here's a scene from their first meeting when Linda visits Phil's mansion and he reaches for a vinyl record to put on the turntable as they talk.    As your attorney I must counsel you not  whatever the provocation not to talk to anyone.   They are indicting me for murder. All right sorry. You have Lost That Loving Feeling  what was it? Are you kidding me? What was it? It was  it was the greatest song ever released. I sold over 2 and a half million copies. You say that Jews invented the music business. The Jews did not invent the music business. I invented the music business. Seventh Avenue New York there is a statue a little old Jewish guy yarmulke bent over a sewing machine. He is that guy invented readytowear. I invented the music business. Where is a statue of me? Where is the presidential medal?    You never close your eyes anymore when I kiss your lips...  Sidney Poitier broke the color barrier? Are you kidding me? He was playing Superman. You want to know who he was? He was an uptight frightened white guy's version of a black man. I put the Ronettes in their home. I put black America in the white home. First time you got felt up first time you got somebody's hand on you guess what? You were listening to one of my songs.   Did you kill that girl?   I thought attorneys never asked that question.  This Phil Spector movie does ask that question but never answers it and never even tries to. In essence it reminds me of Fatal Vision the famous 1984 miniseries about preparations for the murder trial of Jeffrey MacDonald. But even there that story's author Joe McGinniss eventually came down on one side and delivered his own verdict even making himself a character in that drama. In the HBO movie Phil Spector the only verdict comes at the end when we are told what the jury decided at the end of Spector's days in court. And after the movie is all over I am left with my final verdict as well. I may not believe a lot of what I see in HBO's Phil Spector but I am certainly impressed and entertained by it.  David Bianculli is founder and editor of the website TV Worth Watching and teaches TV and film history at Rowan University in New Jersey. 