 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Sea chanteys are not my thing but I have really been enjoying the new compilation of pirate ballads sea songs and chanteys interpreted by Tom Waits Patti Smith Michael Stipe Richard Thompson Macy Gray Iggy Pop and others. The album is called Son of Rogue's Gallery because it is the sequel to a 2006 compilation called Rogues Gallery. Both were produced by my guest Hal Willner. He came up with a pirate song concept with Johnny Depp and director Gore Verbinski when they were on the set of the second Pirates of the Caribbean movie. Willner is known for producing tribute albums with new interpretations of Nino Rota Thelonius Monk Charles Mingus Kurt Weill and songs from classic Disney animated films. Since 1980 Willner's worked on Saturday Night Live handling music for sketches. Let us start with a song from Son of Rogue's Gallery. This is Shane MacGowan of the Irish band The Pogues doing Leaving of Liverpool.    Fare thee well . There were many faretheewells. I am bound for California a place I know right well. So fare thee well my own true love. When I return united we will be. It is not the leaving of Liverpool that grieves me but my darling when I think of thee.  Oh I have  the pilot once before. I think I know him well. The captain's name is Burgess . So farewell thee well my own true love. When I return united we will be. It is not the leaving of Liverpool that grieves me but my darling when I think of thee.  That is Shane MacGowan from the new Hal Willner anthology Son of Rogue's Gallery Pirate Ballads Sea Songs and Chanteys. Hal Willner welcome back to FRESH AIR. It is really a pleasure to have you.  Thank you.  He sure growls that one. Tell us about Shane MacGowan and why he belongs on this collection.  Oh he was one of the first ones that we thought belonged on the collection. In fact he is sung piece titled songs forever. I mean he is a true pirate. He is  I know he is got a reputation but...  A reputation for what?  Outrageous behavior a lot of alcohol in his act. And once you get past the fact that he talks like White Fang from Soupy Sales...   Right?  And start to understand what he says he is one of the most wellread sophisticated people I have ever met. It is incredible. So he knew exactly what he wanted to do and then he went into the vocal booth and nailed it in take one perfectly. And then you saw that weird Nosferatu vampire face through the glass smiling at you.   And I will tell you. I will make a confession to you Hal Willner. I have never thought of myself as liking sea chanteys. I have kind of avoided them. I listen to a lot of music. That is one form I have kind of avoided. And now I think oh yeah. These are great songs. When you started researching pirate songs did you go into the history of the songs too? Did you just want the music or did you want like a larger context for the songs?  I did a bit of research into the history. I mean one had to especially when just listening to those amazing Folkways Smithsonian recordings of real sailors singing it because they would explain the history and where it came from and what they added to it. So  and then also seeing all the different places they were written at or came from. It was consistent Liverpool Cape Cod some in Australia  places that you know there were ports. Interesting Sean Lennon who is on the record told me about how much his dad loved and was influenced by these songs  once again Liverpool one of the big ports. And if one listens carefully to some of The Beatles things you will hear certain lines from some of these songs in it.  I want to play another track and this one is by Tom Waits accompanied by Keith Richards. They have performed together before. You said they were supposed to be on the first volume of your sea chantey and pirate songs...  Yes.  ...but because of timing they did not make it. First of all what is it like to watch the two of them work together? They are both such big personalities and interesting people.  To be honest they were not in the studio at the same time but it did not matter...  Oh no wonder they get along so well.   I am kidding.  No they do not need to be in the same studio. I mean it is  both of them I have worked with quite a bit. Tom was one of the first people on our records from '85 . And...  He sang HiHo  was it  The Work Song.  Yes.  Yeah. Hiho hioh it is off to work we go.  HiHo and What Keeps Mankind Alive.  Oh yeah.  And so I have known him since the mid80s. And Keith we did  was on the Charles Mingus record we did Lord Do not Drop That Atomic Bomb. And I have recorded him with Marianne Faithfull. So there was already a comfort thing there. But Tom though he could be one of the great spontaneous artists does not really work that way. So it was a long process to pick the right song and then we tried it three different ways.  There is a chorus behind him. Is that Waits' overdubbing himself?  Yeah. That is a chorus of Toms with Keith sailing over it. Once again we tried it with a rhythm section tried it with a jazz band and then he fell in love with a version that was done by ExSeamen's Institute where it was a callandresponse thing. And he just went and recorded this orchestra of Waits and then Keith came in later and like what do I do on this?   And we worked on it  for him it is a long time to work two or three hours. But he found it and that smile came on his face when he did and beautifully sang along. Once again they know each other so well. They started working together on Rain Dogs. I mean they might as well have been in the same room.  OK. So this is Tom Waits with Keith Richards doing the classic Shenandoah.    For 10 long years I courted Sally away you rolling river. She broke my heart here in this valley. Away we are bound away across the wide Missouri. The Missouri she is a mighty river. Away you rolling river. The Missouri she is a mighty river. Away we are bound away across the wide Missouri.  Oh Shenandoah I will not deceive you. Away you rolling river. Oh Shenandoah I will never grieve you. Away we are bound away across the wide Missouri.  That is Tom Waits and Keith Richards performing Shenandoah from the new collection of pirate ballads sea songs and chanteys called Son of Rogue's Gallery. Now this is probably the bestknown song or one of the bestknown songs on the album. And did you say it was Waits who chose it?  Yeah. I sent him  in the case of Tom I sent him of a lot more songs than I would normally send. But at the end of it he just  I think it was maybe the ExSeamen's as opposed to the song itself. Maybe it was a song he always wanted to do. And it is  it does fit into  this type of song it fits into a lot of ways. It is probably the hallelujah of its day.   He said well there is something about Shenandoah. So yeah be my guest.   My guest is Hal Willner. He produced the new compilation Son of Rogue's Gallery. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. We are talking with Hal Willner about producing the new compilation Son of Rogue's Gallery Pirate Ballads Sea Songs and Chanteys. Now you said one of the things that you found in your research going through pirate songs was pirate poems.  Mmhmm.  And one of those poems is sung by Mary Margaret O'Hara whose work I am not familiar with. I would like to get to know it now. I think this is a terrific track. Would you tell us a little bit about this poem and her approach to turning it into a song?  Well I love exposing people to things. Now Mary Margaret O'Hara is from Canada and from a very talented family. Her sister is Catherine O'Hara the actor.  Right the actress who started on SCTV and...  Yes.  And was in Home Alone films and...  Also brilliant and quirky.  Oh and in a lot of those Christopher Guest documentaries.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah. Mary I met her when she was in a band called go Go Deo Chorus. She went out on her own and she made one of the greatest records I have ever heard in my life. Miss America came out in the '80s and she is not really put out another solo record since. But she is you know came out of a cave or something. You do not hear any influences. Everything she does is a surprise and every emotion you will get listening to her.  Did you choose the poem and give it to her?  No I gave her the book of poetry. Mary will often when coming into one of these projects not decide on what she wants to do until she is already on stage or in the studio.   And then at the end of the day she picked up this book of poetry and just started going through it and cutting up different poems and just singing the lyrics. The band was in the room and they just started playing behind her. But I mean it is always the perfect way to end the records.  And so this is Mary Margaret O'Hara singing the poem Then Said the Captain to Me.  MARY MARGARET O'  When all the sea's high ships have dropped beyond my sky. And life's trumpet leaves my lips and women pass me by. Dear God let me die. Dear God let me die. Dear God let me die. When all the sea's high ships have dropped beyond my sky and life's trumpet leaves my lips and women pass me by. Dear God let me die. Dear God let me to. Dear God let me die. Dear God let me die. When all the sea's high ships have dropped beyond my sky. And life's trumpet leaves my lips and women pass me by. Dear God let me die. Dear God let me die. Dear God let me die. Nothing but damn fools sail nothing but damn fools sail the sea said the captain to me. I have a young son says the captain to me. I do not believe he ever shall sail the sea. Nothing but damn fools sail the sea said the captain to me. I have a young son says the captain to me.  That is Mary Margaret O'Hara from the second volume of Pirate Ballads Sea Songs and Chanteys produced by my guest Hal Willner. And this volume is called Son of Rogue's Gallery. I love the way she sings let me die. And I am surprised. I am...  Yeah she...  I am surprised the poem is not called that.  No. But that was a line obviously that she latched onto while she was singing it. Again she did not rehearse this. She just started going through the book and singing it. So obviously she tuned into the same line you just did and kept repeating it Let me die let me die. And I mean there is a period to this you know to show the other side that these sea voyages were not all joyful.  Let us hear another song from your new collection of pirate songs and sea chanteys. And the album's called Son of Rogue's Gallery because it is volume two. My guest is Hal Willner who produced these albums. And the next song that I want to play is Pirate Jenny which is not really a pirate song per se. It is a show tune.   I mean it is from Threepenny Opera the great Kurt Weill Bertolt Brecht collaboration. So I thought it was an interesting surprising choice for this. And the performer is somebody who I am not familiar with. I was prepared to not like because I thought oh gosh knows what they are going to do with this. I love the Threepenny Opera. But I think it is really quite good. So tell us a little bit about the performer how you know her and why you chose her.  Well this is how this happened. In this one Larry Ratso Sloman took Nick Cave and I to see Shilpa Ray who plays harmonium. She had a band called Shilpa Ray and the Happy Hookers. And watching her was just you know right away one of those thisartistisincredible. Pirate Jenny is  I see it as a sea song but it was also  it was the one I was not going to have on the record because what does one do with it that has not been done? Dylan always stated Pirate Jenny as the song that showed him where writing  where songwriting can go.  So you thought that Shilpa Ray was right for Pirate Jenny. Did she know the song?  No did not. So once again...  So how did you introduce her to the song? Did you give her an album or sheet music?  I gave her three different versions  I mean four maybe. You know Lotte Lenya's Nina Simone's Ellen Greene's from  and Bea Arthur from the old soundtracks. And she got the attitude and came in and killed it. And being that Nick Cave has taken an interest in her took her on the road with him they were totally up for Nick and Warren Ellis participating on the track. So they overdubbed some subtle parts.  Yeah. And he is doing some very quiet backup vocals on it.  And piano. Yeah.  Hmm. OK. OK. So this is Shilpa Ray singing the Kurt WeillBurtolt Brecht song Pirate Jenny and it is from the new collection of pirate ballads sea songs and chanteys called Son of Rogue's Gallery.    All right. You people can watch while I am scrubbing these floors and I am scrubbing these floors while you are gawking. Maybe once you tip me and it makes you feel swell in this crummy southern town in this bitter hotel. But you will never guess to who you are talking. No you will never guess to who you are talking. Then one night there is a scream in the night and you wonder who could that have been.  And you see me kind of grinning while I am scrubbing and you say well what she is got to grin? Well I will tell you. There is a ship the Black Freighter with a skull on its masthead coming in. There is a ship the Black Freighter with a skull on its masthead coming in. Well you gentlemen say hey gal finish them floors. What is wrong with you? Earn your keep here. And you toss me your tips and you look to the ships but I am counting your heads as I am making the beds. 'ecause nobody's gonna sleep here tonight. Nobody's sleep here tonight.  Music from the new compilation album Son of Rogue's Gallery Pirate Ballads Sea Songs and Chanteys which was produced by Hal Willner. Thanks for talking with us about it. Coming up David Bianculli reviews the new HBO movie Phil Spector written and directed by David Mamet starring Al Pacino. This is FRESH AIR. 