 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. On MSNBC Monday evening Chris Hayes will premiere his new show All In With Chris Hayes making the 34yearold the youngest primetime anchor on any of the major cable news channels. For the past 18 months he is hosted an early morning weekend show called Up on 's already a familiar face to the network's evening viewers because he is been a popular guest and frequently filled in for Rachel Maddow. Hayes says he expects the format of All In to be similar to the format of Up longform panel discussions in which the participants talk through several issues. In addition to his work at is an editoratlarge at The Nation and author of the book Twilight of the Elites America After Meritocracy which was published last year. Chris Hayes welcome to FRESH AIR. So I want to thank you for being able to make politics and policy lively and entertaining and serious at the same time like funny and serious at the same time and really like interesting. And some of the subjects you talk about they are really they are rough policy issues and it is hard to make it really engaging and you seem to have a natural talent for doing that. So did you grow up thinking that you know policy can actually be really superinteresting? Do you know what I mean? Like because a lot of people grow up thinking oh God that is so dull I do not want to hear about it.  Well I grew up in a household where we talked politics a lot and argued politics a lot. And there is a kind of lineage of debate that stems back particularly through my mother and her father and they would always argue at the dinner table when my grandparents would come over. And so I grew up in a world in which it was just natural that you argued about politics you argue about the news. Everybody read magazines. And it was a pastime for me. It was enjoyable. I mean I have always viewed thinking about arguing about questioning pushing back with joking about sharing and discovering about the world and the news as enjoyable the same way that I view you know watching basketball.  So I love to hear what interviewers tell their guests before the show starts like what kind of advice they give. So what advice do you give your guests about how to be a good guest for your show?  If this was in cable news we would brand this with a franchise called Shop Talk with Terry Gross in which we talk about what we tell our interview subjects. So I have a whole  I have a whole spiel that I give to guests. I basically say these are the principles of the show. The first and most important principle of the show is that we are not on television. What that means is no talking points no sound bites no point scoring. You know I really urge you to look at your time on the show not as an opportunity to get your message out or get your message across but as to come and sit and engage in good faith with the other people that are sitting next to you. And then I tell them it is a conversation which means the conversation is best if it is not routed through me in a kind of hubandspoke model which is that if the person to your right makes a point you want to respond to turn to the person to your right and make a point jump in whenever you want. I tell them they can ask questions which is something that people rarely do on television because people feel the need to present themselves as experts but none of us know everything about everything. And in fact normal human conversation does not consist of a succession of declamations by individuals but in fact people asking each other questions. And so everything that I say before the interview is to try to get people in the mindset of forget the cameras forget that we are on television forget the commercial breaks. We are just trying to genuinely have a conversation in which we relate to each other like actual curious human beings.  So one of the things that drives me mad sometimes is sometimes a guest will come on the show and think oh it is public radio I can relax I do not have to speak in soundbites. And instead of speaking in soundbites they will make like 15 minute speeches which is not good either.  That is not a hint to me right?  No.   But do you have to also reign in your guests if they are  this is more shop talk  if they are talking like too long what do you do?  Yeah I interrupt them and I move things along. I mean you cannot be shy about that. I am very aware while we are sitting there that we are on  live television and that again every second of air time is precious and that I want to keep the pace of the conversation going. And so if things seem to come to a stall if someone seems to be going on too long there is a bunch of nonverbal cues that I will send them and I am sort of looking at them nodding my head with more vigor than usual as in OK let us get to the point. Or I will just jump in if it is stalling and try to push the conversation along. So I am not shy about that and people on the Internet will sometimes get on my case for being too interrupty. But I mean it is live. We do not  you know there is no  we cannot go back into post and take out all the bad stuff and make sure that it snaps along at a good pace. We are there live in real time in the moment. And so if something starts to lag or stall I just jump in and push it along.  So since you are live would you mention a moment where you wish you were not and you could have edited something out?  That is a great question. Yes. I will mention this moment although I am reticent because the subject of this moment is someone who I deeply deeply love and admire. Wallace Shawn was on the show the amazing playwright also actor and Wallace Shawn is an incredible person and I have absolutely loved his work. But he speaks at a very slow pace. And he told me that going in. I said  I met him I think at a party and said oh God I have to get you on my show you are one of my heroes you are Wallace Shawn. And he sort of looked at me like I do not know if you want me on television. I was like I want you on television.   And then he came out and he started talking and he talked at the pace that he talks which is a deliberate pace. And I felt that kind of feeling you might feel sometimes occasionally on live television where it is like you see in your head the image of the astronaut who is been untethered from the space shuttle floating out into the empty universe and your head fills with this kind of wawawawawa...   And as it was going  and this is partly due to the fact that I speak very rapidly and my internal metabolism is very very high. And his was quite low and so the gap between us made me think that time was literally slowing down before my eyes. The great punch line to this is I was a little traumatized by it and we got off set and we get the ratings two days later on Tuesday morning and the ratings were great and no one left. And it was actually a really good little lesson. Just because you speak fast are from New York want things fast fast fast fast that is not necessarily the norm or the appetite the audience has and people actually were totally willing to sit and listen to Wallace Shawn one of the most brilliant playwrights and writers of our time speak with tremendous wisdom and insight and deliberation for a long amount of time and not run away from the television set which was a really wonderful useful lesson for me.  Interesting OK. So part of the brand or like positioning statement of MSNBC is lean forward which is to say it is often coming from a liberal or left point of view and that is true of several of  several not all of the hosts and you would be one of the hosts of whom that is probably true of. In your magazine background what kind of perspective did you have in terms of you know relative neutrality or advocacy in having your point of view be a part of the point of view of the article itself?  So I came up through the left media largely. I started writing for the Chicago Reader which is not the left media. They do not have an explicit ideological agenda but it is from the alternative weekly world in which there is not a real  they are not as worried about neutrality in the traditional sense as if you were you know a reporter at the New York Times for instance. My entire journalistic upbringing has been in a world in which it was just assumed that you had a point of view and that point of view was clear. And so I really think that having a very clear transparent evaluative framework like I do which is I am coming from the left I am proudly a product of the American left that that A lets people know where I am coming from so there is no trickery there is no bait and switch; and also I think allows people to put sets of facts into an evaluative framework that can be very useful for them to make their own judgments. And the other thing I will say is you know some set of positions get coded as neutral or nonideological despite the fact they are deeply ideological. And the perfect example of this is on our deficit conversation a grand bargain. You can advocate for a grand bargain even if you are not an ostensibly ideological journalist because that is the obvious clearly sensible center of the political conversation We should come together and everyone should work in a bipartisan fashion and figure this out and both sides should give and take a little bit. But that itself is a deeply ideological position. That is embedded with a set of assumptions and values about how the world should be that are very distinct and not neutral at all. And I think what I have a problem with is not the notion of neutral or objective journalism because there is tons of it that is remarkable and incredible. It is when neutral or objective  ostensibly neutral or objective journalism smuggles in a whole bunch of normative assumptions about how the world should be. And I think that ends up being deeply insidious and unfair to the consumer.  So your new show on MSNBC at 00 weekday nights is going to be on opposite Bill O'Reilly. How much have you watched his show over the years?  I have watched his show very very very little. I will say this I do not think  I do not think I have ever sat and watched an entire  I am positive I have never watched an hour of the O'Reilly show. I have seen clips online when something happens. You know there are certain people  I have discovered this phenomenon in my life as a television host on MSNBC. There are certain people who really like to hatewatch things which is to watch stuff that drives them bananas and then you know and tweet about it. I am not one of those people. You know obviously what O'Reilly does is remarkably successful from a ratings perspective but I also think  I think there is a tremendous amount of inherited wisdom about what works in cable news some of which is perceptive and wise and a lot of which is just not grounded in any real rigorous analysis or empirical analysis. And so when people say well you are up against Bill O'Reilly I just  it is really unclear to me  it is genuinely unclear to me whether that is true in any real sense which is to say if we are competing for the same pool of viewers. I genuinely do not think of myself as in competition with Bill O'Reilly or in relationship to him in any real way. I think of myself as in  having a relationship with the viewers building a viewing audience that I have a relationship with and trying to grow that. I mean believe me I want as big an audience as possible but the conventional wisdom about this being a competition with Bill O'Reilly is not necessarily accurate.  If you are just joining us my guest is Chris Hayes and he has been hosting the weekend morning early morning show Up but Monday he begins a new show evenings at 00 weekday evenings at 00. We will talk some more after we take a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. My guest is Chris Hayes. Monday night he begins anchoring a new show on MSNBC called All In. For the past 18 months he hosted the show Up Saturday and Sunday mornings on MSNBC. So you have had a few things that were said on your show Up that were amplified and made you know big news in the media and other shows were talking about what was said on your show. So give us an example of one of those and what it felt like to have a clip from your show be such a part of the news day. I do not know if you want to go with Robert Gibbs or...  Sure. Yeah I mean recently we had Robert Gibbs who has recently become an MSNBC contributor. Obviously he was White House press secretary for a while and an advisor to the president. And he was on our show and we were discussing drones and the drone program. And we played a clip of him and his successor Jay Carney a montage of them not just denying the drone program but refusing to even acknowledge it existed in this tremendously awkward way. And we played it to him and I just sort of asked him How tenable is this? We all know the U.S. is operating drones. We know that people are being killed. Some of them are people that we have reasonably good evidence are members of alQaida or alQaida affiliated or jihadis many of whom are civilians. How tenable is it to go up there and pretend that you do not know what everyone else knows? And Gibbs gave this incredible spontaneous honest answer. He said one of the first things I was told when I was training to become press secretary during the transition was do not say anything about drones. Pretend you do not know it exists. Do not even touch it. And  soon as I heard the word drones coming out of the mouth of the reporter I went into an internal place of I do not know what you are talking about. And that was a pretty startling admission. I think one of the biggest problems with the drone program has been this total lack of transparency and not only lack of transparency; there is something deeper than a lack of transparency which is genuine bad faith which is to say everyone in this room knows what is going on and you are going to pretend that you do not know what is going on. But we know you know what is going on. And Gibbs was very honest about that. And that got a lot of pickup and it got a lot of subsequent attention and I was proud of it. I thought it was A it was a good moment of television because it was genuinely unexpected which is always nice on cable news; and two it was a material bit of useful reporting about what the administration's internal conversations and posture towards secrecy visavis the drone program have been.  And it I am sure also made you wonder well think about the difficulty of getting information from official spokespeople.  Yeah I find myself lucky to not be in the position where that is  I do not spend all day beating my head against official spokespeople but if I did I would be massively frustrated.  I want to talk with you a little bit about your background. You got a BA in philosophy though I read someplace it was philosophy of mathematics. So you tell me.  Yeah it was a philosophy degree at Brown. The subconcentration or specialty was philosophy of math specifically logic deductive logic Goedel's theorem stuff like that. I think for some reason my intellectual pursuits in college led me towards higher and higher levels of abstraction. I felt like I was chasing  I was trying to chase the most abstract possible form of knowledge and ended up in logic which is not a particularly I do not know accessible or useful area of knowledge. But it was incredible intellectual training.  It is just interesting that you went further and further into abstraction in college and politics is so kind of present and practical. It is about the real world and real policies and voting yes or voting no getting votes you know explaining infrastructure. It is not the world of abstraction.  No I mean I moved in the opposite direction in terms of abstraction since my college years. I think that the training I got as  in philosophy was incredible which was just clear argumentation clear reasoning being critical of one's own arguments and of other's arguments and whether they follow logically. But yeah I think I decided pretty quickly after college that you know I want to be engaged in the world. And journalism seemed like this great way to be professionally curious to constantly be learning for a living but also be deeply engaged in the world. And that was what was so attractive to me about it when I got out of school.  So did logic in the realm of abstraction was it still helpful in being able to say to somebody who is making a political argument that really was illogical what you are saying makes no sense and here's why? What you are saying does not follow  what you are saying does not work based on the facts and here's why.  Yeah I mean I  I think we do that all the time on the show. I think that that is how I  I evaluate every argument through the framework of philosophy and of logic and whether things do follow from the premises. And the other  the flipside of that which I also think is a very useful undertaking which we try to do on the show and I do not think we do enough is actually to follow out the logical conclusion of a set of premises which is to take them to their extreme and see where they lead you either as a way of refuting the argument or sometimes as a way of pushing out the boundaries of you know of our policy discussion. Someone says on immigration well how many people should we let in? There is an embedded premise there right that there is some cap that we should  there should be a small number. And maybe that embedded premise is wrong. Maybe we should have completely open borders. Now I do not think that would work pragmatically but it is useful to think about what that world looks like what that policy framework looks like why that is not going to work before just concluding that it does not. And I think we get very confined in our political conversations sometimes overly confined to what is possible what is being said what is on the table and we all benefit from pushing out those boundaries.  When you were in college in addition to diving into abstractions you also acted in wrote and directed plays. So talk a little bit about your  the theater side of you.  You know I fell in love with the theater when I was in high school. The first time I was cast in a play I will never forget it. It was a studentwritten play. It took place in heaven I want to say and I was playing the role of Moses. And the joke was that Moses was very young right? That this was heaven and like the Grim Reaper was there who was superold and because I was a seventhgrader in this school that went from seventh to 12th  or eighthgrader I guess I was cast in the role as the young Moses. And I had some line and I cannot remember what the line was but I had a punchline and I said the line and I will never forget the feeling of the way  the eruption of laughter in the darkened theater out past the lights where you could not see people but you could hear them breathing and you could hear them laughing and that incredible feeling of connection and aliveness that comes from live theater. And I was superhooked and I spent a lot of time in high school doing it I spent a lot of times in college doing it and I just love  I love the theater. I love  I loved writing I loved directing I loved acting I loved the feeling of a bunch of people in a room together experiencing something together in real time. And the hilarious you know punch line to this story is that I ended up kind of doing it for a living. I mean I do perform for a living. After going away from theater for many years and being a written  a print journalist I am now in a position where I you know I am kind of back on that stage like I was when I was 12.  Chris Hayes will be back in the second half of the show. His new MSNBC program All In premieres Monday evening. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Chris Hayes. On Monday he premiers his new week night program on MSNBC called All In with Chris Hayes. For the past 18 months he hosted an early morning show Saturdays and Sundays on MSNBC called Up. Hayes is also a contributing editor at The Nation and author of the book Twilight of the Elites America After Meritocracy. When we left off we were talking about his background in theater. So as you said you are performing now in front of cameras though you are performing as yourself. So do what you do before performance so to speak? Like when you started in television did you get a makeover at all like hipper glasses or a different haircut?  You know it is funny. I encounter people all the time who think there is some great machinery behind the scenes of how making people look a certain way. There are...  There often is.   Well there are incredibly incredibly hair and makeup people in 30 Rock who make everyone look good. But there was never any stylist assigned to me or anyone buying the clothes. In fact my boss Phil Griffin in an article the other day was quoted as saying I do not tell people what to wear which is a thousand percent true. I have never been told what to wear at all and I think that is a testament to him. So there was no real makeover. I mean the thing that happens is  and it is a very bizarre experience. What happens is you start noticing that people are noticing how you look and it is a profoundly alienating experience when it first happens where you go on TV and you say something about some topic of the day and on the Internet people are like what was up with that shirt?   What was up with your hair? And you think oh that is kind of a bummer. I think actually as a man it was a really useful tiny sliver of  a tiny empathetic window  into what navigating the world as a woman often is in which looks are so foregrounded and so scrutinized and so discussed. It was really alienating at first. And I think you get a tougher skin about it as you gone through it. But it is strange to have people pay such careful attention to your appearance.  OK. So you mentioned reading what people were saying on the Internet  probably Twitter. So how closely do you pay attention to that?  I am tempted to lie to you and say I do not but I will tell you the truth which is that I yeah I read almost all of it. I think it can be really toxic and destructive if you let it be. I also think we have  we have established a relationship with our viewers which is usually pretty constructive and people often will point to things that we have missed. Or some time I have actually had things I say corrected on air live by someone tweeting at me and I see it during a commercial break and then send it into the control room and they verify that in fact I got it wrong and we corrected on air in the next segment. And all that is because of that amazing informed viewership and also wisdom of the crowd's effect. So there is real benefit I think to engaging and reading Twitter responses. There is also you know there is a lot of like really nasty things that people say that hurt your feelings. And if  at a certain point I worry about I do worry about what it is does to your psyche and your soul over time if you get to the point where it stops hurting your feelings if something vital and human and important inside you has died.   Yeah.  So during a commercial break instead of like looking at your notes or taking a few deep breaths you are looking at the Twitter feed?  Almost always yeah. And sometimes it is often...  Is not that distracting though?  I do not find it distracting. I actually usually find it pretty useful a lot of times because people will  I mean a lot of times people will point out a question or an avenue of conversation that I had missed which I find useful. A lot of times during commercial break we just keep the conversation going too. I am not sort of constantly on the Twitter feed. But no I do not find it distracting.  If you are just joining us my guest is Chris Hayes and he starts a new MSNBC show eight of the clock Monday and weeknights at eight. And prior to that he hosted the early morning weekend show called Up on MSNBC. So you have a book that was published just a few months ago which is called Twilight of the Elites America After Meritocracy. So let us start with you explaining what meritocracy means.  Meritocracy is the name we give to a pretty old idea that goes back to the genesis of the nation. Which is basically this idea that you know in America more than anywhere else people can rise or fall based on their merit on their abilities. That we are untethered to the feudal legacy of Europe in which birth and cast were determined who ruled. We do not have aristocracies instead we have this kind of wide open society in which industrious smart talented individuals from any walk of life can prove themselves and be funneled through a set of institutions  whether those are universities or in the private market  to get to the top of society. And so the people that are at the top of society  whether it is in government or in business or in academia  those are the people who deserve to be there because they have climbed this pyramid and had not been born into it. And that is the basic idea behind meritocracy when we talk about it.  So you know meritocracy was an answer to like a power elite. And you are arguing that meritocracy has become an elite but just a different kind of elite. So in what way do you think meritocracy has become an elite?  The grand paradox here is that during the period of time in which we have most tightly embraced the vision of meritocracy which is sort of I think in the wake of the '60s Revolutions  both in civil rights and second wave feminism and then subsequently LGBT rights  right? In that period of time in which we have said look it does not matter if you are gay or straight black or white man or woman whatever creed you know you you can gain entrance into the American elite. It is not closed off to you. It is not just some small clique of WASPy male Northeasterners right? In that same period of time the numbers bear out that social mobility  actual social mobility as measured in this country  is declining and inequality is massively accelerating. So the thing that we say we want from our social order which is this social mobility which is the Barack Obama's of the world born  you know born to a single mom son of an immigrant can rise to be president of the United States and a kid a Dominican kid from the Bronx can be managing partner at Goldman Sachs those things we want. We latch onto the individual examples that make us think it is happening but broadly socially we are actually experiencing declining social mobility. We are seeing a society that reinscribes boundaries of race largely through the criminal justice system. We are seeing things as basic as the predictor of the kid's SAT scores the best predictor of the kid's SAT scores is his or her parent's income. All of the mechanisms of intergenerational determination of life's outcomes that the meritocracy is supposed to get rid of are getting stronger and stronger over time. And so what we have to look in the face is that the social order is not delivering the very thing that we say it should deliver.  One of the arguments you make is that we need to build a coalition of the radicalized uppermiddleclass. What are you thinking?  I think that the last decade of American life which has been really rough on people was roughest on the poorest but also roughest on the poorest who themselves experienced this decade in great continuity with the previous decade. The folks that felt this last decade as a greater betrayal or discontinuity I think were people further up the socioeconomic scale the uppermiddleclass who thought that they had done the stuff needed to be delivered the promises that they believed had been made. Whether that is having a pension fund that you could retire in whether that means some control or determination of your employment. And so what I think has happened is there is a real opening for radicalization and we have seen it on both sides of the political spectrum. I think we have seen it in the Tea Party we have seen it through Occupy Wall Street. There is a real opening for radicalization among people who are in the uppermiddleclass who have it relatively well but who have experienced the dislocations and crises of this past 1012 years as more acutely a betrayal of what they thought things were like. That there is an opening among them to join in a coalition in solidarity with people beneath them on the socioeconomic scale who have been ground to dust by some of the same forces for a very long time. And I think that was part of the embedded logic of this 99 percent one percent framework that Occupy Wall Street adopted. Which was if you are in the 90 percent you think your class interests are aligned with the people above you but really they are aligned with the people below you. Because of the way the political economy works is that fewer and fewer people are capturing more and more of the gains. And you may think that you are on the inside of that circle but actually you are on the outside and you should join your interests up with the person that waits tables on you or the person that provides daycare to you or the undocumented immigrant who works on your lawn  that you can ally your interests with them to fight for a more just future because you are actually on their side and not on the side of the people above you.  Would you put yourself in the radicalized uppermiddleclass?   I think I got radicalized before I became a member of the uppermiddleclass.   OK. Well what radicalized you?  This decade radicalized me. I mean Iraq and the financial crisis radicalized me. It is funny I became more radical over the course of the decade because you know my disposition. I think people have politics and then they have personality disposition and sometimes those cut against each other in interesting ways. Like my politics are left but my disposition as a human being is like I am kind of a go along to get along person. I tend to trust authority. I think I tend to think people in charge broadly know what they are doing do not lie to you are not going to start wars for no reason. And you know watching Iraq happen and then watching the financial crisis happen and Katrina in the middle of that you know you just you turn around and you think wait a second no one is on top of anything. Who the heck is in charge here? These people say that they know what they are doing do not know what they are doing. I am not going to trust them next time they tell me they know what they are doing. It is a radically unmooring feeling to recognize that people that you just figured kind of had it under control do not have it under control and might be totally incompetent or completely corrupt or totally selfdealing. And watching you know watching 4400 Americans killed in Iraq and hundreds of thousands of Iraqi civilians; watching 1800 of our fellow citizens drown in the waters of Katrina; and then watching trillions of dollars of housing wealth evaporate and literally destroy the dreams and lives of millions of people who had nothing to do with creating the problem has really made me deeply skeptical of power and the concentration of power and the voice that power uses and power's assertion of expertise and knowledge which I no longer simply de facto trust.  My guest is Chris Hayes. His new program All In starts Monday evening on MSNBC. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Chris Hayes. And he starts a new show on MSNBC Monday at 8 of the clock and it will be weeknights at eight. Including Friday's?  Including Friday. Five days a week.  Have f