 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest Roxana Saberi was a young American freelance journalist in Iran. She had reported for NPR the BBC Fox News and other outlets and she was writing a book about Iran when she was arrested at her home on January 31 2009. She was taken to Evin prison where many political prisoners are held. Accused of spying for the CIA which she insists she did not do she was given the choice confess and be released in days or face many years in prison. After undergoing interrogation she confessed but soon after she recanted. She says she was willing to accept the consequences to have a clear conscience. Saberi was charged with espionage and sentenced to eight years in prison but after international pressure an appeals court suspended her sentence. She was released after 100 days. She tells her story in her new memoir Between Two Worlds My Life and Captivity in Iran. Roxana Saberi welcome to FRESH AIR. Now your father's from Iran your mother's from Japan you grew up in Fargo North Dakota. Why did you want to go to Iran? Ms.  Well as a child I was exposed to Iranian culture through my father. There were not that many Iranian families in Fargo North Dakota but we knew the ones who were there. And they would meet every week and we would have dinner. And so I would hear the Farsi language and eat Iranian food. But it was not until I grew older that I became more interested in my father's culture. I had gone to Japan as a child a few times but I never visited Iran. I decided in college that I wanted to become a journalist and more specifically I wanted to become a foreign news correspondent. And as time went on I realized that Iran would be the perfect place for me because I could both learn about my father's native land learn about the culture and the people and the history and also report from a place that seemed fewer foreign correspondents could go at the time. Because I had an Iranian passport through my Iranian father I knew I could go there and I knew that it was going to be a country full of many news stories for years to come.  When you were working as a journalist and when you were working on a book in Iran did you think of yourself as taking the kind of risks that could get you in prison? Ms.  No because I knew what I was doing was in compliance with the laws. I did not have anything to hide and I did my work very openly. But it is important to know that in Iran you can detain anyone for anything. And in fact there is a Human Rights Watch article with this very same title about how people can be detained very easily in Iran. The thing is is when they want to make a political case for you they make it. They do not care about reality. They do not care that you have been acting in compliance with the laws.  Why do you think you were  I mean we will talk about the official reasons that they gave for arresting you in a minute  but why do you think you were singled out for arrest by the Iranian government? Ms.  You know I am still not sure. During my imprisonment after some time I reached some various conclusions about possible motives that they had may have had in my arrest. But on the day I was arrested I certainly did not know. The doorbell rang at nine in the morning on January 31st last year. And the monitor lit up in my apartment and I saw that it was a man downstairs and he said You have a letter. So I thought it was the mailman and I opened the door. And he handed me a slip of paper and I could not make much sense of it. I just saw on the piece of paper the word Evin. And my heart started to beat because I knew Evin prison the most notorious prison of Iran. And I said please can I just have a moment to take a look at this because my Farsi is not very good? And I tried to shut the door but I could not because his foot was propping it open. He came in with three men behind him and they started going through all my belongings and they told me I had to stay where they could see me and they confiscated many of my belongings. And they kept saying just cooperate. Cooperate and you will be fine. And if not we will have to take you to Evin prison.  And they took you to Evin prison. Why was that? Did you not you know quote cooperate? Ms.  According to them I did not cooperate. I learned that their definition of cooperate was to confess that I was a spy for America and specifically that the book that I was writing about Iranian society they claimed was a cover for spying for America. And it seemed like they really believed this accusation. Of course this was not true. I was not a spy. My book was not a cover for anything and so they took me to Evin prison that night.  And what was your book that you were working on? Ms.  It was a book about different kinds of people in Iranian society from veterans of the IranIraq War women taxi drivers women university students a wide range of Iranians. And my captors seemed to have a problem with this. They kept asking me why did you interview quote so many people? What business did you have interviewing them? We know that you wanted to leave the country soon and publish your book overseas. And I said yeah I wanted to get a publisher overseas because the book is supposed to be in English and I wanted show a more complete picture of Iranian society. And it is impossible to talk to just a few people and say all of Iranian society looks like this. I need a good crosssection. And they kept saying no no somebody paid you to write this book and to actually use it as a cover for espionage. They said for example why did you interview with reformists? And I said well I also interviewed with conservatives. And they said yeah well you should not have done that either. So it seemed like they had a problem with anybody I had interviewed.  One of the things I think you were accused of was practicing journalism without a license. Ms.  There is this misperception out there. I think there is some confusion about  was I arrested because of reporting without a press pass and was this illegal? And the answer to both of these questions is no. And I understand why there might be confusion because when I was in prison this was the reason that the Iranian authorities first gave for my arrest and I did not know about this until I was released and I was surprised to hear it. The work that I was doing as a reporter without a press pass was in compliance with the laws. In Iran if you want to go to for example weekly meetings of like the government spokesperson or the spokesperson for the foreign ministry you need a press pass. You just cannot get in if you do not have one. And I was not going to those without my press pass. But there is no law saying that you cannot do the reporting that I was doing for example getting reaction from Iranians to the news and doing short news stories; and legal experts such as Shirin Ebadi who is the Nobel Peace Prizewinner for 2003. They have confirmed that the reporting that I was doing was not against the law. I knew this and I worked openly. Even if it would have been illegal to be reporting without a press pass in Iran which it was not the Iranian authorities should have tried me in the press court where trials are supposed to be public and with a jury instead of the revolutionary courts. I think the Iranian authorities' statement that I was detained for illegally reporting without a press pass was just another pretext to try to justify my detention to the public but it did not come up much at all during my interrogation or at court and they showed themselves to be most concerned about my book. And the other thing that is interesting is that my captors told me they knew I was going to leave the country soon. I was planning to leave in March of last year. And if my  anything that I had been doing was really that much of a problem or had really made them suspicious I do not think they would have waited until the end of six years to arrest me like the month or two before I was going to leave.  So something you were accused of was copying secret documents. And you write that you would been correcting grammar in some articles for a thinktank called the Center for Strategic Research  which is affiliated with the government affiliated with the Expediency Council. I do not really know what the Expediency Council does. But anyway so they accused you of photocopying top secret documents. You insist that these documents were never labeled secret that they were not classified documents. Ms.  Exactly. I did not have any classified documents. I had a research article that was public information but my captors lied and claimed I had a classified document evidently to pretend that there was legitimacy to my case. And they tried to make me think that the research article I had was classified. The judge in my first trial said that a handwritten letter on the front of this article stood for the word classified. It was the handwritten letter meme in Farsi. And I told him I had never heard of an article being marked classified with one handwritten letter. And I thought besides how could I know that my captors did not write this there themselves and meme could stand for many things. Well it was not until more than a month and a half after my release that I became absolutely certain the article I had was not classified at all. And by that time I had talked to various Iranian legal experts including the Nobel Peace Laureate Shirin Ebadi. And actually I wanted to have her as my lawyer but I was barred from having her. And they all told me there is no way an official document in Iran could be marked classified with a meme and to be considered classified an article like the one I had had to have the word classified either printed on it at the time of publication or stamped on it and it had neither. And as Shirin Ebadi told me it was all a trick. I wrote about this in the book so that readers can understand how shameless some Iranian authorities are in fabricating what they call evidence and charges against people. I wanted to show readers that even when you have not committed a crime in the Islamic republic the authorities can create one for you if they want. And I have since found out that other political prisoners have been falsely accused of having classified documents.  If you are just joining us my guest is journalist Roxana Saberi and she has reported on Iran for NPR for Fox News the BBC and other places. She was imprisoned for 100 days in Iran's Evin prison where many political prisoners are held and she is written a memoir about that called Between Two Worlds. Let us take a short break here and then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Roxana Saberi and we are talking about her 100day imprisonment in Iran. She is a journalist from America who was living and working in Iran for several years and she was charged with copying classified secret documents. She was charged with working for the CIA. She made a false confession so that  in the hopes that would get her out of prison and then she could not live with her conscience and she recanted while she was still in prison. She was released after 100 days. Her new memoir is called Between Two Worlds. You were told early on after your arrest that if you did not cooperate and confess that you were a spy you would be sent to prison. And then in prison you were told that you had to confess. And this is a scenario that I imagine a lot of people have played in their minds like when you play the worstcasescenario game and you imagine what would it be like if I was in prison and I was told to confess and that if I did not confess that I would be like put to death or imprisoned for many years; and if I did confess I would know I was lying and maybe they would not really help me anyways. So you had to do that whole mental calculus knowing that your life was on the line your future was on the line. Can you talk a little bit about what went through your mind when you were told that if you did not confess you would face dire consequences? Ms.  Yes. I knew first of all that there had been people before me dual nationals others who had been shown giving confessions on staterun television in Iran. There was a number of British sailors and Marines who were arrested in 2006 and they were shown given confessions on television too and it seemed to me  it was clear that these confessions were forced. These people were released shortly after and some of them recanted their confessions. And I knew this was the way things worked in the Islamic republic from the very beginning of the revolution 31 years. Political prisoners especially have been forced to give confessions about their activities implicating themselves or others. Not everybody is forced to give a confession but it is usually somebody who symbolizes something  like an ideology or a group or a country like me. I was under intense psychological pressure. They threatened to keep me in prison for many years. My interrogators said We can keep you in prison for 10 years 20 years. When you come out you will be an old lady. Can you imagine what you will look like? And they also reminded me that espionage can carry the death penalty. And then they started telling me that We have agents all over the world. You have seen how capable we are. We can even find your family. The difficult thing for me was that nobody knew where I was and I felt I had no way out. They told me if I say this false confession they would set me free. So I told myself I will make this confession. The most important thing is for me to get out of here safely and when I do I will recant my confession and I will recant these lies.  Now before we get to recanting while you were still in prison I would like to talk a little bit about your relationship with the interrogators. Like how did they try to manipulate you and how do you try to get some kind of human understanding or sympathy from them? Or did you not even try thinking that that was impossible? Maybe you could describe what your interrogator was like because you basically had your interrogator. Ms.  Yes my chief interrogator was younger than his colleagues. Maybe he was around my age in his lower 30s maybe and he dressed like Westernized youth of northern Tehran. And because our interrogators would never tell us their real names because they are intelligence agents I made up a name for him. I called him Javon which means youth. Of course I never called him this to his face. He was very good at manipulating me. He was an expert and I realized later that what I went through even though they never touched me I was not physically tortured at all that there is a word for this manipulation and intimidation and these threats that they make against you and it is actually a phrase called white torture. It is a kind of torture that does not leave any physical marks on your body but can devastate the mind and the conscience. And they did that to me especially in those first couple of weeks when I was cut off from the world. And I thought These people can kill me if they want. They can do what they want and nobody would ever find out. I knew what had happened in Evin prison before. I had heard about Zahra Kazemi the IranianCanadian journalist who had been detained in Evin prison  and she had died mysteriously there. And I had heard about a mass execution which took place earlier in the revolution like 1988 or so. And I had heard about many political prisoners being held in Evin for years and some had not come out. So this combined with my captors' threats being in solitary confinement not being able to have a lawyer I was barred from having a lawyer I was barred from telling my parents and my boyfriend my whereabouts it all combined to make me cave in under their pressures at first.  Right. So that is when you decided to confess falsely confess. Ms.  Yes after the continued threats and pressures and of course they wanted me to spy for them too.  Yes describe the proposition that they made you. Ms.  They said another condition of my release in addition to making this confession  which they claimed was true and of course is false  was that I spy for them. And I said Well what do you mean? And they said Well we have got all sorts of people collaborating with us artists athletes journalists like you. We do not ask much of them. We just want them to gather some information about who is doing what saying what going where with whom. And so I pretended to agree because I thought okay I will just pretend and I am going to get out of here I am going to escape and I am never going to do this. And later on they started to describe what they wanted from me. They wanted me they said  for example they would give me a press pass to work in Iran for six months and during this time I was supposed to gather information about other journalists or diplomats in Iran and give it to them. And you know I was playing along so that they would believe me so that they would free me. And they said oh it does not matter anywhere you want. And later they asked me for example if I could gather classified information for them from the Americans. I mean they were  they seemed really serious about this. And I should say that they have asked of  they have demanded this of other political prisoners as well. I am not the only one. And they made threats. They said if you leave this place and tell anyone about these arrangements the boss of my interrogator he said  I will personally sign your death warrant. And then my interrogator Javon told me that they could come after me wherever I was in the world and maybe I would be on a reporting trip in Afghanistan and they would make it look like I had died in a car accident. And I knew they were capable.  Are you a little worried about that now because you have told what happened to you? They also threatened they could go after your parents. So you have told what happened. You do not put the Iranian government in a very good light in your memoir. So are you worried that you or your family are or in the future might be in jeopardy? Ms.  A little bit yes. I know that if they want to come after me they will and I admit when I walk down the street sometimes I look over my shoulder. Sometimes when I check my email I wonder can they still monitor me? Or if I meet somebody new I think Is this person maybe an agent? Especially if they are Iranian sometimes I wonder which is terrible. It is a terrible feeling but I know other prisoners political prisoners often fear the same things and this is a result of what they do to us there the threats that they make against us. But I wanted to tell this story because I feel like I have a responsibility to share the experiences that I went through and to expose the injustices that I experienced and so many of my cellmates experienced and so many people are experiencing today. I wanted to show how easily they fabricate charges against people whether it is you know spying or soft revolution or trying to undermine the regime through propaganda against the state or having a classified document. Other people have been falsely accused of all of these things. I wanted to expose these methods that they are using and to say that we have to speak out against these actions and it can make a difference when we speak out. I saw it in my case. People speaking out for me really helped me. So I think it is worth this risk and I do not know if they would actually come after me or not. I hope they do not but it is a possibility. Maybe they have bigger priorities right now.  Roxana Saberi will be back in the second half of the show. Her new memoir is called Between Two Worlds My Life and Captivity in Iran. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Roxana Saberi author of the new memoir Between Two Worlds My Life and Captivity in Iran. She was an American journalist working in Iran her father's native country when she was arrested early last year. She was accused of copying secret documents and spying for the CIA. She insists on her innocence but she caved into pressure to confess in return for an early release. Soon after confessing she recanted willing to face the consequences in order to have a clean conscience. After international calls for her release an appeals court suspended her sentence. She was released last May. Let us talk about what your confession was like. You say that in writing the story of your confession... Ms.  Mmhmm.  ...your interrogator kind of helped you write the story. Ms.  Yes.  He kind of led you through it. How did he do that? Ms.  Yes. Well for example he asked very leading questions and sometimes he would give like multiple choice questions that only two choices and if I gave the wrong answer he would make his disapproval very clear. I will give you an example for...  Ms.  I am laughing about it now but at the time it was terrible. He said for example how much money did you get from this American to use your book as a cover to spy? And apparently...  When he says this American he means a CIA agent because he seems to... Ms.  Yeah. Well he accused me of getting money from somebody who was either in the CIA or linked to the CIA. And they gave me a list of people I knew Americans and he said you have to pick one of these. And so I picked somebody completely innocent and to this day I feel horrible about it. At the time I thought this person is not in Iran and will not be coming here anytime in the near future. Maybe he will understand that I need to do this to survive because he is safe and I am in danger. But that is another reason I recanted. I felt horrible about this lie. So he would say for example how much money did you get from  I call this person Mr. D in my book. And I said I had no idea how much people you know spies get. I have no idea.  Ms.  So I said 5000? You know I was just guessing. And he said that is all? Like apparently it was not enough. And you can tell what they want from their questions and when you do not answer them the way they want they let you know. And they constantly consistently threaten you. When you are there every threat is very real.  So you had to give your verbal testimony and then did you have to write the testimony too? Ms.  Yes. I had to write it and I had to say it on video.  Yeah in the video they made you do it over because you did not look natural and relaxed enough. They wanted you to smile more. Ms.  Right. Well my...  It sounds like a bad TV show you know since you are not smiling enough. Ms.  It was terrible. Like other people who have had to give false confessions I also had to go on camera to say mine. And my plan was to look like I was under pressure when I was saying this. So I tried to avoid eye contact with the camera I looked down. I had some notes that they said I could take. I looked down at my paper a lot. I had a lot of ums and ahs and they did not like this. So they brought me back another day and they said you have to do this over again because you did not look natural enough. And I thought to myself well I did not want to look natural. That was the whole point so people know that I am under pressure. And I did it a total of four times on three different days because they kept saying you are not looking natural enough. Use more hand gestures. Have more eye contact with the camera. You know smile a little bit. And at the end I was just so tired and I realized they would not let me free until I did this thing the way they wanted that I added a few hand gestures and I looked at the camera a little bit. And then Javan the interrogator came out from this curtain where the camera was and he smiled and he said now I can tell you are an experienced broadcast journalist.  Ms.  And I was so angry at that point but I could not so anything.  Okay. So you finally gave them what they wanted. You gave them the verbal confession. You gave them the written confession. And you gave them you know like a nice telegenic video confession. They said that they would release you after all of that. But after you gave them everything they wanted what did they do with you? Ms.  They did not release me right away. They kept saying we will release you tomorrow or the day after tomorrow and it took a while. In the meantime they took me out of solitary confinement and they put me in a cell with some other women. Eventually I recanted and I found out after I was freed that I recanted two days after the Iranian authorities announced that I was going to be freed within days. So...  But you did not know that. Ms.  I did not know that at the time. No. But it just  it proves that they were planning to release me. They got what they wanted out of me which was this false confession. They got it on tape. And if I had not recanted who knows maybe they would have aired it. Maybe they still will after this book comes out and they hear interviews they will probably be furious with me and try to you know discredit me in whatever way they can. I do not doubt it.  What do you think their real goal was? To get you to spy for them? Ms.  You know I think the interesting thing is after I recanted Javan my interrogator told me we knew from the very beginning that your confession was false and I was shocked. I mean to  it is  best  essentially telling me that he knew I was not a spy but he had made me say I was a spy. And he confirmed it later on. And the deputy prosecutor also acknowledged to me that he knew I was not a spy  in private of course. They would never say this in court or anything. So I started to wonder Why did these people arrest me in the first place if they knew I was not a spy? It is as if they have been fanning this whole thing. They never had any deep suspicions of me it seemed. And I came to various conclusions. One they could get this false confession out me which would serve many purposes for them as it has  they have tried to use for other political prisoners as well. They could use it to intimidate people who were advocating better relations with the West specifically America at a time when President Obama had just taken office and he was advocating more engagement with Iran. They could also use it to consolidate support from their hardline base. They could use my arrest and the confession to intimidate other journalists or dual nationals or writers. And I know that it did work. It scared some people in those categories. They could also use it as blackmail against me to get them to spy for them. And also it is important to understand that Iranian hardliners like to argue that America has agents all over the country in the guise of very ordinary people like journalists activists even academics and people who have links with the West. And this argument in my opinion is basically aimed at allowing them to crack down on society to tighten their control of society and to silence their opponents. And to support this argument they need reallife examples people like me people like other journalists who have been accused of espionage activists humanitarian workers people who have been involved in exchange programs with America.  My guest is Roxana Saberi. Her new memoir is called Between Two Worlds My Life and Captivity in Iran. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Roxana Saberi and she was in Iran doing freelance reporting for the BBC Fox News NPR and other places. And she was also working on a book when she was arrested early last year. She spent 100 days in Evin prison which is a prison that holds many of Iran's political prisoners. And she made a false confession then recanted and after a lot of international pressure was finally released. Her new memoir is called Between Two Worlds My Life and Captivity in Iran. In your book after you gave your false confession you say that you felt so bad that you could not live up to the kind of quotes that used to be so important and inspirational to you like a quote from Gandhi saying I do believe I am seeking only God's truth and I have lost all fear of men and that you thought you would be stronger under pressure. You were disappointed in yourself. How did you decide to recant your confession while you were still in prison? Ms.  From the moment I gave that false confession I felt horrible. I felt I had lost my dignity. I felt I had lost any principles of truth and honesty that I had always hoped that I would be able to live up to even under pressure. And I thought the God that I believed in must be disappointed in me because I had feared death. I feared man so much that I was willing to sacrifice my own principles. But I was scared to recant it at the time because I was in solitary confinement. Nobody knew I would been arrested. And later on when I was put in a cell with other women prisoners  other political prisoners  and I saw the strength of some of them and there was another woman who was accused of being a spy too and she had not buckled under her interrogator's pressures. They also pressured her to say she was a spy but she was not and she used to cry a lot and she used to weep a lot. I remember thinking Why do not you just cooperate and maybe you will get out of here you know? This is the way things work here. But I found out that she was much more content with herself. She told me even if she had to stay there she was glad that she had not given a false confession. And when I saw women like this I started to look at myself and I thought okay well I do plan to recant. But I wanted to recant once I was freed. But if that is the case even when my body will be free my conscience will forever be behind bars. I wanted to prove to myself that I could be strong even under pressure and that I would rather stay in prison having told the truth instead of being freed upon lies. And that is what I told the magistrate when I recanted my confession.  And what were the consequences? Ms.  Well this made my captors very angry and they decided not to free me. And instead I was sent to trial and I was given eight years in prison.  But you did not serve those eight years. Ms.  No. I was very fortunate.  What was the intervention on your behalf that got you out? Ms.  Well my parents came to Iran in early April. They surprised me. They came to Iran. And through them I began to hear much more about efforts being made in different parts of the world by governments strangers ordinary people students human rights groups journalism groups. They were all working on my behalf to release me and they were making apparently a lot of noise as my interrogator put it to me one day. And this was frustrating my captors so much. I remember on a few occasions they tried to tell me or my parents you know this media coverage is bad for your daughter. You must know this is not to her benefit. And they threatened my parents basically that  Javan reminded my parents you are in Iran on Iranian passports. God forbid a problem arise for you. So tell the foreign media not to talk so much about Roxana. And if you talk to the media make sure you talk to the Iranian media like the statecontrolled media. And one day also Javan brought me into the room and he was showing me all these news articles that he had printed off the Internet. And at that point I had learned that it is best just not to engage with these people at all and not to talk to them. It really drives them up the wall. I mean their tactic was to drive captors crazy by making these false accusations and to provoke us to have this wordy outburst. So I finally learned I should just stay quiet. And so he was showing me all these articles like BBC CNN Associated Press. He had highlighted the important parts for me he said. And 