 This is FRESH AIR. I am David Bianculli editor of the website TV Worth Watching sitting in for Terry Gross. Today's guest is James Forman Jr. who won the Pulitzer Prize in general nonfiction for his book Locking Up Our Own Crime And Punishment In Black America. It is now out in paperback. It is about the era of mass incarceration and tells a part of the story that is rarely focused on  the role of AfricanAmerican political and community leaders in advocating toughoncrime measures as ways to stop drugs and guns from destroying black communities. Many of those leaders he says did not appreciate the impact of the choices they were making. The most direct victims of the resulting harsh penalties have been the poorest least educated black people. Forman represented some of those people during the six years he served as a public defender in Washington D.C. He will tell us about that and about his parents both of whom were student activists. James Forman Jr. is now a law professor at Yale Law School. Terry spoke with him last July.   James Forman Jr. welcome to FRESH AIR. So your book starts with you defending a 15yearold back when you were a public defender. This was in Washington D.C.  a 15yearold who had pleaded guilty to possessing a handgun and a small amount of marijuana enough to use but not to sell. You argued for probation. The judge gave your client what you describe as the Martin Luther King speech. What is the speech? JAMES FORMAN JR. So this speech is where the judge starts off by saying you know Mr. Forman has told me that you have had a hard life and you deserve a second chance. Let me tell you about hard. Let me tell you about Jim Crow  because the judge Curtis Walker  he had grown up under Jim Crow so he knew that era. And he proceeded to tell Brandon about what that was like to grow up with separate water fountains and unequal access to jobs et cetera. And then he wrapped up and he said so I know you have had it hard but people fought marched and died for your freedom. Dr. King died for your freedom. And he did not die for you to be running and gunning and thugging  and carrying on and embarrassing your community and embarrassing your family. No son that was not his dream at all. So I hope Mr. Forman is right. I hope you turn it around. But right now actions have consequences and your consequence is Oak Hill. And he locked him up.  What do you object to about that speech? FORMAN JR. I object not so much to the speech because that message that people have struggled for your freedom  right?  that is a message that is so powerful in the AfricanAmerican community right? We use that in our homes and in church in barbershops. But  and it is appropriate I think even sometimes in court. It was not that I objected to the speech as it was I objected to the sentence. I objected to what followed. The problem for me was that then he locked him up. And for me it was so  it was a stunning moment because I had come to court as a public defender imagining myself as the civil rights figure in the story. You know I was doing the job of a public defender because my parents had met in the civil rights movement. They would met in SNCC Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and I was now a descendant of that movement. I had had all kinds of opportunities. But at the same time I could see that other AfricanAmerican men other black men in my community and black women were being incarcerated at unimaginable rates. So I was taking the job of defending Brandon because I thought it was an extension of the struggle. And now the judge was invoking Martin Luther King for exactly the opposite outcome. So that for me was the power and the drama I guess of that moment.  That story also helps frame your book's main question which is why have AfricanAmericans in the justice system  like this judge  taken the position of a kind of harsh approach to sentencing? FORMAN JR. Yeah that is exactly right. That case  I mean when that case ended and Brandon was sentenced  and I went back to see him in the cell block and there were three other young black men there with him. And I thought about his mother and his grandmother. But it was also clear to me when I thought it through that the judge was not the only one who disagreed with us because in that courtroom there were a number of other AfricanAmerican actors. The prosecutor was AfricanAmerican. The courtroom clerk was AfricanAmerican. And I started to think about the fact that the city council that passed the gun and the drug laws that Brandon was sentenced under was a majority AfricanAmerican council. The police force in D.C. was majority black. And so I felt like there was a story that had to be told of people like the judge and people like the police officer who made their arrests or the city council who passed the laws. What were the pressures that they were facing right? What were the constraints that they were under? And what were the choices that they made? I wanted to try to tell that story you know compassionately and humanely and put myself  this was one of the hardest parts of writing the book  is putting myself in the shoes of somebody who is making choices that I thought in retrospect  and in the case of the judge I thought in the moment  were wrong.  So just to back up a second  what kind of sentence would you have liked to see the judge give your client compared to what the judge actually did? FORMAN JR. Well I would have liked him to put Brandon on probation. It was his first arrest. And I am somebody who believes that our prisons whether they are juvenile prisons or adult prisons should be reserved for people who are true threats to society. And I do not think that Brandon was one. He was a kid growing up in a tough neighborhood. He made a mistake. He picked up a gun that he should not have picked up. He told me that he had it for protection. Even if that is not true even if he was starting to maybe get sucked into a group of kids in the neighborhood that was selling drugs or something along those lines  even if that was true I did not think a place like a juvenile prison was the place for him. But the other thing is it is not just the decision right? My frustration is not only with the choice to put him in prison but it is also with all of the other aspects of the system because the judge  judges will often answer your question with well he needed to be locked up because the other alternative was probation. But they do not really confront the fact that the place that he was being sent  Oak Hill this juvenile facility  was a dungeon. It was a violent place with drugs and violence rampant with no functioning school with no mental health programs or job training programs. And so I do not think  when we think about our criminal justice system I do not think we can imagine choices in isolation. We do not think about the quality of the place that he is being sent. What I am trying to argue in the book is that we have to look at this system as a whole and we have to look at all of its dysfunctions. And only until we do that will we really understand the damage that it is doing to people's lives.  You know since the larger question in your book is asking us about how so many leaders of the AfricanAmerican community came out for tougher measures against crime helping to lead this era of mass incarceration you are also arguing against the claim that so many AfricanAmericans focus on police crimes against black people but they do not focus on blackonblack crime. You are trying to dispel that idea. FORMAN JR. I think when you look at the book you will see page after page year after year decade after decade of agitation of pleading of demanding of saying I do not feel safe on my streets  not from police officers. That is part of it. But mainly I do not feel safe on my streets because there is drug dealers on the corner. I cannot take my kid to the park after school because they are shooting. And they are leaving dirty syringes in the park. And nobody's cleaning them up. I demand that you the leadership of my city  D.C. in this case but black leaders nationally face these same demands  I demand that you do something about it. So that claim  right?  that we hear from conservatives overwhelmingly that black America only cares about police violence  it could not be more untrue. And the next time somebody says it  Rudy Giuliani's on television you know still saying it. I just want someone to put this book in his face and say stop saying that. Stop repeating that lie. Here's proof that it is a lie.  But you say you know many of the same people who were advocating for better policing of AfricanAmerican communities and you know more help in protecting corners from drug dealers  these people were also asking for access to better jobs better schools better housing. FORMAN JR. People want more police and more prosecutors. Sometimes some people even say we need more prisons. But they also say we need more job training. We need more housing. We need better schools. We need funding for drug treatment for mental health treatment. We need a national gun control policy. We need a Marshall Plan for urban America. We need the federal government to do for black communities in America what it did for Europe after World War II  to rebuild to reinvest to revitalize right? That is the claim. But instead of all of the above the black community historically has gotten one of the above. And the one of the above is law enforcement.  Let me reintroduce you here. If you are just joining us my guest is James Forman Jr. He is a former public defender who is now a professor at Yale Law School. He is the author of Locking Up Our Own Crime And Punishment In Black America. We will be back after we take a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is James Forman Jr. He is the author of Locking Up Our Own Crime And Punishment In Black America. He is a former public defender in Washington D.C. and is now a professor of law at Yale Law School. Is there an initiative you can describe that you thought started out like either idealistically or very practically minded as a way to honestly try to help with crime in the AfricanAmerican community to protect AfricanAmericans from crime that ended up being used in such a way as to actually hurt the AfricanAmerican community? FORMAN JR. Absolutely. There is more than one. I mean the first one probably that comes to mind is the pretext policing or investigatory stops initiative unveiled in the early 1990s and led by engineered by supported by Eric Holder who was the first AfricanAmerican U.S. attorney in Washington D.C. Most Americans now know about stop and frisk. Investigatory stops or pretext stops are kind of like the automobile version of those. The police are going out. They are targeting people who they think may have guns and they are using the traffic laws which are very broad  they are using the traffic laws as a pretext. So I see you driving one mile an hour five miles an hour over the speed limit. I am going to pull you over. You stop at the stop sign for too long. I am going to pull you over. You stop for too short. I am going to pull you over. Your windows are tinted too dark. I am going to pull you over. And under Holder's leadership the D.C. Police Department  they start pulling over cars. And their goal is to get guns. And that is a worthy goal. But the way they unveil this policy when you consider other aspects of our society and of our criminal justice system lead to many terrible outcomes. So when they pull the car over they ask for consent to search. Over 95 98 percent of people give consent to search. Most people do not think they can not consent. And one of the people that I represented in a case a woman named Sandra Dozier  she was driving in one of the neighborhoods that was targeted by this pretext stop regime. She had a small amount of marijuana  1520 worth  in her car. She is pulled over. They start asking her about guns. She says I do not have any guns. They say well we can search  right?  just to make sure. And she is thinking OK well this will get over quickly and I cannot really say no so yeah. They search. They do not find any guns but they do find the marijuana. And she says I have a job. Please do not arrest me. They do not want to make this marijuana bust. That is not  they are looking for guns so they do not arrest her. They give her a citation to appear in court a couple weeks later  pretty reasonable. She is able to go to work the next day keep her job. Then she gets to court. The U.S. attorney's office nopapers the case. They dismiss it. They do not want to prosecute this 1015 worth of marijuana. So in one sense you would say well the criminal justice system has been fair sort of. But then to get off probation at her employer  she is a probationary a new employee  and she has to have a certificate of clean record to be able to get off probation and become a fulltime employee. She goes to the courthouse to get the printout and the arrest somehow shows up. She presents it to her supervisor who is a decent guy but says we have a policy. It is not my policy. If you are arrested while you are on probationary status we cannot hire you. You lose your job. So she was fired. And that is how I meet her because she comes to my office to tell me this story. And I think maybe I can undo it. So I get the guy on the phone the supervisor and I speak to him. And he is an understanding person. But he says there is nothing I can do. It is company policy. We cannot keep her on the job.  So here's somebody who loses their job which is their way up the way to  their way to a better life. And they are losing their job because they were caught up in a search for guns which they did not have. So they are just kind of collateral damage in a way. FORMAN JR. Absolutely. And there is so many people like them. And when Sandra Dozier left my office that day she happened accidentally to leave behind some files some paperwork. And when I looked through it she had her certificate of employee of the month at an internship that she had gotten. And she had her high school diploma. And she had gone to a high school where very few people  you know with a 50 percent dropout rate. So one version of her story  right?  is that she is somebody with grit. She is a striver. She stood on lines for  at job fairs  for hours in the rain. She is finally gotten a job in a community that has too few of them. She is doing great at her job. Her supervisor's a fan of her work ethic. But because of this pretext regime to look for guns and because we target that regime at the poorest lowincome neighborhoods which have the highest crime rates  again justifiable in some ways. You can see why somebody like Holder would have thought that made sense. But down the line you get thousands and across the country hundreds of thousands and millions of Sandra Doziers  of people who because of unequal enforcement choices have ended up so much worse off than they ever would have been otherwise.  You point out in your book that 95 percent of American prisoners are in state county and local jails. Around 85 percent of law enforcement officers are state and local not federal. Most crime policy is set by state and local officials. So you say you know mass incarceration is going to have to be dismantled piecemeal and locally like the way it was constructed. But nevertheless I want to know what you think of the direction the Trump administration is heading in in terms of law enforcement. FORMAN JR. Well just one correction  I think the number is 88 percent of prisoners are state county local not 95 percent. But either way it is a very high number and  over 85 percent. I think it is 88 percent. And that is why I do believe that this has got to be a local fight. But you asked about the Trump administration. And there is no question that Donald Trump and Jeff Sessions are leading us in a disastrous direction on criminal justice matters. Jeff Sessions in particular  I mean I do not think President Trump is especially focused on this issue on a daytoday basis. He occasionally gives kind of vile speeches on the topic. But Jeff Sessions  this is his work. And Jeff Sessions is somebody that came up in the '80s and early '90s and was taught a particular way of thinking about how to fight crime. And while lots of people have evolved in their thinking  somebody like Eric Holder has evolved in his thinking on criminal justice issues  Jeff Sessions has not. You know he is stuck in this mindset that is blind to the damaging consequences that these incredibly aggressive approaches have to communities of color in particular but to communities nationwide. And he continues to say things that are patently untrue. You know recently he said in a speech that marijuana is only slightly less awful than heroin. Well that is wrong. And it is wrong in a deadly way. There were 13000 deaths from heroin overdoses last year and there were zero from marijuana. So even to begin to compare the two drugs is inane. But I do think that we should not be misled. So people that were focused on this issue  wanting to make the criminal justice system more humane  right?  less brutal more forgiving  we should always remember that the fight is going to be at the local level. And there we continue to win. So the same election that brought Jeff Sessions also brought something that is a first in my lifetime which was a number of progressive prosecutors at the local and county level ran in races and won in Florida in Texas in Alabama in Denver in  Kim Foxx in Chicago  and then just six weeks ago Larry Krasner a civil rights attorney in Philadelphia. I mean a civil rights lawyer did not run for local prosecutor 10 years ago. And if they did they barely got any votes and yet he won. And he won on a campaign and these others ran and won on campaigns of we are locking up too many people. And my predecessor has helped to convict people wrongfully. And we need to rethink the war on drugs. And mandatory minimums are an obstacle to justice right? These kinds of claims you never heard from prosecutors 10 or 15 years ago. That is the direction I actually think the country is continuing to go in even as Sessions and Trump try to push us in the other direction.  James Forman Jr. speaking to Terry Gross last July. His Pulitzer Prizewinning book Locking Up Our Own Crime And Punishment In Black America is now out in paperback. We will hear more of their conversation after a short break. And we will also hear rock critic Ken Tucker's review of the debut album by the popular female rap artist Cardi B. I am David Bianculli and this is FRESH AIR.   I am David Bianculli in for Terry Gross back with more of Terry's interview with author James Forman Jr. His book Locking Up Our Own Crime And Punishment In Black America won the Pulitzer Prize in general nonfiction and it is now out in paperback. Terry spoke with James Forman Jr. last July.   I would like to talk about you. You have an incredibly interesting background. I am talking about your parents here. So you are the son of James Forman who is the former head of SNCC the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee which in the '60s was one of the most important civil rights groups. It was SNCC that Andrew Goodman James Chaney and Michael Schwerner were volunteering for when they were murdered in Mississippi during Freedom Summer. Your mother Constancia Romilly was the daughter of the journalist and antifascist activist Jessica Mitford who is most famous in America for her book The American Way Of Death which is an expose of the funeral industry. So those are two really interesting parents  to have. FORMAN JR.  Yeah.  Did they stay together? Did you grow up with both of them? FORMAN JR. No they did not. They divorced when I was 7 years old. But I did grow up with both of them in the sense that they both remain very involved in my life. So my brother and I  we were raised by my mother. But we spent summers with my dad and we would spend Christmas holidays with him as well. And they were together in one other way as well which is that they stayed connected around us. So in my entire life  I mean my dad has passed away now. My mom is still alive. I never heard my dad say one bad word about my mother and the reverse is true.  You talked about the Martin Luther King speech at the beginning of our interview and how frustrating you found that inspirational speech of like Martin Luther King like fought and died for your freedom. And what are you doing with your freedom? You know you are acting like a thug and therefore you are going to pay the consequences. Did your father have a version of that speech that he gave you? FORMAN JR. No that was the  maybe  you know I had not thought about it until you just put the question that way. But maybe one of the reasons I found it so frustrating was that I was raised by somebody who knew Dr. King  well and marched with him and strategized with him and fought with him and disagreed with him and you know  and made up with him and all of that. And he did not have that speech. I never heard him saying that about the kids in the neighborhood  you know that maybe we are not in school in the middle of the day. And you were wondering like you know why is not that kid in school? But no he did not have that speech at all. I mean one of the things that was amazing about my father was he got the ways in which oppression changed over time. So he really got how the kids that I was representing in D.C. were locked out of society and in ways similar to how people were locked out of society in the Jim Crow years even if a lot of the details were different. But there were also some similarities. And he I think felt that and raised us to understand that. So no he did not have any of that speech  just the opposite.  After your father left as the head of SNCC the group considered excluding white members. Now your mother was a white member of SNCC. Do you know if your father ever got heat for marrying a white woman? FORMAN JR. Oh I know that he did. I know that he did from things that my mom in particular told us about years later. It was hard. I know that that was a huge point of pressure on their marriage. I mean there were other things that were happening. They were  in the early 1970s right before they split up that was also the period when you know the FBI was putting incredible pressure on civil rights groups through the counterintelligence program or the COINTELPRO program. And they were fomenting lies and distrust. So they had a hard time in those years for lots of reasons. But I know from my mom in particular that that was one. And I know that that was very painful for her  you know very hard for her very hard for both of them I think. Yeah. Yeah it was hard.  Since you are the product of their relationship did the pressure that he was experiencing to not be with a white woman  and did all the distrust in that part of the civil rights movement of white people affect your own identity? FORMAN JR. I do not think so. The day to day that I was being raised with was a more universal approach to thinking about humanity. I was raised more in that way. And I guess the other thing that is important to know about my own identity as I think about it is a decision that my mom made when I was in seventh grade which I think in some ways is the most important decision that she made raising me and my brother  period  which was she decided to move from New York City to Atlanta. And the reason that she made that decision was she felt like we were living in a mostly white world in New York. And I had gotten accepted into this high school in New York  Hunter College High School which was a 7ththrough12thgrade school which was a very prominent school. But it was almost all white. And she felt like  she was worried about our racial identity. You know I am lightskinned. My brother's a little bit darker than me. But depending on who I am with you might  there is people particularly people who are not black who might not even know that I am black. And my mom moved us to Atlanta in part because she had lived there in the '60s with my dad. So she knew folks there. She knew there was a strong black community in Atlanta. And she wanted us to grow up in a black environment. I mean she told us later. I wanted you to grow up in a city where when you opened the newspaper in the morning and you looked at the headlines of the local government and local business leaders you were looking at pictures of black people. She wanted us to be raised in that environment because she thought it would form and shape our racial identity  not just how we thought of ourselves right? That we thought of ourselves as black  but also how we thought of the black community because the amazing thing about growing up in Atlanta is there is no one way to be black in Atlanta right? In a city that has so many AfricanAmerican people I would go to school and the jocks were black. The nerds were black. The artistic  you know the artsy kids were black. The bandcamp kids were black. The thugs were black  like everybody was black. So there was not a way to perform that went along with being black. And that I think was very powerful and liberating for me as a child 'ecause it meant I got to be who I was which was a nerdy kid. And nobody thought oh well you are not black if you are reading books.  So I am thinking what different worlds your parents came from. Your father grew up in Mississippi. And at the age of 8 when he did not say like good morning madam or thank you madam to a shopkeeper he was threatened with being lynched whereas your mother grew up in England before moving to America. And I think she was  you know Jessica Mitford was her mother. And I think she  her father I think was related with the nephew by marriage to Winston Churchill. FORMAN JR. That is right.  Yeah so it is like really...   It is quite a contrast in terms of the two different sides of the family and what they were exposed to when they were growing up. So I am just  I do not even know what my question is but just thinking about being  you know having two  such different kinds of family trees. FORMAN JR. You know it is funny that you would ask that question because I have always thought of it as just the opposite. Like I have always thought of there being more similarities in the family trees than differences. And I guess I will say why which is my grandmother  Jessica Mitford right?  she grew up in this sort of you know kind of aristocratic landed gentry and more importantly kind of fascist family right before World War II. And she decided that she was not going to support Hitler as many of her family members were but that she was going to go fight against and resist. She went to Spain  right?  to fight against the fascists in Spain. And then she moved to the United States in the 1940s. And my mom was actually born in the United States. But my grandmother moved to the United States in the 1940s and she became a communist. Why? Because she saw the communists at the time as the people that were fighting for equality in particular for racial equality. So I have always thought of both sides of my family as freedom fighters as people that see a kind of inequality in front of them and want to resist it. And so I guess you are right if you think about it in the demographic way right? If you think about kind of race and class background and region they are different. But if you think about it in terms of impulses  political impulses they are much more similar.  Let me reintroduce you here. If you are just joining us my guest is James Forman Jr. He is a former public defender who is now a professor at Yale Law School. He is the author of Locking Up Our Own Crime And Punishment In Black America. We will be back after we take a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is James Forman Jr. He is the author of Locking Up Our Own Crime And Punishment In Black America. He is also a professor of law at Yale Law School and a former public defender. You clerked for Sandra Day O'Connor. I guess this is when you got out of law school. FORMAN JR. Yes yes. I clerked for a judge William Norris on the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals right after law school and then for Justice O'Connor the next year. And that is a common trajectory  to do two clerkships in that way.  Did you have a lot of political differences with her? FORMAN JR. I did. That was a hard hard year. She is a wonderful person. And I loved how she treated me as an individual as a clerk. She still to this day you know asks after my family when I see her. And she is connected to her clerks in that way. She cares about us and she cares about our success. But I disagreed with her on most issues that came before the court having to do with civil rights or criminal law and criminal justice. And...  How would you handle that with her? FORMAN JR. Well she predicted it. So she asked in the interview  the last question she had for me in the interview was  she said you know from looking at your resume it appears that you may disagree with me on some issues. And I am curious to know from your standpoint how you would handle that as my law clerk. And I told her that  what I ended up doing. I mean I told her that I will argue with you. I will tell you the truth about what I think. I will try to persuade you. But at the end of the day you are the justice and I am the law clerk. And if I am taking this job I am agreeing to help you do your work right? I am helping  if you decide to come out the other way and assign me the opinion then I will write the best opinion I can for you.  Did you have to do that? FORMAN JR. And that is what I told  yeah. Oh that is what I told her I would do and I did have to do that.  So how hard was that... FORMAN JR. I did have to do it.  ...To write an opinion that you did not believe in? FORMAN JR. It was hard but it was the job. The hardest part was not even writing the opinions though that was bad. But the hardest part was the death penalty because the way the Supreme Court works is that the different judges are responsible for different circuits. And Justice O'Connor was responsible for the 9th Circuit. And what that meant was if there was any request from somebody who was scheduled to be executed  a lastminute request for a stay of execution or a pause on the execution  it first had to go to that justice. And that meant it first had to go to one of the justice's four law clerks. So we knew from the day we started that every fourth night we were potentially on duty for any stays of execution. And I only got one. There were only I think three or four from the 9th Circuit that year. But I was only on duty one night when somebody filed a lastminute stay. But what that meant was I had to call the justice discuss with her the issues that were raised in the stay. And then she had to make a recommendation to the rest of the court. And then I had to circulate that recommendation. And this was a case where the only real basis for the stay was if you did not believe in the death penalty which I did not. And I told her that. And she said right but what about bases that I might find you know colorable under law? And there were not any that I could see. And I presented it to her. And she said well write an order recommending that we deny the stay. So I wrote it and I circulated it to all of the other justices. Their responses came back. And the request was denied. And then I had to sign the order for Justice O'Connor. And then I had to walk the order to the fax machine which is what we used then in our marshal's office in the middle of the night knowing that it was going to be faxed to the warden in the stat