 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Our guest Doug Glanville is a former Major League Baseball player but hardly a typical pro athlete. Before getting into the game he got an engineering degree from an Ivy League school and he now writes columns about the world of sports for the New York Times. His new book The Game From Where I Stand is an inside look at the culture of pro baseball with subjects as trivial as how to pack your bag when you have been cut from a team and as serious as managing romantic relationships and facing the end of a promising career. Glanville spent 15 years in professional baseball nine seasons in the big leagues with the Chicago Cubs Philadelphia Phillies and Texas Rangers. Besides writing columns for the Times he is a baseball analyst for ESPN. He spoke with FRESH AIR contributor Dave Davies.  Well Doug Glanville welcome to FRESH AIR. You know because FRESH AIR is produced in Philadelphia which is you where you played the most of your major league career I was certainly aware of you as a ballplayer for many years and was aware that you were a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania. And I wanted to begin by asking you whether you felt a little different from a lot of the guys around you? You know there is this image of ballplayers maybe it is exaggerated and outdated but you know guys who chew tobacco spit scratch themselves do not read books without pictures and you are this Ivy League guy with an engineering degree. Did you feel you were different from your teammates? Mr.  No the interesting thing about that is it started more when I first got drafted. I think it converged to much more of a common space of if you look from the minor league experience versus the major league experience. And I think of the movie Bull Durham where Crash Davis is talking to the main character who is played by Tim Robbins and he says you know you have fungus in your shower shoes. And he said in the minor leagues you are a slob but in the big leagues they can consider you colorful. So I think the fact that I was different with this sort of academic background that is maybe not associated with professional athletes that became something that was very much of a unique interest level for Major League Baseball. In the minor leagues it was sort of you know you were kind of the alien in the room more so. But it was interesting how it changed over the years and became more and more something positive.  Your degree was in engineering. Did those skills translate at all give you an edge in the game you know which obviously involves angles and dimensions and fast calculations? Mr.  Well I thought it would be more of an advantage than it ended up actually. You know I used to get teased as being called the rocket scientist when I was with the Cubs. And you realize fairly quickly at the professional level you have to have moments where you are sort of blank. You are not thinking. You are not calculating. You are just in a space to perform and react and trust your instincts. Yes you can use the engineering to prepare. That was very important. I had a system. I had to figure out why does this guy throw pitches in a pattern so I can be prepared. Those things mattered and it certainly helped that I had an academic approach to preparing for my opponent and also to figure out what I am doing wrong to make corrections. But in the end a lot of it is instinct and your preparation can be wellcrafted and sort of engineered but when it comes down to it you have to react to that ball because you have a split second to make a decision.  Now baseball's different from other sports in that there is typically this long apprenticeship in the minor leagues. I mean in a lot of sports you will see a player drafted and will become a pro that year or the next year and have a big impact. In baseball folks spend years in the minors. You were a firstround pick in 1991 and I guess your first big league year was what '96? Mr.  1996 yes.  Yeah so give us an example of something you learned in the minors that you know that tells us how you were not ready. I mean why do you need to spend all those years in the minors? Mr.  Well absolutely I was not ready. If I was drafted and went to Major League Baseball I would have been very quickly an engineer right away. I feel like there is a lot of components to baseball particularly. You have  you can master one aspect and then there is other aspects you have to conquer. So you have to be a solid base runner. You have to play defense. You also have to hit. You have to hit the curve ball. So there is so many elements of it. So you can excel and maybe be majorleague caliber when you get drafted but fairly soon as you climb the ladder and up the ranks you will find that you will get exploited for the other things you do not do. And that is the beauty of baseball. It is a daytoday exchange and you are constantly updating your information on your opponent on yourself. So to sort of be able to conquer all these things right out of college was just not possible certainly where I was. There are very very rare exceptions. There is a guy with the Cincinnati Reds who is pitching now who did not play in the minor leagues but that is extremely rare. But outside of the experience on the field it is off the field. It is the emotional development. You are 20 years old. You are thrust in an environment you have to learn how to be on the road away manage your money deal with your social environment. That is another learning experience. How do you talk to the press? So all these things are part of your development and because baseball is so specialized and it takes a lot of time to develop then you really do need some minor league time. And I think that is a tremendous asset for baseball because it does create a lot more humility I believe in the sport than versus other sports where you are able to sort of get drafted and go right to the top.  You played center field and the name of your book is The Game From Where I Stand. What is special about being in center field? Mr.  Well center field was very personal to me. It was a marriage made in heaven so to speak because I always was an observer and I always enjoyed being able to get this panoramic view of everything. And center field affords you that opportunity. You are in the middle of the outfield. You are in the grass. You can roam free. You are the captain of the outfield but also you see everything going on in front of you from where the catcher is setting up where the shortstop's moving where my dad is sitting in the stands. You really have this perspective and see everything that the game affords.  You know there is also anybody who is been to ballparks and has sat at various places in stadiums know that there is a special relationship sometimes between fans who sit in the outfield and the outfielder they are nearest. I mean if you are in the infield there is a lot of people and there is a lot of noise but in the outfield it is kind of a little quieter out there. And I wondered if outfielders can hear individual hecklers. Mr.  Well it is all about timing and the hecklers that are really good know when to yell at you. So you hear them loud and clear. You know it is a little down time the pitching coach is out visiting the guy who is struggling with his curve ball and all of a sudden you are out there and you hear the guy yelling. So of course my favorite comment was a guy who had done a lot of research on my history and realized I was an engineer who did a paper about building a new stadium at 30th Street Station in Philadelphia. So I was really struggling when I first came over to Philly in 1998 struggling and hitting like .190. So the guy yelled out Hey Glanville why do not you design a stadium you can hit in?  Mr.  So I thought that was very witty and of course he said it when it was  you could hear mosquitoes and crickets out there. So you know that  I had to tip my cap to that guy but I have heard worse certainly. But you know you just you learn to kind of tune it out but you will hear it. There is no way around it.  Now an outfielder who can roam the field like an antelope and snag any ball hit there is not going to be in the big leagues unless they can hit. And you became a leadoff hitter which is a special you know species in the game. What was your job as a leadoff hitter that was different from just swinging a bat? Mr.  Well my job actually was debatable and I think that is the beauty of the discussion that baseball affords. I think most people would say that a leadoff hitter's job is to get on base and that is the simplest version of it to say get on base any way any shape and anyhow.  Which means you take a walk get hit what? Mr.  Talk a walk get hit lay down a bunt. The one that is quantifiable which is walking getting a hit getting hit by a pitch which goes into your stat column as onbase percentage is one way. Now you could get on base in other ways like reaching on an error or something along those lines. So the onbase percentage is something that haunts a leadoff hitter. You are always measured up against this number .400 40 percent of the time you get on base safely. I was nowhere near that.  Mr.  So that was a little bit of my problem because I was below that probably .325  I am guessing a little bit about what my career average was. So I was much more aggressive for a prototypical leadoff hitter. So when I was not hitting that was the problem because I was not going to take a walk and therefore I was not getting on base that often. But I would contend that there is other ways to be an effective leadoff hitter one of which is if you have the speed you put pressure on the other team. The defense has to rush throws. If you do get on base however way they have to pay attention to you because you might steal the next base. I think there is factors in being aggressive. Getting a hit is different than getting you know working a walk because now you have probably moved the runner an extra base instead of one base. So there is ways that you can offset not being a great onbase percentage by being a spark and putting pressure on the defense.  You know one of the things that you mention in the book was that there was a period whenever you led off a game  you were the number one in the batting order  but whenever you led off a game you would enter the batting box with your head down. Why? Mr.  You know it was a ritual. You know when you lead off a game one of my teammates used to say You go we go. You are the spark. You start the engine. And you need to sort of get into sort of almost like a spiritual space to start off you know a great game. So I used to do that as a sort of tonesetter to figure out Okay where am I? Let me get my mind clear and then get started. So I would look down and of course Greg Maddux learned how to exploit that at some point as smart as he is because he would study the films and realize I would walk in the you know get in the batter's box with my head down. And he started quickpitching the first pitch of the game so every time I looked up it was no balls and one strike within two seconds. So I started to put one eye on him and you know he took me out of my game. So I had to figure out ways to take him out of his. Mr.  Maddux of course the terrific pitcher for many years for the Atlanta Braves right.   You know the other thing you see in baseball is if you get a hit and you go to first base you will sometimes see a little casual chat with the opposing team's first baseman. And in the warmups you know you guys are sharing the field. There might be a little chatter here. And I always wondered whether there is any unwritten rules about how friendly you can be with the competition whether managers coaches other players felt like you should not be talking to those guys. Mr.  Well I think that parallels sort of maybe how our country is run. You have sort of federal mandates and you have state mandates. State mandates are something like talking at first base which is basically team by team. So the teams  some teams are like okay you can talk a little bit. Other teams are not that friendly with it. I know the Cubs when I first came up were not into fraternization. They did not like it. So when you had to run in the outfield when you were warming up you had to run at an angle or bow out towards the fence because they did not want you to connect with the other team that was running from the other foul line. So that was one way the Cubs handled it. Now when it came to conversation what did we talk about at first? It was mostly idle chatter. I mean if you got a hit you were feeling pretty good so you would look for some sort of acknowledgment from the first baseman. Or you would say oh yeah way to swing it man. That is all right or you know... But you do not have a lot of time over there at first base because especially if you are a base stealer like myself you got to get ready to take that bag. You got to steal that base. So you do not have time for too many pleasantries. There was guys like J.T. Snow for example that did not speak to me until maybe my last year. So it was about eight years before he actually said something. I do not know what that was about but I guess he finally warmed up eventually.  You know I looked at your stats before I came to the interview and you really had some terrific years. I mean you had years where you hit had 200 hits where you were in the you know top 10 or 20 in the league in stolen bases and batting average. But eventually of course you reach your 30s and things change. And I wonder as you got towards the end of your playing career could you feel your skills degrading? Mr.  Well I definitely felt differently certainly. I mean one of the biggest and clearest examples is that I got hurt. And I had never been on the disabled list my entire career and then all of a sudden in Texas I signed as a free agent. I am excited about the future. I am getting  I am starting again and I was not the year before in Philadelphia in '02 and then I tear a hamstring tendon just something basic as running down the baseline. So I knew then that I was getting older in this game and it was not just roll out of bed and hit anymore. It was stretch prepare weighttrain lift and even though I would been doing some of those to get ready for a game before now I had to do it on an exponentially more intense level. So you know this was part of the rite of passage of a player and you know that you are going to get older and slow down. Now I do not think my speed necessarily changed but it was the ability to explode or how the preparation it took to actually get that speed. So when you are more time getting ready for the game than actually playing the game you know you are getting older. So  and so it was pretty clear that it was changing for me.  You know for you and a lot of players you toward the end of your career you would play you know platoon roles where you would only play some games or you would be on the bench and pinchhit or come in late in the game as a defensive replacement for another outfielder. Talk a little bit about what it is like mentally to be in that role after spending many years as a starter. Mr.  Well it is a very difficult transition especially not only many years professionally as a starter I started since I was five you know what I mean. I was a kid and I was used to being the guy being the starter. So it was very shocking to change and try to adapt to the new culture of being a roleplayer or a fourth outfielder as they say in my case. But you know you do learn and you do watch other guys go through it earlier and you recognize it could be your time. But it does not necessarily make it easier to transition into being this guy that has to all of a sudden start stretching in the sixth inning in the locker room because he may pinch hit or pinch run late in the game and it is April and it is 40 degrees and you cannot get loose. I mean this is not a very easy transition. So I went through that primarily in 2004 and quite frankly it was a very frustrating year. I did not perform well for sure but I also was just miserable in trying to figure out how to be ready every day and the times that I did start it seemed like I was facing a Cy Young winner every day. So it just made it worse for me but you know players all come to that fork in the road and you have to make that decision if you want to go out on top as a starter or you know hang on in the game a long time as a roleplayer and accept that this is going to be your dynamic.  You know one thing I do not think I realized until I read your book was that a lot of times when people are in those fillin positions they will be plopped in by the manager on a day when the best opposing pitcher is on the mound so that not only do you not get to play very often but you get to come off cold and face the toughest guys in the league. Why do they put you in that role? Mr.  Yeah that is no fun at all no fun at all. Well you know in some cases in my case in particular Marlon Byrd was emerging and he was  the Byrd era was beginning and Glanville era was kind of moving out.  You mean he was the upandcoming center fielder for the Phillies right? Mr.  Yeah. So he was about to replace me as this next guy and I did go to Texas and came back and Marlon shined that year. So in 2004 that was his job basically. So I took a reduced role. So I was a mentor to Marlon and helped him learn the position but on the flip side when Marlon started struggling early on they did not want him to play against the toughest pitchers. So what they would do is they would say okay Glanville would play on these guys to give Marlon a break and make sure he keeps his confidence so that he can get going against the not as   the weaker pitchers I will say. As a result my schedule looked like this two weeks you know not play and then when I did play it was Tom Glavine it was Al Leiter it was Randy Johnson it was Brad Radke it was you know...  The best pitchers out there. Mr.  I mean these guys were Cy Young winners I mean most of them. And so to try to get your Agame going after you have kind of sat and you have no rhythm is very tough. And the guys that do it I tip my cap but it was a really difficult thing for me to try to figure out how to be ready. In that Radke case they did not even tell me that I was playing that day. I got to the stadium. It was a day game. It was like 00 and they are like oh by the way you are in the lineup. There was a day in San Diego where Pat Burrell got hurt. I did not find out until it was  you know right before the game. So that is what happens when you are the roleplayer. You do not have the cushy life of oh well you know what you are the starter. You are the guy. You know do not worry about it just get ready. Now you have to just be ready on call and that is not very easy when you are accustomed to being the guy and starting every day.  I think you finished your career as  doing a spring training with the New York Yankees hoping to earn a spot on their club. And then I guess a week before the season they gave you your release. Was it hard to let go of the game then? Mr.  Well it was a tough moment because despite having what I considered good options  you know I had this wonderful Ivy League engineering degree I could do a lot of different things  I certainly knew how to make a living only through baseball. That was my life. That was my livelihood. And so there is no really preparing for that moment where someone gives you the pink slip and says oh you know what you know we do not need your services. So even though I knew I was getting older I still had to deal with that transition. And the Yankees called me in the office a week to go in spring training in 2005 and said you know sorry but you know we just do not feel like this is you know going to work and we have to let you go. And it was a moment where I  it was a week I think I spent a week in my apartment in Tampa Florida waiting to see if there was another team that would call. And most of the calls I got were frontoffice jobs. Oh you want to be a GM or something? I was like you know I am still looking for a job here. What are you guys doing? You know I can still play. But then eventually the San Diego Padres called and they offered me a tripleA contract which I was not interested in doing. I was really thinking Yankees or bust or major leagues or bust. And I really thought about it and I had met my wife and I was sort of like you know I have kind of done it.  Do you ever play ball sandlot softball anything? Mr.  No I really  I have not really picked up a bat. I picked up a bat at my wedding. We had a very creative rehearsal dinner. Instead of the traditional dinner we had a barbecue at a minor league stadium and we took batting practice and had a home run derby. So that was that is the last time I picked up a bat and really tried to hit a ball hard.  How long ago were you married? Mr.  2005 yeah so about five years.  You know I have all these memories of you hitting high fastballs and you have not picked up a bat in five years? That makes me want to cry. Mr.  Yeah in some ways I want to cry too but it is just sort of a new day. I will get back to the game on the field. I am confident. My son is not quite old enough yet but soon I am sure he is going to get into it. I mean I am going to have my daughter out there. I think she is you know already showing to be like a good athlete at eight months. You know so... I will get back to it. I will probably go to fantasy camp maybe you know one of these days but I do not want to do it before I am 40. You know I am still under 40 and I do not want to go out there and realize I could have still played. That is frustrating. So I need to go until I have like lost even more of a step and them I am like okay I should be in this fantasy camp.  Well Doug Glanville thanks so much for speaking with us. Mr.  Thanks for having me on.  Doug Glanville is a sports columnist for the New York Times and a baseball analyst for ESPN. His new book is called The Game From Where I Stand. You can read the first chapter and find links to all of Glanville's columns on baseball on our website freshair.npr.org. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR. 