 Now we are going to look back on David Letterman's latenight shows with Rob Burnett who has worked with Letterman since 1985 when Burnett was a 22yearold intern. He became the head writer of Late Night With David Letterman in 1992 and continued as head writer when Letterman moved from NBC to CBS. In 1996 Burnett became the executive producer of Late Show With David Letterman a position he kept through last night's finale. He remains the president and CEO of Letterman's production company Worldwide Pants. We recorded our interview Tuesday when there were still two more broadcasts remaining. We started by listening back to Monday's Top 10 list which was The Top 10 Things I will Miss About Working At The Late Show. Each entry was read by a different member of Letterman's staff.   Here's Late Show staff intern Todd Seda.  Another three years and Dave was going to start paying me.  Yeah that was the deal.   You got to read the fine print. And number four executive producer Jude Brennan.  I will miss looking forward to no longer working at the show.  .   You put a lot of thought into that. Look everybody number three stage manager Biff Henderson.   Dave is the best boss in the world  or so I am required to say if I want my severance check.  That is right.   Number two our announcer Alan Kalter.  The taping time of the show provided a consistent reliable alibi.  Good for you.   And the number one thing I will miss about working in the late show  musical director Paul Shaffer everybody.  Now who will I pretend to laugh at?  Yeah.   Rob Burnett welcome to FRESH AIR. You were not one of the people on the show who had to give their Top 10 list  the thing that they will most miss. So what are you going to miss most?  You know it is a great question. And you know I think it is so vast  our relationship to this thing  that I think none of us truly understand what it feels like and what it means for this to be ending honestly. It is almost impossible to process. But I think the most sensory thing that comes to mind for me is the strange notion of you know roaming the Ed Sullivan Theater for the last 22 years and then no longer having access to that building. It feels strange.  Oh yeah I could imagine 'ecause it is such a special theater and it was like yours and it is not going to be.  Yeah it is odd. I you know have a route that I take to the theater each day that kind of goes through the bowels of the basement of the theater. And I will be recording it on my iPhone I think tomorrow on the last trip there.  David Letterman does not strike me as a very sentimental guy at least that is not his persona. So have you  and do you feel like you and your team tried to figure out an appropriate goodbye that was not going to be overly sentimental but yet would express the sentiments that you felt?  Yeah I mean you know Dave is not sentimental. Although I think he is  he is a little more so now than  I think as he is gotten a little bit older. I think that happens to people.  And being a father.  And being a father. I think these are you know these things have all affected him. But you know for a long time we pushed guests very hard not to mention the end not to tell Dave what he meant to them and all of this. And then at some point as you get close it becomes inevitable. And it is been lovely. We have had really beautiful tributes from a lot of people  Howard Stern and Marty Short and Tom Hanks last night and Norm Macdonald I thought was amazing Ray Romano. You know people getting very emotional and you start to feel  Dave you know we know what he is meant to us but you start to realize you know he has meant a lot to a lot of people.  We heard some of the Top 10 lists from earlier this week. Were you around when the Top 10 list was started 'ecause you have been with the show since '83?  '85.  Oh.  Yeah I started in 1985 as an intern about a year out of college. And I was there when the Top 10 list was invented although I was not yet on the writing staff so I was not  you know I was not in the room.  You were an intern?  I may have been a talent assistant at that point. In '88 I became a writer on the show which was really the dream that I had always  I had always had. And then in '92 when I was 29 somehow became head writer of the show and then kind of went from there. But yes I was around when the Top 10 began. And I think like most things no one ever really thought it would become what it would become. It was just a silly parody idea to make fun of other top 10 lists.  So how did it catch on? How did you know this was going to be a thing?  Well people responded to it and it actually became kind of an interesting way to write topical jokes every day. It was an interesting forum. Originally you know the first one was very silly  Top 10 Things That Kind Of Rhyme With Peas   very Lettermanesque. I remember when I was a writer just a staff writer Gerry Mulligan and I were pushing for a long time and finally got through a list that was Top 10 Ways The World Would Be Different If Everyone Were Named Phil which was one of my favorites. It was so dumb. It was things like you know Ben  Jerry's now called Phil  Phil's you know? It could not have been a stupider you know? Favorite Beatle? Phil. It was just  it was just 10 of the stupidest things possible and some of those were ultimately my favorites.  If you are just joining us my guest is Rob Burnett. And he went from intern with David Letterman to head writer and then executive producer and he is also the CEO of the Letterman production company Worldwide Pants. And Burnett started with Letterman in 1985. Let us take a short break here then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.  This is  you are just joining us my guest is Rob Burnett who has been or had been  the executive producer of David Letterman's show. He started as an intern in 1985. So he is been with Letterman through Late Night and through NBC and CBS. He rose to head writer then executive producer and he is also the CEO of the production company Worldwide Pants which was founded by David Letterman. OK so what is happened when you have written or at least been the producer of monologues or top10s that had jokes mocking somebody and then you run into that somebody either at a party on the street or maybe six months later in the green room of your show?  Yeah it  you know it is all kind of part of the game. I mean I think that is probably more of an issue for Dave who is the person you know delivering the material than you know the little mole people like us in the back writing the stuff.  .  But you know usually if someone's coming on they have forgiven you you know? The worst version of that of course are the people that you will never see again.  .  The hardest version of this for me is when you are trying to convince a celebrity to do something that is the last thing in the world they want to do. I remember very particularly writing a thing about George Steinbrenner who I love but this was back in the era when Steinbrenner sucks was a phrase that was very well known and chanted all the time. We had written this very silly what we call a cold opening  a thing to run before the show starts. And it was just going to be George in his dressing room by himself looking in the mirror chanting I suck; I suck.  .  And regardless of what you think of that particular joke I had to then go in to...   ...Mr. Steinbrenner's dressing room and try to convince him that this would be a delightful idea.  .  This would be the great  not only hilarious but people will love him for it. And long story short that never did see the light of day.  But you did pitch it to him.  I did yes.  And he said...  He just looked at me. There was a beautiful twosecond stage pause and he said no thank you . And I laughed.  Did he do the right thing in turning you down?  Well you know I am sure George's life went on unaffected in either direction. But no I think that  in general I think when celebrities make fun of themselves they do themselves a great service.  One of the ways you worked your way up the Letterman staff was writing jokes for Dave. So do you remember the first jokes that he actually accepted?  I do. The first joke  I will back up a touch. The first joke that I ever got on TV actually was not for Dave. One of the writers a guy named Larry Jacobson was extraordinarily kind to me and introduced me to a comedian named Wil Shriner. And Wil used to buy my jokes for 25 apiece if he used them. And I wrote a joke for him that he was  went on to The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson. And the joke  it was a simple joke not amazing. But he had been in a movie called Peggy Sue Got Married. And the joke was simply oh now that I am you know a big start my wife is worried that it is going to go to my head but I had my people call her and tell her not to worry. And Johnny...  .  Yeah. And Wil was doing that sitting next to Johnny and Johnny laughed out loud and said that is funny. And this was a moment that I will never forget. I was in Brooklyn with my two roommates in some horrible apartment and we are all highfiving each other. Johnny Carson thinks I am funny. It was just  you know it was a career moment that I will never forget. From there Dave allowed me to start submitting jokes for his monologue which I do not think was a particular strong suit of mine but I did write them. And the first joke that I ever got on the show unfortunately is so topical that it barely makes sense. But I  of course I do remember it. And in fact I have the cue card at home. But I do remember an early joke that I  the joke that I am probably most proud of that I wrote for Dave's monologue and a joke that he had done many times over and over again. It was simply a joke that was Dave saying I was coming to work today and a guy came up to me and said oh my God I have watched you every night for the last 25 years. And I say oh great. What is your favorite part of the show? And the guy says oh you have got a show?   So how involved were you with the pranks on Letterman's show like the stupid pet tricks the  throwing stuff off the roof?  Well stupid pet tricks  not incredibly involved in that particular segment. That really comes through our talent department. We have someone dedicated to that  finding tricks. Dropping things off a building I did my fair share of. I remember particularly one day at the Ed Sullivan Theater holding a bowling ball in my hand and dropping it into a bathtub full of pudding and thinking I am the luckiest man alive.  . So what  do you need like permission from the city to do that or do you have to close off the street?  No. We just tell people to duck. No  of course we have permission. Of course we close off the street.   We are dropping bowling balls from the roof of the building. What do we think? Hey heads up everybody.   Heads up. Put your briefcase over your head. Here comes a bowling ball. Here comes a giant manikin. No yes. We  the city's been cooperative. I think they realize you know Dave's contribution to New York and they have  we have  they have always worked really well with us.  My guest is Rob Burnett who worked on David Letterman's Late Night shows from 1985 when he was an intern until last night when the finale ended his long run as executive producer. After a break Burnett will talk about working on the show through some pretty serious events  Letterman's bypass surgery the sex and blackmail scandal and 9/11. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.  This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Today we are looking back on David Letterman's latenight shows with Rob Burnett who was the Late Show is executive producer from 1996 until last night's finale. Burnett started as an intern with Letterman in 1985 and became his head writer in 1992. He remains the CEO of Letterman's production company Worldwide Pants. The Letterman show has had some pretty serious things it is had to deal with including Letterman's own bypass surgery which is a famous moment in the history of the show. I mean there was his long absence while he was recovering and then there was the episode where he came back and it was both funny and moving. And why do not we hear a short clip from that edition from February 21 2000? This was his monologue from his first show after returning from a fiveweek break after heart bypass surgery.   Wait till you hear what happened to me.   You are not going to believe this.   I have been away for a while.  Yeah.  While I was gone I had quintuple bypass surgery on my heart.  Oh.   Plus I got a haircut.  Yeah.   Ladies and gentlemen after what I have been through I am just happy to be wearing clothing that opens in the front.   That was David Letterman's opening monologue on the day he returned after recovering from heart bypass surgery. My guest Robert Burnett is the former head writer and executive producer of the show. I say former because the show is over.  You are the first person to say that. My gosh that feels weird.  Does it? Yeah  and he is still the CEO of Letterman's production company Worldwide Pants. So how worried were you before that opening monologue that when Letterman first had the bypass that maybe he was not going to make it back?  It was a very strange time. That as I remember it that all happened very quickly. I spoke to Dave that morning. He called me at home. I believe that he went in for some kind of stress test and they found this. And they said OK we got to do this. And I remember him  I just remember getting the call saying this is happening and there was some kind of conversation about logistics and I remember just saying Dave just you do your thing  just take care of yourself. We will take care of everything else. You just do what you have got to do and then he was away. You know he was unreachable. He  it was  it is strange because everything on that show it all goes through Dave. It is all Dave all the time whether he is actually weighing in on it or people are just guessing what he would weigh in on it is all about him and suddenly he was gone and inaccessible to us for a while. There was great concern by the staff and then when you know when finally I was back in communication with him and I got the sense that everything went well and that he was going to be back there was great relief. And it was a very emotional moment I think for all of us as well as for him and the audience when he retook the stage 'ecause you know that is where he belonged.  I know when my father had bypass years ago  and he was older than Letterman was when Letterman had bypass  it took a while for my father's memory to come back and I thought oh no is it never going to come back? Will he always be like this? And I think that happens with a lot of  or at least it used to happen. The procedure might have been much quicker and more improved nowadays but I thought like what if he is like this and his  he does not remember much? And I am wondering if you went through like a frightening moment of that and wondering like what if he never returns to being David Letterman?  Well I remember when he came back. I asked him if he remembered promising to double my salary. He did not.  .  Me being opportunistic at every moment. No yes of course we were all worried about that but you know that  I never experienced any version of that with Dave. He is as smart and quick as ever and really from that first show back you kind of thought OK. Although the show did change you know after that. I think logistically when Dave came back from the heart surgery he was unable to go to rehearsal or did not  you know he was working his way back and started to not go to rehearsal during the day and then I think realized yeah I do not need to go to rehearsal and it actually changed the production of the show thereafter quite a bit. I think it was  you know it is been designed really for Dave to do the show. You know I think it is very hard for people to understand or anyone  I certainly cannot understand what it must be like for a person to have to perform each day with that intensity. And I think the heart surgery actually put us on a course in some ways that maybe kept the show on the air for a lot longer than it might have otherwise.  What do you mean by that?  Meaning that I think we have really tailored it to making it such that Dave could continue to do the show with a reasonable schedule. I mean he is still super involved and super  you know he is there all the time. But I think there was a very conscious decision because at first out of necessity  you know how can we do this in a way that he can continue doing this day after day? Whereas I think that maybe had that not happened maybe we would have kind of continued to go in a gear that perhaps would have burned him out earlier. I do not really know.  Oh that makes a lot of sense. 9/11  that was a really big event of course in the life of our nation and of New York City and in the life of the Letterman show. When Letterman came back for the first show after 9/11 you know deciding to bring the show back and deciding what the tone would be and his really sober monologue about what it meant to be in New York  it was so moving. Let us hear a short excerpt of that opening monologue and this was recorded September 17 2001.   I just want to go through this and again forgive me if this is more for me than it is for people watching. I am sorry but I just  I have to go through this. The reason we were attacked the reason these people are dead  these people are missing and dead and  they were not doing anything wrong. They were living their lives. They were going to work. They were traveling. They were doing what they normally do. As I understand it and my understanding of this is vague at best another smaller group of people stole some airplanes and crashed them into buildings and we are told that they were zealots fueled by religious fervor  religious fervor. And if you live to be 1000 years old will that make any sense to you? Will that make any g sense?  An excerpt of David Letterman's opening monologue when the show came back after 9/11. And Rob Burnett my guest is the former head writer executive producer of the show. So what was it like after 9/11 to figure out what to do on the show?  It was extraordinarily difficult. It felt ridiculous to be doing a comedy show probably at all but particularly in New York City. Nobody knew what to do  not us not any of the other shows. It just felt ridiculous and this is you know where Dave has you know  and as he said in that opening monologue that you know he says I do not trust my own judgment in these things. Well I sure do. You know he always kind of knows what the right thing to do is in those kinds of situations. It was very difficult but I thought Dave did an incredible job. And he is so trusted and he is so honest as a performer that I think people really enjoyed  I think he made people feel better. We still get letters from people that were directly affected by 9/11 that that show meant something to them and how wonderful is that?  My guest is Rob Burnett who was the longtime executive producer of the Late Show With David Letterman until last night's finale. We will be back after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.  If you are just joining us my guest is Rob Burnett who is been with David Letterman since 1985 when he joined the show as an intern. He became a writer head writer executive producer and also CEO of Worldwide Pants which is David Letterman's production company. So in a span of less than two years Letterman has bypass surgery and 9/11 happens. Both things had a really big impact on the tone of the show. And I wonder if you think that the tone of the show was changed in a longterm way by those two things happening so close together and you know one having a big effect on you know Letterman's health and his body and the other having you know a huge effect on the city our country the world and of course on the show.  You know I think this show has evolved. There are very distinct phases to it. I think the very early years with Merrill and all of those great writers...  And this is Merrill Markoe who is the former  the first head writer for Letterman right?  Yes. And it was  it was pure innovation. It was turning television on its head. It was like nothing anyone had ever seen. Then the show evolved a little further. When we went to CBS the show moved to 30 and to a big theater. You could do less material that was kind of material for comedy writers only you know what I mean? You had to appeal a little bit more to a mass audience. As the show has evolved beyond that now we are in a phase where Dave you know  the things you mentioned the bypass you know the 9/11  but I think also as Dave has gotten older... You know if you look at most of the highlights of the show they are actually not comedy highlights as much. I mean we have plenty. There is a lot of smart people doing a lot of great things up there. But really Dave has become I think  as Tom Brokaw has gone away as Dan Rather has gone away as Peter Jennings unfortunately passed away Dave is a lone trusted voice in broadcasting. And this is  this is part of Dave's genius. And I can tell you that I have  I have felt the pains of this as head writer when your instinct in desperation as you are putting on a show each night is that sometimes you want to go back to a certain well because things have worked and people love it. And Dave through that honesty as a performer says no I do not want to  kind of microscopic course corrections each day lead you to another place. And thankfully then you are not 68 and still putting on a Velcro suit and jumping up on wall you know what I mean? So I think what you have now is Dave as this great broadcaster and great communicator. And interestingly it is the same guy. If you go back to those early clips and you see him kind of tearing down celebrities that were putting on airs through that same honest reaction it is now him reacting to bigger global events. It is a very interesting evolution of a man and an artist I think.  There is another very sober clip that I want to play. And this is from a really personal thing that happened in Letterman's life when he was being blackmailed for having had affairs with women who worked on the show. And I think he was being blackmailed for like 2 million. The guy who was blackmailing him was threatening to make a movie about Letterman's affairs. And he went to the police. He tried to figure out what to do. And he so as not to give into a blackmailer he went public on the show in a monologue. And it was kind of a remarkable moment. Let us hear an excerpt of that. And this is from October 1 2009.   Now of course we get to what was it? What was all the creepy stuff...   That he was going to put into the screenplay and the movie. And the creepy stuff was that I have had sex with women who work for me on this show. Now my response to that is yes I have.   I have had sex with women who work on this show.   And would it be embarrassing if it were made public? Perhaps it would. Perhaps it would...   Especially for the women.   But that is a decision for them to make if they want to come public and talk about the relationships if I want to go public and talk about the relationships. But what you do not want is a guy saying oh I know you had sex with women so I would like 2 million or I am going to make trouble for you. So that is where we stand right now. I just want to thank the people at the Special Prosecution Bureau and the Manhattan district attorney's office Robert Morgenthau who is head of that. It is been a very bizarre experience. I feel like I need to protect these people. I need to certainly protect my family. I need to protect myself hope to protect my job and the friends everybody that has been very supportive through this. And I do not plan to say much more about this on this particular topic. So thank you for letting me bend your ears.   So that is David Letterman coming  coming out about his affairs and thwarting his blackmailer. And my guest is Rob Burnett who rose from intern to head writer and executive producer on Letterman's show. They have been together since 1985. So that is such a very unique moment in television in part because Letterman's talking about being blackmailed. He is confessing to affairs. And the audience is laughing and applauding. Now I think they are just like so on Letterman's side. They are so in love with Letterman. And also they are so on Letterman's side in coming out against being blackmailed. Like blackmail is wrong. Like blackmail is like not a good thing. But to  you know but it is just  but it is such an odd moment 'ecause you know Letterman's being like so sober about this. And he is talking about  you know he is a married man at this point. He is talking about having affairs. Were you surprised at the kind of response that it was getting from the audience?  You know I  my sense of it in the studio was that I think the audience did not quite understand what was being said right away you know? I  the way I remember it was Dave said something about  I am paraphrasing what he said  something like I am going to tell you a little story or do you have time for a little story is how he kind of got into it. And I think they are so kind of juiced up and you know responding to the show and such that I think as a group  I do not think they were really processing it all as he was doing it until the end. But I do think there is some truth in what you are saying  is that I think they sided on the idea that the blackmail was so wrong. And I think they do love Dave. So I think maybe that was  I do not really know. I think that was the nature of their response.  Did you work on the monologue at all? Did he run it past you?  Oh no. No no. And it should be said that you know in all of these types of moments  the heart surgery 9/11 things like this  whatever Dave will choose to say to say good night tomorrow that is all Dave. You know that  he does not even really tell us what he is going to say. You know Dave is  to be crystal clear this is not a guy in a suit that reads a prompter. This is  you know this is a very smart considerate guy who knows exactly what he is doing at all times.  If you are just joining us my guest is Rob Burnett. And he went from being intern in 1985 with David Letterman to becoming a writer head writer executive producer and also he is the CEO of Letterman's production company Worldwide Pants. Let us take a short break here then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.  This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Rob Burnett who has been with the David Letterman show since 1985 when he started as an intern. He went on to writer head writer executive producer and he is also CEO of Letterman's production company Worldwide Pants. And now one chapter of his life is ending. You can walk down the street and probably will not  people will not recognize you even though you have been such a mainstay of David Letterman's show for so many years. But so many of the people including David Letterman so many of the guests you have had on the show are like really famous and they could barely walk outside unprotected. What have you learned about what it is like to be famous in America and like what some of the downside of that is?  I have seen fame close up at all different levels. Dave at 30 at NBC was a certain level of fame and then when we went to 30 in the '90s to CBS amazingly it was a whole different level of fame. I remember being at one of the baseball AllStar games back in the early '90s with Dave. We were in some luxury box and we wanted to go down to watch the game in these fieldlevel seats. We got about 5 yards outside of the luxury suite and were completely surrounded within 15 seconds  I say we  Dave of course  by 500 600 people in a ring. It is oppressive. It is nothing anyone can complain about because the perks are amazing. But I have seen it in a lot of different forms and I think unless you are the right kind of person I think it can be very daunting. And also the other thing that is hard to take about it is that once you hit a certain level of fame it is irreversible. And to some extent the rest of your life you are an animal in the zoo.  So give us a sense a little bit of what it is like to work with Letterman. I mean he is kind of like the host of the party on his show but he has a reputation for being you know pretty reclusive off the air. You are  you know as the executive producer and formerly as the head writer you were I guess the intermediary between him and everything on the show and maybe between him and the world. So to the extent that you are comfortable doing give us a sense of what it is like to work with him.  You know Dave is  he is definitely oneofakind. He is funny almost all the time but not on. I think showbusiness people come in two varieties. There is the kind that want everybody to look at them and draw attention to themselves and then there is the other kind. And Dave is the other kind. He is never been comfortable drawing attention to himself. As a result he is extremely selfcritical. So the mood at the show is  can be  somber may be too strong of a word. I mean there are certainly laughs that happen but it is not a typical show business slapontheback hey that was great. That is not the mode there. You know at the end of the day I think what drives all of us is that if you are going to spend this amount of time and energy doing this you want to be doing it for the best possible person. And you know at least from where we sit he is the best ever at this.  If you do not mind sharing this how did David Letterman tell you that he was going to retire?  Well he called a bunch of us into his dressing room right before the show. The interesting details here was that the Pharrell song Happy was on the background   in the background of the radio which is just a ridiculous soundtrack for Dave or certainly news of this. And the other detail that was enjoyable for us is that Dave had cut himself shaving so he seemed to have BandAids on his lips.  .  And so that is the kind of thing that just made it all seem strangely dreamlike. But he called you know a bunch of the key people in. There was maybe  I do not know  eight of us in there and he said earlier today I called Les Moonves and I have decided to  that it is time. And went out and said what he said on the air a halfhour later.  Oh he told you the day that he said it on the air.  .  What was your reaction when he told you that it was for real?  It was surreal honestly. You know I think we  for all of u