 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. So maybe you have heard about the White House Correspondents' Association dinner Saturday night where my guest comic Michelle Wolf was the performer. Some of the attendees found some of her jokes inappropriate especially a couple of jokes about White House press secretary Sarah Sanders. Sanders who was seated at the dais representing the Trump administration was not laughing. Wolf's performance became the subject of ongoing analysis and debate on cable news and Twitter and websites. A lot of journalists are now saying the dinner should no longer include a guest comic. The White House Correspondents' Association president said Wolf's performance was not in the spirit of the event's mission of offering a unifying message about the group's commitment to a free press while honoring civility not dividing people. We are going to talk about what this whole episode has been like for Wolf. Wolf is known for doing comedy from a feminist perspective. She is been a writer and performer on Late Night With Seth Meyers and a correspondent on The Daily Show With Trevor Noah. Last year she had an HBO comedy special called Nice Lady and she has a new weekly Netflix comedy series called The Break that will debut May 27. To put this controversy in perspective the White House Correspondents' Association dinner has for many years concluded with the president doing standup roasting the media and politicians followed by a guest comic roasting the president politicians and the media. This year and last year President Trump decided not to attend and instead counterprogrammed with rallies giving speeches to cheering fans. Let us hear some excerpts of Michelle Wolf's set Saturday night with some of the jokes that went over well in the room. We will hear the Sarah Sanders part a little later.   Good evening. Here we are the White House Correspondents' dinner. Like a porn star says when she is about to have sex with a Trump let us get this over with.   And just a reminder to everyone I am here to make jokes. I have no agenda. I am not trying to get anything accomplished. So everyone that is here from Congress you should feel right at home. And I know as much as some of you might want me to it is 2018 and I am a woman so you cannot shut me up unless you have Michael Cohen wire me 130000.   It is kind of  it is kind of crazy that the Trump campaign was in contact with Russia when the Hillary campaign was not even in contact with Michigan.   It is a direct flight. It is so close. Of course Trump is not here. If you have not noticed he is not here. And I know I know I would drag him here myself but it turns out the president of the United States is the one expletive you are not allowed to grab.   He said it first. Yeah he did. You remember? Good. We are going to try a fun new thing. OK. I am going to say Trump is so broke and you guys go how broke is he all right? Trump is so broke...  How broke is he?  ...He had to borrow money from the Russians and now he is compromised and not susceptible to blackmail and possibly responsible for the collapse of the republic. Yay. It is a fun game. Trump's also an idea guy. He is got loads of ideas. You got to love him for that. He wants to give teachers guns. And I support that 'ecause then they can sell them for things they need like supplies.   Democrats are harder to make fun of because you guys do not do anything.   People think you might flip the House and Senate this November but you guys always find a way to mess it up. You are somehow going to lose by 12 points to a guy named Jeff Pedophile Nazi Doctor.   Fox News is here so you know what that means ladies. Cover your drinks.   Seriously. People want me to make fun of Sean Hannity tonight but I cannot do that. This dinner's for journalists. Good night.   Flint still does not have clean water.   Michelle Wolf welcome to FRESH AIR. I do not know what to say. What was your weekend like? But   but kind of like  like I think you managed to end a long tradition of having a comic at the White House Correspondents' dinner .  I think I broke the dinner .  I think you broke the dinner. Are you surprised at the level of controversy that your routine at the dinner has created?  I was not expecting this level but I am also not  you know I am not disappointed there is this level. I knew what I was doing going in. I wanted to do something different. I did not want to cater to the room. I wanted to cater to the outside audience and not betray my brand of comedy. And I  actually my friend of mine who helped me write left a  he gave me a note before I went on which I kept with me which was be true to yourself never apologize burn it to the ground.  When you say you did not want to cater to the room you did not want to betray who you are as a comic. What would it have meant to cater to the room and how would that have betrayed who you are as a comic?  I think a lot of it and what I have seen in the past is just like you know they poke a little fun at  you know they will go by kind of table by table being  like pointing at people and making fun of them in a way that I think used to be fun because the dinner used to have the president there. It used to be a  like fun. We are all poking fun of each other. The president's going to poke fun of us. We are going to hit back. Now it seems like it is a much more serious environment and to kind of not go after the big issues and just like have a little fun in the room seemed just not as exciting to me.  Well you know it  the way  as you pointed out the way the dinner has worked in the past is that a comic basically roasts the press the president Congress and whoever else the comic wants to address you know wants to roast relevant to the you know to the press in the room. But then the president gets to roast whoever the president wants  the media Congress and whoever. But with President Trump having opted out this year and last year it is become very asymmetrical because the comic gets to roast and there is no comeback from the president. So how did you weigh that into if at all your writing and your performance you know the asymmetricality  of it without the president there?  I did not really weigh it in. I also was not  normally the president goes right before a comic and I was not even sure until like the day before if Sarah was going to speak or not. But I had already written everything I was going to write so I was just going off of that.  By Sarah you mean Sarah Sanders.  Sarah Sanders yeah.  Yeah. Because the spirit of the White House Correspondents' dinner has always been like a roast  or at least in the past few years that is what the spirit has been  had you ever participated in a roast before?  I have written roast jokes for people but I have  you know I have never done  well I have done  I have judged a couple roasts at comedy clubs.  Did you go in with thinking like this is a roast?  Oh yeah. I mean I went in thinking you know we are roasting people. People are going to get made fun of. And the overarching thing that people kept telling me is that  they were like it is a bad room and that it just like  they were like it is  nothing ever sounds good in that room. It is a large ballroom. The audience is not mic'd so you cannot  the laughs are not very audible in general. But it is also  it is formal which people do not laugh as much when they are dressed up. There is roundtables and people are eating or drinking so by the virtue of a roundtable people are partially turned away from you. And it is televised. And there are all these people that may or may not be able to show genuine reactions. And so if you are constantly thinking I need to react in a way that is  will come off well on TV...  You mean like not seem partisan.  Right yeah   that you might not  you might not be giving a genuine reaction to what is being said. You might be giving a...  You are saying some people might be afraid to laugh because it will make them look partisan.  Make them look partisan or make them like look like they are laughing at someone they should not be laughing at.  Right.  So when I was  you know when I was writing the jokes and I was working on this like I was not expecting it to go over well in the room.  So during part of your routine the camera  when you were talking about Sarah Sanders the camera was on her part of the time. She did not look happy at all. Did you think about the camera being on her while you were telling the jokes? 'ecause like if you are in a standup club and you are doing comedy and you are making a joke about somebody in the Trump administration the camera is not going to be on them when you are telling the joke. They are not going to be in the room. So this is different.  Yeah it is different. But you know there is plenty where you could look back and the camera was on Obama when people were making pretty aggressive jokes about Obama and he was laughing. And I think having the ability to laugh at yourself is important. I also think that if you  another part of the dinner that was not televised was they were giving out awards. And everyone was standing to congratulate the people that were getting awards and Sarah was sitting.  So you think she was kind of like sitting in protest...  Yes.  ...Because these are media awards and she did not want to stand in praise of the media?  Correct.  Was there something specifically said about CNN that she did not stand?  Yeah. The CNN reporters got awards  I cannot remember the exact award they got  but they came up to accept them. And she sat the whole time while we all stood and shook their hands. I would say if you know this is about celebrating the media she was not there to celebrate the media.  If you are just joining me my guest is Michelle Wolf. And she is a comic who has a new show starting in May on Netflix. And Saturday night she was the center of controversy after performing at the White House Correspondents' dinner. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Michelle Wolf. And if her name sounds familiar to you but you never knew her before if you know her now it is because people have been talking about her for days ever since Saturday night when she performed at the White House Correspondents' dinner where it is typical for a comic in their performance to roast the press and the president and Congress. But her remarks did not go over well in the room and it is led to a lot of controversy. You had several jokes that were controversial about abortion about the media. You said something about Kellyanne Conway that I expected to cause more controversy than it actually caused. But as we record early in the morning on Monday the most controversial joke has been about Sarah Sanders. So I want to play what you said about Sarah Sanders.   We are graced with Sarah's presence tonight. I have to say I am a little starstruck. I love you as Aunt Lydia in The Handmaid's Tale.   Mike Pence if you have not seen it you would love it.   Every time Sarah steps up to the podium I get excited because I am not really sure what we are going to get you know  a press briefing a bunch of lies or divided into softball teams.   It is shirts and skins. And this time do not be such a little bitch Jim Acosta.   I actually really like Sarah. I think she is very resourceful. Like she burns facts and then she uses that ash to create a perfect smoky eye.   Like maybe she is born with it. Maybe it is lies.   It is probably lies.  So that was Michelle Wolf Saturday night at the White House Correspondents' dinner. So a lot of people thought that you were attacking Sarah Sanders for her looks. I do not really like to put you in the position of having to dissect your joke but I am going to ask you to do it anyway. What was your intention for this joke?   I think people have a lot of preconceived notions about Sarah's looks. And I think a lot of what is happening is they are projecting onto this joke. I made a conscious effort not to write any jokes about any woman's looks in this speech. And you know I think it is clear that the joke was not about Sarah's looks. But I do not think you know it is  to me it is so obvious that I do not even really need to defend it. I think if you listen to the joke you will understand that it is about the fact that she lies. And if it is taken another way I think you should go back and listen to it again.  So when you mention her eyeliner are you criticizing her eyeliner? And if so is criticizing her eyeliner different than criticizing how she looks?  I said she had a perfect smoky eye. So I was complimenting her eyeliner 'ecause it is fine. Her makeup's fine . It is the fact that  I was saying she burns facts and she uses lies for her smoky eye.  So you also compared her to the Aunt Lydia character on A Handmaid's Tale . And for any listeners who do not watch A Handmaid's Tale  and I imagine there is a lot of people who do not watch it  would you describe the character of Aunt Lydia? And Lydia is played by Ann Dowd.  Yeah the character of Aunt Lydia is kind of the mouthpiece for the administration in The Handmaid's Tale. She is the woman that kind of is in charge of all the handmaids and is kind of like the sergeant so to speak. And she is the one that enforces all the rules.  And the rules have to do with  women have to be trained to serve to be handmaids and to be fertile and carry  you know be pregnant as often as possible because that is their role.  Yeah the role of handmaids in The Handmaid's Tale is essentially like pregnancy slaves I guess. I do not know a better word for it. They are supposed to produce and have babies against their will essentially. And I was commenting on how her actions for the Trump administration are similar to Aunt Lydia's in The Handmaid's Tale. She communicates from the president just like Aunt Lydia communicates the objectives of the society.  So some people think that that part was also insulting to Sarah Sanders' looks. And in some ways if you were insulting her looks by comparing her to Ann Dowd would you be insulting Ann Dowd as well?  Yeah which is very unfair. Ann Dowd's gorgeous and she is a very talented actress which I think is more important. But you know I think to look at that and say I was insulting Sarah's looks you had to think  you had to want me to be insulting Sarah's looks. I mean it is like I was talking about her personality. And I think it says a lot about our society that you would immediately think I was talking about her looks rather than her personality because I think if it was a man you would not have jumped to those conclusions. If I was talking about a man you would have been like she is talking about his abilities. But because I was talking about a woman you are like she is talking about her looks.  So you are in the position of being a feminist comic getting criticized by other women including some very powerful incredibly smart women for doing something sexist for criticizing a woman for her looks. And you say like no that is not what I did; listen more carefully. But how does it feel to be a feminist being you know criticized by other women in addition to a lot of men who are criticizing you as well?  I mean is not that sort of what we do as women unfortunately? You know we  we are our own worst enemy.  Well no  well I said that the women see themselves as standing up for another woman. You know they are standing up for  they  I think they see themselves as defending Sarah Sanders against a careless or you know inappropriate joke.  I mean I think they should listen to the joke again because it is clearly not about her appearance.  I am wondering if you think it is maybe a little bit sexist to think that Sarah Sanders as a woman needs to be protected from a couple of jokes at a roast because I have not heard men be protected that way at roasts.  Yeah I mean if there was two people that I actually made fun of their looks on Saturday it was Mitch McConnell and Chris Christie and no one is jumping to their defense. I made fun of Mitch McConnell's neck and I did a small jab at Chris Christie's weight and no one is jumping to their defense.  After one of your jokes about the Women's March and the  I cannot say the word  the phat  that women wore  and then you made a joke about female genitalia  you said and I quote you should have done more research before you got me to do this. I got the impression you really meant that.  Yeah. I mean I think  I do not know. Maybe I am projecting this but I think sometimes they look at a woman and they think oh she will be nice. And if you have seen any of my comedy you know that I do not  I am not . I do not pull punches. I am not afraid to talk about things. And you know I do not think they expected that from me. I think they still have preconceived notions of how women will present themselves and I do not fit in that box.  Do you have any regrets about having done the dinner?  I am honestly  I would not change a single word that I said. I am very happy with what I said. And I am glad I stuck to my guns.  My guest is Michelle Wolf. She performed at the White House Correspondents' Association dinner Saturday night. Her new Netflix series The Break begins May 27. After a break we will listen to and talk about her comedy on The Daily Show and her HBO special. And we will remember photojournalist Abbas who documented expressions of religion at their most spiritual and most extreme. He died last Wednesday. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with comic Michelle Wolf. On Saturday night she performed at the annual White House Correspondents' Association dinner as part of a tradition in which the president does a comedy set followed by the guest comic. The sets are usually more like roasts. President Trump declined to attend the dinner this year and last. As we discussed in the first half of our show Wolf's performance proved to be very controversial. Now we are going to talk about the comedy she does on her own turf. She was a writer and performer on Late Night With Seth Meyers. She was a correspondent on The Daily Show With Trevor Noah but left the show to start her own comedy series a weekly show called The Break which premieres on Netflix May 27. Michelle I want to play a clip from your recent HBO special Nice Lady and this is about not wanting to be married or have a child.   I do not want to have a baby or a family. I want a career. That is what I want. And I know there is a lot of people out there that are like but Michelle you do not have to choose; you can have it all.   Women can have it all. Yeah stop saying that. You act like all is good. All does not mean good. You have never left an allyoucaneat buffet and thought I feel really good about myself.   That crab and pudding is sitting really well together.   I sure am glad I went back for spare ribs.   All is not good. And even if we do try to have it all even if a woman out there definitely wants it all we have put up too many obstacles in your way to make it possible. It is like oh congratulations you are having a baby? Great couple of things we are going to need you to get that car accident of a body back to work as soon as possible because this is America and we do not think you need time to recover. Also you should breastfeed it is what is best for the baby. But do not do it in public you pig. Do it in the old janitor's closet underneath the bridge with the rest of the breastfeeding trolls. And do not ask to take time off from work when your kids are sick. We will think you are not dedicated. Also why are you such a bad mom? By the way your salary is just enough to cover the cost of child care. And we know you are exhausted you do not really know who you are anymore you are trying to balance your old life and your new life but quick go have sex with your husband. He is about to leave. He does not understand what you are going through. Quick go now and sweetie smile.   That is Michelle Wolf from her recent HBO comedy special Nice Lady. So I think you are serious about not wanting to have a baby or be in a relationship. Do some people think there is something wrong with you when you say that?  I mean yes. But I you know I do not know I am just different than what people I think want me to be or want a woman to be.  In part of your comedy special you say you know having a baby is the coolest thing your body can do. And so to not have one it is like me being a bird but saying thanks I am going to walk. Did you ever want to like just physically experience childbirth?  Yeah actually . I think that is like I mean I genuinely think it is like extraordinary. It seems very neat. And you know like I am a science person. I love science. I was you know I was a kinesiology major in college.  That means the science  studying the science of body movement.  Yes yeah. And I you know I wanted to go into exercise science. I am fascinated by the human body and what it can do. And I do think there is something really cool about being pregnant and having a baby. I am just not sure I want the rest of that . You know the lifetime after that part of it.  So I want to play another excerpt of your recent comedy special on HBO called Nice Lady. And this is a part in which you are talking about Hillary Clinton. And you say that you voted for her but you understand why some people do not like her. And so here you are on your comedy special.   I get not liking Hillary. But the one thing that I think is completely unforgivable is some people would be like well you know what it is? I just cannot listen to her. She has such a shrill voice. And it is like well sometimes...   ...That is just what happens to your voice. Sometimes you are a person with a shrill voice. And there is nothing you can do about it because you do not get to choose your voice.   I was never like oh you know what? I will take the voice that causes dogs to gather outside. No no I wanted to be so shrill that if I sucked the helium out of a balloon it would not change my voice at all. That might be a 100 percent real thing that happened to me.    OK so that is Michelle Wolf from her HBO comedy special Nice Lady. Let us talk about your voice. I was not sure how you would sound as yourself not on stage but just like talking to me. And I would say your voice sounds you know sounds a little different when you are just talking to me. Does your voice change on stage naturally? Do you emphasize certain qualities in it when you are on stage?  Well I also know how nice your voice is so I am making an effort this morning to keep it at a tone that is not offensive .  Oh are you kidding? No no no no no. I do not even know how to take that. But...  No you have such a soothing voice and I was like just Michelle just keep it down .  No just yourself. Be  whatever you are be you.  Yeah I think I am just louder on stage. And when I get louder it gets shriller.  My voice gets higher when I try to get louder.  Yeah mine does  yeah it does. At the same time the volume goes up the shrillness goes up. But I do not know I love my voice. I think it is great. I am happy to make fun of it because I know it is a bit silly. I also for some reason when I am on stage I can sound very Midwestern which I am not. I am from central Pennsylvania. But I just think being on stage kind of amplifies little quirks in my voice that are not necessarily in my like daytoday conversation.  So you used to be a contributor on The Daily Show. And I want to play a clip from one of your appearances on The Daily Show. And you were with  you were at the desk with Trevor Noah on this. This is from May 8 2017. And you are talking about an allmale Senate Republican working group to find a consensus on health care. It was allmale and allwhite. And as this excerpt starts we are seeing on the screen a photo of all the men in this group. So this is Michelle Wolf with Trevor Noah on The Daily Show.   Seriously look at the senators who we are trusting with health care. That does not look like the panel that protects women. That looks like the panel that says well she drowned guess she was not a witch. Throw in another one. Thirteen white guys and no women 13 white guys and no women. In that group they were able to get two Mormons but no women which is weird for Mormons because normally they want extra women. I mean you would think they would at least put Mike Pence in that group so his wife would have to be there too.  Well to be fair to be fair Michelle just because this bill is being worked on by only men does not mean that they cannot be fair to women.  Oh sure I mean they could be fair to us. But this is what they have done so far.  The bill in its current form would hit women especially hard. For example women who are pregnant have had a previous Csection have irregular periods have breast cancer and endometriosis among others could all be slapped with a preexisting condition label opening up the door for insurers to potentially deem them uninsurable.  I am sorry you would have to pay extra for insurance if you get irregular periods? OK quick glimpse into a lady's life.   Every period is an irregular period.   It is not like a paycheck where it arrives on the same day every month. Your period is more like an outdoor cat. You know it is going to come back at some point but you are never positive when and you have no idea what it is going to have in its mouth.   That is Michelle Wolf on The Daily Show one year ago. And you have done a lot of humor about what men do not understand about women's bodies. How did you start using that as a topic for humor?  I just think it is so laughable the fact that there is these things that happen to women constantly on a daytoday basis that we just do not talk about because men think they are icky you know? Like I mean periods are a thing women are dealing with all of the time not just when they have their period. It is days throughout their cycle weeks before. You know we all have different symptoms. We all go through different things. Everyone gets  not everyone but people get different varying versions of PMS and you know when your skin breaks out  you know all that stuff. And we just do not talk about it. And it is something that we are constantly living with. And I think part of the reason we do not talk about it is because we want to protect men from having to hear about it and I am just so sick of it.  What reactions do you get from men in the audience when you talk about women's bodies?  I think pretty good. I mean I try to do it in a way where I get men to laugh. A lot of times when I  especially I have a period joke I told in my special  you know when I am telling that joke I will normally look at men to see how they are reacting to it and they all seemed to be enjoying it.  If you are just joining me my guest is Michelle Wolf. She performed at the White House Correspondents' dinner Saturday night and as you may have heard it was very controversial. And she also has a recent HBO special called Nice Lady. Next month in May she has a new Netflix series a weekly series that will begin called The Break. So we are going to take a short break ourselves and then be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Michelle Wolf who is coming off of a weekend in which a lot of people were talking about her because she performed at the White House Correspondents' dinner and some of her jokes did not go over well in the room and it is led to a lot of controversy. She also has a recent HBO special called Nice Lady. She wrote for Seth Meyers. She was a correspondent on The Daily Show and now she has a new show starting at the end of May on Netflix. So let us talk about your life. When you were in high school and your first year of college you were hoping to be an athlete. You were  you did track. And describe the kind of events that you did in track as  in high school and in college.  Yeah I was in track. I did the high long and triple jump. And I ran the 400 and the 800 in high school as well but my main events in college were the jumping events.  You had an injury. You hurt your ankle in your freshman year of college which kind of ended your track career. What happened?  It was the day before my first indoor meet my first meet ever in college. We were practicing long jump. We were doing  we were just practicing some jumping form with this box and this foam thing and I just landed wrong on my ankle. And I immediately got up and started walking it off because as a jumper you twist your ankle all the time. And as I was walking it off I looked down and my ankle was already incredibly swollen. And I was like oh I think this is bad. And it was a thirddegree ankle sprain and it was on my takeoff foot. And I was just never really able to put the same amount of pressure on it even after it healed that I had been previously. I think it was the last of several ankle sprains. And you know when you sprain something your tendons get looser and they never really go back to their original strength. And this was just kind of the straw that broke the camel's back.  Did you go through an identity crisis? Like who am I if I am not doing track?  Yes a hundred percent. Like I have always worked really hard in school but like track was like a huge part of my life. And I absolutely loved it. I still am such a big fan. It is my favorite sport. But when I was doing track I was a track athlete. And then that stopped and I was like oh who am I? And it legitimately took me a while to figure that out. I do not really think it was until I would started doing comedy that I was like right I am this person.  At what point did you start doing comedy?  So in March of 2008  or it might have been late February  friends of mine came to visit and I went to a taping of SNL. And I was  I have always been such a big fan. And after that taping I was like how do these people do this? How did they get into this? And so I googled all of them and they  almost all of them started in improv so I signed up for an improv class. And after my first improv class I was just like this is fun. I want to do something like this.  So you know your HBO comedy special is called Nice Lady. Did you ever want to just be nice? Because you talk about how like you are not nice and Hillary Clinton is not nice and no woman who has power is like nice. And if they think they are nice they are just kidding themselves.  Yeah I mean I do think for the longest time you know I did want to be nice. I thought that that is how  I thought that is how I was supposed to be. I thought I was just supposed to be nice and pleasant and I realized that is no fun.  Here's another thing. Like in comedy you call people out. You have no problem with that. But often in real