 This is FRESH AIR. I am TV critic David Bianculli sitting in for Terry Gross.   Tonight on HBO the network presents a new madeforTV movie that serves as a reunion special and a longdelayed finale for one of the finest TV series ever offered by HBO or anyone else. Deadwood The Movie picks up the story years later about the same amount of time that has passed since David Milch's pioneering Western series Deadwood left TV so abruptly 13 years ago. This gives us the occasion to listen back to interviews with Timothy Olyphant who stars as Seth Bullock and with David Milch creator of the outstanding and influential Deadwood Western which ran on HBO from 2004 to 2006. But first let us begin with my review of Deadwood The Movie and for that matter a rereview of Deadwood the series. The three seasons of Deadwood were set in a mining town in the territory of the Dakotas. There was no established law there in 1876 when the series began. But there was plenty of gold and silver which led to a quickly growing community of miners laborers gamblers prostitutes opportunists and outlaws. One famous figure who came to Deadwood early was Wild Bill Hickok played by Keith Carradine. But Wild Bill did not last long one of the first reminders that in this town and in this TV series danger and death threatened every single character no matter how prominent. And that fact of life and death in Deadwood The Movie is there as well. Character relationships and language were the key ingredients of Deadwood and still are as in this early scene from Deadwood The Movie when Doc Cochran played by Brad Dourif examines the mental and physical condition of town boss Al Swearengen played so powerfully by Ian McShane. Both men have survived everything Deadwood has thrown at them to this point but both are a little worse for wear.    Name the day of the week Al.   What difference does the day make?   I would have you. But say the name.   Tuesday then you halfascarecrowlooking .   Friday it is.   Oh mistaken Friday for Tuesday  well secure my burial plot.   Well your temperature's 2 degrees above normal  features drawn flesh of a yellowish cast pending  developments. I would have you forbear from spirits.   Under advisement.   Oh no no no no no. Do not you humor me nor talk down to me neither nor fix to mix in where you as not been invited.   Must you comport the very light to me?   You went somewhat wrong at your liver Al is what you have goddamn done.  You have to admire and respect the degree of difficulty in the task facing David Milch here and how superbly he delivers. More than a dozen years later a movie version of Deadwood has to serve as a reunion special making room for the old show is surviving characters and actors. The year is now 1889. And South Dakota is about to receive official statehood the cause for a celebration that brings characters who left Deadwood back to reunite with those who stayed. But to move the story forward so many years Milch had to imagine what those years were like for dozens of characters. And he never strikes a false note. In the series version of Deadwood the drama escalated slowly but surely each season with a series of threats and villains more formidable and deadly than the last. In Deadwood The Movie Milch jumpstarts that by using the Dakota statehood as an excuse to bring back to town one of its richest mine operators and nastiest villains George Hearst father of newspaper publisher William Randolph Hearst. In the series version of Deadwood George Hearst played by Gerald McRaney had been responsible for several deaths and was frighteningly ruthless and powerful. But he left town at the end of Season 3 to return to California where the real George Hearst became a U.S. senator. In Deadwood The Movie Hearst returns to Deadwood as a prominent politician a seemingly more rational and genial man ready to give a speech and expand his mining interests as he does here offering to buy a neighboring claim from Charlie Utter a favorite and defiantly independent Deadwood character played then and now by Dayton Callie. Hearst meeting Charlie Utter by a small stream on the land he wishes to buy makes a generous cash offer. But Charlie is not impressed or moved.    Contrariwise men like to come to certain special field partial say to a piece of ground a river bending through the forest like so. I am declining your offer Mr. Hearst. Thank you for your time and attention.   My experience over time has come to be  customarily I am he who starts a negotiation names its finish too.  The history in Deadwood The Movie is deliciously rich not only the history of statehood and progress with railroad trains and telephone lines pushing relentlessly towards the town but also the history of the characters. David Milch battled Alzheimer's as he wrote the script for this longawaited finale. And it may prove to be his final work. Anyways  a word several of his Deadwood characters are prone to say I cannot imagine a better one.   I just rewatched all of the Deadwood series to prepare for this review. And it stands up even more obviously and gloriously as one of the best TV dramas ever produced. And with this new HBO movie Deadwood goes out just as brilliantly as it came in. 