 This is FRESH AIR. Do you get stressed out looking in your refrigerator trying to figure out what to make for dinner? Do you want to know how to cook a perfect fried egg easily? Our next guest's cookbook might be what you need. Julia Turshen wrote her cookbook to help take some of the stress out of home cooking. It is called Small Victories Recipes Advice And Hundreds Of Ideas For Home Cooking Triumphs. Turshen says if you know how to make two things in the kitchen then you have the skills to make 200 more. Small Victories is Turshen's first solo cookbook but she is coauthored several bestsellers including Gwyneth Paltrow's It is All Good Mario Batali's Spain A Culinary Road Trip. She is also been a personal chef. She spoke with FRESH AIR producer Sam Briger.  Julia Turshen welcome to FRESH AIR.  Thanks so much Sam. I am so excited to speak to you.  So you say the goal of your cookbook Small Victories is to show that cooking does not have to be complicated to be satisfying. And part of that you do by using these small victories. So you  in each recipe you include at least one small victory. So what is that concept?  Sure. Yeah. So every recipe is introduced with a small victory. So to me it is a tip or a technique that just makes cooking a little bit more approachable. And then what is super fun is every single recipe has a number of  I call them spinoffs but they are variations. So the idea is once you know the tip or the technique once you know the small victory you can make this great thing but you can also make so many other things. So it is really you know across the board across the whole book the goal is just to empower home cooks.  Right. That is kind of neat like you have a recipe about fritters. And I cannot remember what the prime recipe is but it  one of them has chickpeas but then the other  the spinoffs  you can do it with pinto beans or other kinds of beans. So you provide like four or five different kinds of recipes from that one base which is neat.  Exactly yeah.  Well let us get to one of these small victories. One that I have been using a lot since reading the book is the way to fry perfect eggs. Can you describe that method?  Yeah this recipe is so interesting. I feel like it is become I think maybe the simplest recipe. But it is been really popular which is great to see. And the recipe is for  they are olive oil fried eggs which just means you fry them in olive oil and you serve them with yogurt which is not so commonly seen in America. But it is definitely very popular in other countries. So the technique is to use a nonstick pan first of all 'ecause just why make things complicated  and give yourself some insurance off the bat. Heat up a little bit of olive oil in the pan crack the egg in. And then my little sort of secret trick is just to put a couple drops of water in the pan  and in the pan itself not on the egg. And then cover the pan immediately. And what happens is that little tiny bit of water  like not even a teaspoon just a few drops off you know your fingertips  creates a little bit of steam. And the lid will trap the steam in there. So you almost create this little sort of stovetop like steam oven. And what happens is your egg you know is cooking from underneath. It is got that nice hot pan. It is got that beautiful hot olive oil. But that steam on top will make sure that egg white on top is cooked through. But it is not an aggressive heat. You know you are not flipping the egg over so you do not get an overcooked egg yolk. So what you end up with is just a really nicely fried egg where the egg white on top is completely cooked 'ecause I feel like I will eat absolutely anything. I will try anything. The one thing I really really do not love is an uncooked or undercooked egg white...  Yeah that can be gross.  So  that prevents that.  Yeah yeah and I say it. I do it now all the time. It works really well. You get a nicely cooked egg white and a nottooovercooked yolk so it is great.  I am so glad to hear that is you know happening in your kitchen.  .  That is awesome.  So what do you do with the yogurt? When do you add that into the dish?  So after you fry the egg you mix just some plain yogurt  and you can use you know thick Greek yogurt you know a runnier kind of  any kind of yogurt just plain yogurt. And you mix it with just some lemon juice a pinch of salt and you kind of spread it on the plate so you have this layer of yogurt. And you put your fried egg on top. And then basically as you eat it as your you know fork pushes down through that egg kind of scoops up some of that yogurt and it creates this  it is sort of a bed and a sauce all at once  put a few fresh herbs on top. It is delicious.  Well in a spinoff section for hardboiled eggs you suggest making deviledish  eggs where you just cut open a hardboiled egg and just smear a little mayonnaise on top and maybe like a drop of hot sauce. How did you come up with that idea? It is so great 'ecause I feel like whenever I try to make a deviled egg it just looks like a mess.  So many of my thoughts and decisions in the kitchen come from you could either call it laziness or efficiency.   It is sort of your choice. But I love deviled eggs. I think they are delicious. But you know taking out all those egg yolks making the mix putting it back in you know it is a few steps that I think if you feel up for it and you want to you know it is worth it. And you could get a piping bag and really go crazy. But those same ingredients can just be layered on top of each other. It still tastes delicious. So it is  essentially you are just yeah smearing a little mayonnaise on a halved hardboiled egg  put a little hot sauce. You could dab a little mustard if you like that. Whatever you like in your hardboiled eggs. And you do not have to do all the work of dislodging the yolks and refilling them and everything. So I like those kinds of shortcuts where you still get a really wonderful result. But you know...  With like half the effort.  ...It is a little bit less time and effort. Yeah and I think anything like that if it makes it easier for people to make something from scratch in their kitchen I am all for that.  So all of this is your first cookbook. You have coauthored many popular cookbooks including ones with Mario Batali and Gwyneth Paltrow. And I was wondering if you could explain to us your role as a coauthor in that situation. Like does the other person come up with the ideas for dishes and then you are converting them into recipes? Is it more collaborative? Is it someone says to you like go do something with chickpeas and come back to me in a week? Like how does it work?  I would love that. I love chickpeas . It is different every time. So yeah Small Victories is my first book that is just me on my own. But it is  I think it is  I should know this. I think it is the 10th book I have worked on. So I have collaborated with lots of people. I have coauthored many books. And it is different every single time. It depends on the material that already exists. For example I have worked on some restaurant cookbooks. And some of the restaurants I have worked with you know have binders full of recipes that it is my job to translate from like restaurant kind of vocabulary to home cooking meaning they are often scaled to huge quantities there is not many instructions because it is you know it is a chef writing instructions for another chef. So it is you know a person speaking to another person who knows all these techniques. So it is my job to take that...  So there is like a language there already.  Exactly yeah. Sometimes I think of myself as kind of like a home cooking translator of like how can I translate this material so someone can do it successfully at home? And often it means kind of taking away a lot of excessive steps. And I have worked with restaurant chefs who nothing exists  or not nothing  a lot of amazing things but nothing written down.  Well you have a deliciouslooking lasagna in the book. And usually when you make lasagna you either add ricotta to it or you make like a white sauce like a bechamel sauce as a filling. But you have come up with another method. What is that?  Yeah so it is kind of like the deviledish  eggs where you kind of can cut some steps out in order to get a really good result nonetheless. That is definitely what happened with this lasagna. So I took out the ricotta. I took out the bechamel. The ricotta because  I love ricotta cheese but I think when it is baked in a baked pasta sometimes it can get a little stiff. And I love like a rich lasagna. So I tend to prefer a kind of bechamel lasagna. But the idea of making a bechamel sauce which can put off some home cooks especially people who are new to cooking  there is a lot of risk of things not being smooth and all that.  'ecause you are kind of whisking flour into milk right? Just that...  Yeah. You make  yeah. You mix some flour and butter. You make essentially a roux and then you slowly whisk in milk to make like a smooth  it is like a cream sauce. And then you can add cheese to it. You know that is how you get things like macaroni and cheese. The base of souffles etc. etc. But basically I just feel like it is not impossible to do by any means but it is an extra step. It is an extra pot to clean. That is something that is always on my mind. But I was like oh I want that creamy layer but I do not want to do that work. And so I went to one of my favorite ingredients which is creme fraiche which is basically like French sour cream. And you can actually just use sour cream if that is all you can find. But creme fraiche is worth seeking out just because it is richer and why not add some more fat?  .  Life is short. So I make a super simple tomato sauce. That is some garlic sizzled in olive oil. You throw in some canned tomatoes and then I add creme fraiche directly to that because instead of layering the lasagna  all the different sauces and you know keeping track of what is on top of what...  Right.  ...You know it is all going to get mixed together anyway. So I just mix it. And so you have this essentially creamy tomato sauce. And then I walk you through how to make homemade pasta just because it is something I love doing. But you can absolutely make this recipe with store bought fresh pasta sheets. I have made it many times successfully with a box of those like nocook lasagna noodles. So basically you just have your noodles  your pasta layer. And the other step of lasagna that I find just to be so annoying is precooking those huge pasta sheets because again you are  it is another pot to wash. You are having to maneuver these huge pieces of hot slippery pasta. So instead of doing that and you know cooking them first layering them with a sauce. I just make extra sauce so the lasagna  you layer the raw pasta and all that delicious creamy tomato sauce  you throw it in the oven and all that kind of extra liquid from the sauce will cook the pasta through perfectly. And it is such a simple lasagna recipe as far as lasagna recipes go. And it is just one of my favorites and I love it. And you can add you know cooked ground sausage. You could start the sauce with some meat. You could add a layer of spinach roasted squash you know whatever you want. You can you know fill that however you like. But that is sort of the base of it. And it is a really great recipe.  We are listening to the interview FRESH AIR producer Sam Briger recorded with Julia Turshen author of the new cookbook Small Victories. We will hear more of the interview after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to the interview FRESH AIR producer Sam Briger recorded with Julia Turshen author of the new cookbook Small Victories. It simplifies recipes and techniques for home cooks.  Well here's another small victory from your book. Peeling ginger root is always very difficult because it is this really knobby strange looking root. And oftentimes when I have to cook with it you know I cut 40 percent of the root away because it is hard to peel. So I am usually like just cutting it. And so out of this weird round object I get like this perfect rectangle you know  lose a lot. But  so what  how do you recommend getting rid of the skin?  I recommend  and this is  yeah  something I have seen in lots of places but  yeah  just to use a spoon like a normal  a spoon you would eat cereal with. And you just scrape the edge of the spoon on the ginger because the form of ginger root you know is totally kind of you know gnarly and goes in different directions. It is not a perfect rectangle by any means. And instead of fighting it you kind of just need to go with it. And the skin itself is quite thin. So using just the edge of a spoon which is you know firm enough to make some contact makes some difference but it is not the blade of a knife so you are not getting rid of too much. And you just scrape the ginger with a spoon. And the skin comes off super easily. And you are not taking off the ginger along with its skin. And I think it is one of those moments of just not fighting something just going with it. Yeah.  I will have to try that out. You call yourself a recipe developer and so I just  can you like lead us to the steps? Like how do you actually develop a recipe? Do you do  make that dish over and over again just to get it right? Or how does...  Sure. Yeah. So when I do it on my own it starts actually not so much in the kitchen but on the page. And I write all of my recipes before I get into the kitchen. And then I kind of  I print them out and then I take my red pen like a schoolteacher and then I start making the recipe. I start testing it but that is usually when a lot of things will change because as I am working on it you know I will decide to change a spice or maybe something will get pan fried instead of roasted it or vice a versa  that kind of thing. But yeah I start on the page. I write it down first and it starts usually with a thought or a memory of something nostalgic maybe something I had when I was a kid. But then you know there is a recipe in the book for a rice pilaf that is really delicious and I love it. I mean I love everything in the book. I am biased but that recipe is basically my version of RiceARoni the rice in a box which I ate all the time when I was a kid. And it was something I just loved about the idea of that box of rice includes a lot of things you know you cannot pronounce. And it is quite salty and all that. So I wanted a version of that. So you know I will usually start from a place like that like oh what is something that meant something to me?  Are you more of an intuitive cook or do you like to go cook from recipes?  I feel like it is almost like my like dirty secret which is like I love writing recipes so much and I never follow them. And when it comes to just cooking you know on a average day at home which I do every single day you know when I am making dinner for me and my wife or you know if friends come by or something I never follow recipes. I will look at cookbooks a lot before just to get inspired or I just like looking at them. But I never ever follow recipes. Every now and then I will follow a recipe for a baked good like if I am making like a cake or something. But...  Because those are pretty unforgiving are not they?  Yeah. But even if I am making like a pie or something I am not following a recipe. Like I have made pie crust enough to know the ratios. And once you make something a few times you know you get comfortable with it. And that is what I find so empowering about home cooking is you earn the set of skills that you cannot lose and then you can make all this stuff. And it is super cool.  The food website Grub Street  there is this feature that is called Grub Street Diet. They ask someone to like keep a journal of their week and write it down what they ate or cooked during that time. And you did one  I think it was like last year  and I found this really fascinating. I mean I understand that the article's supposed to show you know your relationship to food over the week. So of course it is food centric but the way you described your daytoday activities  and food just seems so infused into your life and just the way you think about food the way you prepare to shop or prepare to cook. It seemed deliberate and kind of mindful  it almost felt like a spiritual practice.  That is such a nice thing to say. I think that is definitely accurate. It feels that way to me. It is  I am always thinking about food. I am always thinking about you know  I am one of those people who have breakfast  I am planning dinner. Grace my wife is always getting annoyed at me because we are you know making sandwiches for lunch and I am always asking her you know what I should make up for the next meal. And she is like cannot we just eat this one?   So it is definitely  yeah it occupies so much space in my you know my mental space my emotional space and I have worked really hard to make it all as much as I can like a really positive thing. If it is going to take up that much space I want it to be mindful and positive. And yeah it definitely infuses kind of every decision I make. You know I am driving to the radio station today. The first thing I did was look up you know where I am going to go grab something to eat afterwards even though it is not a meal time but if I am going to go somewhere where I do not go all the time I want to make sure I experience something good to eat.  Where are you going?  Well it seems like there is some good Vietnamese places around here. So I was going to ask someone up front what they think.  .  Yeah. I get  when I am somewhere I do not know I ask other people all the time.  You should always ask. Julia Turshen thanks so much for coming in.  Thank you so much for having me.  Julia Turshen spoke with FRESH AIR producer Sam Briger. Her new cookbook is called Small Victories. Tomorrow on FRESH AIR.    Dear Dick this is about obsession.  My guest will be Jill Soloway the creator of the Amazon series Transparent and the new Amazon series I Love Dick about a feminist filmmaker attracted to a macho artist named Dick. We will talk about the new series and about gender and identity and why Soloway now considers herself nonbinary. I hope you will join us.   FRESH AIR'S executive producer is Danny Miller. Our Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit Phyllis Myers Ann Marie Baldonado Sam Briger Lauren Krenzel Heidi Saman Therese Madden Mooj Zadie and Thea Chaloner. I am Terry Gross. 