 This is FRESH AIR. Five years after winning an Oscar for best picture for 12 Years A Slave the British director Steve McQueen has returned with Widows a crime thriller starring Viola Davis Michelle Rodriguez Elizabeth Debicki and Liam Neeson. It is adapted from Lynda La Plante's British TV series of the same title which aired in the 1980s. Film critic Justin Chang has this review.  What do you do after you have made three studiously grim art films about an Irish prison revolt an outofcontrol sex addict and the horrors of slavery? If you are Steve McQueen the British director of Hunger Shame and 12 Years A Slave you cut loose with a crackling heist thriller featuring a juicy cast of Alist actors at the top of their game. But McQueen being McQueen he cannot help doing this grandscale Hollywood entertainment his way. As tense and sinuous and gripping as much of it is Widows never feels like escapism. It has as much to say about how race class gender and politics intersect in American life as any movie I have seen this year. The story furiously compressed from a 1980s British TV series takes place in modernday Chicago. In the opening scenes four professional thieves are cornered in their getaway van and gunned down by police. The van explodes and burns to a crisp along with 2 million in cash. The dead men include the veteran ringleader Harry Rawlings played by Liam Neeson. Viola Davis plays Harry's griefstricken widow Veronica. But she has no time for tears. The money was stolen from Jamal Manning played by Brian Tyree Henry who is campaigning to become the first black alderman of Chicago's 18th Ward. Manning has criminal ties and he gives Veronica one month to pay him back or suffer grave consequences. In a bold move Veronica turns to the other three widows and suggests that they join forces and pull off an even bigger job a 5 million robbery that her husband Harry had carefully plotted out in the little brown notebook that is now in her possession. One of the wives declines. But the other two Linda played by Michelle Rodriguez and Alice played by Elizabeth Debicki agree to the plan. They are desperate and willing to try anything. Though they are not quite ready for Veronica's taskmaster routine when she forces them to practice running around with the weight of 5 million in cash strapped to their backs.    So over here we have 2 million  20 Tupperware boxes. Each box has a hundred thousand dollars in 100 bills. It weighs 44 pounds. Now over here we have 2 million  40 Tupperware boxes. Each box has 50000 in 50 bills. It weighs 88 pounds.   I feel like I am in school.   Tell me about it.   We got to start thinking like professionals. We are in business together. There is not going to be some cozy reunion. After this job we are done. We have three days to look and move like a team of men. The best thing we have going for us is being who we are.   Why?   Because no one thinks we have the expletive to pull this off.  Despite their focus on procedure McQueen and his coscreenwriter Gone Girl author Gillian Flynn are not especially interested in the heist for its own sake. Instead they use Veronica's scheme to bring us deep into the corrosive world of Windy City politics. Manning is running for alderman against Jack Mulligan played by a smooth Colin Farrell whose family has held power in the ward for decades. It is a measure of the script's cynicism that neither the AfricanAmerican challenger nor the white incumbent comes off as heroic or admirable here. Mulligan's family is mired in dirty dealings while Manning has a crew of murderous henchmen overseen by his brother played by a positively terrifying Daniel Kaluuya from Get Out. Caught between these two equally corrupt campaigns are the widows. And McQueen while sympathetic to their plight never once softens his gaze. Nor does he lose sight of the differences in background and temperament that make these women such unlikely conspirators. Veronica lives in a tony part of town and has a chauffeur who drives her around in a luxury SUV. Linda has two kids and a family business that is forced to close down thanks to her late husband's gambling debts. Alice makes ends meet by joining a highpriced escort service a choice that Veronica judges her harshly for at first though the movie wisely does not. Widows does not overplay these differences of race class and privilege. Its diversity feels like a matteroffact reflection of a city's internal dynamics. And it is thrilling to watch Veronica Linda and Alice work passed those differences as they seize control of their lives in a way that no one  least of all perhaps their late husbands  would have expected them to do. McQueen's visual framing is less rigid and deliberate than usual giving the story sweep and momentum. Widows is a welloiled narrative machine with an abundance of moving parts and startling twists that arrive perfectly on cue. But it might have felt airless or mechanical if McQueen did not get so much raw unruly feeling out of his actors. Davis carrying a movie in a way she is never done before commands her every scene. Cynthia Erivo has a terrific latebreaking role as a hardworking single mom who is enlisted as the getaway driver. But the revelation here is Elizabeth Debicki as Alice a woman who is used to being underestimated and who transforms before our eyes into the heist's MVP. She even succeeds in stealing one big scene from Viola Davis. And in Hollywood that is grand larceny.  Justin Chang is a film critic for the LA Times. If you would like to catch up on FRESH AIR interviews you missed like our interview with Rob Dunn author of a new book about all the bacteria viruses fungi and insects that inhabit your home out of your sight check out our podcast. You will find lots of FRESH AIR interviews.   FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit Phyllis Myers Sam Briger Lauren Krenzel Heidi Saman Therese Madden Mooj Zadie and Seth Kelley. Thea Chaloner directed today's show. I am Terry Gross.  