 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies sitting in for Terry Gross. My guest David Kennedy has spent over 20 years working to curb violence and shut down drug markets in innercity neighborhoods. Though he is now a professor of criminal justice at John Jay College Kennedy is largely selftaught; having spent countless hours with cops prosecutors parole officers gang members drug dealers crime victims and community leaders. Kennedy was a key architect of a crimefighting strategy that dramatically cut homicide rates in Boston; and he is developed techniques that have effectively closed drug markets in dozens of communities across the country. He is now working with community groups and police in New Orleans Baton Rouge Detroit and Oakland. Kennedy believes the high rates of incarceration in America have a debilitating effect on poor AfricanAmerican neighborhoods. And his approach relies more on getting criminals to alter their behavior than locking them up.  I interviewed David Kennedy last year on the publication of his book Do not Shoot One Man a Street Fellowship and the End of Violence in InnerCity America. It is now out in paperback.   David Kennedy welcome to FRESH AIR.  Thank you.  You were not trained as a criminologist. You went to college and then as you tell the story in the book were hooked up with a professor at the Kennedy School in Cambridge named Mark Moore got interested in developing new models of policing. And there was a trip that you made research trip to South Central Los Angeles which seems to have been a formative experience. What did you see that was  so moved you?  I saw Nickerson Gardens. So this was late 1985. Crack was a year or so old in L.A. at that point. They called it rock. I had read about it in the papers. I had certainly never seen any of this facetoface. It was like watching timelapse photography of the end of the world. There were drug crews on the corner. There were crack monsters and heroin addicts wandering around. There was the first openair drug market I ever saw which vary a little bit from place but always have the characteristic that idiot white folks in expensive cars and pickup trucks and stuff drive in from outside the community and roll their windows down and the black kids run up and spit crack into their hands and drop it into the car. And the white guys turn around and drive away while in the neighborhood the black mothers and grandmothers are hiding in their apartments and the kids are watching the cops and the cops are watching the kids. It was fantastically almostimpossiblytotakein awful.  In the book before we get into some of the techniques that you helped to develop some of these issues you describe the perspectives of three communities who live together in these neighborhoods these largely black poor neighborhoods and how they perceive and misperceive one another. And I would like to just have you go through and summarize those perspectives beginning with the law enforcement the cops the prosecutors.  We have two worlds in the United States. You know there is the world of the long national crime decline that everybody's celebrating and there is the world that I have been working in for 25 years now which is a little bit better than it was in 1985 but still just to say it again almost inconceivably awful in terms of many of its dimensions. And nobody likes to say this stuff out loud because it is impolitic but the facts are the facts. And the facts are that you get this kind of drug activity and violence only in historically distressed minority neighborhoods. And it is far worse in poor distressed AfricanAmerican neighborhoods than it is anywhere else. So these are neighborhoods where one in 200 young black men get murdered every year. This is where the worst openair drug stuff is It is all concentrated. And quite naturally law enforcement pays an awful lot of attention to those neighborhoods. And over the generations that this has been going on they have come to a conclusion. And the fundamental conclusion is that community is corrupt; the guys on the corner are sociopaths they do not care if they live or if they die; their parents are corrupt or they would be keeping them off the corners. There is no core left. There is no moral standing left. There is no heart left. And the shorthand that you get from cops when you talk about these communities is that they look at you and they say there is no community. There is no community left. And that is what they really think.  All right let us go to the second group you describe which is the community that shares this turf with the drug dealers and the police that is to say the largely lawabiding community.  So that is  when we say the community that is what we mean. We mean the good people in these neighborhoods. They look at the cops and they think two things. So the mild version is they are not helping  and they will not and they never have and we have given up on them. The stronger version is dominant in the public discourse in those neighborhoods and many many many people believe it. And it is that law enforcement and especially the police are part of a deliberate racist conspiracy by the outside acted out through law enforcement to do damage to the community and that what is going on is not just happening because the cops cannot stop it it is happening because cops want it are behind it and are often active racial conspirators in doing deliberate damage and that the drugs could not be there if the cops did not allow it that the drugs probably are there because the cops are part of bringing them in that as many people had heard and most white folks just dismiss it that crack was invented by the CIA and imported into the neighborhoods and that at root all of this  the drug enforcement the gang enforcement the presence of law enforcement all the black men getting arrested  is a continuation of America's historical attack on black communities going back to the founding of the nation in which the majority oppressed the minority under color of law.  And it is interesting as you write you do not buy this. You agree with the cops that this is not what is happening that they are not primarily motivated by racial animus but it is not crazy for people in the community to see it that way.  It is both of those terrible things. It is not true and it is unfortunately extraordinarily plausible.  All right let us go to the third community which you call the community of the streets. The criminals right?  Right. In these communities the violence the gun play the public chaotic drug activity all of that is driven by what turns out to be a fantastically small population. What matters is that these offenders are in the community in groups. They are in gangs they are in drug crews they are in little neighborhood sets. They are in little usually pretty chaotic groups. Those groups drive the action to a shocking degree. We have done work recently in Cincinnati where our research shows about 60 groups with about 1500 people in them representing less than half a percentage point of the city's population are associated with 75 percent of all of Cincinnati's killings. And no matter where you go that is the fact. You get that kind of concentration. So the world of the streets is a world of those groups. And they think two very important things. They think their community does not care about what they are doing and they think the cops hate them personally and that the attention they get from the cops is the result of personal racial animosity.  And one of the other interesting insights is that a lot of these people who carry guns and get involved in shootings of revenge or retaliation because of an offense involving disrespect or romantic jealousy a lot of them are themselves plagued by fear. They carry guns because they hate because they feel they have to but they do not like this.  That is right. The national homicide rate is sinking down as criminologists track it to about four per 100000. So every year four people are killed out of 100000 in the population. In gang circles in many of our cities  so if you are in these gangs drug crews neighborhood sets  if you are in what turns out to be about the five percent of the young men in the hottest neighborhoods that are in these groups our research and math shows that your homicide rate in those groups can reach 3000 per 100000 every year. It is incredibly dangerous. And if you talk to these guys especially behind closed doors what they say is I am terrified. I have been shot. I have been knifed. Half my friends are dead. My older brother's dead. There are guys out there they are beefing with my guy in my crew and that means they are beefing with me and they are trying to shoot me. And they will tell you three or four different stories of something recent where they got shot at. I mean when I first started talking to gang members about this in Boston I did not get this. And one of my standard questions to Boston gang members was have you ever been shot at. And they had a kind of Eskimo's view of snow about this. And they would say to me well what do you mean exactly? You know what if I was just with my friends and their enemies were shooting at them? You know they were not really shooting at me but I was there and I got grazed. Does that count? And they had that kind of nuanced parsing of what it meant to be shot at. That was their everyday world.  We are speaking with David Kennedy. That was from his book Do not Shoot One Man a Street Fellowship and the End of Violence in Innercity America. We will talk more after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us we are speaking with David Kennedy. He is a professor of criminal justice at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York City. He is been working for more than 20 years on street violence in America with police departments and others. His new book is Do not Shoot One Man a Street Fellowship and the End of Violence in Innercity America. So you had these communities in many cities and what you and others were able to do in Boston has been referred to by many as the Boston miracle a dramatic reduction in homicide rates among young violent people. And I commend to the audience the description in the book. It is long. It is detailed. You see how you get there. And we cannot go through all this here. Tell us what the approach was.  There was actually not that much to it. The hard part is understanding why what I am about to say makes sense and works. But once you get through all of that the thing itself is pretty simple. So there are not that many gangs and drug crews and such driving the violence in the city. They are easy to identify. When you look at them and the people in them the gang members and drug dealers and such are such active offenders that every crew has somebody on probation and parole. So you can work with probation and parole to bring those folks into a meeting. And in that meeting you look at them you say this is not a sting you are going home. This is nothing personal. You are here as a representative of your group. Please take what you are about to hear back to your group. And they then hear three things. They hear people they respect from the neighborhood  mothers grandmothers survivors of murdered children the right kind of ministers older wiser gangsters  say to them you are doing enormous damage in the community and the community needs you to stop. Your community cares about you but the violence has to stop. They hear social service providers say we want to help you and here's a phone number. You call it tell your fellow gang members to call it. We will do everything we can to help you GED job training job placement emergency assistance drug treatment. We will do what we can. And they hear law enforcement say we want you to listen to these other folks. We do not want to arrest you. We do not want to lock you up. We certainly do not want to go to your mother and say you have been killed. Take the help. Listen to your community. But this is not a negotiation and when you leave this room we will be doing two things. We will be going to the most violent group in the city and focusing all our law enforcement attention on it and we will win that struggle and that gang will lose it. And whatever gang in the city puts the next body on the ground we will go there and we will do the same thing. And so if you and your crew want that kind of attention kill somebody. And in city after city  Boston was the first but what we see is you may have to do it once or twice. You answer the service calls you do the law enforcement but as soon as the streets believe that that is what is going to happen they change.  Yeah I mean the declines were truly dramatic.  Yeah they were. We were shocked by them.  And I thought I would have you read a section of the book here when this thing was really moving. It is on Page 72. Would you just pick that up for us?  Sure. So this picks up about a year after Ceasefire first took hold in the city. So the first meetings with gang members ever anywhere were in May of 1996 in Boston. We had two meetings. We had two crackdowns. We helped the people who called the service line. We kept our promises and by actually the summer of 1996 just a couple of months after this began the streets had quieted down dramatically and they kept getting better. And we began to see some really strange stuff going on that nobody could possibly have imagined and one of them was what follows.  In the summer of 1997 almost unbelievably gang members came to the Boston Gun Project Working Group through the Department of Youth Services to complain about a new gang that had sprung up in Codman Square. Young and wild the new Buckshot Crew was throwing its weight around advertising its guns and graffiti shooting the place up.  They are going to ruin it for everybody. You have to do something the other gang told our team. We had a quick forum  that is what we called these facetoface meetings. We had a quick forum with the Buckshot Crew which they ignored. So Gary French the lieutenant in charge of the gang unit sicced undercover officers on them and took the whole crew off on drug buys and stateside prosecutions.  The gang members that had come to us rode surveillance with the Youth Violence Strike Force to finger the Buckshot Crew. It was knifeedge but it was powerful. You could feel the primal forces at work wheeling together converging focusing reaching straight into the heart of what everybody had seen as an impossible situation and just changing it.  Law police prosecutors the DEA the Justice Department Tracy Litthcut's gang outreach workers out on the street probation and parole out on the streets faith communities communities themselves the gangs themselves truth the power of the word what had been separate was synced had found a groove and a rhythm had an almost palpable pulse. It was amazing.  We are speaking with David Kennedy. That was from his book Do not Shoot One Man a Street Fellowship and the End of Violence in Innercity America. You know what you did in Boston as you explained it was a matter of basic police research. You found out who this small fraction of the population are who are the  who are committing most of the crimes and you took this approach of giving them a clear message that it had to stop and there would be consequences for a particular crew or gang if they did not. And it had remarkable effects. Now a lot of people know about a different approach that was adopted by New York City in the 1990s and has you know resulted in dramatic and sustained reduction in their homicide rates. This was begun by the Police Commissioner Bill Bratton. It is a much more intensive aggressive street approach to policing. The phrase you hear is the broken windows theory the idea that if little things are not attended to an atmosphere of lawlessness can prevail. So if cops do not let little things slide if they do lots of car and pedestrian stops you get guns you find parole violators you get fugitives you send a message and you deter crime. A lot of people think that has worked there in New York. It is a very different approach than what you did in Boston. What is your sense of  what is your opinion of what they did in New York?  It is a little bit complicated. The fundamental idea behind broken windows is that chaos in communities leads to bad things. And we were pretty stupid to have forgotten that all along. And we now know that that is right. How you address that is something else again. And there is a massive debate in my world about whether stop and frisk and aggressive policing drove the crime decline in New York. I am in the camp that thinks that it did. But it comes at a real cost. So there is a profit and a loss side on the public safety balance sheet. And what we see in many places is that while you can as an instrumental matter bring crime down by occupying the neighborhood and stopping everybody. What you do in the process is lose that neighborhood. They do not like it. They know that the cops cannot tell the difference between the five percent of the young men that are really driving things and even the other 95 percent of the young men. They withdraw. They stop cooperating. You fuel the idea that the police are an occupying inimical force in the neighborhood. You play into especially in AfricanAmerican neighborhoods these real and toxic communities racial memories about what came before civil rights. And you can make it work in many places but you cannot stop. You cannot ever say We have won things are good things are stable this is a healthy community that takes care of itself because you have driven them into hiding.  David Kennedy's book Do not Shoot is now out in paperback. He will be back in the second half of the show. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. We are listening to my interview recorded last year with David Kennedy whose crimefighting strategies have been used over 70 cities. His approach to stopping gang violence and shutting down street drug markets is to offer an alternative to arrest and imprisonment by getting criminals to alter their behavior. He now directs the Center for Crime Prevention and Control at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. His book now out in paperback is called Do not Shoot One Man a Street Fellowship and the End of Violence in Innercity America. I want to talk about another major initiative which you and others undertook which was successful and that was the effort to attack openair drug markets. I mean the most widelyknown example the one you write about in the book is one High Point North Carolina. Why focus on openair drug markets as opposed to interdiction or treatment or drying up demand?  In the neighborhoods that I am committed to the most awful thing is the killing. The Boston stuff turned out to do a pretty good job of controlling the killing. The next most corrosive influence in the neighborhood is what we call overt drug markets so they can be outside they can be inside in crack houses and things like that. But any market where a stranger can come into the neighborhood connect and drive back out is an overt drug market. And they bring with them gangs and guns and chaos and hookers and just the worst nastiness that you can possibly imagine. You can shut that overt market down entirely and when you do that what you get from a lot of people is well that is not good enough. The drugs are still there. It is gone underground. It is gone inside. You know just cannot see it so that is not good enough. And my response to that is OK so we have got these horrific neighborhoods where there are groups of young men shooting each other and people standing out on corners selling drugs to passersby. So we now know how to stop the young men from shooting each other. We know how to get rid of those street corner and crack house markets. So now we have groups of young men doing a lot of stuff and breaking some laws but not really being very dangerous and we have got people selling drugs but not in any way that you can see. And we have got a name for those neighborhoods. We call them the suburbs.   All right. So let us talk about how you got a handle on the overt drug markets in High Point North Carolina. You found a police chief there that was prepared to take you in...  Yup.  ...and try and build the infrastructure you would need. Tell us how it worked.  In the west end in High Point which is where we first did this in 2004 when they really did their homework they found that there were about 16 drug dealers. Everybody else was in the mix and milling around but they actually were dealing. Most of these dealers are not violent and so for them rather than arresting them we went and talked to them and their mother  this is where people start giggling and rolling their eyes. And in the meeting the police department said we do not want to arrest you and put you in prison and ruin your life. Your community wants you to succeed. We have help available for you. The community said to them in no uncertain terms you are tearing the guts out of this neighborhood and we need you to stop but we would like you to survive. The phrase one of my minister friends uses is we are for you but we are against what you are doing. And the police department wound up by saying We have this case ready to go. As long as you stop dealing we will leave it in its jacket. But if you go back to the corner if you go back to a crack house we open the folder we sign the warrant and we walk over and we pick you up. The chance that you are going to get arrested and go to jail the next time you sell drugs in High Point just went to about 100 percent. You are on prior notice. Do not make us do it. And the whole thing dried up and has never come back.  Yeah just if you would just describe what the before and after picture of those communities.  Nobody who has never spent time in an openair drug market or a market dominated by crack houses can imagine what it is like. The people who live there are locked in their houses they cannot afford to come out. If they leave their stuff gets robbed. One of the first ones I was ever in a guy when he drove out he would put his wife under a rug in the foot well of the backseat of his car so that the dealers would not know that the house was empty. There are gunshots. There are condoms on the front lawn. There are needles. There are empty crack vials. The drugs bring the hookers in. The hookers bring the Johns in and they use the hookers to find the drug dealers. There is trash and dirt and loud music. And the girls who walk down the street get harassed and people turn tricks in your shrubbery. And I mean it  people would believe me if I could actually describe this accurately. So that is the before. And you do one of these meetings  and again like Boston we did not believe that it would work as well as it actually does. But you can break the cycle in these neighborhoods literally overnight and all that craziness is gone. The story that captured it all in High Point was that my friend the Reverend Jim Summey who is a Baptist minister in the neighborhood ran a summer Bible school. And nobody from the west end would come. And the summer after we shut the west end drug market down he got all these kids from the west end. And he was standing with them one afternoon as they were going home and he was heard one of them say to the other are you getting a ride home? And the kid said no I am walking. Mom says it is OK now.   You know one of the  one thing I do not see in this book is really anything about gun laws. A lot of people believe that you know restrictions on access to guns is the key to stopping violence in cities. What is your view?   How is that been working for you?   Well is not there some research that says it matters if you you know I mean New York City has tough gun laws. I mean that is one reason that some people believe that New York City has been effective.  Well your city has tough gun laws but there are lots of guns in New York. And violence in New York has not gone away because the guns have gone away. It is gone away because people who 20 years ago would have used those guns do not use them anymore. The fact is and the book tells the story the Boston Gun Project began with the idea that not traditional gun control but an attack on the illicit markets that were illegally providing guns to kids was the highvalue option here. That is the one idea I brought into the field with me. And we actually made a lot of progress on that. There turned out to be ways to identify those illicit markets ways to go after them. There was something in the Clinton years built on the insights out of the Boston work called the Youth Crime Gun Interdiction Initiative that took these new ideas about disrupting illegal gun markets to about 60 cities across the country. At the same time that simply turned out not to be the highvalue possibility. The voltage you get out of any of the approaches to gun control that anybody has tried is dramatically less than this other stuff this other unexpected stuff that it is turned out to be possible to do.  In the book you describe taking both of these approaches to reducing violence and opendrug markets to other cities with a lot of success. But there are also difficulties. There are places where it does not work. There was you know the distressing resurgence of murder rates in Boston after a period of time. And it seems to be that one of the lessons is that making this work is a management challenge. And I always tell people people do not realize how hard it is to manage in the public sector  whether civil service rules and political rivalries and union contracts and political pressures and budget constraints and you have got to get all these different parties the cops the parole officers the prosecutors focused  working from the same playbook. Not easy to do is it?  It is not easy to do. And it was particularly not easy to do at the beginning. Building the understanding in cities and in the different communities involved that this was worth taking seriously took creating a lot of facts on the ground. And during that kind of early time there is a horribly depressing litany of cities that made it work let it fall apart. They controlled their killing the killing came back and Boston is one of them. Boston is actually the best known of them. At the same time the record was building the credibility across cities was building that this actually was worth paying attention to and investing in. And the understanding grew that it has to be more than somebody's pet project  that it is worth making a city priority a police department priority a public management priority because it does pay off that well.  You know one of the signification things about these approaches to both stopping violence at eliminating openair drug sales is that it is  you write that it is not about locking people up; it is in fact about not locking them up. What is the significance of that?  The significance of that is in its way entire in a bunch of ways. So one is we have tried locking everybody up and at least in these neighborhoods it has not worked. And you know in some of these neighborhoods nearly all of the men have felony records. So A it has not worked. And B without meaning to we have ruined that community. No community can function when all of its men either are or have been locked up. So we destroy the community while we are trying to protect it. That fuels these angry historically oppressed community's conviction that we are deliberately trying to destroy them. It plays into these toxic racial narratives and to our real awful racial history. If we play against type  so if we not only stop doing this damage in the neighborhood if there is a different way to stop the crime and the violence without locking people up not only do we not do that unintended damage but we show the neighborhood that what it thinks of the cops and the outside is wrong and taking the crime seriously while also taking seriously that we have to stop locking everybody up tells the community a new story and that releases enormous good things.  Well I want to wish you the best of luck. David Kennedy thanks so much for speaking with us.  My thanks to you.  David Kennedy's book Do not Shoot is now out in paperback. Coming up Ken Tucker reviews the new album from Cody ChesnuTT. This is FRESH AIR.  