 A new film adaptation of John le Carre's famous spy novel Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy opens next month starring Gary Oldman. It is one of eight film adaptations of le Carre novels. Many critics including our own John Powers believe that the finest of all the le Carre adaptations was the version of Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy made by the BBC in 1979. It is just been rereleased on DVD and John has a review.  When I was 12 I was hooked on James Bond both Ian Fleming's elegantly pulpy novels and the cartoonish movies they spawned. One day my friend's older brother who went to Harvard tossed a paperback onto my lap and said here's the real thing kid. The book was The Spy Who Came in from the Cold the 1963 thriller by John le Carre. I opened it expecting a racier version of what I found in 007  you know Asian thugs with steelrimmed bowlers gorgeous women as sweetly pliable as taffy. What I got was a dankly bitter tale of betrayal ending at the Berlin Wall. I hated it. It was just too sophisticated for the adolescent me. You see le Carre was not merely a better writer than Fleming but a reaction against him. Where 007 fought amusingly acronymed groups like re conjured a Cold War hall of mirrors in which spy craft was not about knife fights and hot sex but about gambits and machinations in which it was hard to tell the good guys from the bad. His masterpiece was 1974's Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy  not merely the greatest spy novel ever written but the source of a 1979 BBC adaptation that is the greatest spy show ever made. In anticipation of a new film version coming out in a few weeks  the story you see is irresistible  the series has just been released on DVD along with its sequel Smiley's People. Watching again I found it every bit as gripping as the first three times I watched it. The great Alec Guinness stars as George Smiley an honorable spy chief who is been ousted after a shakeup in British intelligence known as The Circus. But once it becomes clear that there is a mole or double agent high up in The Circus Smiley is brought back to catch him. He does this in the old school preGoogle way by sifting through papers and questioning anyone who might be involved all in a style that is unsettlingly calm. Here he begins to interview Toby Esterhase played by Bernard Hepton the Hungarian board head of the socalled Lamplighters a branch of the service in charge of covert internal security.    How are your children Toby?   Doing terribly well thank you George.   The boy's at Westminster. Have I got that right? Your daughter's probably left school by now has she?   First year medical student. Loves it.   Good for her. Toby I have to ask you this. Sorry at the common prying. Your department's a long way behind with its worksheets  two months almost. Now why is that? It is not Lamplighter style.   Well we are not infallible George. Two months. Well I will not question it. Is it terribly important? Of course if you say it is then I will see it is dealt with of course.   The question is why Toby. Let me be blunt.   Not your style George.  No. Bluntness is not Smiley's thing. He is like the world's greatest poker player all quiet observation laconic dialogue and unreadable reactions. As played by Guinness a master of the ambiguous smile Smiley exudes a melancholy kindness that may not be kind and a knowledge of human frailty that is profound yet not profound enough to keep his own wife from cheating on him. When le Carre first became famous he was celebrated for being so realistic yet his fictional world is actually every bit as mythological as Fleming's. It is just subtler. In fact Tinker Tailor offers the seductive fantasy of entering a secret world one imagined with alluring richness. We breathe a conspiratorial mental atmosphere in which every single word might be important. And we encounter an ohsoproper bureaucracy in which the deadliest snakes are not the Soviets but the colleagues slithering around your office. Here even the most devout patriot will be sacrificed by his own side in the great chess game of Cold War politics. Like millions of others I cannot get enough of this stuff but for a while it all but vanished. You see le Carre's brand of espionage tale was rooted in the Cold War which offered the neatness of two opposed sides facing off. When communism collapsed so did the contemporary spy novel. The West lacked a clearly defined enemy. Happily for spy stories though not for the world it has one again in radical Islam. And almost predictably we have begun seeing le Carretinged espionage stories like Showtime's current series Homeland in which Claire Danes plays a CIA agent who does not quite trust anyone not even her own bosses and PBS's Page Eight starring the wonderful British actor Bill Nighy as a canny old spy who stumbles upon volatile knowledge he would sooner not know. I can recommend both. Yet truthfully neither can rival Tinker Tailor an almost perfect fantasy for those of us less thrilled by jetski chases than by the exposure of what lies hidden. In fact what makes le Carre's spy stories so primally gripping is that at bottom they are not actually about espionage. They are about secrets and lies and shifting identities which is to say that they are a metaphor for our own daily lives  except of course that Smiley's story is really really exciting.  John Powers reviews film and TV for Vogue and vogue.com. Page Eight starring Bill Nighy will air on PBS this Sunday and Nighy will be our guest tomorrow on FRESH AIR. Coming up rock historian Ed Ward reviews a new collection that includes six hours of sessions from the UNIDENTIFIED MAN ' famous unreleased album Smile. This is FRESH AIR. 