 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. The new movie Bohemian Rhapsody stars my guest Rami Malek as Freddie Mercury the lead singer and songwriter of Queen. The title of the film comes from the title of one of their most famous songs.    Mama just killed a man put a gun against his head pulled my trigger. Now he is dead. Mama life had just begun but now I have gone and thrown it all away. Mama ooh  did not mean to make you cry. If I am not back again this time tomorrow carry on. Carry on 'ecause nothing really matters.  Queen's biggest hits were in the '70s and early '80s like Bohemian Rhapsody We Will Rock You We Are The Champions and Another One Bites The Dust but those records have endured beyond their time on the charts. We Will Rock You and We Are The Champions became popular chants at stadium sports events. Freddie Mercury was a very theatrical performer with a big personality. He died of complications related to AIDS in 1991. Rami Malek's performance as Freddie Mercury is a big contrast to his starring role in the TV series Mr. Robot as a withdrawn hacker with social anxiety disorder. Let us start with a scene from Bohemian Rhapsody. It is 1975 and Freddie Mercury and the members of Queen are in the office of a record executive played by Mike Myers talking about the record they are about to release. Freddie Mercury speaks first.    We call the album A Night At The Opera.   Are you aware that no one actually likes opera?   I like opera.   Do you?   I do.   No. Do not misunderstand darling. It is a rock 'n' roll record with the scale of opera the pathos of Greek tragedy the wit of Shakespeare the unbridled joy of musical theater. It is a musical experience rather than just another record. Something for everyone. Something  something that will make people feel belongs to them. We will mix genres. We will cross boundaries. We will  we will speak in bloody tongues if we want to.  Rami Malek welcome to FRESH AIR. It is so much fun to watch you as Freddie Mercury. How did you get the part of Freddie Mercury? Did you ask to audition or were you invited?  I was invited which just feels like a very rare thing especially when you are auditioning for someone as magnificent and iconic as Freddie Mercury. I was still shooting Mr. Robot and the producers Graham King and Denis O'Sullivan called me out to Los Angeles. And I knew what the meeting was about so I started watching as much archival footage as possible. Sat down in their office and about five six hours later I left that office being told that I had the job. It is something that I did not quite believe driving back home but I guess as it panned out I did.  Was singing part of your audition?  It ended up being part of that audition. I warned them I was not a singer. I told them I do not play the piano. What I do when I am out on the dance floor could be considered something having to do with rhythm but probably not.  .  I ended up flying myself out to London because I wanted to be prepared. It was never officially greenlit yet at this point and I started practicing everything  singing piano. I started working with a movement coach because I knew that one day we were going to do a proof of concept which means they were going to take me to Abbey Road and film me singing as Freddie. And they had a camera on me as well. So they wanted to see my physical interpretation as well. So I had to sing to prove that at some point in the future whatever I was doing would sync up to the way Freddie sang. Eventually I do not think anybody really wanted to hear my voice as much as they would love to hear Mr. Mercury's.  Yeah. All the music credits in the movie you know at the end of the credits are attributed to Queen. So you sang as you were filming but the music that we are hearing is actually Freddie Mercury and Queen?  It is actually an amalgamation. I will say the large majority of it is Freddie Mercury. I went out every day and sang at the top of my lungs because that is the only way to match what he is doing. He is giving everything 110 percent always. And in order to sync it up properly they used bits of my voice in the beginning. It will lead in with my voice and then pick up for the majority using Freddie Mercury's voice. And you know tops and tails as you call it. And what I quickly realized was no one can sing like Freddie Mercury and nor can I. It is very difficult to get my voice up to those high notes and at some point my voice breaks and it breaks pretty quickly when I am trying to ascend what Freddie Mercury can do.  There is actually a scene where you are at the piano singing a sketch of Bohemian Rhapsody and your voice breaks. Is any of that you?  Yes. Some of that is actually me. We have an incredible sound engineer named Paul Massey on there who found ways to I think deceive all of us. But yeah there are parts that are me. I think the parts that break yes that would be considered  Rami Malek.  . Should we just hear that bit? .  Sure.  OK. Let us know if you can tell which part is you. OK?  You got it.  So this is a scene from the movie Bohemian Rhapsody where Rami Malek as Freddie Mercury is at the piano in his living room singing Bohemian Rhapsody.    Goodbye everybody. I have got to go got to leave you all behind and face the truth. Mama ooh. I do not want to die. I sometimes wish I would never been born at all.  OK. So the final note  his or yours voice breaks. What are we hearing?  Gosh. The majority of that is obviously Freddie Mercury but somehow they found a way to put me in there. And I cannot  I really cannot tell you. It feels so seamless to me and that is I think one of the greatest aspects of this film is even I watch it and I can not tell. Now I just want to reiterate that the majority of this I mean so much of it is Freddie's voice. And I would never want to ever step in and pretend that I lent myself to so much of this.  So now that you have taken singing lessons are you more comfortable singing?  No. No. I say I am more comfortable dancing and more comfortable being on stage. I enjoy the piano now. I find it meditative. At one point I play it upside down in the film. And I thought of all the challenges you are giving me here here comes page 20. And the stage directions say now Freddie plays Bohemian Rhapsody upside down. And I thought come on. Give a guy a break.  Did you not play at all when you started?  No. I would never played a piano never touched a piano. I had to learn the guitar as well for Crazy Little Thing Called Love which did not make it into the film. But everything was  it was like going to a conservatory of music every day. One hour two hours spent singing two hours of piano four hours in movement and choreography. It was fascinating. It felt like going back to school.  So what can you play on your own now?  Only Bohemian Rhapsody and We Are The Champions.  .  I noodle every once in a while.  .  So I will call those original works.  . Let me reintroduce you. If you are just joining us my guest is Rami Malek and he stars as Freddie Mercury in the new Queen movie Bohemian Rhapsody. He also stars in the series Mr. Robot. We are going to take a short break then we will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Rami Malek and he stars as Freddie Mercury in the new movie about Queen called Bohemian Rhapsody. He also stars in the series the TV series Mr. Robot. So Bohemian Rhapsody is bookended by  basically like a reproduction of the famous Queen performance at Live Aid in 1985. And for people who do not remember or were not alive then that was this huge benefit concert in 1985 for the benefit of people suffering from the famine in Ethiopia. And your performance  there were multiple stages for this. The Queen  I said your performance. The Queen performance was in Wembley Stadium in London to an audience of 72000 people. So you as Freddie Mercury had to reproduce that performance. Now anyone can see that performance on YouTube. It is easy to see so I know you had no problem watching the actual Live Aid performance which is considered one of the great performances in rock history. So I am sure you must have studied it move by move including learning Freddie Mercury's microphone technique 'ecause he  he would basically be handed the mic on the stand but not on the bass. So it was just like the pole with the mic on it and then he would use that as a prop you know strutting around on stage and using it as a  you know strumming it like it was a guitar putting it across his groin as if it were a large phallus you know all the rock tricks . So talk to us about like studying Freddie Mercury during the Live Aid concert and also like how he used the microphone.  Well I walked around London for about two months with this halfmic and I think now...  Wait. Now I am going stop you. When you say halfmic does that mean like the pole with the mic on it. Like the...  Correct yeah.  You walked around with the mic on it.  Yeah. I walked around with the mic attached to it. I just never wanted to lose focus of what I was doing and that was a very constant reminder. Sometimes I would tuck the microphone into my backpack but otherwise you just look like you are walking around with a piece of metal. And that is quite scary these days.  Yes. It looks like a weapon.  Exactly. So I kept the mic on it just to remind people hey I am not out to hurt anyone. It was the first thing we shot Live Aid. Day 1  we came out and it was  it is that massive crane shot that goes through the audience and comes right up around the piano and opens to Freddie Mercury myself playing him singing Bohemian Rhapsody. And talk about a baptism by fire. I had never worked that hard in my life on one particular piece of filming. Every day I spent hours with a movement teacher named Polly Bennett. And I always wanted to keep it very spontaneous but at the same time honor this fantastic performance that he and Queen gave. And it is like you said there are things he does with that microphone that defy what the mere mortal can do. He whips around with it with you know violence at times with elegance. He uses it as the air guitar sometimes right in front of one of the greatest guitar players of all time Brian May. So as Brian May is crushing it on guitar here is Freddie Mercury airguitaring. And it is still a magnificent thing to watch. It is so compelling and only he could get away with that.  So I was wondering when you are on stage first of all did you film the Live Aid concert at Wembley? And were there 72000 people in the audience? Was that like footage from the actual concert that was like put in in a seamless way to make it look like you were performing to the audience that was actually there in 1985? Was this CGI? Like what was the setting? Who was actually there?  Wembley does not exist at that point. There is a new Wembley Stadium.  Oh it does not even exist.  It does not exist. We recreated it on an airfield just outside London. And we did bring in fans  actors  to be Queen fans who actually were Queen fans. And I thought oh that is terrific. We will have a lot of support. But at one point I thought well what if I do not live up to their expectations? This could be the worst thing. Maybe we should have just got people who have never heard of Queen and I could have given them a great show. So everything felt daunting from that perspective.  .  We did have at some point thousands of background actors there supporting actors but never of course 72000. That would have taken up the entire budget to be able to do something like that. And logistically it would have been impossible.  You know it takes guts if you are Freddie Mercury and you are performing in front of an audience of 72000 people in this huge stadium and you are starting your set by sitting at the piano alone playing a few chords that everybody knows and that they are already going crazy because of that and then you start singing solo for a while before the band comes in. Did the confidence wear off on you? I do not know how confident you are as Rami Malek but did you become more confident embracing your Rami Malek self after having embraced Freddie Mercury's confidence?  There was a moment where I stepped on stage in a sequined leotard that leaves nothing to the imagination. And at one point I said listen. If you are going to play a man who rocked this thing out like nobody's business and made everything his own and spontaneously combusted in the most magnificent way onstage you better own this. And I will tell you by the end of shooting we came to another concert sequence and I asked Julian Day the costume designer  I said you know the sequined leotard? He said yes. I said do you think you can make that for me in ruby red?  .  And he laughed and he looked at me and said well we have come a long way have not we?   Another thing we should mention is your teeth. He had  what?  four extra teeth in his upper mouth. And he had you know very bucked teeth as a result. And so you had fake teeth that you used made for you by a famous like Hollywood prosthetic teeth designer. What was it like for you to wear them? Like how did it change your feeling of your mouth and your ability to talk and sing? 'ecause like not only did you have to sing you know for the performance  even though they were not necessarily going to use your voice you still had to sing. And so you are doing something you are not used to doing singing and you are doing it with teeth that are not even yours.  Yes. The teeth were difficult to get used to in the beginning. Initially I put them in my mouth a year prior to shooting and immediately felt insecure. I felt like I was on my back foot in a way. I did not feel like myself which did help me quite a bit. But it was a feeling of insecurity that I had to cover them up as well. And I would been watching so much footage of him. You see him covering up his teeth so often that I thought how am I ever going to do that? Well as soon as those teeth went in it was second nature. I found myself covering them up so often my lips would dry up so I found myself licking my lips as he did. But another thing happened. I started to compensate physically by holding my posture better elongating my body sitting up very straight. And that is something you also see him do. And I do not know if that was something that affected him or he was born with the elegance that he has. But it did give me a way into understanding a little bit more about him. His name is originally Farrokh Bulsara and he was not even called that as a kid. A very strong set of buck teeth  and most of the kids in school called him Buckie . So you see this young man who travels from Zanzibar and goes to a boarding school called St. Peter's in India. He travels there on a ship. He feels very I think removed and isolated. And when he comes back to Zanzibar his country is in the midst of a revolution. They have to immigrate to London. And he is a young man at that point feels like a fish out of water in the 1970s trying to identify himself sexually as well. I mean so much stands in the way of this man becoming who he is. And what I discovered was there is something burning inside of him. This dream that he wants to see realized this music that is so vibrant and yearning to exist outside of him. And everything stands in his way. But when he gets out on a stage he holds everyone's attention and says hey. I may have been an outcast and a misfit. And I may feel like I do not belong. But here on this stage we belong together.  My guest is Rami Malek who stars in the new movie Bohemian Rhapsody as Freddie Mercury. After we take a short break we will talk more about playing Freddie Mercury. And we will talk about starring in Mr. Robot. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.    I have taken my bows and my curtain calls. You brought me fame and fortune and everything that goes with it. I thank you all. But it is been no bed of roses no pleasure cruise. I consider it a challenge before the whole human race and I as not gonna lose. We are the champions my friends. And we will keep on fighting till the end. We are the champions. We are the champions. No time for losers 'ecause we are the champions of the world. We are the champions my friends. And we will keep on fighting till the end. We are the champions...  This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Let us get back to my interview with Rami Malek who plays Freddie Mercury in the new Queen biopic Bohemian Rhapsody. Malek also stars in the TV series Mr. Robot. Freddie Mercury was born in Zanzibar and grew up there and in India before his family immigrated to England. Rami Malek is American the son of Egyptian immigrants. When we left off he was talking about trying to understand and convey who Freddie Mercury was.  I had to demystify him somehow. And the way to do that was looking at his background. And I thought to myself here's a young man immigrated to a country defied all obstacles to do what he loved. And that was one thing that I could understand. Not to compare myself to him in any way shape or form but I am a firstgeneration American. My family came from Egypt and sought a better life for their children in the U.S. And you know obviously like so many people they would have loved for us to be doctors and lawyers. My sister is a doctor so she fulfilled that aspect. But it was very difficult to convince anyone that I wanted to do this and that I could do this.  Did you feel like you were going to be letting them down if you failed?  that they came here  I do not know if you were already born when they came here. But still they probably knew they would be having you know children or more children. And often with immigrants the idea is it is for their children. So if you failed as an actor would you have been letting them down? Did you feel guilty for even trying for an acting career?  It is a good question. Yeah. I did feel a bit guilty. And the only way to compensate for that was just to give it my all. There was one moment I was in my apartment that we were living in  four of us in a twobedroom apartment. And I was  I would wake up early. I was just  I was sleeping in the living room at that point. And I had a stack of manila envelopes. And every morning I would get up and put my head shot and resume in the manila envelopes. And I remember my father one day standing next to my mom saying you have a very tenacious son. And I do not think that he knows that I heard him but I heard that and it gave me that extra boost I needed to just keep going. I would take those manila envelopes  I was delivering pizza  I would put them  glue them or tape them to every pizza box I would send out. I would keep them behind the register of the fastfood restaurant I would be working at. And if anyone even producorial came in they were getting a head shot and resume in their togo bag.  Did you deliver pizzas to like famous producers or directors?  I did get an audition out of it once and I thought...  Seriously? Really?  I did. Yeah I did. It was for a commercial and still kept in touch with that person who gave me the audition.  Did you get the commercial?  I did not no.  What was it for?  It was for MM's.  Wow.  I will tell you this. One day I did get a call. I got a call from Mara Casey who was a casting director for the Gilmore Girls. And she asked to speak with Rami Malek's agent and I said speaking. And she said well can I talk to  about Rami Malek coming in and  for a role on the Gilmore Girls? And I said yeah. And she said and who am I speaking with? I said this is he. And she said you do not have an agent do you? And I go no but we can work on that. And she started laughing and she said well are you SAG? Are you part of the Screen Actors Guild? And I said as of yet no but that is something else we can work on as well. And she kept laughing and she is like listen. You are cute. Call me when you get representation. And I said listen. We are doing all right. We are having a good time. I see that the scene has only three lines. And how about giving a guy a break? And if you are laughing now chances are I might have you laughing in the room. And she took a few seconds and she said you know what kid? Come on in. I could not believe it. I could not believe it. And I went in on that day and later on that night I had had a callback for that show. And in between that one of these manila envelopes that I had been stuffing sending to every agent in Los Angeles happened to call me in between the audition and the callback. And the confluence of the things that happened on that day still defy me to have any explanation for them. But it was a very profoundly successful day.  So you got the Gilmore Girls part right?  I got the part the next day.  Well if you are just joining us my guest is Rami Malek and he stars as Freddie Mercury in the new Queen movie Bohemian Rhapsody. He also stars in Mr. Robot. We are going to talk about Mr. Robot in a minute. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is Rami Malek and he stars in the new Queen movie as Freddie Mercury and he also stars in the TV series Mr. Robot. Let us talk a little bit about Mr. Robot. Now in this you are somebody who has serious mental health issues serious social problems. It is very hard for you to be with people. You are very withdrawn. You literally withdraw into your hoodie most of the time. And you are a hacker by night but you are like a tech worker during the day. In the opening episode of Season 1 you walk into a coffee shop Ron's Coffee shop and you sit down with the owner. And you start talking to the owner of the shop. Let us listen to that scene.    You are Ron but your real name is Rohit D'Temeta. You changed it to Ron when you bought your first Ron's Coffee shop six years ago. Now you got 17 of them with eight more coming next quarter.   May I help you with something?   I like coming here 'ecause your WiFi was fast. I mean you are one of the few spots that has a fiber connection with gigabit speed. It is good. I mean it is so good it scratched that part of my mind the part that does not allow good to exist without condition. So I started intercepting all the traffic on your network. That is when I noticed something strange. That is when I decided to hack you.   Hack...   I know you run a website called Plato's Boys.   Pardon me?   You are using Tor networking to keep the servers anonymous. You made it really hard for anyone to see it. But I saw it. The onion routing protocol it is not as anonymous as you think it is. Whoever is in control of the exit nodes is also in control of the traffic which makes me the one in control.   I must ask you to kindly leave.   I own everything  all your emails all your files all your pics.   Get out of here right now or I will call the...   Police. You want them to find out about 100 terabytes of child pornography your serve to your 400000 users? Personally man I was hoping it was just going to be some BDSM stuff. You realize how much simpler that would have been.   I did not hurt anyone  never did. And that is my personal life.   I understand what it is like to be different. I am very different too.  That might sound like an expression of sympathy.   But right after that Rami Malek's character is offered money by the coffee shop owner to cover this up. And Elliot Rami Malek's character the hacker says that he does not care about money. And it turns out he is tipped off the police. And as he gets up to leave the coffee shop the police get out of their cars. And they start walking in to bust the coffee shop owner. It is a great scene and it kind of hooks you right at that  right in Episode 1. How did you get the part of Mr. Robot? You were not very wellknown at the time. I mean Mr. Robot is really what made you wellknown.  Correct. That  I got the part actually auditioning with that very scene. Sam Esmail who is the creator of Mr. Robot had seen me do a mini series that was from Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks called The Pacific. And at some point I came in with another hundred actors or so. And I did my best and kept coming in and coming in until finally I did a network test. And I got the role. And I never thought that I would be the lead character in any show. And this proved me wrong.  How did you prepare yourself to play someone who is a brilliant hacker but also has serious mental health problems and a very very deep sadness and loneliness? I am even wondering if you talked to therapists not about your own mental health issues but about his.  I did. I ended up reaching out to a psychologist named Jenny Maury . And I asked her if there was any way we could have sessions where we would talk about Elliot Alderson and let us talk about schizophrenia. Let us talk about dissociative disorder. Let us talk about social anxiety. And you know I never quite knew exactly what Elliot was dealing with to start off so I wanted to cover all the bases. I read books on schizophrenia. I read books on everything. I watched anything I could get my hands on of someone who was dealing with any of these issues. And I just  I tried to absorb as much as I could. And she was incredibly helpful to the point where Sam and I would have conversations and I had so much insight into it. He would ask me how are you so informed on this? And I told him I have been talking to a psychologist who deals with this all the time. And after a while he said could I have her phone number?  .  And I said sure. And eventually she was brought on as a consultant for the show.  Oh that is great. That is great. What has it been like to stay in Elliot's mind for several years in his like you know depressed anxious social anxiety kind of mind?  Well the first season was so fullon that it was taxing. I am not going to lie. There were many many hours spent in that mind frame. And it is a very isolated lonely place to be. He is an incredibly complicated character. He is griefstricken. He is profoundly alienated. He has an incredibly difficult time talking to people even being physically close to people having any sort of I think quote unquote normal relationship. He spends so much time viewing the world from behind a monitor and keyboard. But at the same time he is able to have some sort of resilience and perseverance to go out and say I want to change the status quo. I want to change the world we live in. And in fact I want to go one step further. I want to save the world. And those things in and of themselves when you bridge them together make for such a complex life that it is difficult every night to walk away from that and jump back into my own shoes.  So since he hides under his hoodie whenever he is in public I am wondering if you have gotten interesting responses either from hackers  because he is a hacker  from people with mental health issues or from hoodie manufacturers?  Before we did the pilot I just walked around the streets of New York with my head down and the hoodie on. And I said to our costume designer early on I want an outfit that if you are surveilling him from above or anywhere he can put his head down and blend into the concrete. And that was the way I approached preparing for him at some points. I would go into elevators and I remember trying to identify where the cameras were. And for days I wanted to see if I could go undetected and not have any human contact with anyone. And that takes quite a toll on you. But it does make you aware of how much we are being watched in the world.  Well if you are just joining us my guest is Rami Malek. And he stars in the new Queen movie as Freddie Mercury. And he also stars in the series Mr. Robot. We are going to take a short break then we will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is Rami Malek and he stars in the new Queen movie called Bohemian Rhapsody as Freddie Mercury. And he also stars in the TV series Mr. Robot. So your parents are Coptic Christians who emigrated from Egypt. Most Americans do not know anything about Coptic Christians. Were there other children of immigrants in your neighborhood? Did you live in a Coptic community in LA?  I went to Coptic church as a child and that is about a threetofourhour service which was in a language I did not understand. I speak and understand Arabic but there is a Coptic language that was very foreign to me. I remember the smell of incense being overpowering. I remember sitting with the men on one side and seeing the women sit on the other side and understanding that this was a world that was very foreign to the second I exited and was in  living in the San Fernando Valley surrounded by such a diverse culture. We grew up surrounded by a Latin community a Filipino community AfricanAmericans everything Asians. There was everything around me. And so I felt diversity but then there was also this feeling of a world that I was estranged from in this Coptic community that my parents were very involved in; also went to Catholic school at one point. So I could not quite wrap my head around everything that was happening so quickly to me in terms of the world I lived in and the faith I was  I do not  will not say imposed upon me but something that you know...  Born into.  Born into yes.  Did you have a hard time explaining to your fellow students in Catholic school that you were not Catholic?  That is a very good question. Yes I did. Yeah. I did not know how to explain that when it came time to do confession I was not going to be participating in that. I had a lot of explaining to do I felt as a kid. You know I was born here but my brother and I really did not speak English till about 4 or 5. So it was quite difficult to assimilate. I mean my name seems very easy to pronounce this day and age  not for everybody. But at that time for the first you know 10 years of my life no one pronounced my name as Rami. So it was very difficult I think forming a sense of identity. And perhaps that is why I gravitated to creating so many of my own in my own private moments of creating characters as a kid.  Did people think your name was Raymi ?  They thought it rhymed with Sammy so Sammy and Rammy  and it took...  Oh because your brother's Sammy.  Correct. And it only took me till high school where I found the confidence to tell everybody no my name is Rami.  Oh so you were known as Rammy for years.  Yeah it is a very upsetting thing to think about that I did not have the confidence to correct anyone at that point.  Did your parents speak English when you were growing up?  Mostly Arabic but yes quite a bit of English. My dad was very extremely wellread. And yeah my mom and dad