 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Why is religion still around in the 21st century? Why look to ancient texts beliefs and practices in an age when scientists have made so many breakthroughs about the nature and origin of the universe? These are questions religion scholar Elaine Pagels has spent a lot of time thinking about. The questions became deeply personal during a long period of grieving. Her life was shattered by the death of her son Mark at the age of 6 1/2 following a long illness. In 1988 just over a year after what she thought was the worst loss she could imagine her husband Heinz Pagels a theoretical physicist and the executive director of the New York Academy of Sciences died in a mountain climbing accident. Her new book Why Religion? A Personal Story combines memoir and biblical scholarship to reflect on how she found faith and lost it but turned to ancient Jewish and Christian texts and the meditation she was taught by Trappist monks to comprehend her feelings of guilt anger and unceasing grief and to try to survive long enough to move beyond it. Pagels is a professor of religion at Princeton University and is best known for her writings on the gnostic gospels the Christian texts that were omitted from the canon because they were considered heretical. Elaine Pagels welcome to FRESH AIR. I think your book will especially resonate with anyone who is lost a loved one which is most people. But at this time I think it is also especially relevant because American Jews were just slaughtered at their synagogue. AfricanAmericans in 2015 slaughtered at their church. Children have been massacred in their schools along with some of their teachers. And I think as a country we are looking right now for a sense of meaning in this personal and collective suffering that we are going through and for a sense of comprehension about what is going on. And since your book is in part about the search for meaning when you are suffering what have you been thinking about in terms of the collective grief that we are going through as a country right now?  All of us have been feeling the tremendous vulnerability of living in a country in which atrocities happen hatreds have been ripped open people have been violated and killed and harmed in ways that we had not imagined could happen again in this country and of course throughout the world. So I had to open up the story to a much wider story to think about how do human beings cope with the terrible vulnerabilities we face? But I have been thinking about this a long time  not just about the meaning and suffering  because I did not want to write just a grief memoir. There are a lot of those. I wanted to write about how hearts can heal you know how we recover from things like that. What you mention  these acts of violence made me well aware all the time I was writing that I have never had to deal with that. I have never dealt with that. I dealt with accident and illness and the losses that came but I think that people who deal with violent killing  it is an order of magnitude greater. It is very painful to think about.  So your book is in part like we said about the search for meaning when you are suffering. And as you point out you are a historian of religion. You look at how cultures have dealt with things like suffering and loss. But could you turn to a specific religion for the things you needed when you lost your son and then your husband?  At the time of mourning I could not look to anything very much that was a tradition like that. They seemed quite remote. What I could turn to were friends and music and nature  and eventually look at the traditions that are most familiar to me which are Jewish Christian and Buddhist now that I am teaching a class on Buddhism with a colleague whose specialty is Tibetan Buddhism.  You write many of us have left religious institutions behind and prefer to identify as spiritual not religious. You say I have done both had faith and lost it joined groups and left them. To my own surprise I went back wanting to understand what happened and to explore the stories poetry music and art that make up religious traditions. You grew up in a secular family and you write religion actually made your father angry. Why?  Yes it made him angry because he would been raised by fiercely Presbyterian parents who apparently talked a great deal about hell and damnation and he wanted to get out of that as soon as he could. So when he heard about Darwin he just abandoned the whole ship and said that is for people who are not educated not people like us. So he wanted to distance himself from that became a scientist and said this is the way to find truth.  Did you grow up a skeptic about religion?  I did not grow up a skeptic. The family was culturally Protestant. So sometimes my mother took us to a Methodist Church which seemed to me wellmeaning and basically fairly boring  that particular church. And it did not have an enormous impact. What I find now is that these traditions  these powerful thousandyearold traditions  multi thousands of years  are very deep and they appeal to us very viscerally. And when they do they are quite extraordinary. When I first experienced it like that I thought that is astonishing and fell into it but I did not want to be simply captured by the emotional intensity of that experience because that can trap you into a particular shall we say ideology that I found too confining.  Well you were born again at the age of 15 after some friends convinced you  you were living in Palo Alto and some friends convinced you to go to San Francisco with them to hear Billy Graham as part of his crusade for Christ. What year do you think that was?  That was marvelous. It was at the end of the '50s I think. I was a teenager and I did not know what I was getting into. I just thought it might be interesting. And I found it enormously powerful. And that was a big surprise. And of course as you say it it really made my parents horrified when they heard that I had actually jumped right in.  You joined the other side.   Well born again  I mean that was probably their worst nightmare  evangelical Christianity. What I realized is that there is a great deal of power in that kind of conviction that Billy Graham expressed that was articulated through the music. There were 18000 people in Candlestick Park which is a sports arena. It was an overpowering experience. And Billy Graham to my surprise was talking about the United States in a way that I had never heard. So that struck me deeply.  What did he say that struck you like that?  Well first of all he said that what he preached was going to be  sound very strange to intellectuals and academics. And that is the world I grew up in because my father was in that world. And it really did. He first of all denounced America for driving its most brilliant sons  of course then he only thought of men doing this  into the sciences to build bigger nuclear weapons. And this is only decades after Hiroshima and Nagasaki. So I was stunned because I had been brought up to think well you know science is the way to find you know understanding. And America is the gold standard of moral rightness. And to hear him talk about America about nuclear weapons used against the Japanese about slavery and segregation I was totally hooked because I would never heard anyone speak that way and it sounded accurate.  And were there spiritual things that he said that spoke to you as well?  Yes. He also appealed completely to somebody who just turned 15. He said now you can have a new life. You can be born again. You can break out of the confines of the world you live in  for me that was suburban Palo Alto  and sort of break into a new universe a much larger canvas and you know find a new family. And I thought wow. I  that was an irresistible invitation.  So you know it is interesting that death tested your faith pretty soon. You know you were looking to art and music and poetry for a sense of larger meaning too.  Yes.  And a good friend of yours named Paul was a painter and he taught you about painting and you were very close. And then he was killed in a car crash. He was a passenger...  Yes.  ...In the car. And that tested your faith because of things that your fellow Christian friends said to you. What were some of those things?  Well it was not even they tested my faith. It  whatever that meant. I went back to my Evangelical friends. My friend Paul who was killed was 16 in high school. And when I went back to the evangelical church my friends were very sympathetic and they said oh that is terrible. Was he born again? And I said no he was Jewish. And then they looked at me stunned and said well then he is in hell. And I thought what? That has nothing to do with what attracted me to this kind of community this kind of conviction  God loves you all of that. It has nothing to do with that. It is antithetical. And I felt completely alone walked out of there and never went back.  Did you want to find another church after that or did you just give up?  No . No because I felt that they were all selling different brands of a certain product which could get caught in particular shapes and that they wanted to sort of force people to think a certain way. And I was not having it at that time Terry.  So a little detour here because this is the part of your story that intersects with Jerry Garcia. And I thought what? Elaine Pagels knew Jerry Garcia before he was in The Grateful Dead? That just kind of shocked me. So...  .  ...Was he in that car accident?  Yes. He had been in Palo Alto playing music hanging out at various places  Ken Kesey's house up in Los Trancos Woods and in town. And he was older than the rest of us. But those of us in high school who knew that group were fascinated. He was a brilliant guitarist and he taught us all kinds of music we never heard of. So I did not know him very closely but he was very much a part of that group. When Paul my friend was killed in a car crash it was coming from a party where Jerry and Alan Trist who was his  later his business manager were in the car as well as two other people. And Jerry was actually thrown out of the windshield. And Alan I think broke his back or he had a terrible accident. And so we became after that rather close friends because we spent time together after the accident with a couple of other friends who had known each other before.  You speculate in the book that The Grateful Dead was named in part because he survived this car crash. And you know Paul did not. Do you have any evidence that that really was the source of the name of the band?  Yes. I did speculate that. It seemed obvious to me. And then later I read something about it. I never  I did not see him after that I mean after he formed the group. That was years later. But I saw in a biography about the group that he said that accident woke him up and made him realize he did not have endless time. And he had to get serious. And so the name of the group as I understand it came from that accident.  OK. Let us take a break here. And then we will talk some more. If you are just joining us my guest is Elaine Pagels. Her new book is called Why Religion? A Personal Story. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is religion scholar and professor at Princeton University Elaine Pagels. Her new book is called Why Religion? A Personal Story. So a question that you have always had  and this question kind of resounds throughout your book  is why does religion continue to exist? With all we know about science now why does religion exist? And what do we want from it? It is not a question that you can answer in the course of an interview. But along those same lines you know you are a historian of religion. So whether you practice a specific religion or not you are immersed in the text of Judaism Christianity. Now you are teaching Buddhism as well.  Well I am coteaching...  Coteaching it. OK.  Yeah.  You are...  I would not teach it alone.  Yeah. Your late husband Heinz Pagels was a theoretical physicist and studied chaos theory. Can you...  Yes.  ...Talk about some of the similarities and differences between how you approached similar questions about the workings of the world and finding meaning in life?  him from his point of view as a theoretical physicist studying chaos theory and you from your point of view studying the great religious texts or at least...  That is...  ...Some of the great religious texts.  The question I started asking  after I would left that church for years I thought there is something powerful there that  what was it? Was it about Christianity? Was it about religion? What was it? A part of it Terry was a kind of emotionally charged imaginative language that is spoken in these traditions  you know?  and was not really spoken in my home. It was also based on the assumption that science was somehow equivalent to religion. Years later when I met Heinz he said to me why religion? Why do you do something that has no impact in the real world? And I said well why do you do elementary particles? And we sort of laughed and argued and realized that we were both looking for some fundamental way of understanding our experience. And what I came to see living with this wonderful scientist and wonderful man is that he understood that physics does not answer metaphysical questions. And religions are a different kind of paradigm an imaginative paradigm that talks about meaning in ways that scientists do not and cannot. And so these are complementary. I came to understand that. And that is one of the reasons that the religious traditions are not obsolete.  When you got to Harvard as a graduate student you found that your professors had facsimiles of the gnostic gospels. So rather than me explaining what those gospels are give us a brief explanation.  My professors had access to 51 ancient texts that we would never seen before. Actually they are Jewish. They are Christian. Some are Egyptian and Greek. They are all sacred texts. Many of them claimed to be gospels about Jesus or transcriptions of conversations he had with various disciples. So they offer a whole enormous resource of  range of voices about the early Christian movement and its environment culturally. So I began to look at these and we were told they were all heresy. They were called gnostic because that is the word that historians had coined for heretical texts that were rejected from what is now the New Testament.  And give us an example of something that you found in these gnostic texts that reoriented your sense of religion or gave you something to hold onto in terms of finding or creating meaning.  When I first read some of these texts the gospel of Thomas for example which claims to be secret teachings of Jesus I was stunned and delighted to read things like Jesus says if you bring forth what is within you what you bring forth will save you; if you do not bring forth what is within you what you do not bring forth will destroy you. And this was a very different sense of the teachings of Jesus. It is not about Jesus as Son of God and you know the coming of the end of time at all. It is a teaching basically that is an interpretation of the image in Genesis about everyone created in the image of God which means that all beings come forth from the same source from the divine light. There is another saying in which Jesus says I am the light that is before all things; I am all things; all things come forth from me; all things return to me; split a piece of wood and I am there; lift up a rock and you will find me. Now this is powerful  you might call it mystical teaching about the unity of the world coming from a divine energy before the beginning of time. It is not necessarily Christian. That was also stunning.  I want to get back to your personal story. You and your husband had a baby after trying to conceive and then fertility treatment. So you gave birth to a son but he was born with a serious heart problem that would require surgery after he reached the age of 1 and was strong enough to endure the surgery. The surgery seemed to go OK but you later discovered that he had another fatal problem pulmonary hypertension. You were told that that was fatal that it would eventually sooner or later lead to an early death. Your son died when he was 6 1/2. So for 6 1/2 years you loved your son knowing that he would not live long. And instead of planning for his future  when you looked into the future you saw his death. And when he died you felt guilty even though it sounds like you did everything to give him the maximum amount of love and care. Why do you think you felt guilty?  That is a good question because parents who are given a very difficult diagnosis about a child will do anything. And also physicians will do anything. They go to extreme lengths to deal with trying to treat a child with that kind of thing. And yet what I was reading at the time  I felt just in agony of course about this because it matters more to a parent than our own lives you know that our children survive. And yet there was nothing we could do. That sense of helplessness was almost intolerable. And I realized that I felt guilty about it. And yet at a certain critical point in my son's treatment I realized that the guilt was only masking something much deeper and much more painful than guilt. And what it was masking was the fact that we were helpless that there was nothing we could do. We had no input. As long as I felt guilty I felt well at least it is my fault or I have some agency in something that matters more to me than my own life. But if I have no agency I mean that is almost intolerable. And I realized that I would rather feel guilty than helpless. It is a choice I made unconsciously. And I think many people do because the feeling that we cannot do anything and we have no input is more than we can bear.  My guest is Elaine Pagels a professor of religion at Princeton University and author of the new book Why Religion? A Personal Story. We will talk more after a break and Lloyd Schwartz will review two art exhibitions one called Miraculous Encounters. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Elaine Pagels a professor of religion at Princeton University and author of the new book Why Religion? A Personal Story. It is about the death of her son Mark at the age of 6 and the death of her husband Heinz about a year later. To comprehend and survive the magnitude of her grief she meditated in the style she was taught by Trappist monks and turned to the ancient Hebrew and Christian texts she studies including the gnostic gospels the texts considered too heretical for inclusion in the Christian canon. One of her previous books was a bestseller devoted to the gnostic gospels. When we left off we were talking about the guilt she felt during her son's illness and after his death. We blame ourselves when we are suffering. Suffering feels like punishment like we are being punished for something. Did you go through that?  Oh yes. I mean I was reading anthropologists too. That quote that suffering feels like punishment comes from an anthropologist and then another who wrote about the accidental death of his young wife when they were working together in the Philippines. She also fell from a cliff and was killed. He talks about guilt and he says Western people raised in Jewish and Christian tradition in which say the story of Genesis says that we only die because Adam sinned. In other words humans are guilty. If we were not guilty we would not die. Now that is I think scientifically ridiculous. But psychologically  humans are guilty. If we were not guilty we would not die. Now that is I think scientifically ridiculous but psychologically it is rather powerful. And he said there is another response that this masks which is also anger. And he talked about that. So the turmoil of feelings is very complicated as anyone in that situation knows. And we had to struggle with it try to untangle it try to cope with it and then at  some way let it go.  After your son died some people said to you your faith must have sustained you. What was your reaction when people said that to you?  When people said that I thought I do not know what you are talking about. I have never felt further than anything they were calling faith then at a time of intense grief. That felt extremely remote to me. And I did wonder you know how can one go through this? How can one survive it? I was not certain that I could at all.  In the story of Jesus you know the story is that God sacrificed the life of his son. So put that in your words.  Well I remember after our son died I went to the Church of the Heavenly Rest in New York to talk to people there about the service that we would have. And I heard somebody preparing for Easter  it was right before Easter  talking about God so loved the world that he gave his only son to save the world from sin or something. And I just thought any god who did that would have to be crazy. I mean that does not make sense. Our only son had just died. How could one do that for any reason? Now I understand why it is said historically. I understand how it was put together that way. But it struck me as dissonant that this was somehow a sacrifice and something that would have been willed. What I found later in one of the secret texts from the discoveries in Upper Egypt with the gospel of Thomas was a text called the gospel of truth. And that one has a very different perspective. It does not see suffering as sort of ennobling as teaching you something as deepening your faith. I do not like to say good things about suffering. I do not like suffering. It is very painful. But this other text talks about suffering not as if it were some kind of wonderful state that can teach you a spiritual lesson. I think that kind of piety is very much overrated. Certainly it would have been for me. But rather this spoke about the fact that when people suffer there is a potential in that dreadful complex of experiences of grief to open up to other people in a deeper way that it can demonstrate our connection with all other people. And for me that is  that feels accurate. And I am grateful for that.  When you wanted that connection after your son died and then also after your husband died did you seek that fellowship in church or did you  just to get outside of church with friends with people who you were close to?  I sought it in any way possible. The monks at Snowmass monastery  it is a Trappist monastery. Father Thomas Keating who died this week was there.  Oh I am so sorry. You were close to him?  Yes. Yes. Thomas was there. And Father Joseph died last week too. He was the abbot. Those monks are Trappists. They do not do doctrine and dogma. I do not like doctrine and dogma as you can tell. They meditate. They pray. They work. And they seek a deeper communion with each other and with all being. And from them I learned a lot about meditation. So that was one way. There were also wonderful friends without whom I could not have survived. There was music and there were two babies that we had adopted who needed care. And that work difficult as it was at the time was probably very sustaining. When I came back to Princeton I could not teach at the time. I was incapable of the energy it took to do that. But I kept exploring and thinking and reflecting and musing on all the ways that these traditions like the stories of Job in the Hebrew Bible the stories of Jesus in the New Testament the stories of the Buddha  how these traditions explore and struggle with the questions of dealing with illness and death and loss. And those were also helpful. They became a kind of yoga. My work became a kind of yoga for me another way of finding a way through it.  Did you have a sense that like after you lost your son when he was 6 1/2 after he died from an illness that you would be kind of immune because like you were given like the horror that you had to suffer through and now you could like move on and face the future with a constant sense of grief but still  did you have the sense of like you were done you had been afflicted and lightning was not going to strike twice? Because it did strike twice. Like your husband died in...  Yeah.  ...In a mountain climbing accident just slightly over a year after your son died.  Absolutely. After our son died we felt that the worst thing we could imagine had happened. It was  the sword had fallen. Nothing worse could happen now. And so we went on with the two children we had. One was 3 months old and one was 2. And nothing could happen right? The horror was behind us. His accident was beyond any imagination. And that is when I thought it is unimaginable; how can I possibly survive this?  On the first anniversary of your husband's death you went to Colorado where he was killed in a mountain climbing accident and where you used to summer and you meditated with the Trappist monks who you would befriended there. And you say you used to have a tape loop in your mind of your husband falling from the cliff toward the rocks below. And that is where the tape would stop and then start over again. So you had this constant image of him falling toward the rocks but that is as far as the image went.  Yes.  But when you were meditating with the Trappist monks that image in your mind continued and you actually saw in your mind your husband hitting the rocks and a river of blood flowing. What do you think it was about meditating with the monks that furthered that image? And what was it like to live with that image as opposed to having it ending before the moment of impact?  That is a good question. That tape loop began as soon as I heard of the accident. It seemed to go  it seemed to flip through my imagination every few seconds and then every five seconds and maybe 10 or 20. By a year later it was less frequent but it was often there. When I went into the chapel with Theophane  whose name means God manifest  an extraordinary monk  and we meditated for about an hour there was a great deal of sense of support in the silence of that communal meditation. And I felt that I dared  this was not a conscious choice  I would felt that I allowed that image to go where it was going to actually envision the whole accident. It felt to me as though I actually saw it happen although as I said later to a counselor that one of my friends referred me to  a grief counselor  she said well people do not really think someone has died. They do not really believe somebody has died until they can actually envision the whole event. And when someone dies say in an airplane accident it is very hard to do that. So somehow I think we need to be able to imagine and experience as much as possible of what happened because it is a constant preoccupation for people in grief. And when that happened it was shocking. It was also some kind of release because that is what happened. I said to the grief counselor well everything about it seemed completely realistic except there was so much blood. That could not have been realistic. And she looked at me and said that is what happens in this kind of accident.  So once you had that kind of image completed with the moment of impact and the blood did the tape loop stop?  That is an interesting question Terry. I had not thought of it. It certainly was never as obsessive as it was before. I do not go through that tape loop now.  My guest is Elaine Pagels author of the new book Why Religion? A Personal Story. She also wrote the bestseller The Gnostic Gospels. We will be back after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to my interview with Elaine Pagels a professor of religion at Princeton and author of the new book Why Religion? A Personal Story. It is about the death of her 6yearold son which was followed a year later by the death of her husband and how she turned to the ancient texts she studies and to the meditation she learned from Trappist monks to help survive her grief. So you have spoken of meditation of prayer. Where are you now in terms of your religious life?  I love my work because it allows me to explore the religious life of countless people in countless ages in different traditions. I find that there are important elements of my experience that resonate with what I hear in Jewish and Christian and Buddhist tradition. I think of it as Marianne Moore says of poetry. She talks about poetry as imaginary gardens with real toads in them. And I think well the gardens may be imaginary like the Garden of Eden but there are human realities in the story that I connect with just the way that you know you and I would connect with the real truth say in a poem in a writing of fiction in music. And it touches us deeply even though the poem and the fiction may not be literally true. When you are dealing with matters of this kind of experience they cannot be articulated in some direct way. You know as Emily Dickinson said you tell the truth but tell it slant you know? You have to put it into metaphor or into silence or into some kind of image or story.  So you find the stories powerful and meaningful but you do not believe in God per se. Is that a good description?  I do not  people ask about believing in God. You know Terry I think that belief is overrated. Talking about religions as if they were about belief takes an image that is basically forged in Christian tradition and applies it to Judaism applies it to Buddhism or Hinduism. And in other traditions belief is not so much the center as practice  saying the prayers saying the Shama or going to worship participating with others in certain acts prayer. Those things I think are more meaningful to me than sets of beliefs. I react the way I do because Christianity in particular was formulated in the 4th century as a set of doctrines in the Nicene Creed as you know. And you know that is all very nice for the 4th century but I do not find that a compelling statement for me. So I do not think it  for me it feels like so much a matter of what you believe but how you engage these traditions how you live into them and share them with other people. But that is why for me it is not simply one tradition that speaks to it.  So when you describe your version of religion as a practice are there things  are there rituals or ceremonies or prayers from whatever religion that is a part of your practice or do you see like scholarship as being rituals or ceremonies or prayers from whatever religion that is a part of your practice or do you see like scholarship as being the practice  like understanding and making connections as being the practice?  I do it all . I love scholarship and research. It is a wonderful part of my life. I go to an Episcopal church often. I love the music. I  the person who is the priest there is a man of spiritual depth which I deeply appreciate. I go to yoga almost every day. That is a physical and also contemplative practice  meditate sometimes. I walk in the woods see my friends  I would say all of it. I do not mean to mean that this is  it is all part of a whole mosaic of different parts of one's life. But I do have a sense that seeking for what I would call a spiritual dimension and engaging it is something that is very important to my life. That is why I said  when people say are you religious? I say yes incorrigibly. That does not mean that I you know go to church every day. It means that I am enormously susceptible to what you spoke of before  the music the rituals the tradi