 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. I did not grow up watching Mister Rogers but I love the new film A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood starring Tom Hanks as Fred Rogers. I recorded an interview with the film's director Marielle Heller. But when we first broadcast it last week it was preempted on most stations by the impeachment hearings. We like this interview and want you to hear it so we are playing it again today.   Marielle Heller also directed one of my favorite films from last year Can You Ever Forgive Me? She previously joined us to talk about her first film The Diary Of A Teenage Girl. The new film is inspired by the story of Rogers' relationship with journalist Tom Junod who was assigned to profile Rogers in 1998 for a special issue of Esquire on American heroes. Junod says the assigning editor thought it would be amusing to have him a journalist determined to say the unsayable write about the nicest man in the world. But talking with Rogers changed Junod's life. Junod wrote a new essay about his relationship with Rogers published in The Atlantic to coincide with the film's release. He writes a long time ago a man of resourceful and relentless kindness saw something in me that I did not see in myself. He trusted me when I thought I was untrustworthy and took an interest in me that went beyond my initial interest in him. He was the first person I ever wrote about who became my friend and our friendship endured until he died. In the movie Tom Junod's name is changed to Lloyd Vogel. His personal story is changed too. Let us hear a scene from the film in which Lloyd is interviewing Rogers. Lloyd has a bloody cut and a bruise on his face which he told Rogers he got from a softball game. But he really got it at his sister's wedding when he got into a fight with his estranged father.    This piece will be for an issue about heroes. Do you consider yourself a hero?   I do not think of myself as a hero. No not at all.   What about Mister Rogers? Is he a hero?   I do not understand the question.   Well there is you Fred. And then there is the character you play Mister Rogers.   You said it was a play at the plate. Is that what happened to you?   I am here to interview you Mister Rogers.   Well that is what we are doing is not it?   Marielle Heller welcome to FRESH AIR. Congratulations on the film.  Thank you.  What did you do to help Tom Hanks embody Mister Rogers in the movie?  I mean the positive thing going into this was obviously the way the public feels about Tom Hanks has a similar quality to how we feel about Mister Rogers. So there was a warmth that we were starting with. There was so much that was already done there. But the truth of the matter is Tom is a very different person energetically than Mister Rogers. He is very funny. He is very charming. He is actually got like a loud booming voice and walks into a room and you know he is there. He shakes everyone's hand. He cracks jokes. He is boisterous. He is really vibrant. And he does not really  it is never awkward when you are talking to Tom Hanks. I have never seen him have an awkward conversation with anybody. And what we figured out in our research about Fred was that he really was comfortable sitting in silence and awkwardness. And he would ask questions to people and he would wait for an answer no matter how long it took. And he would not fill that silence in. And he had a stillness to him too. So a lot of what I had to do especially in the beginning was to kind of rein Tom's natural buoyancy back and settle him into a kind of zenlike state where he was being hyperpresent in every moment.  I know on the radio like a pause can be a very kind of dramatic thing  when you hear like...  Yeah.  ...Oh somebody's thinking or somebody's mad or  you know. But...  Yeah.  ...But if the pause goes on too long everybody just gets uncomfortable. So how did you deal with that in making the movie  like you wanted pauses. You wanted...  Well...  ...Slowness. But if it is too much of any of that it is just going to be...  Yeah.  ...Uncomfortable for everybody in the audience.  I mean Fred had a very specific cadence. I do not think anybody could have watched his show and not noticed that he spoke at a different pace than the rest of the world. And we heard from a number of people that when you would be with Fred it felt like time would slow down. Like he kind of controlled time in a way. And part of the casting of Matthew Rhys was I wanted to cast somebody who had a very different pace. You know it was about these two men who were sort of foils to each other coming together and having these sort of emotional duels. So I  Matthew was also  he is somebody who moves very quickly. His mind is always racing and he is got a lot of energy pulsing through his body. So the idea was in our rehearsals and also in the way that we shot these scenes between these two men it was about really kind of controlling time. And when there were pauses they were carefully crafted. It was really  I had to kind of force them to pause even longer than they were comfortable pausing. But it was also about what is happening in those pauses. What are the emotional backandforths that are happening? What was just penetrated? What memory is being triggered? What are you thinking about in that moment and when will you respond and how carefully will you respond? And is it an impulsive response or is it a very thoughtful response? So we worked a lot on pacing. And only now that I am doing all of these press junkets with all of my actors am I hearing about how slightly tortured they felt by me...  .  ...During that period of time   that apparently I was like we are going slower guys. Here we go. And they were going really? Slower? That felt so slow.  What you are describing is the opposite of what is depicted in the movie on the set of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood because on the set there are producers who are thinking like come on. Like move it along.  Right.   You know? And they are...  Apparently Fred was very hard...  They are so frustrated with his slowness. Yeah.  Yes. He was always running behind. He was always talking to people for hours at a time. It was really hard to move him through a crowd. It was really hard...  Did people who he worked with tell you that?  Yeah. We were so lucky when we made this movie because we went to Pittsburgh where Fred made the show and lived for his whole life. And we were welcomed by his wife Joanne Bill Isler and all of the people who worked at The Fred Rogers Company all these people who knew Fred really well. And they  after getting to know us and trusting us they really shared with us millions of stories about Fred. And they painted a kind of complete picture of him. And one of the things was yes he was  yeah he worked on his own  he had his own timetable in all things and he was very difficult to wrangle. And they were often very behind on shooting the show. And he would talk to everybody and he was  it sounded  yeah like pretty impossible in certain ways.  I am not a big fan of biopics because usually the writers and director take a lot of liberties for dramatic purposes. And then you leave the movie not knowing the difference between history and fiction.  Yep. Yeah.  And the fiction is often confused with who the person really was what really happened.  I know. Yeah.  But you get around that in the opening in a  in two really lovely ways. You know the framing device is that  it is an edition of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood and he is telling all the children look it is a picture board. And on the picture board there is a lot of different doors and each door opens to another character who is from Mister Rogers' Neighborhood. And so he opens each door and introduces each character from the neighborhood. And then the last door that he opens is a picture  and he says this is a picture of my friend Lloyd. And it is  this is a picture of somebody whose like  his face is bloodied.  .  He is bruised. He is got a big cut. He looks angry and miserable. And that is the introduction to the main character the journalist Lloyd.  Yeah.  And you realize this is going to be the story told through the lens of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood. This is not an actual story literally true. This is if this journalist's life happened in Mister Rogers' Neighborhood.  Yes. We make it very clear from the very beginning. There is no chance you could confuse this for being a documentary or any  in any way. It is a story that we are telling. And it is a film and it has very clear kind of surrealistic device to it which was that the whole movie is one large episode of Mister Rogers for adults. And in the way that Mister Rogers' Neighborhood would tell you what it was going to be about and then would kind of take you on a journey we do that. And he steps out of the door and we head out into the world to kind of check out this story about this person named Lloyd. But I love things that do not tell stories in purely linear fashions  that either skip around in time or skip around with their storytelling  and this does that. It plays with time there. You know you cut to this picture of him and you see that he is  his face is bloodied. And then we go back in time and when we meet him his face is not bloodied. And we get to see how his face became bloodied. And we  you know I think we have become a little bit safe sometimes in our cinema whereas in theater we are kind of more comfortable with less naturalistic ways of telling stories. And I like movies that kind of push those boundaries a bit.  And the other way that you make it clear this is a  the story as if it happened in Mister Rogers' Neighborhood in the opening credits. We are seeing the city of Pittsburgh where Fred Rogers shot Mister Rogers' Neighborhood but it is all in miniature as if it was part of the set...  Right.  ...Of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood. And I just thought like that was just such a really lovely thing to do and also very important in framing the whole story as this is in the context of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood not in real life.  Right. Right. We sort of used the miniatures that they used on the show as our jumpingoff point and then thought but what if it went even further? What if you expanded that out? What if we  after you see the little miniature neighborhood that you have seen hundreds of times on the program what if you widened out and you saw all of Pittsburgh and then you panned over and you came to New York City and that is how we got into Lloyd's story? And that is probably  if Mister Rogers had made a movie for adults that is how he would have done it. So let us figure out...  .  ...If that is how we could do it.  Let us take a short break here and there is plenty of  more to talk about when we get back. If you are just joining us my guest is Marielle Heller. And she directed the new film A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Marielle Heller. And her new film is A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood which is a film about Fred Rogers and a journalist who profiled him and how the journalist was changed by his journalistic relationship and then friendship with Fred Rogers. So I want to ask you about one of the scenes in the movie that borrows from what happened in real life although it happens in a different way in the movie. In real life Fred Rogers was receiving an award a Lifetime Achievement Award from the TV Critics Association. And while he was up at the podium accepting the award he said let us pause for 60 seconds and remember those people who loved us into being who we are.  Yeah he did 10 seconds.  I am paraphrasing. He did 10 seconds. OK.  He did 10 seconds because I think he asked for 60 seconds. And from what I have heard they would only grant him 10 seconds on TV.   And I was thinking two things two contradictory things about that. One is what a really like lovely and thoughtful thing to do making it about  you know instead of like praising me the award winner think about...  Yeah.  ...The people who made you who you are and honor them. But at the same time I was also thinking if I was in the audience I bet I would have resisted it. I bet I would have felt like well it is presumptuous of you to tell me that now is my time...  Yeah.  ...To be thinking about something.  But you know what? You look around  they do cutaways in the audience in...  Yeah.  ...That clip. And there is this wave that  you know it is this moment where everyone's thinking about their ego. Everybody's there to win awards. Everybody's in some kind of a rat race to like win an award over another artist right? And he just reminds them to think about the people who supported them along the way. And you watch tears fill up in people's eyes. I mean it is incredibly touching. And he  Fred was  this was a bit of a  I do not want to call it a party trick but Fred did that. That was something he did at events but he also did it at dinner parties where he would ask people to take time and to think about that. So it was something that he was sort of known for and it is something that we have in the movie in a very specific way. And I think it is  yeah it is one of the most cinematic moments of the movie in a lot of ways.  Did you watch Mister Rogers' Neighborhood as a child?  I did.  So is there anything that he said or did that you remember from your childhood?  I have very clear memories of loving the part of the show that was in his house and then feeling scared of some of the puppets in the land of MakeBelieve and I think particularly Lady Elaine.  What scared you about her?  Well she looks like a witch. She is got like this burnt nose and burnt cheekbones. And she had this very scratchy voice. And she was terrifying. I think she was terrifying for a lot of kids. And you know I have rediscovered the show now as a parent. I have had a very different perspective on it now that I am a parent and I can watch it with my kid. And we also  the first way we really came to it was through Daniel Tiger's Neighborhood which is the modernday incarnation of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood that the Fred Rogers Company makes. And it is all based on the teachings of Fred Rogers but it is an animated show. And that show has just been the most incredible thing for my kid and for me. And he is now at the point where he is rejected it and is kind of outgrowing it. But it is just been an  it is been the thing that is kind of  that I was reconnecting to before I even was signed onto this project. That was the first show I let my kid watch and it kind of got me back in touch with Mister Rogers from a different adult perspective.  Tell me more about that adult perspective on the show.  I think I have a memory of thinking that the show was just all happygolucky or something or just easy. And then as an adult looking back I realized that he was not afraid of any of the hardest parts of childhood or talking about the most uncomfortable things. He tells kids the truth. I mean that is a radical notion but he tells kids the truth. And I was blown away going back and seeing the topics that he was covering on his show. I mean I had this really painful experience of watching the episode about death with my 3yearold at the time which it is kind of  it was such a profound experience. We were having a snow day and so he was home from school. But it was a day that I had kind of set aside that I was going to watch a lot of episodes of Mister Rogers' so I asked Wylie if he wanted to watch some episodes with me. And I let him pick out based on the kind of thumbnails on the Internet. And he picked the fish one because he was very obsessed with underwater stuff ocean stuff. But I knew just looking at the icon  it is the fish one. This is the episode about death. And I thought oh are we going to go here? OK. And so in the episode Mister Rogers goes to feed the fish and one of the fish is dead. And he tries to revive it and he puts it in some saltwater. And he sloshes it around and it kind of limply sloshes around. And he says oh it looks like it is moving but it is not actually moving. And then he buries the fish. And he tells this story about his dog Mitzi who died when he was a kid. And I just watched my kid watch this episode knowing that we had not spoken really very much about death. And as Mister Rogers is telling this story about the dog dying Wylie looks at me with this kind of skeptical look and goes dogs do not die. And I had this like Mister Rogers in my head and went well no dogs do die. And I told I guess what is a little bit of a stretch of the truth. But I said you know when they are very old and their bodies are tired you know dogs do die. And cats die. And we have two cats. And he looked at me and went cats  cats die?  .  And I said yeah. And he said but we have great cats. And I thought oh god what have I opened here? And then I pulled out a picture of one of our cats who had passed away when he was a baby. And I said you know remember I have told you about this cat who died who is buried in the backyard? And you know I believe  everyone believes different things but I believe when I want to visit him I can go to the cherry tree in the backyard and I can visit him. And I could see kind of wheels turning wheels turning. And we kept watching the show for a few minutes. And then Wylie turned to me and he goes mom walruses do not die. And I said well walruses do die. And he started wailing in a way that I had never experienced before. He like  it felt like he was weeping for all humanity  or like the entire universe and just asking me if we could bury all the walruses in our backyard so we could visit them. And I held him and I was crying. And we  and all I could figure out to say was I know this hurts. I know this is so painful. I do not know what to say but this really hurts. And then later that night as I was putting him to bed you know the dreaded question came which was well what about people? You know people do not get  the way he said it was people do not get dead do they? And then we had our kind of second round of weeping that happened and that came out of this episode of Mister Rogers. And I do not think I handled it great. And I sort of felt  I still feel sort of guilty for how this all came up because I felt like was it too young for us to kind of go there? But I also felt like all I had to guide me was Fred telling me you know we let the kids guide these conversations listen and tell them the truth. And so that is what I tried to do.  That is an amazing story. I am just trying to figure out what I want to say.  It was so  it was also one of the first stories that I told Joanne Rogers when I went to Pittsburgh. I am just remembering too. I have not...  Oh what did she say?  I have not told this story at all in any of our press. But I think we sat in her living room and she teared up. And we kind of held hands as I talked about it because it had just happened when I talked to her about it. And then she made a little video for Wylie  not about that but just saying hello.  My guest is Marielle Heller director of the new film A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood. She also directed Can You Ever Forgive Me? and The Diary Of A Teenage Girl. After a break we will talk about how she learned about death. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Let us get back to my interview with Marielle Heller who directed the new movie A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood starring Tom Hanks as Fred Rogers and Matthew Rhys as a journalist assigned to profile him for Esquire magazine. Heller also directed the films Can You Ever Forgive Me? and The Diary Of A Teenage Girl. When we left off Heller had just told the story of how she and her 3yearold son had watched an episode of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood that dealt with death which was an upsetting idea for her son who had never heard about death before. Do you remember how you learned about death?  I remember my grandmother's husband dying. But I think I was older. I think I was 7 or 8 when he died. But I remember that being the first real person I knew who died and I  and that my parents did not let me go to the funeral. And I remember feeling like it was really unfair.  You wanted to go?  I wanted to go. I do not  I thought I was not  like I felt  and I think about sort of Mister Rogers in that way of like I felt like a full person you know? I felt like I was having as big of an experience as everybody else. And why was not I allowed to go to the funeral? And I think they were trying to protect me.  Was it upsetting for you to learn that such a thing existed as death?  Oh yeah. Yeah. I mean I  yeah. I was one of those kids who thought about death a lot. And we had the big earthquake in the Bay Area...  Oh.  ...In 1989.  How old were you then?  Ten. But that really  it scared me in like a deep dark way you know? It really shook my sense of what could happen in the world. It was just the first  my brother was trapped in a warehouse and we could not get to him in Oakland...  Oh wow.  ...Across a bridge.  Yeah.  And we did not know if he was OK. And you know friends of mine their parents were in San Francisco and the Bay Bridge had collapsed. And we did not know if they were OK. And there were people who were part of our community who died. And it was just so chaotic. It was just the end of the world. It felt like the end of the world at the time. It really did. And it definitely  you know it was  it is still something that has meant  you know meant something in my bigger emotional life that I am still dealing with in therapy. And you know I think back on myself as a kid and I am like I  and I see it in my kid. I think that is why this experience of showing him that episode was so  I just felt for him so much because I remember what it was to be the kid who was thinking about the kind of dark questions of life and  while other people were not. But now you know I had this experience when I was preparing to make this movie. Before I went to Pittsburgh I went to a talk at the Buddhist Zen Center in Brooklyn. And I think I had this idea in the little I really know about Buddhism or Buddha where I was thinking that somehow if you are very enlightened that you are very peaceful that you are at peace you are sort of happy. And this woman who was giving this talk said the goal of Buddhism is not pure peace or to never feel any pain. The goal is to feel all the pain. And that made me think about Fred at that time because all of the things we were hearing in the research about Fred was that he would empathize to such a great degree with the people he came into contact with. He would meet a stranger on the street and they would pour their heart out to him about what they were going through. And he would almost hold it like a vessel. Like he just became this great vessel for other people to pour what they were experiencing into. And I think he felt it all. He was present in the pain of the world and not denying it.  And he grew up with a lot of illness. I mean he was a sick child.  Yeah. Yeah.  He was often isolated. That is how he started doing voices  like voices for his puppets. So...  Right. He was  his parents were so nervous that he was going to be kidnapped that they had him chauffeured to school so that he was even more isolated from his friends.  Oh.  Yeah. And I think he was in his own head a lot in that way. But I think he also was very  he spent the rest of his life therefore trying to be super connected to other people rather than being so separated from them.  I want to play one of Mister Rogers' songs that you use in the film. I particularly like this one. It is the one called What Do You Do With The Mad That You Feel.  Yeah.  And it is all  it is a song all about learning to control yourself when your emotions get out of hand. And I think this is a song that most of us adults should learn by heart too . So this is the real Fred Rogers singing it. Here we go.    What do you do with the mad that you feel when you feel so mad you could bite when the whole wide world seems oh so wrong and nothing you do seems very right? What do you do? Do you punch a bag? Do you pound some clay or some dough? Do you round up friends for a game of tag and see how fast you go? It is great to be able to stop when you have planned a thing that is wrong and be able to do something else instead and think this song. I can stop when I want to can stop when I wish can stop stop stop any time. And what a good feeling to feel like this and know that the feeling is really mine. Know that there is something deep inside that helps us become what we can. For a girl can be someday a woman. And a boy can be someday a man. It is true.  OK that was Mister Rogers. Do you play these songs for your son?  I do. That one I play for my kid all the time. That song sort of became like our thesis for the whole movie this idea that so many of us do not actually have practical ways to cope with our feelings. And you know it was us a song he quoted when he did that famous hearing in front of the Senate where he got money for PBS. But also it was a song that we put in the movie specifically because it felt like it was telling the story that we were trying to hit on with this movie which is about this grown man who really has not figured out his own coping ways. He cannot  he has not figured out what to do with his own mad and what does that mean? What type of a man is he then?  Let us take a short break here and then there'll be plenty more to talk about. If you are just joining us my guest is Marielle Heller. She directed the new film A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Marielle Heller. She directed the new film A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood which is based on the story of Fred Rogers and a magazine writer who was profiling him for Esquire. And the film is a lot about the journalist and how Fred Rogers changes his life but you also gain a lot of insights into Fred Rogers in the film. So the movie is in memory of Jim Emswiller who died in a freak accident during the shooting. Could you explain what happened?  Yeah. I do not think we will ever totally know what happened is the truth. But we were filming the movie and Jim was our sound person and a very beloved member of the Pittsburgh film community and somebody who had worked with a lot of members of our crew for 30 years. And we had a little  we were filming in a new location that we had not been on that was an apartment building outside of town. And there was our main apartment where we were filming and there was another apartment next door that was  we were using for holding that we had not seen ahead of time that had sort of been like  the building told us well whatever we have available on the day to kind of have your spillover people in we will give you. And this was an empty apartment and it had a balcony that we discovered partway through. And so pretty much everyone who were smokers on the movie were going out there all day and using this balcony that had a pretty low railing. It was an old old building that probably had older codes. And so it had been built a long time ago. And all we know is that when we called cut and we were setting up some lights we heard something. And Jim had gone out there for a cigarette and fell. And it was  I mean it was the hardest thing I have ever experienced on any possible shoot ever. And I mean just  it is just so sad.  What do you do after that?  There is no protocol for what to do. That was the thing that was so hard. I mean we  obviously first thing was getting him to the hospital and trying to  you know everybody starts packing up equipment because you have to but we are just all standing there crying trying to figure out what is happening not knowing what is happened. And then we gathered  the producers and I and the cinematographer  we gathered the next morning. Well that night we all were together and  in the hospital and he died. And so we were all in shock. And then you know the next morning we both called Sony. And we were talking to everybody and there was no set protocol. There was no sense of OK when this type of thing happens on set this is what you do. And we looked at each other as the leaders of this project. But we looked at each other as a few things. We said we are the leaders of this project. Everyone's looking to us to know what to do. But we are also guests here in Pittsburgh. We are  we have been welcomed as part of their film community. And Jim was part of their community and we are sort of the visitors. So we decided that the best thing we could do was listen. So we called everybody on the crew. We had obviously taken that day off the next day. And we kind of broke up the crew into our different divisions and we each called people to kind of listen and hear how people were doing and to hear what people wanted to do. Did they want to gather? Did they want to come together as a group? What did they want to do? And there was already sort of a vigil gathering that was happening in an impromptu way so we all came together including Tom and Matthew and me and all the producers. And we all just  I mean all I can say is we held each other. We cried together. We wailed. We did not know if he had had a heart attack. We did not know why he had fallen. I mean we were all sort of reeling from the news and trying to figure it out. And we tried to listen to the crew. You know we essentially said if you do not want to come back we understand. We had a week left. I think I spoke to everybody. And I essentially said you know I know that we tend to have this like showmustgoon quality to show business but we are here making a movie about Fred Rogers. This is not a place where  you know where you are not allowed to cry. We are here to feel what we are feeling. And you get to feel what you are feeling so I want you to all be able to be honest with us. And if you do not want to come back if you feel like this is too much that is OK. And essentially everybody said Jim would want us to keep going. And we need to finish this movie. I felt very inspired by our crew. I felt so touched by the way that this horrific event in some way brought everyone together in an even tighter way. We were so close to begin with. And this horrible tragedy that happened  it was like everybody linked arms and just cared for each other in the sweetest way I can possibly imagine. When we came back to work after many days it was like everybody was taking the time to look in each other's eyes and hug each other and be present with each other. And we tried to take the lessons of Fred and use them in this moment of tragedy. It was this weird moment of the lessons of the movie needing to be used at the exact moment that we were making the movie.  Well thank you for talking about a chapter of the film that I know is really