 Kelly Clarkson was the first winner of the American Idol singing competition. Since that time she is released five albums including her new one called Stronger. Ken Tucker listened to the new collection and finds that once again Clarkson frequently triumphs over the material she is singing.     I forgive you. I forgive me. Now when do I start to feel again? I forgive you. I forgive me. Now when do I start to feel again? 'ecause the lights are on but I am never home. But I will be back with a brand new attitude. 'ecause I forgive you.  Like a lot of successful American Idol contestants Kelly Clarkson made her reputation as a belter as someone who could project to the rafters to impress judges with her technique and rouse a crowd none of which necessarily makes for a good pop singer. Ever since Bing Crosby started using the microphone as an instrument for achieving intimacy and nuance the idea of delivering popular song as operatic aria is a flawed strategy. Nonetheless everybody loves an anthem right?    You know the bed feels warmer sleeping here alone. You know I dream in color and do the things I want. Think you got the best of me? Think you have had the last laugh? Bet you think that everything good is gone and you left me broken down. Think that I would come running back? Baby you do not know me 'ecause you are dead wrong. What does not kill you makes you stronger.  This what does not kill you makes you stronger is the underlying sentiment of virtually all Kelly Clarkson music. She is built her career around an explosive paradox Her best hits are little time bombs of frayed emotions that throw off sparks arriving stuffed in big cannonballs of sound. You can hear it on You Cannot Win a burst of spiteful selfpity.    If you go they say you are following. If you do not then you are too good for them. If you smile you must be ignorant. If you do not what is your problem? If you are down so ungrateful and if you are happy why so selfish then? You cannot win. No you cannot win. No. The one who does not quite fit in underdressed under your skin oh a walking disaster. Every time you try to fly...  Too often on this album Stronger Clarkson has settled for secondrate material. She sometimes seems to be singing songs that Justin Timberlake rejected. How else to explain the choice of a song such as Einstein with its tortured mathematically illiterate organizing metaphor? Some verses of the song are fun just because they are so ostentatiously foolish.    Oh simple math. Our love divided by the square root of pride.  Multiply your lies plus time; I am going out of my mind. It was heavy when I finally figured it out. Oh no. I did not get it the first time. But do not think I have been so blind. I may not be Einstein but I know dumb plus dumb equals you.  Dumb plus dumb equals you Clarkson bellows there. On second thought I kind of love that performance in its goofy way. Far better is the kind of crisp vocal work Clarkson brings to a vocal hook worthy of her dramatized agony. It is gloriously on display on the song You Love Me as Clarkson leaps registers from verse to chorus without ever making it seem like a mere stunt. Instead it serves the arc of the emotions the singer wants to explore.    Thick skin soft touch. Heart of gold but it is nanananot enough. Forgiving arms the higher road. Working hard but it is nanananot enough. You say I am not good enough I am not good enough. But what you really mean is you are not good enough you are not good enough. You cannot deliver so you turn it around. You did not let me down. You did not tear me apart. You just opened my eyes while breaking my heart. You did not do it for me. I am not as dumb as you think. You just made me cry while claiming me that you love me. You love me. You love me. You said you love me but that I am not good enough...  I am not good enough Clarkson sings in that song. On numerous other tracks she goes back to the same idea  she feels condescended to put down humiliated by a lover or by extension an audience. Sometimes she lashes out as she does in Mr. Know It All.    Mr. Know it all well you think you know it all but you do not know a thing at all. As not it something you all when somebody tells you something about you think that they know more than you do. So you take it down another pill to swallow. Mr. Bring me down well you...  That song features a fine Clarkson vocal all the better for the strippeddown arrangement over which the singer allows you to hear a strain in her voice  it is what makes the refrain You do not know a thing about me take on a kind of artistic truth. The song becomes a retort to the lover she is addressing sure but also to her critics and to those fans who want to own her pain. The album could use more of this sort of gutsiness. Ultimately Stronger is a weaker album than some of Clarkson's previous efforts but its high points provide a reminder of why she can be so effective. She takes that huge voice and lets it loose while maintaining a fierce control that creates a thrilling tension.  Ken Tucker is editoratlarge at Entertainment Weekly. He reviewed Kelly Clarkson's new album called Stronger. Coming up Maureen Corrigan reviews a new collection of essays and reviews by the late film critic Pauline Kael. This is FRESH AIR. 