 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Combat and posttraumatic stress disorders are nothing new but in earlier times they were given other names  like insanity and melancholia during the Civil War and combat fatigue during World War II. Last week General George Casey the Army's chief of staff called PTSD the defining military health issue of our era. A little later we will hear from Dr. Craig Bryan who advises both the Air Force and the Department of Defense on preventing soldiers with PTSD from committing suicide. My first guests Jon Alpert and Ellen Goosenberg directed a new documentary about PTSD called Wartorn 18612010 that will be shown on HBO this Thursday Veterans Day. It is about how the recognition and treatment of PTSD has changed from the Civil War to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Wartorn uses historical letters photos and film as well as contemporary interviews some of which were conducted by James Gandolfini. Alpert and Goosenberg also collaborated on the HBO documentary Alive Day Memories Home From Iraq. I spoke with them about their new film Wartorn. Jon Alpert Ellen Goosenberg welcome to FRESH AIR. The movie early on has Civil War letters from a soldier named Angelo Crepsy who enlisted at the age of 18. Before we hear an excerpt tell us how you found these letters. Ms.  Trying to do a piece about combat trauma in the Civil War is really difficult because there was no documentation of combat trauma back in the Civil War and there was no real psychiatric diagnoses in the Civil War except for insanity. And so you have a couple of options. You can go to the records of insane asylums or you can go to pension files. And those were really the only recognition that there might be something wrong with someone  is their family would attempt to get a pension because their breadwinner came home from the war and was not able to function psychologically. And so going through these really unsexy legal documents led to a number of stories. And as we began to research them we were really looking for firstperson accounts  because we thought that would make it a lot more compelling and we came across a number of those. And in delving into them we found Angelo Crepsy. What was extraordinary about him is that his descendants kept all of his letters and he was an incredible letter writer. And he kept a diary and there were photos. And all of those were available to us.  Well let us hear an excerpt of the first letter that you use from him and this is after he is enlisted. It is 1861 and he sounds pretty confident. It is addressed to a friend named Leroy.  Unidentified Man 1   Dear Leroy Camp life is not home. A sergeant of Company D committed suicide. He seemed to be a little shattered. He took his rifle and loaded it when there was no one about and put the muzzle into his mouth and tugged the gun off with his toes. There has been 100 or more of the boys who have gone home. They are cowards. I will not disgrace my parents by deserting or turning back. A soldier's life is hard but I should be able to take care of myself.  Okay so that is a soldier's letter from 1861. He sounds pretty confident  you know he should be able to take care of himself. But after more than two years he writes a letter saying No one who has been a soldier can imagine what a fighting man has to endure how many men are ruined by this war. And he is taken to an Army hospital feverish and delirious. And let us hear that letter that is addressed to Leroy.  Unidentified Man   October 12th 1863. Dear Leroy I am not so well. I am clear off the hooks. They took me before the board and they decided to discharge me from the service. They say I will not be fit for the field this winter.  Ellen let me ask you what happens after that letter. Ms.  His father gets a call from the hospital saying that if he hopes to see his son alive he needs to come pick him up come visit him because he is declining physically. So the father goes and he gets well enough to come home. But when he is home everyone notices that he is a completely different person than the one who left. He is paranoid. He is in and out of reality. He attempts suicide several times and does not complete the suicide. And then his friends are going hunting and he is in  they are all crack shots. I mean this was what their unit was known for. And the friends do not want to take him because he is unstable and they have no idea what is going to happen. And the true story is he follows them and one of the guys kind of lags behind and says you know why do not you hang out in this blind here and you know we will let you know when it gets interesting up ahead. And he takes that opportunity alone in the woods to shoot himself to death.  And then you have people reading the court testimony following his suicide. Why was there a court procedure following a suicide? Ms.  Back in the Civil War there was an opportunity to collect a pension if you lost the breadwinner in war. In his case he was not married but his father wanted to make a claim that the family was in need of the income he would have provided. And so there was a court procedure and you had to marshal everyone that knew the person to talk about whether or not they were a drunk before they went to the war and whether they in fact you know would have been capable of making money and whether or not they were psychologically intact  and all of that kind of stuff. You really had to plead your case and so this was basically a pension hearing.  Let us hear an excerpt of the testimony given by friends and family at that hearing. And this is being read from the court papers.  Unidentified Man 2   I found him lying on the ground on his back. His gun was between his legs muzzle on his breast. Unidentified Woman 1   I remember that when my brother Angelo came home from the Army he looked wild. And when he was raving it took my father mother and halfsister to tie him down to the bed. Unidentified Man 3   It seemed that something he did in the Army preyed upon his mind and wounded him. Unidentified Woman 2   He seemed to be worried and he said everybody hated him because he had killed people. Unidentified Man 4   If ever a man's mental disorder was caused by hardships endured in the service of his country this was the case with my son.  So that is an excerpt from Jon Alpert and Ellen Goosenberg's movie Wartorn. I think what interests me in the Civil War letters and in the court testimony that we just heard is how well it seems to parallel what we are hearing now from Iraq veterans  and what we heard from Vietnam veterans. And you know even the fact that they had to prove in order to get the pension money that he killed himself as a result of being at war and now vets have to prove that they really do have PTSD and it is difficult to prove sometimes. Were you struck by the parallels? Ms.  I think we all were. If you have any doubt that PTSD is a real thing or you think maybe PTSD happens because the war is good or it is bad or you come home a hero or you come home a villain it is really irrelevant. What is really relevant is that the experience of war causes psychological damage.  Jon you have included a World War II training film in the film Wartorn and this is a film about psychiatric procedures in the combat area. It is an Army film from 1944. Do you want to describe why you have used an excerpt of this film in your film Wartorn? Mr.  I think starting in World War II they began to realize that people were coming back from these wars with psychological ailments that they had not predicted. And they sort of did not know what to do about it. They did not know what to call it. They did not understand completely why people were suffering like this. And it was a rather crude attempt by the Army to try and interview these people and begin to get an understanding of why they were so badly damaged from the wars.  Well let us hear an excerpt from this 1944 U.S. Army film called Psychiatric Procedures in the Combat Area. So this is a series of interviews with activeduty soldiers during World War II.   Unidentified Man  . My last time up there I broke down. I was sectioned to leave  to them. Unidentified Man  What do you mean you broke down? Unidentified Man  Well during the last shelling we took up there  had me crying all night.  Unidentified Man  What is your trouble? Unidentified Man  I just cannot stand seeing people killed sir. Unidentified Man  I cannot hear you. Unidentified Man  I cannot stand seeing people killed. Unidentified Man  Did you see people killed? Unidentified Man  Lots of them. Unidentified Man  What? Unidentified Man  Lots of them. Unidentified Man  What does that do to you? Unidentified Man  Wounds me.  So that is an excerpt of the World War II training film Psychiatric Procedures in the Combat Area. So you did your own interviews for your movie with World War II veterans who were still feeling the effects of the war. And one of the men says to you In the old days it was called battle fatigue lack of intestinal fortitude. And no one wanted that on their records. What did some of the men tell you in the interviews about how they dealt with the effects whether they tried to cover it up whether they felt there was anyone they could talk to about it? Ms.  Well absolutely having combat stress or battle fatigue was something that nobody wanted to own up to because you were a coward. You were a malingerer. You were a goldbrick. You were somebody that was making it up. And so it was absolutely not okay to be unwell psychologically during World War II  and certainly when you came home and you were expected to be a hero and you were expected to you know be somebody who was going to sort of march forward in life. Nobody wanted to talk about it and the VA as one of the veterans describes in the film was absolutely overwhelmed. And they were sort of the guys were sort of dispensed some kind of a sleeping pill or whatever  and told to go home and they would be fine the next day. So I think that what happened is that these men kept it inside. Some of them drank and some of them had huge marital problems and they were unemployed. And you know they suffered in all kinds of ways without realizing what was wrong with them until this diagnosis came to be in 1980. And sort of coincidentally some of them were beginning to enter retirement age and they were starting to reexperience symptoms which is now documented that this happens. And so they were sort of kicked back to the VA and all of a sudden the VA said Ah maybe you have PTSD. And they were to some degree incredibly grateful for that diagnosis. They finally understood what the hell was wrong.  My guests are Ellen Goosenberg and Jon Alpert. They directed the new documentary Wartorn 18612010. It will be shown on HBO this Thursday Veterans Day. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guests are Jon Alpert and Ellen Goosenberg. They directed the new HBO documentary Wartorn which is about posttraumatic stress disorder now and in the past before the name actually existed. I want to play the excerpt of the interview that you do with the mother of a soldier who committed suicide. His name was Noah Pierce. Her name is Cheryl Softich. And she is talking about how her son could not escape the horrors of serving two tours in Iraq and how he could not forgive himself for some of the things he did and that he still had the urge to hurt and kill people. And I will let her pick it up from there. And she is describing her son and his suicide.  Ms.  The United States Army turned my son into a killer. They trained him to kill to protect others. They forgot to untrain him to take that urge to kill away from him. This was found in his truck the last letter he ever wrote one he never planned to leave and one I never planned to share. And it says I never planned to be that one to leave a note. I am writing it sober but I will not be for long. Mom I am so sorry. My life has been hell since March 2003 when I was part of the Iraq invasion. It has nothing to do with anyone. Do not stress about this. I am freeing myself from the desert once and for all. I thought  would get better but I was wrong.  Ms.  Well I am getting drunk now so I am more opened up. I have been planning on doing this a long time. Time's finally up. I am not a good person. I have done bad things. I have taken lives. Now it is time to take mine.  That is Cheryl Softich reading an excerpt of the suicide note that her son Noah Pierce left after serving two tours in Iraq. Would you describe how Noah Pierce actually killed himself? Mr.  Noah Pierce took a pistol got in his truck drove to a remote location wrote a suicide note took out all the photographs that he had of himself and stabbed his  stabbed the photos on his driver's license; he stabbed his picture on his ID cards. He took out his face because he could not stand what he looked like; shot out the mirrors in his truck because he could not stand to look at himself anymore  then put his dogtags to his temple and killed himself shot himself right through the dogtag.  And his mother asked the police for the dogtag and she has that now. Mr.  She has the dogtag as part of  basically a memorial that she created for her son in which she believes through a series of photographs shows his transformation from a normal boy from Minnesota to somebody who came back from the war in Iraq haunted by what he had done could not escape it. And the only way to put an end to the things that were inside his head was to shoot himself in the head.  Pete Chiarelli who is the person in the Army who is overseeing the new suicideprevention program for the Army says in your film that he is trying to establish the idea that invisible injuries like posttraumatic stress disorder are as important as physical injuries like losing a leg. What is the military doing that you know of to try to establish that  and to try to prevent vets from killing themselves? Mr.  Well the military has made it easier to get diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder. You do not have to prove that it was a specific traumatic incident. It could just be the cumulative effect of being in a war zone that has affected you in a way that you cannot deal with. So that makes it easier. That also means that there is going to be many many people who are in need of treatment. And the cost of treatment that society's going to have to bear is really going to be quite substantial. They have instituted perhaps the largest rollout of any psychological training program in the history of the world. They have hundreds and hundreds of psychologists who are being trained in some of the therapies that they think will fix posttraumatic stress. So that is something that is unique and unusual. They are sending healthcare monitors out with every unit and they are also trying to set the tone from the top in which the generals for the first time are talking about this. So you do not have somebody like General Patton who sees somebody with posttraumatic stress and says that they are yellowbellied sapsuckers slaps them and sends them back to battle. They are taking these people off the battlefield. But you really have to wait to see what is going to happen because as my father said less talk and more ado. They are saying the right things. But this is something that is very difficult to deal with in a martial atmosphere in which you are supposed to be tough you are supposed to be resilient things are not supposed to affect you like this. And now all of a sudden they are saying It is sort of okay to be wounded. It is okay to be  to be psychologically damaged. We are going to try and treat you and send you back. But we will see. It is significant that they are admitting this and they are committing the resources.  Some of the interviews in your movie are done by James Gandolfini who is famous of course for The Sopranos. How did you end up working with him on documentaries? I think this is the second one you have done with him? Mr.  Yes that is correct. Both HBO Sheila Nevins the director of documentaries and James Gandolfini have a strong commitment to try and help Americans understand what happens when we send our people into war. And Jim Gandolfini before he ever made a documentary was going over to Iraq and talking to the soldiers trying to help them feel better using his celebrity to entertain them but also trying to understand what happens when people go to war. And it was interesting working with him because on his TV show he plays a big tough guy who has psychological problems because of what he has to do in his line of work. And the soldiers do not necessarily see him as Jim Gandolfini. They see him as Tony Soprano and they relate to him in a very direct and honest way. He would sit down and two seconds later they would be telling him of their deepest darkest problems like he was their brother or their fatherconfessor. And to some degree it is the same thing with the generals. I do not know why but they were talking to him in a very relaxed and candid fashion that as a reporter I would find difficult to try and get them to speak the same way to me.  Jon you mentioned your father was a World War II veteran and had told you stories about the war and why he fought. So what kind of stories did he tell you and what impact did those stories have on you? Mr.  My father was a pilot in the Pacific and he flew patrol routes squares up in the air looking down at the ocean hunting down Japanese submarines. And that was about all he ever told us. He would not tell us anything else because they had sworn him to secrecy. And like a good soldier he did not talk about this. But he finally began to talk about it and one of the reasons why he said he did not want to talk about it is that he wanted to put all that behind him and get on with his life. This was the thing that a lot of the World War II guys wanted to do. And he said his hero was Cincinnatus who was a soldier in Rome  a very accomplished general  who then put down his sword and went back and became a farmer. And he believed that this was the ideal of American patriotism in which common citizens go serve their country and then get back to their normal civilian life. And the problem with posttraumatic stress is when you come back you cannot do it. You want to do it so badly. You want to be able to go to school. But when the kids in there are talking about the football game and you have battles going on in your head and you are just unable to sleep at night because you are having nightmares because of all the things that you have seen there are people who cannot do what my father was able to do what Cincinnatus did because they have posttraumatic stress. And it is a lot of them  it is thousands and thousands and thousands of soldiers.  I want to thank you both very much for talking with us. Ellen Goosenberg Jon Alpert thank you so much. Mr.  Thank you Terry really appreciate it. Ms.  Thank you.  Ellen Goosenberg and John Alpert directed the new documentary Wartorn 18612010. It will be shown on HBO this Thursday Veterans Day. We will talk with a psychologist who treats PTSD in the second half of the show. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR. 