 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Many of President Trump's critics are hoping he will not serve his full term but what kind of president would Mike Pence make? That is one of the questions Jane Mayer sets out to answer in her new article about Pence titled The President Pence Delusion. It is published in the current issue of The New Yorker. She writes about how Pence became an evangelical Christian and how he became a favored candidate of billionaire backers most especially the Koch brothers. She traces how religion and money shaped his ideology. She investigates how Pence became Trump's running mate and how much power he has in the White House and how he is used it. Mayer is a staff writer for The New Yorker. She is also the author of the bestseller about the Koch Brothers titled Dark Money The Hidden History Of The Billionaires Behind The Rise Of The Radical Right. Last March in The New Yorker she profiled another billionaire funder of rightwing causes Robert Mercer who she says has become a major force behind the Trump presidency. Jane Mayer welcome back to FRESH AIR. So I feel like I do not see Mike Pence very much and I often wonder if he is a power behind the scenes or if he really does not matter that much within the Trump administration. So what is your impression?  Well it is really hard to tell. He is  as Joel Goldstein a specialist in the vice presidency told me he calls him the sycophant in chief because when you do see him he is usually acting as an emcee to Trump or kind of echoing Trump and praising Trump. So his public role is really fawning. Behind the scenes though according to Newt Gingrich he is 1 of the 3 people who have the most power in the Trump administration along with the chief of staff John Kelly and Trump himself.  What are the signs that he is that powerful?  Well  that is a good question  because I think he acts as the connective tissue between the Trump administration and Congress between the Trump administration and the  kind of the socially conservative base of the party. And most importantly he is the connector between the Trump administration and the billionaire donors in the Republican Party. He is the guy who does most of the fundraising and outreach to the money.  And the money includes the Koch brothers and Robert Mercer.  It does. And one of the interesting things to me in writing about Pence is it poses such a juxtaposition between the way that Trump ran which was as a populist outsider who was attacking the bigmoney forces in the Republican Party as corrupt and saying that they were puppeteers trying to control the candidates as puppets. And Trump made a huge point of saying I am my own man; I am so rich; no one controls me. Yet as his vice president he chose Mike Pence. And you could hardly find a candidate in the American political scene who has closer ties to the big donors and particularly the Koch brothers. He is been sponsored by them for years.  So how do the Kochs first start backing Mike Pence?  So this was when Pence was in Congress in 2009. He really did the Kochs a big favor. There was legislation pending that might have put a tax on carbon pollution and it would have been terrible for Koch Industries. And Pence took up the cause and tried to help defeat that legislation and specifically carried around a pledge that the Kochs had created trying to get people to sign it. And after he was successful in that the Kochs invited him to come to their secret donor summits. And at that point on they started showering him in money. So it was  it is really became a working relationship then. And I had not realized that until recently.  One of the things you say Mike Pence is responsible for is bringing the Kochs and Donald Trump together. The Kochs did not support Trump's candidacy. Charles Koch described the choice between Trump and Hillary as one between cancer or a heart attack.  So what did Pence do to bring the Kochs and Trump together?  Well so this is what was interesting to me  is that Pence has been very close with the Kochs and they have just showered money on his campaigns. And he is kind of act as a peacemaker between the Kochs and Trump. And but in that process what interested me most was that I really do think that Trump ran as a different kind of Republican. He ran against the bigdonors orthodoxy and kind of libertarian vision of people like the Kochs. He said he was going to deliver something for the little guys and build infrastructure all across the country and use the government in various ways that the Kochs disapprove of. And what you have seen with Pence is that in many ways Pence has brought in a ton of people who are allied with the Kochs into the government and he is brought a lot of their policies in  so whether it is on environmental issues or tax policy now where the Kochs are working very closely with the Trump White House on the Trump tax plan. And it is a tax plan that the Kochs love and it is a tax plan that is going to help the superrich according to many nonpartisan analyses and not do very much for the middle class. So you are beginning to kind of see the government moving in the direction of the Kochs.  You say 16 highranking officials in the Trump White House have ties to the Koch brothers.  Well and that is according to a study by a group called the Checks And Balances Program. And you can count them. You can see it online. They are  that is in the White House. There are also many many people who have worked for the Kochs in the government at large in the cabinet in the other departments. And a tremendous number of people who work with and for Pence have gone in and out of working for the Kochs to the point that you had Politico saying  they quoted a Republican operative saying that the Koch operation really was the shadow campaign for Pence for president. And chief among them really has been Pence's former chief of staff Marc Short who went  after working for Pence in Congress he went to run the Koch's political operation Freedom Partners. And then when Pence was chosen as vice president on the ticket Marc Short came back worked with Pence in the campaign and is now the head of Congressional Liaison in the Trump White House. So the man that actually ran the Koch's political operation is a key player inside the Trump White House. It is just a  you would never have predicted this from the language during the campaign when you had supposedly the Kochs at war with Trump and vice versa but there is this huge rapprochement going on. And as Sheldon Whitehouse a Democratic senator from Rhode Island said to me what you see then is the sort of the agenda items of the Kochs are moving up one by one. And the things they complained about about Trump are being jettisoned.  Is one of the things they complained about about Trump nationalism?  Yes. I mean and so in particular some of the trade deals they were against. And in particular one of the things that they objected to most strenuously was an idea that the Trump administration was pushing early on along with Paul Ryan which was to impose a border adjustment tax. This was going to be a tax on items that are imported into America and the aim of it was to try to get Americans to buy more American goods and try to get American companies to  manufacturers to use Americanproduced you know items. And what happened was the Kochs just attacked it with their entire machinery. They have a great political machine in 36 states. And they went at it. And eventually Trump abandoned it. And so that border adjustment tax is gone. And in its place we have got this new kind of tax reform proposal which since it does not include new taxes such as the border adjustment taxes it instead is projecting a tremendous deficit  1andahalf trillion over the next 10 years.  Did the Koch brothers have a role in pulling out of the Paris Climate Accord?  Yes of course. They have been pushing very hard on that. The thing you have to remember about them is that they  OK they have got the secondlargest private company in the country and it is very much engaged in the fossil fuel business. They have got 4000 miles of oil pipelines. They have got a coal company. They have got coalpowered power plants. They have got coal up in Canada. And so their whole business plan relies on stay  keeping America on fossil fuels. And so they have thrown a tremendous amount of weight behind stopping anything that would get  put a tax on carbon or push America towards some kind of agreement on climate change that might tax carbon pollution.  So do you know what kind of influence they might have directly exerted on President Trump to get him to withdraw from the accord?  What they have been doing is working with Pence's office to a large extent. And to back up just a little bit Terry one of the things that happened was once President Trump was elected he put Pence in charge of the transition towards the new government which gave him a lot of power over personnel. And one of the most important decisions that was made that affected climate policy was the choice of Scott Pruitt to head the EPA. And so in that choice you can sort of see that the Kochs pushed very hard for Pruitt. They funded him in the past. One of their allies Harold Hamm who is a billionaire who is made a fortune from fracking was also very closely involved in choosing Pruitt and advising Pence and the transition. So the choice of personnel during that transition on environmental issues is where you can see the influence of the Kochs.  If you are just joining us my guest is Jane Mayer. She writes about Washington for The New Yorker and her new article is called The President Pence Delusion Trump's Critics Yearn For His Exit But Mike Pence The Corporate Right's Inside Man Poses His Own Dangers. We will be back after this break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is Jane Mayer. She is a Washington correspondent for The New Yorker magazine. Her new article is called The President Pence Delusion and it is all about Vice President Pence how he entered politics what his policies have been what his ideology is and what kind of vice president he is and how influential he is in the White House. So among the people you spoke with for this article is Mike Pence's mother and brother and they told you about Mike Pence's strict upbringing. What were some of the rules for children in Pence's house when he was growing up?  You know this kind of amazed me. He had  there were six kids in the family  four boys and two girls. And the rule at the dinner table was that the children were forbidden from speaking. So the parents would have the conversation and the kids could only basically say things like pass the butter please and thank you. And the children were also told that whenever an adult entered the room they needed to stand up and if they did not abide by these rules in the family the father Pence was a strict disciplinarian and would hit them with a belt give them a talking to and hit them with a belt.  When and how did Mike Pence become an evangelical Christian?  So he was raised as Roman Catholic and was an altar boy as were all the Pence boys. And when he went off to Hanover College in Indiana which was not that far from his home of Columbus he converted to evangelical Christianity. And his mom and his  the rest of his siblings are still very Catholic. And I really enjoyed talking to his mom. She was  one of the things that is sort of surprising about Pence and I think explains some of his success as a politician is his mom is  has a great sense of humor and is very charming and his brother was quite funny too. The two of them were ribbing each other over coffee as I was interviewing them. And Pence apparently has a very good sense of humor too. I was sorry he did not  he did not grant an interview with me but people describe him as you know despite his kind of severe views of things very affable very likable. And you know he often talks about how I am a conservative but I am not in a bad mood about it.  In law school Mike Pence met and married Karen who became his wife. She too was in law school at Indiana University. And you write that when she started to expect that he was going to propose to her she began carrying in her purse a gold cross with the inscription I do which I assume she presented to him after he proposed.   Actually it was inscribed with the words yes.  I mean yes. OK right.   And yeah she was  she was ready for him. And so you know it was  it was I think an eight or ninemonth courtship and they have been interestingly I mean sort of notably inseparable ever since. And people talk about it a lot because she is at his side almost in every event you see. I mean if you saw recently during the hurricane coverage she would be standing there holding the loudspeaker in front of his mouth as he spoke. And so they have  she is given him a special phone a kind of a hotline that he keeps on his desk and only she has the number. And they have twin treadmills they work out on. And he follows something called the Billy Graham rule which is that he will not go out to dinner with any woman other than his wife and he also will not go to any kind of cocktail party or any place where they are serving alcohol and there is mixed company unless she is there at his side.  As a woman what do you find maybe objectionable about that?  Well I mean you know I quote Kellyanne Conway saying she thinks it is narrowminded to criticize other people's marriages. And you know I am sympathetic to some extent about that. I try not to  cast stones at other people's arrangements but I think that the problem is it tips over into the workplace in a way that could cause serious problems. If you are a female professional and you are working for a male boss and he will not meet with you alone it is going to constrict the ability of women to work in his office. And Kellyanne Conway who has worked with him for a long time says she is never had a problem with it. It is never gotten in her way but it is easy to see how something like that could get in the way of women in the workplace.  It just also  I think it makes a lot of women wonder does Mike Pence have the kind of selfcontrol issues where if he is with a woman and not drinking himself but there is alcohol around that somehow he will not be able to control himself unless his wife is there?  I know. It almost makes her out to be his chaperon and what is interesting if you step back is it is true of a number of fundamentalist religions that there is this notion of women as temptresses and that they need to be separated segregated sit separately be in a different place because they are just  the temptation is too great for the men. And you know in a way I think it is quite insulting to males as well as females.  So have women in the administration spoken to you about feeling that they have been left out of certain things because of that rule that Mike Pence follows?  They have not but I have to say one of the things that I found particularly alarming was that Mike Pence has also become the host of a Bible study group that meets in the White House. It is only for members of the Cabinet in the Trump administration. And the pastor that he has invited to run this Bible study group whose name is Ralph Drollinger is someone who has gotten in trouble in the past for preaching that it is sinful for women to work if they have children at home. And I mean these are really antediluvian points of view that are so antifemale that I think it is I mean to me a bit alarming that they would be you know in currency in this White House.  Do you think the Pence rule had anything to do with his declining to let you interview him or do you think he just did not want to be interviewed for the piece?  I think he really did not want to be interviewed for the piece no matter what. It is  they have given very few interviews to anyone working on profiles. And they actually kind of went out of their way in the case of me to sort of block my access to them. I literally at one point became the pool reporter for the White House press association so that I could follow him on one of his trips where  on Air Force Two. And his office went to great lengths to try to see if they could block me from being the pool reporter that day. It was kind of extraordinary. It is never  I have been covering the White House on and off since the Reagan era and I have never had anyone try to object to me being the pool reporter before. So they were keeping him very much under wraps.  What do you think that is about? Do you think that has anything to do with you having written critically about the Koch brothers?  I think probably so. I mean I think that they realized this was a vulnerability. You have got a vice president who is as close to these big billionaire interests as any politician in America. And he is side by side with a president who said he was going to take on those same billionaire interests. It is  you know it is a contradiction and it is hanging right out there. And if anyone is going to see it it is going to be me because I have written Dark Money a book about the Koch brothers so I am sure that they had that in mind.  My guest is Jane Mayer. Her new New Yorker article is titled The President Pence Delusion. After a break we will talk about how Pence won the support of billionaire funders and what he did in return and how his faith has led him to support legislation many considered extreme and how that backfired when he was governor of Indiana. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Jane Mayer a staff writer for The New Yorker. Her new article is titled The President Pence Delusion. The premise of the article is many of President Trump's critics are hoping he will not serve his full term but what kind of president would Mike Pence make? She writes about his political career and how it is been influenced by his faith as an evangelical Christian and by billionaire Republican funders like the Koch brothers. Her bestseller Dark Money is about the Koch brothers. So let us talk about how Mike Pence got into politics. He ran for Congress for the first time in 1987 when he was 29. He won the primary lost the general then lost again in 1990. And I think it was during this time that the press found that he would used donations  campaign donations  toward personal expenses like mortgage payments and groceries. So how did that affect his political career?  Oh it killed it right then. Those campaigns especially the second one were eyecatchingly negative for Indiana where you are you know they like to be Midwestern nice. And you know I interviewed his brother about the campaign and was surprised about how frank he was about it. He said you know it was partly immaturity. But he said of Mike Pence he was full of expletive. And  which was a surprising thing to be able to quote but it is in the article. Pence you know he disappointed many of his backers by using his campaign funds to pay off his household expenses. It was not illegal but it just did not look proper. And the other thing that he did was he waged an extraordinarily negative campaign against the Democrat whose name was Phil Sharp and sort of put on these hokey ads that accused Sharp of being a tool of Arab oil interests. And they had some actor dressed up as an Arab sheik in sunglasses you know saying that he would bought off Phil Sharp. And it was not true. Anyway altogether it was kind of a fiasco. And at the end of the whole thing Pence did something interesting though. He wrote an essay after that 1990 campaign. And he  it is called Confessions Of A Negative Campaigner. And he said he did not have any intention of going back into politics at that point but if he ever did he would never run a negative campaign again. He felt that it kind of besmirched himself.  So he goes to work at a law firm. What gets him back into politics is he becomes the president of the Indiana Policy Review Foundation a new small think tank that you say promoted free market policies. What was the importance of this think tank in his political career?  So this is the beginning of his sponsorship by the corporate right. And again what I found so interesting about his career is almost from the start really right from when he was washed up after his first congressional campaigns he is rescued by the corporate right. It was the  and what I mean by that is their  sort of this movement towards corporations funding think tanks in Washington during that period  this is the '80s. And you have got the Heritage Foundation in Washington. And it is funded by all these Fortune 500 companies. And what they started doing was setting up satellites all across the country. It was something called the State Policy Network. And it is just a sort of a web of procorporate antitax antiregulatory think tanks that is spreading across the country. And it was actually Reagan's idea to do this. And there was one particular funder named Thomas Rowe at the Heritage Foundation who said famously you take the Soviet Union I am taking over the states. And so there is sort of this corporatefunded rightwing movement in the early '80s to take over the states. And that is the group that bails out Pence. He is looking for what to do with his life. His law practice is nothing special. I talked to lawyers about him. He is sort of doing really kind of crummy little cases. And he goes to work at this think tank and he kind of gets oriented into their ideology. And he gets a steady paycheck from them and then soon discovers his true gift in life which is to take those policies and sell them to the public on radio. You have got the burgeoning then of sort of rightwing talk radio. And it turns out Mike Pence is a great talker. He is been giving speeches since he was a kid in elementary school and winning speaking competitions. And he is really good at talking. And so this becomes the thing that kind of boosts Mike Pence in Indiana. And he is been a loser when he first runs for office. Ten years later after being on talk radio for 10 years he is on the radio all over the state. He is got big name recognition. He is got a Rolodex full of connections. And this time he wins and gets to Congress.  So some of his talking points you say come from some of the corporate sponsors of that Indiana Policy Review Foundation. Like I think tobacco  the tobacco lobby was one of the sponsors. And one of his top  one of Pence's talking points was that smoking does not kill. In fact 2 out of every 3 three smokers do not die from a smokingrelated illness that a greater scourge was big government disguised as dogooder health care rhetoric.  Well there you have it. It is just  in a nutshell what you see is that in many ways these think tanks which were taking tobacco money are a form of lobbying corporate lobbying an almost sort of advertisement for the companies that are funding them. And then you have got Mike Pence becoming kind of the mouth piece for these sentiments. So there he is saying that smoking does not kill. And in many other ways many of the other sort of positions he took were the positions that were kind of being handed down from the Heritage Foundation. He called himself sort of part of a  I think it was like the seed farm that was being spread by The Heritage Foundation.  So he runs for Congress. He actually gets elected to Congress in what year?  He gets elected in 2000.  And what were his accomplishments in Congress?  Well so interestingly he never had a single bill that he sponsored that passed. So he obviously was not a major legislator. But he did do something else that was kind of remarkable which was he quickly climbed into the top of the  or near the top of the Republican leadership. He became the head of something called the Republican Study Group which was the sort of clique of rightwingers in Congress. And he challenged the leadership of the speaker of the House who was John Boehner. And then soon after he became the number three person in the House. Boehner put him in charge of the Republican Congress. So again he is using the skill he is got as a talker. He is great at messaging. He is very much far to the right of the mainstream Republicans at that point but he is big on the circuit of all the big funders  the NRA The Heritage Foundation all the various donor groups proIsrael groups. He is out there speaking at the banquets. And he is helping set the message for the Republican Party in the House.  And he becomes a voice of the Tea Party in the Tea Party era.  Very early as the Tea Party opposition to Obama was brewing what you have got is Mike Pence out there. He had a reputation for being kind of more softspoken than many Republicans and for being kind of as I said earlier more affable. But when the Tea Party rises he really finds a more aggressive voice. And he is out there at their rallies yelling that the government should be shut down unless Planned Parenthood is defunded.  Abortion has been one of his really big issues over the years.  Absolutely.  What are some of the bills he has backed?  Well so he is probably as stridently antiabortion as anybody in American politics. And there was a bill passed actually in Indiana when he was governor there  which is where he went after being in Congress  that really defined the most kind of farout antiabortion legislation in the country. It was a bill that said that when women have abortions they have to bury the fetus in a full burial. The state requires it. And if they have a miscarriage they have to have a full burial for that. And it also banned the ability of women to have an abortion if the fetus had some kind of developmental anomaly so something like you know Down syndrome or something else something even worse. It was a bill that was so intrusive on women's rights that women took up a protest effort against it in Indiana. And they started a movement called Periods For Pence. And they started calling his office and saying I just thought the governor would like to know I have my period today because they thought that he was so intrusive into their lives to be able to sort of tell them what to do if they had a miscarriage and whether they needed to bury it or not. Anyway the courts eventually overturned the legislation and it was struck down. But...  And the legislation you are talking about was when he was governor?  This is when he was governor. He has tried you know consistently to defund Planned Parenthood. It is resulted in shutting down many many clinics in Indiana which has actually become a tremendous health problem in Indiana because Indiana like so many other states is dealing with an opioid crisis. And one of the things that those health clinics did was testing for HIV. And with the sharing of needles in the opioid crisis there is also been an HIV crisis. There actually was an epidemic in Indiana but  where it was breaking out. Five clinics had already been closed down in Indiana that had been Planned Parenthood clinics. And there was really you know no place ready to deal with the testing or the rest of the health problems.  If you are just joining us my guest is Jane Mayer. And she is a Washington correspondent for The New Yorker. Her new article is called The President Pence Delusion and it is all about Mike Pence. We are going to take a short break then we will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Jane Mayer. She is a Washington correspondent for The New Yorker magazine. Her new article is about Vice President Mike Pence and his political background his ideology and his place in the White House today. The article is called The President Pence Delusion. And it is titled that because it is about well what kind of president would Mike Pence make if for some reason President Trump left office? So Mike Pence runs for governor with the backing of the Koch brothers. He takes office in January of 2013. And one of his accomplishments as governor is signing the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. What is that act and what was its importance?  So as you say he runs for governor. People who I interviewed said that very much in the back of Mike Pence's mind he wanted to be president. I mean he is wanted  he is talked about wanting to be president since he was in high school. So he is coming from the House of Representatives. And it is very hard to run for the presidency as a congressman. So his thought was according to people working with him and also people  opponents in politics who I have talked to was that he would go become governor check that box learn some  show some executive experience and be a big success in Indiana. But instead what happened was he nearly killed his own career there by signing this legislation you are talking about the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. And what it was was it was presented as a bill that would protect religious freedom which sounds like a great thing but when in the fine print what it meant in practice was that people who felt for religious reasons that homosexuality offended them would be able to bar homosexuals from their businesses if they wanted to. So if they ran a restaurant and they felt that they were religious and that their views were antigay they could say to gay customers I am sorry you cannot eat here. And when that bill passed there was just a political explosion in Indiana. And it backfired hugely on Pence. He had signed the legislation backed it. And people had not paid that much attention until they looked at the signing ceremony. And there in a closed ceremony a picture sort of leaked out that showed Pence standing there with the most virulently antigay activists in the state. And people began to take a closer look at it and they realized the implications of this bill. And what was so interesting to me was among the opponents it was not just the gay rights activists though they were of course very involved. And it was not just sort of civil libertarians. And it was not just Democrats. It was the Republican business establishment in Indiana just was in an uproar because this legislation was so reactionary and so discriminatory that it began to give Indiana a black eye all cross the country. There was trending on the Internet sort of boycott Indiana as a meme. And these businesses began to fear that people would cancel conventions there that they would not be able to recruit employees there. And you know I spoke with a number of business people and they are all quoted on the record in the story. Many of them were Republicans. And many had been supporters of Pence. And they were just in a state of outrage over this whole thing. So Pence went too far.  What impact did that have on his political career?  Well it really hurt him. I mean and it hurt him in so many directions at once that it  because what happened was finally when this uproar burst and even the Indiana newspaper the Indianapolis Star  which is a pretty conservative newspaper  just had a huge headline on the front page that just said Fix It Now . Pence retreated. He then signed new legislation that was less discriminatory but when he did that his original backers on the far right were furious with him for folding. So you have people like Steve Deace who is a farright and social conservative in Iowa who is on the radio. He is a talk show host who just looked at Pence as having stabbed the movement in the back. But meanwhile you have got all these other people  moderate Republicans and Democrats and civil libertarians  who were furious with him for ever having signed it in the first place. And his popularity just plummeted. And signs popped up all over Indiana saying fire Mike Pence. He had hoped to run for president. He looked at it very closely in 2012 and decided inste