 This is FRESH AIR. It is been 23 years since Matt Damon and Ben Affleck won a screenwriting Oscar for Good Will Hunting. Now they have teamed up again this time joining forces with the writer Nicole Holofcener on the script for The Last Duel a drama set in medieval France. Damon and Affleck both appear in the movie along with Adam Driver and Jodie Comer. It is directed by Ridley Scott. Our film critic Justin Chang has this review.  The Last Duel is a sprawling often ungainly movie a talky threepart Rashomonstyle drama that mixes past and presentday politics. But there is a bracing intelligence to its messiness. It opens the way a lot of Ridley Scott period epics do  on a gloomy day with two sides preparing for battle. We are in Paris in the year 1386 and the combatants are the dashing squire Jacques Le Gris  that is Adam Driver  and the sullen knight Sir Jean de Carrouges  that is Matt Damon. Jean's wife Marguerite played by Jodie Comer watches anxiously from her seat. Just as the two men are about to clash lances the movie cuts away and rewinds several years to show what brought these three characters to this moment. There is a lot more rewinding to come. The Last Duel is based on a true story that it tells no fewer than three times each time from a different character's perspective. The script adapted from Eric Jager's nonfiction book emerged from a unique collaboration among three writers. Damon and Ben Affleck wrote the first two chapters focusing on the men while Nicole Holofcener wrote the third chapter centering on Marguerite. It is an ingenious approach to what plays like a medieval MeToo story  tackling the dynamics of power class and gender in an era when women were regarded as little more than male property. The opening chapter focuses on Carrouges played by Damon with a righteous scowl and a mullet so hideous it almost immediately turns you against him. Carrouges is a brave warrior from a long line of brave warriors but also a proud petty man with a chip on his shoulder. We first see him and Le Gris in 1370 fighting valiantly against the English and becoming close friends. But Carrouges begins to feel resentful when their superior Count Pierre d'Alencon a saucy libertine played hilariously by Affleck takes Le Gris under his wing. The count even gives Le Gris a coveted piece of land that was originally intended for Carrouges as part of his wife Marguerite's dowry leading to years of legal struggles. Then one evening Marguerite comes forward and tells her husband that while he was away Le Gris came to their castle in Normandy and raped her. Carrouges takes the accusation public setting in motion a duel between himself and Le Gris which would become the last trial by combat officially recognized in France. At this point the first chapter ends and the movie returns to the beginning this time replaying events from Le Gris' perspective. As one of the town's closest allies Le Gris has come to enjoy a life of privilege and debauchery. And Driver basically plays him as God's gift to women. That stokes his tensions with Carrouges who eventually is made a knight and demands that Le Gris show him respect in this heated exchange.    I will not be patronized by the squire who lies about court waiting to be feted with gift upon gift upon gift and risks nothing  nothing. He may acquire more property in this world find more favor eat more drink more bed more and otherwise call himself a man of arms. But in this hall and any other in my company he will call me sir  sir sir.   Indeed good sir. Enjoy your time in Paris Sir Jean.  Around this time Le Gris falls madly in love with Marguerite and becomes certain that she reciprocates his feelings. That brings us to their fateful encounter in which Le Gris convinces himself that Marguerite's protests are merely the signs of a guilty conscience. But even though the movie is showing us his version of events it rejects his delusion completely. What we see is unmistakably a sexual assault in which Marguerite repeatedly says no and tries to push him away. The third chapter which unfolds from Marguerite's perspective revisits the rape scene. And for some viewers  fair warning  it may seem like one grueling replay too many especially since Marguerite's trauma is now even more apparent. But this is also the chapter in which the moral arc of the story snaps into focus. After so much boorish male behavior fully embodied by Damon and Driver the fierce intelligence and humanity of Comer's performance is like a balm. Marguerite emerges as by far the most honest and cleareyed of the movie's three leads heroic in her refusal to stay silent about what she endured. Near the end of the film Marguerite finds herself on trial forced to defend her rape allegation in a court full of men trying to discredit her. The sequence plays like dark satire suggesting how much has changed and also how much has not. And then there is the duel which feels almost subversively anticlimactic. It delivers all the gory virtuosity you would expect from Ridley Scott. But something about it rings deliberately hollow. It hardly matters which man wins the movie seems to be saying in a world where women are destined to lose.  Justin Chang is film critic for the LA Times. On Monday's show British actor and singer Cynthia Erivo  she played abolitionist Harriet Tubman in the film Harriet and Aretha Franklin in Genius Aretha. She won a Tony Award for her performance in the Broadway revival of The Color Purple. Now she has a debut album. I hope you can join us.    Gone is the way we used to smile my dear.  FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham with additional engineering support from Joyce Lieberman and Julian Herzfeld. Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit Phyllis Myers Sam Briger Lauren Krenzel Heidi Saman Therese Madden Ann Marie Baldonado Thea Chaloner Seth Kelley Kayla Lattimore and Joel Wolfram. Our producer of digital media is Molly SeavyNesper. For Terry Gross I am Dave Davies.    But I know there is no point in waiting for what I cannot see. Holding my chest as all my tears fall out my mind's in a spin as all the pain pours down. What can I do to make these days go by? I have not the strength to make the rainfall die. Just want to remember the good good good good good  want to remember the good good good good good. What can I do to make these days go by?  when darkness surrounds me but I see the light  just want to remember the good yeah. Gone are the lies we used to tell ourselves. 