 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. A new HBO series called Enlightened premieres tonight. Part comedy part drama it is about stress and the difficulty of staying calm and focused. My guest Mike White cocreated the show with Laura Dern who also stars in it. She will join us a little later. Mike White also wrote the movies Year of the Dog and The School of Rock. In Enlightened Laura Dern is a former executive in a global conglomerate who after a humiliating emotional meltdown at the office was forced to take a time out. she went to a holistic mental health treatment center in Hawaii where she felt at peace near the ocean and learned how to meditate. But then in the premiere episode she is just returned home well not exactly home she is moved in with her mother and now she is facing a strained relationship with her mother and a demotion at work. Mike White plays one of the guys working in the section she is been demoted to. But she is trying to maintain the calm she found meditating in Hawaii and it is not easy. In this scene she is seated crosslegged on her bed beginning to meditate.    Breathe relaxing my body totally present focusing on one spot. I see my hand. I see wrinkles my skin. I am 40 40. I am severely dehydrated. I need to drink more water. Relax breathe picturing yourself somewhere calming.  Mike White welcome to FRESH AIR. It is great to have you back again. Congratulations on this new series. That scene that we just heard is a great illustration of the way you can just start judging or attacking yourself while you are trying to sit still and breathe and get in a meditative state. But you know with the Laura Dern character Amy after she gets into  after she starts like getting really neurotic about things she does get to that quieter place. This is the only series I can think of that is trying to deal with like the difficulty of getting into a meditative state of quieting your noisy brain of trying to be your better self and then the difficulty once you have gotten there of staying there. What made you think of this as the idea of a series?  Well the truth is I kind of had my own process of getting into some of these like meditating and yoga. And it came out of a really bad TV experience where I was running a show where by the end of the show I was like sent the crazy email in the middle of the night to everybody and had sort of a nervous breakdown over the whole thing. I was just kind of overworked. And I had gone through like a period of years where I was just burning my candle at both ends and you know  made like four movies and two TV shows in the span of like five years. And I realized I had to like mellow out a little bit and try not to be such a workaholic and I did not know how to do that. And I also wanted to try to assert to everybody else that I was not crazy. And so I think that you know it took me a while to have the guts to go back to TV because it had been so brutal but I  when they did you know HBO came to me and when Laura and I started talking about a show together I liked the idea of somebody who was  yeah had kind of come to the edge and then wanted to come back and try to get over themselves I guess.  So what was your pitch to HBO?  Laura had her own  you know she actually had the deal with HBO first. She was trying to come up with a show and she kept talking to me about what writers I would suggest for doing a show with her at HBO. And after a couple conversations I was like I would want to party at HBO with Laura. And I started to think more seriously about getting back into TV. Laura had a desire to do something. That was kind of right after Obama was elected and this feeling of after she had done some campaigning for him about you know these community activists people that were just kind of regular people but that got more involved in the political process. Thematically she wanted to do something about somebody who wanted to be an agent of change. And the idea changed a lot once I got involved but that part of it was something that appealed to me as well to tackle the idea of somebody whose main goal is not so much like you know dating or family or you know relationships but was something  kind of had a bigger ambition and yet she was not like a forensics police investigator.  You know she wants to be her better self and she was that person the better self when she was at the holistic rehab center or holistic therapy center in Hawaii where like it was beautiful with the waves and the beach and the glorious sunrises and everyone like singing around the campfire. Then you know she gets home and you know it is back to work and to the grind and the traffic. And it is just impossible to hold on to that better self. Did you experience that at all when you had taken some time away from work you had studied a little bit of Buddhism and this and that and then like throwing yourself back into  into like the stress gain. And then what?  Yeah well it is interesting. It kind of paralleled actually the making of the show for me because you know when I am not working as much and I am not stressed my better side comes out and I am  you know I can have time for other people and I can be patient and the stress of running a TV show is you know it is really aroundtheclock kind of pressure. And if you want it to be a good show you can kind of make yourself crazy. And so yeah I mean like all of my old kind of compulsive tweaker habits started to you know emerge while I was even making the show. So it is harder to put some of that sort of Buddhist philosophy into practice once you are outside of the cushier berth the meditation room you know or the yoga room.  So did you actually go on a retreat like the character in your TV series did or did you  were you in...?  Well it was more freaky than that. What happened is like I had this kind of breakdown at work when I was running this TV show and I started having panic attacks. And then basically I woke up one morning and I was like thinking I was having a heart attack. I mean I was having a panic attack. I just did not  I had never had one before. So I did not really know what was going on. I thought I was just dying. And so I went to see some psychiatrists and I was like you know he was like asking me if I was like suicidal. And I was like well I just want to throw myself in front of a bus but you know it is nothing more than that.   Excuse me for laughing.  Nothing you know whatever the typical stuff. But and so the next thing you know I was like actually being checked into like a hospital where I was like not going to have my own  you know I was thinking I was going to go to like the Ritz Carlton and like have a burger and some tranquilizers or something. And it was much more. Like you know people were shuffling around like you know clearly medicated. I was like I am not crazy I am just really stressed. And you know I need to  this is just going to make it worse. I am not  you know this is not right. So I like escaped this place just ran to my car and like got in my car. And the psychiatrist had taken it upon himself  I do not know why I am telling this story but I might as well  but he had called my office and said oh yeah Mike's not coming back he is going somewhere where he can get the help that he needs. And I was like  and so there were all these people who were leaving messages on my machine all of these producers and studio executives and network executives who were like crying and being like do not worry about the show just get the  and I was heading back to work. And I was like this is not  I did not really know what to do.   And so like within a few days the show had been shut down and I was  and it was over. And so I was like yeah. So it kind of just  you know it was like I was like you know a cartoon character like the Wile E. Coyote that is just slammed against a wall and then is like butterflies flying over my head. Like I did not know where to go. I did not know what  I just did not know what to do. I just knew that I had completely bombed out. So yeah I mean I went through this period where I was just like what do I do now. So  and that feeling like just going back and burying myself in work which is what I used to do just did not seem like the healthiest response.  So did you go someplace away?  I never went to like  no I never went  I mean I never did that. I did start like meditating and stuff but I have always been sort of afraid of like meditating in like a big group setting because I did not think I could hack it. But I have done that some of that more now. But it was really more just a kind of a walkabout where I was just traveling and reading and just trying to just calm down.  Did you find it hard to do that and did you find it hard to quiet your mind and just sit alone with yourself?  Yeah well like Amy in that episode that you know you played the clip from I feel is very true to my experience which is like meditating can bring up the most stressful thoughts you know especially if you have not done a lot of it. And to actually try to stop that constant chatter of you know I need to do this I need to do that this is what is wrong with me you know that is  I think that is the hardest thing for many people to do especially in our modern you know kind of like achievementoriented you know everybody's running around so manic. It is I think one of the most difficult things. And what is interesting too is I think when we turned in the show the sort of more quiet meditative aspects of the show made HBO the most nervous and just in general it was like...  Why?  Well just because I think people you know especially in TV first they want their comedies funny and they want their dramas juicy and kind of operative and this is very internal. And especially these kind of moments that Amy has where she is really sort of going inside and where it slows down a little bit. I think that that is just something in general that makes a network executive worry that you are going to lose your audience and people are going to click off or change the channel. That is not what people are looking for when they are zoning out in front of the TV.  So one more thing. So you have this kind of breakdown because the stress of this TV show that you were running was just too much. And then so you go to a psychiatric facility escape from there and then the show is shut down a few days later. So on top of all the stress you were feeling did you then feel guilt too that the show was shut down because you were gone?  Yeah well also because you are  you know when you are running a show there is like at least  you know hundreds of people maybe not hundreds but over a hundred people you know who are making their living off the show. So when that happened yeah you feel like you know yeah you have really bombed and especially when it is a show like  I had you know I had actors that were really good... You know I  you sort of feel like you are hosting a party and then the party sucks and it just does not end.   And so like every day you are like  because we  there was so much fighting on that particular show between what I was trying to do and what the network wanted from the show. And by the end  and trying to compromise and make everybody happy. I had just kind of made something that nobody was happy with not me not the network. You just sort of feel like you just like every day have to show up and be like I know this is  I know this party sucks but I do not know what to do and I do not know how to get out of it. And so it was just like this  yeah and then when it all fell apart in a way I was kind of relieved just because I did not have to see everyone. I was just kind of failing alone out back in my house which I am more comfortable with. But it was  yeah it was definitely  yeah it was definitely an  you know but I do think that those kinds of things and this is very Buddhist too which is something that feels like the worstcase scenario at the time can often be the gift. You know that was a huge kind of life experience and a maturation experience for me and it was very meaningful to me and it helped direct me in a way that hopefully you know I am living my life a little bit more in a kind of saner way I guess.  If you are just joining us my guest is Mike White and the new series that he created is called Enlightened. It is on HBO and he also wrote School of Rock and Year of the Dog and other films as well. So let us take a short break here. Then we will bring in Laura Dern. This is FRESH AIR.   We are talking about the new HBO series Enlightened. Joining the conversation is Laura Dern who cocreated the series with my guest Mike White. Dern stars as a business executive who after a nervous breakdown learns to meditate at a holistic health retreat. She tries to find that calm after she returns home. Laura Dern became famous after starring in Blue Velvet. Laura welcome to the conversation.  Thank you so much so happy to be here.  Yeah I really enjoy the show. Let us hear a scene in which you Laura Dern appear with your mother Diane Ladd who plays your mother in the series. And this is from the first episode of the series. You have just come back from your holistic treatment center retreat in Hawaii and you are trying really hard to hold on to the calm that you found there. So you have brought back with you an exercise that was recommended at the retreat and you are going to try it with your mother.    Mother they have asked me to write a letter to the person I have the most difficulty communicating with. It was not hard for me to decide who that person is.   How long is this going to take?   Do you have somewhere to be?   No I just want to know how long this is going to take.   Not long. I have just got to read you what is on these papers.   Well I can read honey.   But I am supposed to read it to you Mom. That is the point.   Okay Amy.   You and I have been through a lot dad's death all of Bethany's issues my divorce money problems. You name it we have dealt with it. I know I have disappointed you in many ways and yes there have been times that you have disappointed me.  But I want to change that and I truly believe that we can change. And if we can change anything is possible. If we can change the whole world can change for the better.   I do not know what that means honey.   Mom can you just let me finish? And we will talk after.   Is this what they asked you to do up there?   One of the things yeah.   And what medications did they give you?   Mom nothing. I am off my medication.   Well why on earth?   Mom I do not want to talk about my medications. I am here reading you...   I just want to be sure that you are OK.   OK this is...   Look do not get irritated with me because I just want what is best for you. That is all I have ever wanted. Ginger's been pawing at me. So I really need to take her  I want to take her out to the kitchen. Come on. Come on with mama.  And Ginger is of course the mother's dog. Who has not experienced something like that where you are trying to like get a fresh start with a relationship of somebody who you were really close to and really care about but do not get along with well maybe your parent maybe somebody else. And it is just not possible.   Like they are not willing to talk to you on your terms. You are speaking two separate languages. Did you feel like you had been there Laura Dern when you were performing this clip?  Yes.   Yes. It just is so perfectly captured and so tragically funny to me.  Did you go through it with your mother who you are enacting the scene with?  You know in my own way I have been talking about what it is like working with her and I have got to say the pleasure of working with her  as a 40yearold versus a 20yearold  was extremely different. She is you know obviously an incredible pro and despite not bringing the relationship into work there is some inevitability to it. But this is such a different dynamic. You know she and I kind of say everything to each other and this is the opposite kind of motherdaughter relationship. But yet still to look in her eyes you know there is forever a lot unsaid you know in a parentchild relationship. So you  you know it is moving and also hilarious. But she gets the joke. So that makes it possible.  Did you know when you wanted to do a series for HBO that you would want your mother in it?  I did not. You know when Mike and I first started talking we were focusing on so many other issues just about what Mike wanted to say what I was hopeful to you know hear and witness in Amy's character.  You know they have worked together in so many great projects before. You know usually Diane plays the sort of more kind of domineering or just kind of larger than life you know and I just thought it would be interesting because the mother in this is so kind of shut down and trying to keep a lid on all of the emotional issues and I just  it kind of felt exciting to have that sort of dynamic turned in this between them as actresses.  Mike can you talk about writing the scene that we just heard in which Amy is trying to really have this communication with her mother and her mother does not speak the same language?  I feel like I have been on both sides of those kinds of moments. You have people that  you know like in AA you have friends who go to AA and then they come back and they want to like do their sort of come to Jesus with you and sort of like go hey I am sorry I did this and have their catharsis. But it is kind of on their timetable.   It is like okay great you are fixed now but I am not really ready to have this conversation and you know like maybe you feel like this is like you are saying sorry for all the things you did but it is kind of like  in a weird way in the moment it almost feels selfish. It feels like it is really just about getting something off their chest for them. And I can relate to the mom sort of being like why now why  you know like I do not want to talk about this now. You know like this is not for me. At the same time I think there is just something very moving about  at least to me hearing it you know when Amy says you know if we can change the whole world can change. You know when certain relationships are so entrenched in a certain kind of narrative where somebody's this and you know the mother's  you know whatever the backstory to certain relationships and you feel like there is no way this can ever change. And when she is asserting like look if we can change our dynamic anything is possible. This would be the most hopeful experience that would be transcended beyond just our relationship. It just means that things people can actually change and then  and yet they do not change.  Mike White and Laura Dern will be back in the second half of the show. Their new HBO series Enlightened premieres tonight. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guests Mike White and Laura Dern cocreated the new HBO series Enlightened a blend of comedy and drama which premieres tonight. White also wrote the films 'The School of Rock and Year of the Dog. Dern's films include Blue Velvet Jurassic Park Rambling Rose and Recount. In Enlightened Dern plays a business executive who has an anger problem and has a public meltdown in the office. She goes to a holistic mental health center in Hawaii where she learns to meditate. She finds a new calm within herself and feels transformed. When she returns home she not only wants to maintain her new self which she finds really difficult to do as the stress builds and anger resurfaces. She wants to change her relationship with family and colleagues even though they resist it. There is a question I think the series asks that I wanted to ask you your opinions of. Do you think people are capable of change or that you in particular are capable of change? Do you feel like when...  I do.  You do?  Yeah.  Yeah?  Oh yeah.  Prove it. I mean...   So I mean like what have you really changed in your life?  I mean I you know I you know I think that there is certain ways that people you know are always themselves. But I do think people change and I feel like that is the hopefulness that I think the show tries to get at. And I do think that you know that is a big question that you know both Laura and I have discussed throughout the entire shooting and the writing of the show and you know how the enlightenment is Amy. And I feel like if she is just a fraud in a sense if she is just somebody who you know bloviates and that in the end she is really not you know she has not really you know grown then I think it is a cynical show. And I feel like you know yeah we are all human and nobody is perfect and we are all sort of fumbling towards something better. But if you know if we do not believe that we can change and kind of like maturate in some way or kind of get over ourselves then I do not know it is a pretty depressing kind of resolution I guess.  You know I think one of the reasons why people like in their late teens or early 20s have to leave home whether it is to go to outoftown college or just like to move to another place or start a new life some place else is because sometimes in order to change you have to leave behind the people who insist that you are who you are and you cannot be anybody different.  Mmhmm.  But that is an opportunity that adult life does not always offer you. You know you may have children; you are not going to leave them. You may have a job and you cannot you know you may have reasons why you cannot move or change neighborhoods or go anywhere. And it makes it so much harder to change when people insists that you are who you are and it really I think sometimes people will not allow you to change.  And this is something that we continue to see in Mike's writing and it is such a delicate art but that Mike so beautifully writes about incremental growth. And I think so many film writers you know want to tackle this enormous growth where the villain becomes the hero in the hour and a half we have with them. And in the sort of long form of the season Mike has this opportunity and so beautifully walks this line of Amy having this longing for growth and longing for some form of self acceptance. But this drive you know it is like I will change everyone in my life if it kills me and them too. If we all go down I will make sure the world is a better place. And so there is this very complicated and elusive journey toward growth that she takes that has you know as you said have grown in our own life? You know yes she grows and hopefully I have in my own way. But there is always you know the 10 steps backward that we can take at any given moment back into old pattern you know?  Mike anything you want to add to that?  Well I think that what your question is very  it is interesting to me because I think that you know I think why certain relationships fall apart is because people get tired of the person that they have become in the relationship or the way the narrative is framed about the relationship. And it is like I am not this person and I am of tired of being kind of reflected in this way. And you know there is an episode where she takes her exhusband up to the Kern River where they used to go when they were still in love and young. And she thinks she is going to kind of I do not know somehow escape the hard darker parts of their relationship somehow she is going to reclaim this kind of innocence. And instead she realizes he is brought drugs up there and all of her sort of idealism is kind of squashed. But by the end you know as she goes back into her internal monologue we do see that there is  yeah that some kind of incremental change has happened inside of how she feels about him and how she feels about herself and it is a positive change. And so you know we cannot you know sometimes we fall  short of our idealistic goals for other people ourselves our relationships but that there is this hope that there is not just a complete failure of imagination and that you can kind of you know find some positive way of transforming those relationships.  I think in that episode Mike  that you have written very sympathetically about the exhusband who does drugs in the sense that like he really makes a jerk of himself using them and you want him you know as a viewer you want him  to like give them up. But at the same time I hope I am not giving too much away here but he says at one point you know he talks about how hard life is and how it is harder when he is sober. And you realize that like he is doing through drugs  he is trying to do through drugs what she is trying to do through meditation. They are both looking for the same thing.  Yeah. They are both trying to escape some of the pain of their life their relationship. And so you know to me I did want to be able to have him articulate in a way that she could understand why it is not just about a pleasure fix for him it is not just about him being weak or him you know that there is some kind of something that she can understand about why he needs that escape route.  Laura Dern you cocreated the series and you had to deal with HBO and brought Mike White on to write the series. Do any parts of the series come directly out of your life?  When Mike and I first talked about it I had expressed how much I would love to explore rage. And growing up I was always in love with two different films Network and Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. And I think in the last so many years of American politics I was like you know maybe the only person who could be Mr. Smith Goes to Washington today like true naivete is someone who is naive or hopeful enough to take their rage to the street who just says everything they feel and does not consider how you are supposed to do it and express it. So yes so I always had this great longing to explore that idea that perhaps you know rage is not just this negative thing but something that could be used in a positive way because there had been this cultural apathy so many of us  and I know Mike and I  had been feeling. So my own fury at about every single news story that exists is pretty much what is taken from my life. You know I have never been someone who is outwardly angry so I just kind of hold stuff in and do not know what to do with it. And I think you know Amy's this miraculous excuse to get to explore the feelings that I certainly hold in and I think a lot of us do...  Right.  ...then figure out a way to do something with them.  So you found something to do with it put it in a TV series.   Yeah. There we go.  Yeah. Well Laura Dern it is great to talk with you. We are going to have to  we have a line in New York and a line to L.A. Right now and we have to end our line to New York so we are going to lose your end of the conversation I regret. But thank you so much for joining us. Congratulations on the new series.  Thank you. Thank you so much for your support.  And Laura Dern stars in and cocreated the new HBO series Enlightened. Mike White I hope you can stick around with us?  Sure.  Great. So thank you Laura Dern. We will be right back to you Mike White. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Mike White and he cocreated the new HBO series Enlightened about a woman played by Laura Dern who has this kind of like breakdown at work goes to a holistic treatment center in Hawaii learns how to meditate comes back feeling like she is become her better self and is really transformed. But then a lot of that just kind of fades away when she enters the real world again and has to go back to work and deal with all the problems of life. So the series is about her trying to maintain some of what she learned on this meditation retreat and bring that into the real world and the difficulty of doing it. And it is you know it is part comedy and it is part just a real sincere expression of the difficulty of being your better self but the possibility of actually changing. And Mike White wrote the first few episodes. He directed several of them. He also wrote the movies Year of the Dog School of Rock and Nacho Libre. So...  I wrote all the episodes Terry.  Did you really?   Yeah.  Wow. I have only seen the first five so I...  I wrote them all.  It is going to be hard for you to calm down with that much work.   Wow that is a lot. OK. So when you first started writing the series for HBO how far ahead did you have to think of what was going to happen to each of the characters where the story lines were going to go? Do you have to have a whole season mapped out before you can really begin so you know what your destination is?  Well when you usually when you pitch a show you kind of give them a sense of where the show would be going. I think it is helpful as far as sort of them getting their head around what it is. I was in a really fortunate position because they picked up the show pretty quickly. And Laura was still committed to a movie that was shooting so we had kind of a long prep period before the pilot started shooting. And because I would had this experience before in TV where you know people are like oh we want to be in business with you and you sell them something but they really do not want what it is that you are trying to do you know. And that is happened to me more than once  where it feels like they kind of do not want the thing that you are doing but they do not want to lose you. So I was like I really want to just write the season before we get too far down the road with this so that HBO if they do pick up the show they really know exactly what it is that I want to do here. And it will be fine if they do not want to pick it up but I do not want them picking it up and then being like oh we want you know X. And I was just kind of like a junkyard dog. And even though my agents were like well this is not practical because you know you are kind of doing free work in a sense. It would just made me sleep easier because I just did not want to be in some situation where I was kind of trying to transform the thing I wanted to do into something else that I did not know how to do or did not want to do.  There is another scene I want to play from Enlightened. And this is a scene from the fourth episode. And it does not give away any plot. But Amy the Laura Dern character and her exhusband are going on this rafting trip. And there they meet the guide for this group of people who are rafting. I just want to play him introducing himself to the group that signed up for him to guide them on the rafting trip.    I have introduced myself to some of you. For the rest of you I am Rick. I used to write for television.   Wow.   Rockford Files Mr. James Garner.   Oh you wrote Rockford Files.   Kojak.   Great.   Yeah. They 