 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. The federal government under President Trump is the subject of the new book The Fifth Risk by my guest journalist Michael Lewis who is also the author of the bestsellers Moneyball and The Big Short which were adapted into films and The Undoing Project. Lewis looks at Trump's government by focusing on three departments  energy commerce and agriculture. If you are thinking that this is about boring bureaucracy consider that as Lewis points out the government manages a portfolio of risks that no private person or corporation was ever able to manage ranging from forecasting and warning about hurricanes  the National Weather Service is part of the Commerce Department  to preventing the accidental explosions of our own nuclear weapons one of the Energy Department's many responsibilities. Many essential positions in the Trump administration remain unfilled and some of the key positions Lewis says are filled by people who are uninformed about what areas they are supposed to be overseeing while others have conflicts of interest or political views that make them antagonistic toward the department or agency they are leading. Lewis started writing about this in articles published in Vanity Fair. Greg Miller welcome to FRESH AIR. Is there a story that you helped break that you consider the most consequential story of candidate or President Trump and his administration?  Well I mean there are several stories. Obviously many stories that The Washington Post broke that I had a hand in one way or another obviously working very closely with some terrific and amazing colleagues here. I think the one that jumps out for many people is the story that said that former national security adviser Mike Flynn had not been honest about his conversation with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. We wrote the story saying that he in fact had discussed the lifting of sanctions on Russia in those conversations and then lied about it to the White House to news organizations including our own and to the American public. And this was the sort of  just one of many huge stories that we broke during that time. And a couple others that I was involved in include the revelation that the CIA had reached a secret conclusion that Russia was not just trying to disrupt the election what was  but was trying to help elect Donald Trump. And then later when Trump was in office I broke several stories about his rough conversations with foreign leaders  we had the transcripts of some of those calls  and the story about his revealing of highly classified information to the Russian foreign minister.  Oops. It looks like we are having a technical problem there and we played the wrong tape. So we are now going to hear my interview with Michael Lewis. Sorry about that. Michael Lewis welcome back to FRESH AIR. Explain what The Fifth Risk is.  Short answer is it is the risk that you fail to imagine. It is while you are worried about what you are worried about it is the thing that is actually going to come and kill you. And the longer answer is when I am working on this book about the federal government under Trump I come to see the federal government as really a portfolio of risks that are being managed. And as I am wandering around the federal government trying to figure out what these risks are over and over again when I am asking people in the Energy Department or the Agriculture Department or even the White House to name kind of the top risks on the tip of their minds they all come up with kind of three or four and then they cannot think of the fifth. So I thought that is the moment where the mind fails to imagine what it needs to imagine.  Since your book is about the federal government under Trump focusing on the energy agriculture and commerce departments why did you name it The Fifth Risk now that you have explained with The Fifth Risk means?  Well it was a response to what I would found about how the Trump administration had gone about taking over the federal government. What kind of lights a fire under me is when I discovered that the Obama administration had spent the better part of a year and thousands of people's lives preparing essentially the best course that had ever been created in how to run the federal government or what was going on inside the federal government and that this course was meant to be delivered to whoever won the election the day after the election  starting the day after the election. And they were expecting hundreds of people to roll in to receive these briefings and nobody showed up. Nobody  in many cases when I go get these briefings I am the first person to have got them. And I thought well this enterprise that is managing all these risks it imagines but we as a society do not spend much time thinking about. It is being neglected ignored and is operating on the basis of ignorance. So I thought what happens when you do that across a big portfolio of risks like the federal government runs? And what happens is you amplify the risks. You increase the probability of these risks actually causing problems.  So you write about three different departments  energy agriculture and commerce. In all three or at least in two of the three data has been removed and the public can no longer access it. Can you give us some examples across the agencies of data that is been removed?  Yeah so this is a theme. You know trying to  wants to tease out some of the themes of the Trump administration. And one of the themes is it is going dark or it is got a very loose or sometimes hostile attitude towards the data the government is supposed to collect and make available. Just a couple of the examples  in all three agencies anything having to do with climate was removed. And then in several cases it was kind of odd removal of data. So for example the Department of Agriculture had data on its website about cases that the government had brought against people who had abused animals  I mean circuses and ranchers and so on and so forth. And that gets taken down. And I think kind of like  you look at the specific instances of what happens why it is happened. And in almost every case there is some Trump supporter or Trump appointee who has some narrow financial interest in the removal of the data.  You do not write about the Environmental Protection Agency but this seems to fit with one of the themes that you write about in your book. The office at the EPA that gives scientific input to the presidential administration the Office of the Science Adviser  the plan is  according to an anonymous source that The New York Times reported on the plan is to eliminate that job altogether. Does that fit into the themes that you have seen in the three departments that you write about?  Well you know it is funny because the broad impulse of the Trump administration has been just not to fill the jobs. I mean the top 700 jobs in the administration  half of them are still unfilled. And the ones that are filled are filled often very oddly by people who do not have the expertise for the job. So I would say the broader pattern is one of just general neglect and misunderstanding. Look; there is no question that Trump has been specifically hostile to environmental regulation and to the idea of climate change. And it is pretty clear that the reason he is hostile is he is got  he is backed by fossil fuels people. And where  you do find places in my stories where you can see the hand  that hand at work either removing climate change data from websites or filling jobs that would be specifically addressing climate and the environment with people who are totally inappropriate for the job. So for example in the Agriculture Department the chief scientist the person who is in charge of distributing the 3 billion a year the Agriculture Department distributes to  for basic research this research is done now almost entirely to find ways to adapt the food supply to climate change. I mean it is absolutely critical. It is not going to be done in the private sector. They handed this job to a rightwing talk show radio host who had backed Trump in Iowa. I mean it is just  that kind of thing is going on throughout the administration.  You had spoken to FRESH AIR's Dave Davies about a year ago after your second article on how Trump is running the federal government was published in Vanity Fair. And with Dave you focused on the departments of Energy and Agriculture. You have added in your book the Department of Commerce so I want to take a look at that. And you write that the Department of Commerce has very little to do directly with commerce and it is in fact forbidden by law from engaging in business. You say that the Department of Commerce should really be called the Department of Information or the Department of Data. Why?  Because that is what it does. It is  you know inside of the Department of Commerce you have the census for example which is the best picture we have of ourselves as a society. You have the  a collection and assimilation of all the economic statistics. And above all more than half the budget of the department is spent gathering weather and climate data. I mean the National Weather Service is inside the Department of Commerce. And one of the great opportunities that exists with the federal government is the better use of the data it collects. All of a sudden we are able to parse the data in a way and use that data in ways we have never been able to use it. And that is seemingly something that the person that Trump put in charge of the Commerce Department Wilbur Ross is not interested in. He sees the job as kind of like chief trade negotiator which is odd because we have a chief trade negotiator.  And one of the big like data pools that the Commerce Department is responsible for is the U.S. census. And the head of the Commerce Department Wilbur Ross is now involved in a lawsuit pertaining to a question on the census. I do not know if this is definitive or not the question on the 2018 census whether it is on there or not.  Well there is still argument about whether they are going to insert on the census a question of establishing whether the person who is replying to the census is a citizen. What it will do is queer the responses to the census.  Let us talk about why 'ecause a lot of people will be afraid to answer that question.  Will be  people will be afraid to answer the question or people will be suspicious of the motives of the census takers.  Right. And a lot of immigrants live with somebody who is not here legally. So even if you are here legally if you know someone who is not you might be afraid to say that you are an immigrant.  I think at this point there are even people who are here who are legal who are fearful. So actually let us back up a second. They have not even begun to prepare this for the census. I mean the real problem with the census is that it is way behind schedule and it has not been budgeted for. So there is some question whether they are going to be able pull off the census in the first place. But then how you pull it off is another question. And they are inserting this  they are inserting a question that seems designed to dissuade especially Latinos from answering it.  And what are the consequences if Latinos are underrepresented in the census?  For starters you do not get a picture  a correct picture of the correct congressional districts. So where districts need to be redrawn because of shifting in the population they will not be redrawn. Of late one of the things we have learned is just how valuable the data that the government collects is. Researchers have been doing things with this data that they have never been able to do before. And so for example we would not know that there was an opioid crisis in the country if the data on prescription drugs had not been made available and not been parsable. If we do not have a picture of what the society looks like there is all sorts of misunderstanding of the society that will occur.  So the people suing Wilbur Ross the plaintiffs include over a dozen states and big cities who say that he acted improperly in trying to add this question about are you a citizen  that he acted improperly in trying to add that to the census. And these states and cities fear their political representation will be calculated incorrectly because they will be misrepresented in the census if this question discourages immigrants from answering. So Wilbur Ross  did you  were you surprised at the choice of him to head the Department of Commerce since as you say Commerce has more to do about data? And I do not want to sound ageist here but data and how it is collected and how it is interpreted has  is changing so rapidly. And I have no idea if he is kept up with what data means anymore.  Well we know he was falling asleep in meetings where he was supposed to be learning about the department. And I know that the people who tried to explain to him how the department worked came away  and these were Republicans who were brought in to try to explain how the department worked to him  found that he was really utterly disinterested in anything but trade. So even if he was not 80 he just was not particularly interested in the mission of the department. And added to that what became very curious is that the exposure of his finances I think put him in a bad order with the White House. You know he had to declare his financial holdings when he was nominated for the job. And it turned out he had 2 billion less than the Forbes rich list had calculated him having. And Forbes launches this investigation and discovers that he had been lying to the Forbes rich list all along which then apparently caused Trump to think a lot less of him. But he  you know he is an odd choice. He is a very odd choice because what that department really needs is someone who is really comfortable with technology.  Well if you are just joining us my guest is Michael Lewis and his new book is called The Fifth Risk. And the book is about the federal government under President Trump. And the book looks at the energy agriculture and commerce departments. We are going to take a short break then we will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Michael Lewis. He is best known for his books like Moneyball The Big Short and The Undoing Project all of which have been bestsellers. His new book The Fifth Risk is about the federal government under Trump and it examines the energy agriculture and commerce departments. You know I am wondering. There is so much attention being paid to what is happening in the White House and to the Mueller investigation and now to the Kavanaugh confirmation story. And not as much attention is being paid to what is happening on the Cabinet level on the department level. And I am wondering if there is a lot of action happening in the department level like the three departments you write about  you know agriculture commerce energy  that most of us are not paying that much attention to even though it is being reported on. But it is not  it never seems to be like the sexiest story.  It never will be. And that is the problem. I mean it is like we are a society of distracted drivers. We are not paying attention to the thing that matters most. There is this enterprise that is not a true enterprise. The society  we do not  does not function without the government. Government is  it is been subjected to decades and decades of abuse and scorn and it is collected rust. And this guy has come in with a sledgehammer and is having at it. And nobody's paying much attention because it is a slowmoving story. And this to me  you know one aspect of The Fifth Risk is the government  a lot of the risks that the government manages are very longterm slowmoving risks. Climate change would be one of them. Income inequality would be another cleaning up you know horrible toxic waste sites that can pollute rivers and ruin lives another. There are all kinds of examples of very slowmoving problems that are dealt with in a slow way but they require a longterm approach. And on top of this enterprise has been thrust this very shortterm attitude. I mean the myopia of the Trump administration is incredible and kind of living from news cycle to news cycle. And the public has gone along with it. And that is the frightening thing to me.  And you see a lot of action happening at the department level with that kind of level of government where things are being undone where positions are not being replaced where people are being appointed who are not really appropriate for the position.  And people  and they are people who have the ability to dismantle critical functions of the government who also have a financial incentive to do so because they have some conflict.  So let us get back to the Commerce Department which you write about in The Fifth Risk. The Commerce Department includes the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA NOAA. And you say 60 percent of the Commerce Department is really NOAA. First of all what is it doing in the Commerce Department ?  It is a really good question. So it is even more than 60 percent. It is 65 percent or so of the budget. It goes to this one thing. NOAA eats the Commerce Department.  And this includes the...  Yep.  ...National Weather Service by the way.  The National Weather Service is a  National Weather Service is the biggest part of NOAA. And how did it get there? Back in the '70s Nixon was contemplating a reorganization of government. And he was going to put the NOAA in the Department of Interior. And the secretary of interior at the time came out against the Vietnam War. And Nixon got ticked off and just shoved it in the Commerce Department as an act of vengeance. So it is there. It does not much matter that it is there except that people do not know it is there. And it is  it is the single most important institution within the Commerce Department. And it does  it eats most of the resources. And what it does is absolutely critical. And into this place Trump has put the most really  about the worst person you could possibly put to run it.  You are talking about Barry Myers who is the CEO of AccuWeather. That sounds actually like a good fit. He runs a weather prediction service.  Well so here's the problem. Typically the person who runs NOAA has a science background. And Barry Myers is a lawyer. But let us leave that to one side. NOAA is a giant science operation. The problem is that the National Weather Service which has been a fabulously successful operation  I mean people do not pay much attention to it but weather prediction has gotten generally dramatically better over the last few decades. We can predict the paths of hurricanes and we can give tornado warnings faster than we used to be able to give them. And I mean just the you know the daily forecast has gotten better. All of that saves lives and property. That is the mission of the National Weather Service  to save lives and property. To do it it has to communicate with the public. It has to let  and has to be good at communicating with the public. And Barry Myers has been on a twodecade mission to prevent the National Weather Service from communicating with the public so that AccuWeather can do it instead. And that is how AccuWeather gets paid. And so he has had bills introduced in Congress to essentially forbid the National Weather Service from doing anything but warning right in advance of a weather event that might kill you. And the problem with this is that  well in the first place it is the data that is required to generate weather prediction is all paid for by the taxpayer. I mean these billiondollar satellites that are hovering over us the radar  the network of radar stations across the country  the National Weather Service spends the bulk of its money accumulating the data that it then makes available for free to companies like AccuWeather so that they can go and you know advertise the weather. There is no real reason why the taxpayer should have to pay for this twice.  My guest is Michael Lewis. His new book is called The Fifth Risk. We will talk more after a break. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Let us get back to my interview with journalist Michael Lewis author of the bestsellers Moneyball and The Big Short which were adapted into films and The Undoing Project. His new book The Fifth Risk looks at the federal government under President Trump. It seems to me you are  in your book you are basically saying you could predict some of the problems that the federal government was going to have under President Trump by looking at the transition and looking at the Trump candidacy. So let us go to there. The first chapter is about the transition before Trump was even elected because the transition process is supposed to start with each candidate. Each candidate is supposed to be preparing at some point as if they were going to become president so that they are briefed and they are up to speed if they do become president. So the first sentence in your book is Christie noticed a piece in The New York Times. That is how it all started. What was the article Christie noticed and what did this article start?  So there was a piece in The Times that described a meeting that had occurred between the Obama administration and all of the remaining presidential campaigns. So it was Hillary Clinton's campaign Trump's campaign. This was before the Republican primary was over. There were four or five of the campaigns and it had sent representatives. And the reason this had happened was by law the outgoing administration is required to prepare for the transition. And by law anybody who is likely to get elected  the candidates of the two major parties  are required to prepare to receive the briefings. And Christie saw this and he saw that the person the Trump campaign had sent knew nothing about government. And so he called Corey Lewandowski who was running the campaign and said look; I will go do if no one else will because we really need someone who understands government to get involved.  It surprised me that after learning that the Trump administration had nobody who could fill this role and did not seem to care very much about filling this role that Christie was still so in support of Trump and wanted to run their transition.  I think there are a couple of things going on at once. One is as Christie makes quite clear but as other people have pointed out Trump did not run to win. He did not have an acceptance speech on the night of the election. He was running for  to  as an exercise in brand building. And so his whole attitude towards preparing to be president was why bother? And when people told him he had to spend money  either his money or campaign money  to build a transition team he would become furious. And when he heard it was millions of dollars he would scream. At one point he said to Christie you know if we win you and I can leave the victory party two hours early and figure out everything we need to figure out about the government. So...  He said because we are both so smart.  Yeah. Well that  he is  that is right. So this is another theme that underlines all of this in the Trump operation  the presence of rich people  Trump and especially  and Jared Kushner. There is this sense that they both think that because they are rich they must be smart. But the combination of not wanting to spend the money not actually thinking he is going to win and not being really interested in the subject at all leads Trump to neglect the transition effort. But this is where it gets curious. Christie does wrangle a few  raise a few million dollars to abide by the federal law. And he builds actually I think a quite good transition. They had hundreds of people who were really qualified to go into the various departments and receive the government from the Obama administration. So the Obama administration has built this great course in how the government works. It is you know hundreds of briefing books that had been compiled over the past year. And it is not an ideological briefing. You give the same briefing whether the Democrat or the Republican wins. And it really is just explaining how they dealt with problems so you understood. So this is how we dealt with the Zika virus so if you have another pandemic or a threat of a pandemic here's how you might do it. You might disagree with how we did it but this is how we did it. And an awful lot of what is supposed to go on there is just that  this is  these are the problems; this is what this department does; this is how you do it. And Trump took all those people who were meant to receive those briefings and fired them the day after the election so he had nobody to go into these places to receive the briefings.  Why did he fire them?  Great question. The simple short answer is that Jared Kushner told him to and that Jared Kushner did not like the idea of Chris Christie running the operation because Chris Christie as a prosecutor in New Jersey had put Kushner's father in jail. But that really does not explain it I do not think because there was no reason Trump had to listen to Kushner and there is also no reason you could not have just fired Christie and kept everybody else on board. I think what happened was that a number of people who were in Trump's ear  and especially Michael Flynn who wanted to be the national security adviser  were left off the lists of people who were going to get important jobs in the government. And they were left off the list because the transition team had vetted all these people and found problems with them. So some of those problematic people wanted important jobs in government and they persuaded Trump to get rid of this operation that was going to forbid them from having them. I think that is what happened. And then coupled with that is that  was Trump's total disdain for and indifference to the government. I mean if he had any awareness of the complexity of the operation he was about to have to run he would have been terrified to get rid of the people who were going to help him do it. But he really  I think he really thought I just do not need to know about that.  So was there like a last straw for Chris Christie that got him fired?  I think what happened was this  that they allowed Chris Christie to build this transition team because Christie explained it was the law; they had to do it; they did not have any choice. Trump paid it no attention did not take it seriously was irritated whenever he heard money was being spent. But no one really focused on it because no one thought it was ever going to be used. They did not think they were going to win. So Jared Kushner although he oversaw it kind of closely and made sure that Christie was not doing anything he did not approve of did not ever really imagine that Christie was going to be in a position of real authority because Donald Trump was not going to win. The minute it became real they focused. I think it  he was never going to be allowed to do the job because it  but they never thought the job was going to be done.  If you are just joining us my guest is Michael Lewis and his new book is called The Fifth Risk. And the book is about the federal government under President Trump and the book looks at the Energy Agriculture and Commerce departments. We are going to take a short break. Then we will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is Michael Lewis. He is best known for his books like Moneyball The Big Short and The Undoing Project all of which have been bestsellers. His new book The Fifth Risk is about the federal government under Trump and it examines the Energy Agriculture and Commerce departments. After President Trump was inaugurated he sent in what you described as a small landing team led by Thomas Pyle the president of the American Energy Alliance which you describe as you know a group funded with millions of dollars from ExxonMobil and Koch Industries that basically represents their point of view. So what was the landing team and what was Pyle tasked with doing?  So landing team is a grand phrase for what arrived at the Department of Energy because it was really just Pyle and he did not show up until a month after the election. And he would have been in theory tasked with receiving you know hundreds of hours of briefings from people in the Department of Energy who had prepared them. But he  what he did instead was met for about an hour with a couple of people in the secretary's office and listened politely and did not take notes. And the people who were running the Department of Energy had the impression that he had no interest in what they had to say.  One of the things he did as part of the quote landing team was send a list of 74 questions he wanted answers to  74 questions to the Department of Energy. What were some of the questions?  He wanted lists of names of anybody in the department who had attended meetings that were associated with climate change. He was trying to identify people who might be hostile to the fossil fuels industry I think. So the department did not actually respond by giving him the list of names. But he  the bigger point was he came in what they interpreted as a hostile spirit signaling that the new administration was not  did not approve of the various attempts the Department of Energy was making to wean us from fossil fuels. And it is you know part of the Department of Energy's mission to engage in and fund basic research in alternative energy.  So you know your previous book about the science of risk and about trying to kind of quantify in a way how the human mind works when it is assessing risk  that book was called The Undoing Project. Do you feel in a way that your new book could have been called The Undoing Project because in some ways departments you know in the Trump administration are getting undone because there are not a lot of people to replace the people from the Obama administration yet? And some of the people who have been put in positions to run those departments are antagonistic toward those departments.  So yes but there is actually a direct connection between The Undoing Project my last book and this one. And it is what got me into this book in the first place. One of the insights that drops out of the work of the psychologists Danny Kahneman and Amos Tversky who were studying the way people judge risk is that when you change the odds people do not sense it especially with catastrophic risks. If you take something that  there is a one in a million chance of it happening and change it to 1 in 10000 people do not feel that. And I was thinking of that when Trump came in and approached the federal government the way he did because one way of thinking of the federal government is it is this vast portfolio of risks many of them potentially catastrophic risks  the risks of a pandemic or the risks of a nuclear accident or the risks of a terrorist attack or you know one after another. And many of these are not risks that most people are thinking about  the risk that the nuclear waste site in Hanford Wash. leaches plutonium into the Columbia River and poisons the whole Pacific Northwest. And I thought Trump's approach is effectively taking lots of you know oneinamillion or oneinahundredthousand risks and making them more likely making them all more likely because he is putting people in charge of the risks who do not know anything about it. And the society does not feel it. Kahneman and Tversky showed you that people do not really feel this. And that insight is what got me going in the first place.  So you used to work on Wall Street way back in the day. And you wrote about that experience in your first book Liar's Poker. Last month marked the 10th anniversary of th