 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. You probably do not think of yourself as powered by electricity  but you are. Everything we see hear think and speak is a result of electrical activity in our nerve and muscle cells. The new book The Spark of Life is about electricity in the human body. The author is my guest physiologist Frances Ashcroft. Her 1984 scientific breakthrough involves electricity in the body. She discovered what triggers the electrical impulses that control the secretion of insulin in people who were born with diabetes  a type of diabetes that is very rare. Her discovery opened the door to further research and now most people born with diabetes can be treated with pills instead of insulin injections. Ashcroft is a professor of physiology at Oxford University. Frances Ashcroft welcome to FRESH AIR. So just give us a little bit of an overview of a few of the ways that electricity functions in the human body.  Well I think one of the most interesting things is that absolutely everything that we see or hear or think or feel or do is down to electrical impulses that are taking place in the nerve cells of our brain and the muscle cells of our bodies; so that your ability to hear me now is because there are cells in your ears that are converting the sound waves into an electrical signal which is what the brain can interpret as sound. And the person that you are is down to the electrical signals that are occurring in the nerve cells in your brain. So everything is down to electricity.  So how does electricity in the body compare with electricity that powers our appliances and our computers?  Well I would say that bioelectricity is similar but not identical to the stuff that is in the sockets. Both are electric currents and in both cases the electric current is nothing more than a flow of charged particles. But the stuff in our houses is carried by electrons whereas the stuff in our bodies is carried by ions; salt such as sodium chloride  common salt in other words; the stuff you put on your meat. The second thing is that the speed is very different. So electricity in wires is carried at the speed of light which is around 186000 miles a second; whereas that in our bodies is very very much slower.  So you have done groundbreaking work about neonatal diabetes people who are born with diabetes. It is a relatively uncommon form. But your breakthrough relates to electricity. So could you just describe how electricity functions in this form of diabetes?  So let me begin by saying this is an extremely rare form of diabetes. It is not at all related to juvenile diabetes which is the form that is normally found in children. This is a rare form where you are actually born with the disease. But what is been marvelous about this is that having identified the cause of it we have been able to offer a different therapy for people who are born with this disease. Diabetes happens when you have too high a blood sugar concentration. And that usually happens because you do not have enough of the hormone insulin which is the only hormone which can lower your blood sugar concentration after a meal. So every time you eat a Mars bar  or a Hershey bar  what happens is your blood sugar level will go up; insulin will be released from the pancreas and that will cause the blood sugar to be lowered. This does not happen in diabetes. And what I was interested in understanding is how the rise in the blood sugar causes insulin to be released from the pancreas. And it turns out  this is what I discovered late one night you know  that this is down to a whole complex series of events but one of the crucial events  the little bit in the jigsaw puzzle that I discovered  is a protein that acts like a tiny hole in the cell membrane. And when this little pore is open ions can go through it. So they carry in this case an electric current. And when the pore is shut the ions cannot go through. And the movement of the ions triggers a series of events that influences whether insulin is secreted or not. So very simply put when the pore is open insulin is not released; and when the pore is shut insulin is released. And glucose  or the rise in blood sugar  stimulates insulin secretion by closing these tiny pores. And what we found  or together with a wonderful colleague of mine Professor Andrew Hattersley is that mutations genetic defects in the gene that makes this tiny pore cause it to be always open. So of course no insulin is ever released.  Now how does this relate to electricity?  Ah it relates to electricity because the current that flows through those tiny pores those channels  which is what we call them  is actually an electric current. It is just that this time it is carried by potassium ions  not by electrons. And it generates electrical impulses in the pancreatic cells and that is what is necessary for insulin release. So these cells fire electrical impulses in just the same way as your nerve cells do.  And through your research  as a result of your research now people who are born with this type of diabetes  neonatal diabetes  they can take pills to regulate their diabetes as opposed to selfinjecting. And that is an extraordinary change in their lives thanks to you and your research partners. When you first made the discovery what happened in the lab? Just tell us about that moment of breakthrough.  Well of course there were many steps on the way. But the first step  when I actually discovered this particular tiny little pore in the membrane that conducts electricity it  I was working all on my own late in the night  about 8 of the clock I think; and I was looking to see this tiny pore close in response to an increase in the sugar concentration in the solution around the cell. And so I was recording these tiny little electrical currents and hoping that they would go away. And when they did go away I actually thought that there was something wrong with the experiment. I did not at the time realize that what I had predicted might happen had happened. And so it was not until I took the sugar away again  and the tiny little current blips came back  that I realized actually this was what had happened. And I was unbelievably excited. I do not think people realize the excitement of being a true discoverer. That is one of the wonderful things about being a scientist. There are no new places to discover on this earth but there are many many new ideas to discover; new things to find out about the way the world works. And for me that is the incredibly exciting thing about being a scientist. So you can imagine I was over the moon. I could not sleep. By the next morning of course I thought it was all a mistake.  Why did you think that? Why were you ecstatic... one day and then you were  you just did not believe it the next?  Oh...  ...one day and then you were  you just did not believe it the next?  I think the thing is you always think that you have made a mistake; that something must have gone wrong in the experiment; that this was not actually a real breakthrough because breakthroughs happen so rarely; that I would done something wrong in the experiment. So you have to do what everybody does  who is a scientist  and that is repeat the experiment again and again and again. And I was lucky. I was right. And the experiment has been repeated many hundreds of thousands of times by different people throughout the world and it always is the same.  You print in your book something that somebody told you; somebody who was born with diabetes and as a result of your research can take pills instead of selfinjecting insulin. And she says Thanks to you I can wear a dress. I no longer need a skirt or trouser waistband from which to hang my insulin pump. I mean that sounds like a trivial thing. But that sounds like on the other hand it meant so much to her to be able to live life without the encumbrance of an insulin pump.  It is not trivial if you think that you are an 18yearold and you want to wear a slinky sexy dress.  Right.  What do you do with your insulin pump  for her prom? She had to strap it to her leg with  sort of package tape. That is not very comfortable when you are dancing. So you can see it does matter. And it also matters if you are wearing a pump and you want to go swimming. You have to take it off and then put it back on again. It is not very nice every time you put the needles in just injecting yourself every day  especially if you are a parent who is got to inject a tiny baby several times a day. That is not so easy. So I think for them  it has actually been liberating. And for me it is been such a privilege to meet these people. I have been fortunate enough to meet some of the people who Andrew's work and mine has been able to help. And that is been a very  a very very emotional experience. It is not usual. Most scientists will never see their work help people in their own lifetime. I have been lucky.  So your work in understanding neonatal diabetes had to do with ion channels;  these  like proteins that electricity passes through. And these kinds of ion channels are involved in basically all of our functions in the body. Could you talk about that a little bit?  Ion channels are little pores that are found in the membrane  the envelope  around each of our cells. And they are found in every cell of the body and in every organism on Earth  from the smallest bacterium to the redwoods of California. And they are important for everything that we do. I suppose one of the ways in which ion channels can be seen to be important is by what happens when things go wrong. So your heart is controlled by electrical impulses which determine the rate at which it beats and ensure that each beat is coordinated so that it functions as a pump. And these electrical signals originate in the pacemaker area of the heart. And they are down to the activity of ion channels these tiny pores. And if there are genetic defects in these pores then things go wrong; and you are susceptible to cardiac arrhythmias. And a particular example of this is a disease that goes by the strange name of long QT syndrome. And what happens here is that a particular ion channel does not work properly. And the consequence is that people with this disease can have a cardiac arrhythmia and simply die as a consequence of being startled or excited or even  in one case  laughing too much. So there are sad tales of people who have died as a consequence of being too excited watching a TV show being told off dying of fright.  So since we were talking about electricity in the heart why do not you explain the principle of how defibrillators can save somebody who  well tell us who it can save. And defibrillators are those two pads that you see a lot in crime shows and hospital shows; where like if somebody's had a heart attack or something the defibrillator pads are put on the heart; they turn on the button and there is like shocks that are delivered and  you know maybe it saves the person maybe it does not. But we have all seen that a lot in movies and television  and hopefully not too much in real life.  Very often what people think is that the heart has actually stopped and the defibrillator is being used to shock it into action. That is not actually the case. What is happening is that the heart is fibrillating  that is why it is known as a defibrillator. And fibrillation means that the heart is no longer beating in a coordinated synchronized fashion  which is necessary if it is to act as a pump. Instead it is become rather like a quivering jelly; Vesalius once called it a quivering bag of worms. So you can imagine that if that happens the heart cannot work as a pump anymore. No blood is going to come out. And that is the reason you die  because the brain is not getting any oxygen; and neither is the heart of course. So what the defibrillator does is the shock stops the heart. And then the hope is that it will restart automatically but this time in a synchronized fashion.  So it is not  it is not unlike when your computer crashes; and you turn it off and then turn it on again?  It is exactly like that in a way. It is pressing the reset button. I have to say in Australia they have a wonderful name of Packer whackers. And that is because a millionaire philanthropist donated a lot of money to ensure that the defibrillators were carried in every ambulance in one of the states of Australia because he was fortunate enough to be saved by the presence of defibrillator in an ambulance when he had a heart attack.  Let us talk a little bit about electricity and pain. Pain signals are communicated with the help of electric impulses yes?  Yes that is right. So what happens is there are sense organs; very often these are just pure  just the ending of the nerves in your skin that detect pain. They detect a  they detect a signal; and then that is translated into an electrical signal which is sent up specialized nerve fibers  known as sensory nerve fibers  to the brain; which then interprets it as pain and enables you to do something about it. And what is fascinating is that ion channels  these important proteins  are also involved in the sensation of pain. And one of the ones I think is very interesting is an ion channel that goes by the name of TRPV1. And this is very important for detection of noxious heat. So whenever you feel something that is burning hot this is detected by this particular ion channel. It is sensitive to heat and it fires off a signal that goes up your nerve cells. And it is exactly the same ion channels that are stimulated by chili peppers. So the reason that chili peppers taste so hot is because they stimulate the same ion channel and the  you know the brain interprets them both as the same thing. And interestingly they have been modified in vampire bats to detect the body heat of their prey. So that is how they pick up the fact that your big toe is sticking out of the mosquito net and they can come and suck your blood.  Hmm. Does knowledge of how electricity works in sensing and communicating pain  might that lead to breakthroughs in controlling pain?  That is certainly the hope so that there are  certain number of people working now very hard on seeing if they can find blockers of ion channels that specifically target ion channels found in the sensory nerves. At the moment every time you go to the dentist you will have a local anesthetic. And that will numb your mouth so that you do not feel any pain. But it will also numb the motor nerve fibers that go to the muscle fibers. So not only will you feel no sensation but you will also have a kind of paralyzed jaw. And what is happening there is that the drug you are taking  which is usually Lidocaine  actually is inhibiting the sodium channels. It is blocking the sodium channels in both the sensory nerve fibers and the motor nerve fibers; those which feel pain and those which cause muscles to contract. What people are now looking for are drugs which will only work on the ion channels that are found in the sensory nerve fibers. And happily there are some ion channels which are specific to the sensory nerves. So in the future maybe we can look forward to having an anesthetic which does not give us a lumpen jaw.  Well would not that be nice?  It would be wonderful. There are unfortunately some poor people who have mutations in some of these ion channels that are specific to nerve fibers. And in some cases these knock  knock out the function so they cannot feel pain at all. And that is really really a tragedy because unfortunately it means that they can suffer broken bones; they can burn their hands on a hot pan; and they do not notice it. And so they actually can suffer dangerous lesions dangerous wounds without realizing it. And then there are people who have the opposite. And I have no idea which is  you know which is worse to have because they feel  they feel pain much more sensitively. So they are often in considerable pain as a consequence of the fact that their ion channels are operating all the time. And so they get  they say that walking is like walking on hot coals all the time.  So what you are saying about ion channels is that it tells us that pain really is subjective in part because of different physiologies.  Well that is actually very true. And in fact some people may indeed be more sensitive to pain  not just these very specialized people but you and I  because there are variants in the gene that codes for this particular ion channel that is found in the general population. And it looks as though some of them actually enhance sensitivity to pain in some people; and reduce it in others.  Something that you bring up in your writing is that people who are skeptical about like say global warming or evolution say  with accusation  it is just a theory and there is questions about it. But you point out like all of science is theory.  Well I think scientists are just like novelists in a way. We are all trying to tell a good story that explains how the world works. And we are interested in understanding how it works in exactly the same way that perhaps the early philosophers were; but we have much better tools with which to dissect it and understand it today. And the thing about science is it is always based on the facts. So if the facts change and you discover new ones  or many many more new facts do not fit precisely with the old ones  then you have to change the story. So science is indeed a theory. But I really like what the very famous American physicist Feynman said. He said Science is imagination in a straitjacket. There are  we are constrained by all the things which we already know. So you cannot simply conjure a story out of the air. It has to be  it has to explain all the current facts and the new ones which have just been discovered; and it has to make predictions that then can be tested to see whether in fact that story continues to hold  where we know even more information.  So another thing I want to ask you about is Botox. A lot of people get Botox treatments as a form of surgeryfree cosmetic  surgery.   And Botox is botulinum. It is a poison from spiders that is one of the most powerful naturally occurring toxins that we know of.  Botulinum is made by a bacterium. And it paralyzes facial muscles so that the muscles that we use to wrinkle our brows cannot wrinkle the brows anymore because they are paralyzed. So what is going on in terms of electricity  in terms of the kind of thing that you are writing about and researching  with a Botox injection?  Oh well it is very interesting. What you are doing is you are paralyzing the muscle. And the way you are doing that is you are preventing this chemical signal  that travels from the nerve to the muscle  from leaping the gap. So what happens when a nerve impulse fires off and runs down the nerve to tell a muscle to contract is when it gets to the end of the nerve cell it is got to somehow or other signal to the next cell in the chain  the muscle cell  that the muscle cell must twitch. But the electricity cannot jump the gap between the two cells. And what happens is that the nerve releases  when the electrical impulse gets to the very end of the fiber it releases a chemical signal  a chemical messenger  that travels across the very tiny gap to the muscle fiber where it binds to receptors on the muscle cell membrane. And then that opens more ion channels and triggers an electrical impulse in the muscle fiber that then causes it to contract. So what happens is that Botox blocks the transmission of those chemical signals so that the nerve is not able to signal any longer to the muscle fiber; and so the muscle fiber is always relaxed. And that is how Botox works.  So what is the downside of injecting minute amounts of this incredible toxin that is messing around  between the communication of nerve and muscle?  So the downside of course is that you inject too much and then of course you get a frozen face. Your facial muscles are so frozen that you cannot smile or laugh. But tiny amounts injected are fine because they are very localized and they do not move very far. But if you inject a little bit too much then you could paralyze the muscles that are involved in smiling or facial expressions. And that is a downside from having a Botox injection into your face.  So where are you in research now? What are you working on?  Oh well we are doing a number of different things. One of the things we are doing is trying to actually see the particular ion channel that I work on the particular protein. We want to do that at atomic resolution which means that we have to grow crystals of it  crystals like salt crystals  and put them in a huge synchrotron which shoots Xrays at it and allows us to see what it looks like. Another thing we are trying to do is understand why some patients who have mutations in the particular protein I work on  do not just have diabetes from birth; they also have neurological problems. They do not walk and talk at the right age; they are very delayed. That is what I would really like to be able to understand and also to understand how we can help them. And the third thing I am interested in is trying to understand why people get fat. I think it is a hugely important problem. And we are looking at a particular gene which goes by the wonderful name of the fat mass and obesity related protein; which is the gene that is the most common cause of obesity in the general population. And nobody understands how it works and so we are trying to figure it out.  Thank you so much for talking with us. And for all of our sakes I wish you really good luck with your research.  Thank you very much.  Frances Ashcroft is the author of The Spark of Life Electricity in the Human Body. You can read an excerpt on our website FRESH AIR.NPR.org. Coming up actress Amy Adams. She is starring in two new films The Master and Trouble with the Curve. This is FRESH AIR. 