 This is FRESH AIR. Im Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. A week from this Saturday on October 3 movie theaters around the world will show a live theatercast of the Metropolitan Operas production of the Verdi opera Il Trovatore. Its the premier of the 10th anniversary season of the Mets Live In HD. One of the stars of the production is Dolora Zajick who specializes in Verdi. In fact when Terry spoke with Zajick last year they opened with a recording of her in an earlier Met production of Il Trovatore. Were going to listen back to that interview. Heres how Terry introduced it.   Something I could not have predicted happened to me recently; I fell in love with opera. Honestly I was not prepared for it. I would always avoided opera. That changed after I saw the 2011 film Margaret that included a scene where the characters go to the Met to see an opera. The opera excerpt in the film was so moving I decided I had to see one myself. It took a while but eventually I went to the Met in HD the live Metropolitan Opera Performances shown by satellite in movie theaters around the world. I have been hooked ever since. My guest Dolora Zajick has sung with the Met for 25 years. She is best known for singing Verdi. I love her voice and she has interesting things to say about singing and teaching. She is the founder and director of the Institute for Young Dramatic Voices which is designed for young singers with big or unusual voices. She did not figure out that she could sing opera until after she was a premed student. Let us start with some very dramatic singing featuring Zajick as the gypsy Azucena in Verdi's Il Trovatore. It has one of those great opera plots. Her mother was burned at the stake on the orders of the count who believed she bewitched his children. To avenge the murder Azucena throws the count's son into a fire only to realize that in her blind frenzy it was her own son she would burned alive. In this tormented aria she confesses the truth to her adopted son. This was recorded at the Met in 2009.   .  Dolora Zajick welcome to FRESH AIR. I love your singing. I am very new to opera and I think a lot of our listeners probably have not heard much opera. So I am going to be asking you to explain some things that you might take for granted . But I want you to describe what it feels like physically when you are singing that because there is so much going on. You have got these power chords behind you that the orchestra is playing. You are duetting. You are getting higher and higher notes. It is really big and really deep and dark.  Well you know singing is connected to the body. So there is a  theres a depth in the body that is necessary to perform this kind of music. And a lot of that expression comes from a kinesthetic awareness. And it is  that is one thing that I think people identify with and of course there is the moment that you are in. And you do not have time to think. You do not have time to dwell on anything because you are in the moment. You have to be concentrating on what is happening right then and there.  But I am thinking that there must be almost like physical soundwaves that you are feeling because...  No no no you do not feel that.  No?  No. The audience hears something entirely different than what you feel.  Really? So what are you hearing different than what we are hearing in the audience?  Well a singer is listening for focus. You are being expressive. You are  there are sensations that you are feeling physically. It is a very visceral thing. Kinesthetic empathy is a very interesting ability. There was a famous Russian choreographer who went blind and he was able to tell by how they sounded when he put his ear to the floorboards exactly the positions where their arms and their hands and their feet were. And he could tell exactly what their posture was because he had heard that sound so many thousands of times through the course of his years. And he was able to tell by how it sounded what they were doing with their bodies to achieve that sound. Singers have the same thing. You have to have that to be able to learn a vocal technique. We use  in fact that is one of the tests we use for younger singers when we are testing to see their ability to absorb a vocal technique. And it involves putting a blindfold on them and having  you sing a vowel and see if they can duplicate it. Like perhaps you sing an E. And then you do something different. You tighten the upper lip. You go  or you jut your jaw out. So let us say we tighten the upper lip. You start out on E and then I go E there is a little bit of difference in the sound. And someone with kinesthetic empathy is going to figure out what you did without seeing. And the more you have of that either as an audience member or as a singer the more you are going to connect in that way.  From the very little that I know  about opera I think of the dramatic mezzosoprano and the parts that I have seen you in as being kind of like a character actor. In most of your roles in opera you are not the girlfriend. You are the jealous woman. You are not the lovely nymph. You are the witch. You are not the woman having the affair with the king. You are the fortune teller who that woman goes to. You are Lady Macbeth. So do you think of yourself as a character actor in that respect?  I have become one and I have enjoyed it. The thing is that mezzosoprano usually gets the designation of that kind of character in an opera. Usually the soprano is the pure ingenue and then you have got the you know the noble tenor. And it is usually the baritone and the mezzo that have the evil parts. And sometimes it is the bass. And you get to do all these twisted and interesting people. And that is  I like doing those kind of people. There is an interesting evolution when you are acting a part like that and it is  you know it takes a lot of indepth delving into your own self and finding what is in you. And it takes a harsh objective look at yourself to be able to come to grips with those kinds of roles in the right way I think.  So what about your range as a dramatic mezzosoprano?  Well dramatic mezzo is very  not quite but almost a soprano in terms of range. It is a high mezzo. But you have to have low notes.  And you do.  Yes.   I have been very fortunate.  So I want to play something else. And this is you with the Metropolitan Opera recorded in November of 2012. And this is from the Verdi opera Un Ballo In Maschera which translates to masked ball. I asked for everybody's forgiveness with my pronunciations.  OK I will stop you.  Yes . You are not forgiving me I can see.  No no no no. It is  I will do it slowly  Un Ballo In Maschera.  Un Ballo In Maschera. No that was terrible.  No that is OK. Say maschera.  Maschera.  Now say maschera.  Maschera.  But you want the accent on the ma maschera.  Maschera.  That is right.  Do I have to do this in order to love opera? .  No you do not.  Because I am going to be hopeless if I have to...  No you are going to be fine.  If I have to learn how to pronounce things to love opera I am going to be in trouble.  No you are going to be fine. I am doing it slow so you will get it. OK so it is maschera.  Maschera.  Yeah you got it.  Did you have to go through this when you started singing because you did not speak all the languages?  Oh yeah we all do.  Yeah uhhuh.  We all do. You know we all  in fact the biggest chunk of operatic training is in linguistics and musicianship. It is not in vocal training.  No really?  Yes.  Do you understand everything you are singing? I mean like...  Absolutely.  I mean word for word as opposed to here's the English translation?  Word for word. Not only what I am singing but what everybody else is singing.  So you have to know a lot of languages but mostly Italian right? .  You have to know enough to know  I sing in Italian Czech Russian French German English.  Wow. OK so back to  I am not going to say the title again.   So in this like you are a fortune teller. And introduce the aria we are about to hear.  Well this is a very interesting aria because you can play this part one of three ways. And it depends on the slant of the stage director. You can play her as a woman who really believes that she is contacting Satan but is not; she is just a dingbat. Or you can play her as someone who really is in cahoots with Satan. Or you can play her as a fraud and she is just part of some intrigue.  How do you see it?  Well it depends on the stage direction. You see that is the wonderful thing about opera is when something can be interpreted differently there is a different take. As long as  that is what is great  when I say that is what is great about the role it means that each one is equally valid.  And in this version we are about to hear how are you singing it?  As a dingbat.   How come?  Well because she thinks she is connected with Satan and she just got lucky.  And what are you singing in this? Translate it for us.  I am calling up the devil.  OK.  I am calling up the devil.  Well I love your like warm dark tone in this. So let us hear it. This is my guest Dolora Zajick singing with the Metropolitan Opera in 2012.   .  That was my guest Dolora Zajick singing with the Metropolitan Opera November 2012 an aria from Verdi's Un Ballo In Maschera in which she played a fortune teller.  Un  no it is un.   You are going to correct me again.  No no ooh ooh as in hoo like an owl.  I think you should just give up on me honestly. I just...  Well say masked ball.  Yeah the masked ball right because that is what it translates to. Thank you.  Yes.   OK.  If you are just joining us my guest is Dolora Zajick and shes a dramatic mezzosoprano whos sung with the Metropolitan Opera for over 25 years. Let us take a short break and then we will hear some more singing and talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. My guest Dolora Zajick has sung with the Metropolitan Opera for more than 25 years. So do you have a favorite or a most calamitous moment on stage that you would like to share?  Probably the most calamitous incident was the first time that we did Rusalka and there was a mechanical cat on my shoulder. And I am trying to find a motivation for saying hop my cat hop my cat a thousand times. So we thought well it is digging its claws into your shoulder and so  and I have got a spoon and I am mixing stuff in the cauldron so I hit it on the head. And the head would stop for a second and then it would continue moving and the tail would keep moving. Well one day I hit the head too hard and the head fell off.  .  But the tail kept moving. So I had to do this  I had to finish the scene with this headless cat and the tail kept  with a moving tail. And I did not know what to do with the head. So I just picked it up and threw it in the cauldron with the rest of the stuff. That got a lot of laughs.  That is funny  because you are the witch in Rusalka.  Yes yes.  Now it is really an interesting story how you became an opera singer because you did not even start singing until you were 22.  Almost 22.  Yeah so I thought that opera singers were supposed to start singing when they were very young. And even if they were not training in opera per se that they were getting some kind of training.  I think that you will find if you went around and asked all the opera singers at the very top of their profession how old they were when they started who they studied with where they studied you would get so many different answers that there is no onerulefitsall. Singers actually used to begin singing at a much younger age than they do now. I would say for me I started late. But it is not unusual. I discovered I had a voice. I wanted to be a pianist when I was seven and circumstances did not allow that I studied it. So by the time...  What does that mean?  Well I just you know I did not have access to a piano. So by the time I got to high school I knew it was too late to be an instrumentalist. So I decided well I will become a doctor and just you know sing for fun. And when I was in college I was in premed. And that is when I discovered I had a voice and that I actually had a crack at a singing career. And I decided to take the chance and this is where I ended up.  So when you realized you had a voice as you put it and you started studying voice what appealed to you about opera?  For me it was just simply that I finally had a venue where I could be in classical music. If I had started when I was really young I probably would have pursued the piano. And I probably would have been a coach or a conductor or something  or a composer although now I am starting to compose anyway. So I ended up where I might have ended up anyway. So .  Could you demonstrate for us one of the vocal exercises or techniques or something that you learned early on that has helped guide you and helped discover the best qualities in your voice?  Well here's a vocal exercise. It is very old. It is called  it is one of the Vidal  exercises and the purpose of it is to connect the support with the focus because they are inextricably linked. So it is a very strange exercise but it works. So it goes something like this. . It sounds something like that.  It sounds like you are doing it more nasally first and then more through your throat second.  Yes it teaches you the difference between nasal and  nasality nasal resonance which are two different things. And it also  it helps you isolate what you really need from one thing to the next so that the focus and the support are connected together so that you get a supported sound.  Is there another example too of something that like opened up your voice?  Well opening my jaw. One of the things that I was taught is that a lot of modern singing today is  people use their jaws and their lips more than they used to. And they used to more with their tongue in the past. And so I was taught the older method. And the difference would be if you go  I am going to do it the wrong way first or what some people consider the right way today and then I am going to sing the way I do it which is olderschool. So the first way is . And then my way would be .  Wow that is a really big difference. And the second way the way you do it is darker fuller more resonant.  Well the second way I do not use my lips. I use my tongue to make  create the vowels.  Now you know I have been asking you to demonstrate a couple of things. You actually direct a vocal institute for young people. It is called the Institute for Young Dramatic Voices. Who are the young people that you are seeking out for this institute?  Well we are looking for singers that can sing  that have the potential to sing Wagner Verdi or unusual voices which we would consider basso profundos true basses contraltos. And we would take a dramatic coloratura if one came along but we have not really heard one yet.  So why are you focusing on unusual voices?  Well because I think they are often the most misunderstood during their development. And we have got more people on the planet than we have ever had. Why do we have fewer dramatic voices? Something is happening that is cutting them off at the pass somewhere. And Ive discovered where some of those places are. And one of them  I think we lose the largest amount at the high school level. And I think the reason for that is because they do not sing classical music as much as they used to. And the other reason is that when they do the voice that matures and has a big sound usually does not fit into a high school chorus a cappella choir. We had a young man who is a spectacular young bass who when he auditioned he had hardly any sound at all until he hit a low note or a high note. And I said wait a minute there is something wrong here. So I said why do not  why do not you try this again. And I found out that there was an actual demarcation as to when it started sounding good again. It turned out the range where he had shut his voice down was singing out of tune and singing through his nose was where he was trying to fit in with his a cappella choir. His voice was simply too big to fit in with adolescent voices.  Mezzosoprano Dolora Zajick speaking with Terry Gross last year. After a break Zajick talks about performing through illness and injury including a broken shoulder and a broken rib. Im Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Im Dave Davies back with Terrys interview with Dolora Zajick a dramatic mezzosoprano whos sung with the Metropolitan Opera for more than 25 years. Shell be performing tonight as the Met begins its new season with a production of the Verdi opera Il Trovatore. A live theatercast of that production will be shown in movie theaters around the world a week from this Saturday. Dolora Zajick is the founder and director of the Institute for Young Dramatic Voices which is designed for young singers with big or unusual voices.  I have seen you in The Met In HD in Rusalka. You know it is kind of like a show on public television in the sense that at intermission there is an interviewer usually somebody who is with or have been with the Met who interviews the leads. And then they interview the conductor and the director. And so like you are walking off. It is like you have just sung an aria you know it is the middle of the opera. And suddenly like you are being interviewed. And I am thinking god that must be so hard to be in your like analytical reflective frame of mind at the same time that you are in the middle of a performance  cause it is just intermission.  Well it is all part of the job.  Right  well what happened...   What happened in Rusalka is that you are asked the question and your answer was something like this .   Well that is because I was sick.  Yeah you were sick. How did you sing?  Well if your vocal folds  if the vocal folds themselves are not affected and you can keep your lungs functioning you can sing. You can have a  if you have got all the rest you know stuffy nose runny nose if you have got you know all the other things  you can even have a  you can have a really bad sore throat. But if your vocal folds are not affected or only slightly affected you can still sing.  Well first of all when I have a cold of any sort my voice sounds completely different and I am talking about speaking. And second of all usually when I get a cold I get hoarse or laryngitis. That does not happen to you?  Well on occasion. Singers are experts at keeping things from dripping on their throats. Believe me they are experts.  How do you do that?  Well antihistamines you know making sure that what you know the position you sleep in. I mean these things they become habits. And you learn all the tricks. And usually the best things are the oldest thing like hot steam.  Inhaling hot steam?  Hot steam before you sing tea with lemon and honey.  Let me just ask  inhaling hot steam I do not want to give the wrong impression. You are you are not...  You just turn on a shower you know.  Right. I do not want people to like burn their respiratory systems.  No no . No you just turn on a shower on hot water. And it eventually steams up the place and you just breathe it in. And it helps clear things out very quickly. And also a lot of vocalizes clear out a lot of phlegm. You know when I do that Vidal exercise it basically cleans out my sinuses. And it also it pushes out phlegm from my lung. And so you basically hack the phlegm out and you get the nasal congestion gone by draining. And you know and then you after you know the antihistamine is like when you sleep so it does not drip on your cords when you sleep. But when you are singing you cannot sing with an antihistamine. So...  And what position do you sleep in to prevent postnasal drip?  On my stomach.  No really?  Yeah.  Wow. That seems so uncomfortable.  Well not if you have a pillow.  OK. Still seems really uncomfortable.   Singers you know it is amazing what can become a habit or what you are willing to put up with if it is part of your job. It is amazing. I mean I have sung with a broken shoulder and broken ribs.  Really?  Oh yeah.  Like a broken  how can you breathe if you have a broken rib?  It is easy. You get that...  I mean breathe in the kind of way you have to breathe.  Well the adrenaline shoots through your body and you do not feel it when you are performing. After is whole another story but . But a lot of singers get injured on the job. I remember trying to get some insurance once. And they  and I asked well why is the insurance so high? And they said well opera singers are listed under circus performers.   Because it is  apparently theres a high injury rate for opera singers.  Did you injure yourself on stage?  Oh yeah. I fell in the prompter box at the dress reversal of Rusalka.  Oh god.  The first time we did it. And I broke two ribs and tore a ligament in my leg and...  That was not this time around was it?  No. No no no no. No. This was the first time we did it.  OK.  And then fortunately I had a cane in the  a stick in the show. So it did not matter.  Right. Yeah you had a big stick as a cane in the one earlier this year.  Yeah. So that works fine.  Wow. OK.   My guest is Dolora Zajick. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Dolora Zajick. She is a dramatic mezzosoprano. She is sung a lot of Verdi over the years. She is been with the Metropolitan Opera for over 25 years. Let us hear some more music. I want to play something from your album The Art Of the Dramatic MezzoSoprano. And I thought we could hear from the Verdi Opera Don Carlo the aria that you sing O Don Fatale. Tell us something about this aria.  Well this is basically where she curses her fatal gift that got her into trouble her vanity and her beauty. And she basically is bemoaning the fact that she is got to go to a convent. She is been given the choice of exile or the convent. And the reason for this is that she incriminated the queen by putting a portrait of Don Carlo in her jewelry box which her husband Philip found and accused her of infidelity. And for her punishment she has been given this choice by the queen.  OK. So this is Dolora Zajick and we will hear Charles Rosekrans conducting the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra.   .  That is Dolora Zajick from her album The Art Of the Dramatic MezzoSoprano. And that is dramatic.   I think one of the things that makes your singing so dramatic is the very kind of dramatic rhythms that you sing.  Well I did play percussion in high school.  Oh that makes sense.  So I have a  and I have a good sense of rhythm. And I think that there is a lot that can be expressed in a tempo change and in a tempo itself. And I really believe that rhythms can help create a big presence. You know sometimes a musical imagination is as important as singing itself you know the voice what you do vocally the vowels. So theres a percussiveness that can sometimes be quite energizing and useful in singing as an expressive device.  One of the things you have to do when you sing especially singing that kind of powerhouse stuff that you do you have to learn how to relax your tongue and your jaw. And it is almost counterintuitive because I think usually if you are doing something that requires a lot of effort you just kind of naturally tense up. I am not saying you should tense up but it is kind of what people do. And probably for untrained singers it is the same thing that you just kind of like tense up. How did you learn to not tense up and to keep...  You just do not.  Sure that is easier said than done.  It is easier said than done but that is exactly what you do. You learn to let go and stop trying to do too many things and figure out isolate what you really need in order to function. A perfect example if you look at a  if you compare an amateur weightlifter with a professional one the amateur one his neck is straining. And he is using all these extra muscles. And he is grunting and all kinds of things. And if you look at a professional his whole bodys relaxed even the hand that is holding the weight. And yet  but he will be exercising only the muscles that are meant to be worked. And that is the difference that you find  because they are very specific because they want to develop that particular set of muscles over say this set of muscles. So what they do is they have learned how to isolate. And that is the real key.  Is there an exercise that you give your students to help them learn how to relax and only use the muscles that they need?  Well there is two approaches. One is to replace it with something else. And the other one is just to get them to let go. And you know and different personalities require different things. You know for a control freak getting them to let go is hard but it is essential. I remember when I finally figured out how simple one aspect of singing was and I looked at my voice teacher and I said is that all it is? And he put his head on the piano keys and he said why do I do this to myself?   And then the next time I had a lesson there was a sign on the piano. It said thank you for not singing.   What was the thing that you figured out?  Oh I just figured out I just had to just open my mouth. Now that is easier said than done. But just to relax your mouth and open it the right way just let it drop open. I mean that is more difficult for more people than you would think. Another one is just relaxing the tongue. Now if your jaw is in the right place it automatically puts the tongue in the right position and then just learning to figure out what your tongue is really doing when it is relaxed. The best way to tell somebody how to figure out how to relax the tongue is to just say well notice where it is when you are not doing anything. That is the relaxed tongue. It is not about putting it somewhere. It is about letting it be where it wants to go.  One of the exercises you give some of your students is it kind of sounds to me like Mongolian throat singing.  Yeah it is. It is the Khoomei style. And what we have discovered is because it focuses on isolating resonances is it teaches them about focus  focusing resonance and performance and connecting that with support immediately. It speeds up the learning process tremendously. So we teach  we are now teaching it to all of them and the results have actually been actually quite remarkable. I had no idea it would speed things up so quickly. Now there are many schools...  Can you demonstrate for us what it is? Because not all of our listeners will know.  Sure. Well what you do is you have a fundamental pitch. And then with your tongue  the middle of your tongue  you bring out different resonances different pitches. So an example would be this. . Anyway thats a sample.  No that is wonderful. And the overtones that you get from that are so unusual and eerie. And so what does that teach you? And do you want overtones like that when you are singing?  What it teaches you is that resonance is all manipulated between the middle of the tongue and the hard palate. That is where all the work takes place. Now you can use sensing devices but they are not  it is not going something. I mean some people say sing in the masks put out in front of your face. There are many different  sing like there is a spot between your eyes. These all focus on sensations. And they are useful but it is only part of the process. And people have different sensations. I mean somebody might not feel it between the eyes but they might feel it in a different part of their body. And they are not always reliable. They shift around on you. But hearing focus is always  you always hear it the same way. So when it comes to focus you have to shift the gyroscope to the ear. When people say that someone is listening to themselves too much they are usually talking about other things. Like they are slowing it down and they are not keeping up the beat. Or they are  they have gone into the back of their mouth and it sounds big on the inside. But there is no size on the outside and it is actually got less focus. So focus is something you have to hear in a very specific way.  So you are in your early 60s now. How long do you think you will be able to sing professionally?  Well I have probably got five years of major roles at this present level and then maybe some featured mediumsized roles for another five to 10 years after that if I choose to do that. I mean Mother Nature is definitely going to take a big chunk. I mean that is just inevitable. I mean we all age and you know I can see it. I can see it coming. And then I will gauge my downsizing accordingly. That is just the nature of the beast. It is not happening now. I do not want people to think that all of a sudden it is happening now. I just see the approaching line coming. That is all.  Right.  And I want to leave in my prime. I do not want to leave a sorry spectacle before people. I want to leave at a respectable level.  Yeah. When you are singing onstage at the Met what is the importance of the conductor for you during the performance?  Well of course a conductor is terribly important. He has to be really good at what he does. But to me the most important person is the audience and the composer. The rest of us  and even the composer is a servant to the audience. And of course the audience is a servant to the higher art. So you know you can argue about that. But the thing is is that the bottom line we are serving the audience. So the conductor is serving the audience. The singer is serving the audience. The stage director is serving the audience. Even the composer is serving the audience. That is who he wrote it for. And so that  that is the most important person.  Well Dolora Zajick it is been great to talk with you. Thank you so much.  Thank you. It is been a great pleasure.  Mezzosoprano Dolora Zajick spoke with Terry Gross last year. The Metropolitan Opera begins its season tonight. And Zajick will return in her role as the gypsy in a production of Verdis Il Trovatore. A theatercast of this production will be shown in movie theaters around the world on Saturday October 3 as part of The Met Live In HD series. Coming up David Edelstein reviews the new film 99 Homes. This is FRESH AIR. Copyright  2015 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm Inc. an NPR contractor and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative reco