 I am Michel Martin and this is TELL ME MORE from NPR News. It is time for our weekly visit to the Barbershop where the guys talk about what is in the news and what is on their minds. Sitting in the chairs for a shapeup this week arefreelance writer Jimi Izrael and Republican strategist Marcus Skelton. And we have not one but two political science professors with us Lester Spence from Johns Hopkins and Jason Johnson from Hiram College. And before I hand the shop over to you Jimi I just want to mention that we are going to be talking about that incident involving the New York Jets and a female reporter. So the conversation may take a turn that might not be appropriate for everybody. I do not know. I will just mention that. But we are going to start off with a little CBC politics right Jimi? Mr.  Thanks for that Michel. Hey fellas. Oh my. We got two PhDs and MFAs. It is a lot of heavy wood up in here. Mr.  Somebody's got to do it baby. Mr.  Yeah.  Mr.  A lot of terminal degrees up at the Barbershop. How are we doing?  You notice how he had to slip his degree in there?   And mention that it is terminal. That was very  Jimi. Well done. Well done. Marcus are there any... Mr.  Your boy's got to pop that collar.  Do you want to give us your SAT scores while you are at it? Mr.  No. But I do have a master's degree.  Mr.  Pop that collar pop the collar. How are we doing today? Mr.  Oh we are doing fantastic. Professor  Doing great. Professor  Fantastic. Mr.  Black Republicans are taking over CBC week officially. Prof.  Oh my God.  All three of them.  Mr.  Right. But it is like 300. Mr.  And in other news from the dream land we have...  Mr.  After weeks dealing with one controversy after another the Congressional Black Caucus is celebrating a 40th 40 anniversary this week in Washington D.C. which is why we are starting off with CBC issues Michel.  You know it is funny because is a very celebratory weekend. It is the kind of  it is a weekend that people take a lot of pride in they put a lot of energy into. There are policy forums and all kinds you know social events and a lot of policy events and a lot of people take a lot of pride in this weekend. But it is also taking place against the backdrop  not just of real economic stress. I mean the poverty numbers came out this week and show again just how difficult the lives are of many Americans. And then there are these ongoing reports as Jimi alluded to of unethical behavior by  or alleged unethical behavior by CBC members most recently Texas Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson who was accused of steering Caucus foundation scholarship awards to her own relatives and the relatives of a staffer in violation of the rules. And then of course there is former House Ways and Means Chairman Charles Rangel who is accused of some improprieties. And despite the ethics charges against him by the way as we mentioned earlier in the program Mr. Rangel won his primary challenge easily on Tuesday. And do you want to hear a short clip of his acceptance speech? Would anyone like to hear it? Prof.  Oh yeah. Prof.  Absolutely.  Okay. Representative  President Obama needs people like me more than ever.  Rep.  I say this that during a period of fiscal crisis the moral treatment of newcomers in this country the wealthiest people in this country have not been given tax cuts  that does not help the economy. I go back to tell the president You do not need all those Republicans. Mr.  Ah.  What do you say about that Jimi? Mr.  Sounds like  yeah sounds like homeboy needs a throat lozenge. But thanks for that Michel.  Mr.  It also sounds to me like you know he is either begging the president to pay attention to the CBC or he is kind of giving him whatfor. Now here's my question With the ethics problem and the president  his numbers are tanking  his poll numbers. Who needs the other more? The CBC or the president? Dr. Spence get it. Prof.  That is actually an excellent question. Mr.  Thanks. Prof.  I think  so the CBC when it was at its best it actually served as the moral conscience of the Congress. That is actually what they  that is kind of like their tagline right? And I remember  well I do not remember personally but in the early '70s they put forth an alternative budget to show Nixon how we might allocate resources in a different way. I actually think Obama needs the CBC. But the CBC needs to return to that set of practices where they are actually showing Obama and then other progressives  to the extent that we can still call them progressives  what this other world might look like. And that is what  and that  they can galvanize citizens to push for that and then create some mechanisms to unelect people who probably should not be elected in the first place within the CBC. Mr.  Double J. Prof.  Yeah I got to be honest with you. Obama used the CBC more because most of these cats they are in safe seats. They are not worried about keeping their jobs. But Barack Obama has got be to be looking two years down the road. He is got to be looking at this Congress that is full these crazy Tea Party people. He is got to be looking at the fact that there is this sort of you know the Messiah belief that a lot of liberals had about him is leading to this lack of enthusiasm now. He needs the CBC to be turning out votes for this midterm turning out votes in 2012. He needs them. They dont even really need to be talking about him right now. Their jobs are safe. Mr.  Mr. Skelton. Mr.  Oh I believe that President Obama needs the CBC. You just have to be realistic of how he won in 2008. If it wasnt for college students and black people you know he wouldnt have carried states like Virginia or North Carolina. So he is going to have to deliver on the policy side. You know President Obama doesnt quite believe in predetermined resources and he hasnt quite  well he hasnt articulated how his policies are going to help CBC members and if he doesnt he is going to have a lot of trouble generating their support in the 2012 election.  Jimi can I ask you a question? Mr.  Yes sir. Madam. Sorry.  How did you  yeah exactly. Excuse me.   I am sorry maybe I am not wearing enough makeup today. I dont know. I will try to do better. But what is the... Prof.  Youre doing all right.  How did you read Congressman Rangel's remarks about the president? Did you read that in the way that Lester interpreted it as to say look you need and the other gentleman interpreted it to say you need me to get our folks out? Or did you interpret it on a generational thing which is let me show you how to do it son? Mr.  Yeah. Yeah. The second. You know the latter. I mean I took it to mean that he was trying to put the president on blast like man you know you need to get on board son. And like as if right? As if you can put the president on blast. As if you have it like that. As if your house is clean. Listen let me just say the CBC while youre celebrating you need to get your house in order. That is real.  Well before we let that  before we let this topic go Lester do you mind if I ask you we were talking about the Washington D.C. race earlier and there was also this kind of generational question there as well because the mayor of Washington Adrian Fenty the incumbent voted out in the primary which is generally dispositive in the city by Vincent Gray being the oldest who will be at 67 the oldest person ever to run the city and Fenty was the youngest. And I wonder do you think that in part this is also a generational thing happening here which is people who are have paid their dues are not willing to cede authority to people who may  is it a question of style or is it a question of policy? What do you think it is? Prof.  So I was listening and it was a great bit. I am glad I was able to listen to it. What I would say is it is not just style but it is about the democratic process right? Government is about  democracy is about stuff; that is people getting stuff from government. But it is also about the process. To that extent that there is a generational divide I think there are some old line leaders who in some ways are not really democratic but who still believe that there should be at least a space for their constituents and that in this  and that Obama didnt provide it or he is not doing a good job of providing it and Fenty didnt provide it in the D.C. case.  If youre just joining us youre listening to TELL ME MORE from NPR News. We are having our weekly visit to the Barbershop with journalist Jimi Izrael Professor Lester Spence Professor Jason Johnson and Republican strategist Marcus Skelton. Back to you Jimi. Mr.  Thanks Michel. All right fellas as most of you know the New York Jets football team has gone on the defensive for apparently offensive actions toward a female sports reporter Michel.  You know they  have you all followed this story? Prof.  Oh yes.  You followed this story? Mr.  Somewhat. Mmhmm.  Okay. So the reporter is Ines Sainz of the Spanish language network TV Azteca. She was there to interview Mark Sanchez who is of Mexican heritage. And you know it is exciting for a lot of people to kind of see another figure in the sport who represents kind of a different profile. She attended the practice. She was working as so many reporters do all reporters do  and it is also worth mentioning that male reporters work in the female locker rooms as well. So now apparently she was subjected to catcalls. There was just juvenile behavior people throwing footballs at her and all this mess and looking at her butt  I will just say it  and you know there are some people say that she was dressed inappropriately. I saw that she was wearing a white shirt  a white dress shirt and some jeans. I dont  I dont know what  so anyway this is what she told CNN. Here's what she had to say.  Ms.  I do not believe that my dress is the point of the discussion here because I done  do not anything to provoke it... Ms.  Right. Ms.  ...the teams or the players. I only go to work my job...  And just to emphasize English is not her first language obviously. She works for Spanish language network. Her primary language is Spanish. So I dont know what do you think about this? Mr.  Well we should mention also that the Jets owner did call Ms. Sainz to apologize for his players. But you know I take your point Michel. But I want to put this out there and get some feedback. You know I think some women have kind of a strange dichotomous relationship with what feminist Laura Mulvey she called the male gaze. It is a cinema term actually about how male directors kind of direct cameras to look at the  to kind of you know linger on the female form. I think some women  some women court the male gaze on one hand and then are kind of stymied and repulsed by what that courtship brings upon them. And you know not for nothing Ms. Sainz is a selfappointed the selfdescribed sexiest woman in sports news. So...  So? Mr.  I dont  no and there is nothing wrong with that.  I mean was she wearing a bathing suit? I dont think so. Mr.  No. No. But if you put it out there and if it comes back you cannot be surprised. I am sorry. Dr. Spence. Prof.  No. No that is not  that is common sense but that is not right right? Mr.  Oh its common sense but it is not right?  Go ahead. Go ahead. Mr.  Okay. Prof.  I mean inasmuch as... Mr.  Okay. Okay. Bet. Bet. Prof.  Right? I mean harassment in the workplace is wrong. Mr.  It is wrong. Right. Prof.  And that is where you stop. Mr.  Okay. Prof.  So what we are saying is well you know harassment is wrong but man she shouldnt be like working it like that man. Like no you stop by saying harassment is wrong. You stop there right? Mr.  Wait a second.  What should she  Jimi do you know what she was wearing? Have you seen the pictures of what she was wearing? Mr.  I have seen the pictures of what she is wearing. I have also seen pictures of other pictures of her wearing other outfits.  But she wasnt wearing pictures of herself in other outfits in the locker room. She was wearing a shirt and some jeans  a longsleeve shirt so... Mr.  Okay. Okay.  Well I mean just to Jimi's point... Mr.  I am not trying to say  I am not trying to say that she deserved it. I want to be clear about that. I am not trying to say that she deserved it but what I think is sometimes you have to  you have got to dress for the job you know what I mean? And you cannot dress for the club for the job.  All right. Mr.  I mean everybody knows that.  I think the other gentlemen want to speak on it. Prof.  Yeah I got to be raw about this. Number one if you watch HBO's Hard Knocks which is the sort of documentary about the Jets and you see how Rex Ryan behaves and how obnoxious and abrasive he is it is not that surprising that these guys would act that way so that is the first thing. The second thing though to remember and I am going to go there from a racial and cultural standpoint  this woman works  she is been doing this for eight years. She does European players she does Mexican players. I dont know that this didnt have something to do with getting that attention from the kind of men who make up an NFL football team. Mr.  Whoa.  Prof.  Because you cannot tell me  you cannot tell me that the behavior of Mexican football players and European football players is not just as obnoxious.  When you say she does what do you mean? You mean she interviews. Prof.  Yeah she interviews.  Okay. Okay. Prof.  Yeah she is been doing this for eight years.  Well what are you saying? Youre saying that she is courting controversy in order to advance her... Prof.  No. No. No. No. What I am suggesting is that they were wrong and I am suggesting that her reaction stems from some bias against the people who may have been directing the attention at her. I think they were both wrong. They are like... Mr.  Young black men as opposed to... Prof.  Exactly. Exactly. Mr.  Wow. That is deep.  They should be throwing footballs at her? I am sorry. Prof.  No. No. No. That is what I said. They are obnoxious. I watch Hard Knocks. I mean I think Rex Ryan is a jerk.  He is the coach. Prof.  Yeah. So I...  For those who dont know. Prof.  So you know I dont find it surprising that they were  I think they were both wrong.  Marcus? Mr.  Yeah I can use my one little baby degree in human resource management to kind of comment on that one right here.  That is it. That is it. Well you know my man slipped in his human gaze...   Mr.  The male gaze. The male gaze.  The male gaze. Mr.   human resource degree and this...  Thank you. Thank you sir. Mr.  This is just prototype case study of hostile environment sexual harassment where most of the articles you read no one addressed her directly but it is kind of if an attractive woman walks past and then me and my buddies walk over to the water cooler and talk about how hot she is somebody else heard it and said you offended me. And this is the thing that we need to teach everybody that you can get in trouble not for addressing this lady directly. It seems like there is a tape out there. They have not showed the tape but you can hear these guys in the background kind of talking in the corner giggling to themselves. And I think if I want to go to the other point of kind of having the gaze I think people dress for a comfortable amount of attention. Now it depends on you how much you dressing and when it becomes uncomfortable to you. You know she might feel comfortable with a certain amount of you know attention towards her but then she doesnt want a guy to jump out and tackle her on the field you know and that is not... Mr.  But that didnt happen though.  But we talked about the whole  the dress thing. Well just to clarify the Jets say they are reviewing the matter and they  it was described as a coach  the coach was throwing passes in the direction of Ms. Sainz so there is that piece. But this whole question of what people are wearing and so forth there is the whole locker room piece. And this is Clinton Portis speaking about this. He got some trouble for this. He is a player for the Washington Redskins a running back and he was on a radio show  a station in D.C. called The Fan and this is what he had to say. Mr.  You put a woman and you give her a choice of 53 athletes somebody got to be appealing to her. You know she is going to want somebody. You know I do not know what kind of woman will not if you get to go and look at 53 men's packages. Mr.  That is ignorant. That is ignorant. Prof.  Yeah. Let us just say that first that is stupid. Prof.  Well...  Go ahead. Lester Spence. Prof.  This is Lester. So real quick. Speaking to the raceculture thing... Prof.  Right. Prof.  ...I actually thought you can go in a different direction. So what I didnt  what I have not heard is the Latina thing where she is actually Latina. So there is this whole set of stereotypes we have about Latino women that also come into play here. Prof.  Right. Prof.  Right? But speaking of Clinton's statement that is just a case of somebody who shouldnt be before a mic.  Prof.  Right. Mr.  Right. Exactly. Mr.  Exactly.  Right. Prof.  I mean so we just... Prof.  Or play the offensive line.  Prof.  Yeah. We teach him how to act in a locker room and this doesnt happen. Again harassment is harassment.  I am going to throw out my graduate studies in theology.   And I will say that one of the things that fascinates is why do we continue imbue athletic ability with moral authority. Prof.  Yeah. Right. Right.  You know why do we imply that because people are athletically gifted that they have some moral authority... Prof.  Yeah.  ...that we should and then attend to? I find  I just  it is like because they should be better people than that because  why? Prof.  Why?  Relevance please. Relevance. Prof.  Yeah youre dealing with a locker room of 23 to 25yearold millionaires you know who have been pretty much praised since they were 15 or 16 years old so like I said  and they have a coach Rex Ryan who has not demonstrated any degree of restraint or maturity of responsibility in his public appearances. So like I said I am not surprised that this happened and I do think there should be some reprimand. But I also think  I have had difficulty again with my experience. If I go to  I have been to Mexico several times I watch you know Mexican football  I have trouble thinking that this behavior is in any way demonstrably worse than what  when she probably experiences down there.  I see what youre saying. I see what youre saying. Okay but we are not in Mexico and workplace standards vary from place to place and... Prof.  True.  ...you know the fact is you know Americans have the right to set whatever standards they consider appropriate and those are the ones that have but Marcus you know bringing out the human resources question  one of the questions I have is the whole locker room thing. As a  I  why do we interview people in the locker room anyway? I dont understand why... Mr.  Well you know...  Do men want to be interviewed with... Mr.  I mean it is...  ...I dont  by anybody while they are wrapped in a towel. I just dont  I dont...  Mr.  I can throw out my you know past old days as a college football player. You dont want nobody coming in there seeing you you know half clothed. But the thing is the media wants access and you might catch these guys saying offcollar remarks because youre in their place of comfort. You know if I am in a locker room joking around with the guys or you catch me at any bar I may say something that is off the cuff and this is where youre in their environment saying  trying to catch them relaxed to get a good quote and you get something wrong.  So is this a game changer or not to throw out a clich? Do you think that this incident will have any lasting effect on it? Mr.  Nope. Mr.  I think it will. I think NFL's is going to limit the access to locker room and it is going to be you just come out and do a...  Everybody else is saying no. Mr.  ...staple press conference.  Everybody else is going no. Everybody else shaking no. Jimi what do you think yes no game changer or not? Mr.  Nope.  Okay. Thank you.   Jimi Izrael is a freelance journalist and author of the book The Denzel Principle. He joined us from member station WCPN in Cleveland.  And here with me in our Washington D.C. studio Lester Spence associate professor of political science at Johns Hopkins University. Jason Johnson he was also just hired as political editor and blogger for The Source magazine. He is a political science and communications professor at Hiram College in Ohio. And Marcus Skelton. Mr.  Yeah.  Republican strategist and Grants Program Advisor for the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. Thank you so much. Prof.  Peace. Mr.  All right. See you. Prof.  See ya. Mr.  Yupyup.  And that is our program for today. Im Michel Martin and this is TELL ME MORE from NPR News. Lets talk more on Monday. 