 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Is being black bad for your health? It seemed that way when Damon Tweedy was in med school and most of the diseases he was learning about came with the warning that they were more prevalent among black people and that the outcome was worse for black patients than white ones. Dr. Tweedy is black and was himself enough diagnosed with chronic health conditions in his 20s. He is written a new memoir called Black Man In A White Coat A Doctor's Reflections On Race And Medicine. He is a graduate of Duke Medical School and Yale Law School and is an assistant professor of psychiatry at Duke University Medical Center and a staff physician at the Durham VA Medical Center. He was raised by workingclass parents. His father was raised in rural poverty did not finish high school and worked for 35 years as a meat cutter in a grocery. Tweedy's mother went to segregated innercity schools and could not afford college. Tweedy was given a full scholarship at Duke and one of the issues he examines in his book is affirmative action. Dr. Damon Tweedy welcome to FRESH AIR. So when you were in medical school and every time one of your teachers was talking about a disease and you would be told it is more common among black people what did you initially make of that?  There was a part of me that really wanted to find out the answer. I mean so there was this one part that thought well is this just all genetic? Is this based on class? You know is this an economic thing? You know what is it all about? And I was just dissatisfied to almost feel as if I was not getting an answer. So that was really part of the struggle that I dealt with.  And do you feel like you have an answer now?  I think I do. I think I have a much better answer than I did then. It is almost best to think about it  there are several examples that I saw along the way that really sort of  really underscore you know what is really going on. One time early in medical school  this is probably my third year  basically we volunteered at a rural charity clinic. It was about 90 minutes from campus and the patients there were all AfricanAmerican. They did not have health insurance. And it was pretty clear from the beginning that you are just delivering a lower standard of care in the sense that  I mean the doctors were doing the best they could but the patients often could not afford the medications and the lab tests and all the other treatments that they needed. So that really was a  you know a real stark example of how black people in this particular case really can face worse health problems in a really obvious way.  And another?  So I think  so there is issues at the system level. Then there is another layer when you are talking about the doctor and the patient and how they interact  and so issues around trust and communication. So those are really important in the sense that the patient has  the doctor and patient are partnering together you know to improve their health. So there is been a lot of things that happened in the past that have really still impacted the present. There is been a long history of AfricanAmericans being you know mistreated by the health care system. And even though it seems like a long time ago you know for instance the Tuskegee study ended in 1972. You know that is over 40 years ago but a lot of people are still living from then that were around back then. And I think there is  for many people there is a  there is sort of this residual mistrust that often can manifest itself. I will see patients now have diabetes and high blood pressure and they are wondering you know are they getting the right treatment? They are feeling like maybe they are getting some kind of lower level of care when in fact oftentimes they are not. So it is a real  that is another real important issue that is at work.  So let us get to a kind of complicated case that you had to deal with when you were a new young medical student at Duke. You were seeing a patient who had just come in a teenage girl who appeared to be several months pregnant and was having terrible abdominal pain vaginal bleeding. You figured she was pregnant but she denied being pregnant. And how did you try to find out what the problem was?  Yeah so my first thought was that maybe there was a psychiatric illness like schizophrenia or something along those lines. I had just gotten off of a psychiatry rotation seeing people who dealt with similar issues. Actually what you often saw there were women who thought they were pregnant and they actually were not so it was sort of the opposite situation. But in talking to her and it was pretty clear at least from my standpoint that she  it was not that kind of an illness she was dealing with. So then my next thought was well what else could sort of alter your mental state in that way? And my next thought was drug use. So I asked her about that. And you know she flat out denied it. And I said well I do not know. She said no where else is there to go? And the supervisor came in  and this happens to medical students all the time  so the supervisor came in asked the same line of questioning only she was very direct and sort of like accusatory. When is the last time you know you smoked crack? That is the words she put in there. So I was shocked just at the way she approached the patient in that way. I am thinking well why does she think that about the patient? So  and I was  my first thoughts were maybe it is because the patient's poor. She is still kind of not that well put together maybe because she is a young black girl. All these sorts of things were running through my mind. And then I was equally shocked when the patient  when the young girl then turned around and said yes I smoked crack a couple of days ago. Well I am like well why did she lie to me? I mean what was I going to do? Why did she lie to me? So it was a situation that many medical students find themselves in where they are  kind of do not know how to ask people about these really serious and sensitive issues.  Do you think that your supervisor did the right thing in bluntly and in an accusatory way saying when was the last time you did crack? It got a real answer but it sounds very  like you said very accusatory.  Yeah I am sure there is  I mean yes she got the right answer. Unfortunately in this case it did not change the outcome. You know unfortunately in this case the young woman  her pregnancy ended up being a still birth. So the fetus was about 20  you know 20 weeks and it was a still birth. So it did not change the outcome. But in some cases that could be a really important piece of information to obtain that could perhaps change things. And so yeah I would say that there probably could have been an easier way to have done it maybe a less direct way. But you know she was busy and it just needed to be done. It is like a life and death kind of situation for her. So I understand  looking back I kind of understand it. I was actually more troubled by one of the other staff members who after the stillbirth you know after it was clear that the baby was not going to survive this other staff member basically was talking about sterilizing the young girl right then and there. So that was actually more troubling to me than the supervisor's approach because it just seemed like wow we are just going from this to automatically sterilizing her permanently. And that just seemed a pretty harsh and drastic thing to do in that situation.  And the doctor did not think that that was an appropriate thing to do or even an appropriate conversation to have with the patient.  Right. So even though she initially came with this sort of really blunt accusatory style she actually defended the patient against that. She said this is definitely not the place for this. This girl just had this traumatic experience. She has plenty of time to get her life together. Why are we  we are not going to do this right now. And so I respected that. So I mean  so I think that you know despite that initial sort of  I was you know put off a little bit in the beginning I think I actually was very respectful of how she handled the situation.  You had an interesting experience as a patient. When you had a sprained knee you went to see a doctor. The doctor was white. What happened that made you feel like you were not being treated well?  Yeah so I had a knee that was sore. I had been playing tennis and tweaked it in some way. And I went to an urgentcare clinic after about a week or so of the swelling not going down. I tried to doctor myself like most of us doctors do. When that did not work you know I went to this clinic. So the doctor walks in the room and first of all he does not make eye contact does not really talk to me just looks at my leg and has me stand up and down a couple of times. And then just says oh you are OK you know you are fine. But I knew that being a doctor there were a lot of pieces missing. So for instance the doctor did not know what kind of work I did and whether or not I needed to move around. And there were just a lot of gaps there. He did not actually touch the knee or examine the knee. And so I knew that there were several things that you should probably do in this situation. And so I made the point to the doctor well you know I know something  a little bit about medicine. You know normally I do not do that when I am the patient. But in this case I felt like I had to. And the doctor was taken aback. And suddenly it was like a light went off in his head. And suddenly he looked at me. He made eye contact. He started to engage me in a conversation. Then he started  he examined my knee touched my knee moved it back and forth. And  oh let us go get an xray. Let us make sure everything's OK. So it was really  that was really like I was two different people at the same time. The first person was you know Damon Tweedy coming off the street. And so that particular day I had come from home and I was dressed in sweat clothes and a Tshirt. So I was very casually dressed. He may have had certain assumptions that were negative about me. But then once he learned I was a doctor it was like I am suddenly this other person and I am worthy of a whole different level of care. So I think it really illustrates the different ways in which these things can interject in the exam room.  So you think it is very important to have more black doctors. Why do you think it is so important?  Well first of all if you think about the numbers  so the general AfricanAmerican population is about 13 percent of the country. Among doctors it is about 4 percent. So it is a little higher among medical students who are training now but it is been  overall among doctors it is about 4 percent. And you know there is this real legacy of the health care system and doctors not being kind to AfricanAmericans that still persists. Sometimes I feel like a translator in some ways. I can relate to the environment to a great extent to where they are coming from and I am also sort of a bridge between that and this sort of alien medical world. So I think many black doctors are  find themselves in that same situation. So  and I also  you will find that many young black doctors are more likely to express a desire to being in a setting or career where they are actually helping the black community itself. So I think that is  those are the reasons why it is really important.  When you were in medical school you say you felt at a disadvantage academically and socially because you were from a workingclass background. A lot of the people at Duke were the sons and daughters of like doctors and lawyers. Your father had been a meat cutter who did not graduate high school. Your mother could not afford to go to college so going to college was a really big deal in your family. And then to make it even worse to make it even more difficult for you 'ecause here you are feeling like an outsider in medical school one of your teachers when he saw you walk into the classroom asked if you were there to fix the lights. So that could not have given you a lot of confidence .  No . Yeah so  yeah this was like about a month into my first year of medical school. And it was a break between classes and I walked into the classroom and  this was a really bad case of mistaken identity. So the professor comes up to me somewhat angrily and says you know are you here to fix the lights and you know why have not you done this? I already called you about this last week. So he thought I was someone that I was not. So you know my first reaction actually was to look at myself and wonder if I had done something wrong. Like did I not shave? Did I not dress right? What had I done wrong? Once I realized that that was not the case I am looking outward and thinking well why does he think this about me? And so race was obviously one of the first things that did come to mind. And certainly there are  he is probably more likely to have seen black men in that capacity at Duke. And so I  I mean but it something that was still was very  I struggle with it a lot you know how to deal with that hurtful thing. So the issue was then what do I do with that? How do I deal with that situation? And so what I did is  you know I was concerned that if I went and talked to other professors they might not understand why I was seeing it that way. They may think that I was just trying to make a racial issue out of everything. And so I just  I was really reluctant to do that. So the way that I dealt with it was to just put everything I had into studying around the clock and showing this guy that you know I belong there just like anyone else.  And you did so well that he asked you later to become his assistant and you declined.  Yeah. I mean so at the very end of the semester I ended up getting like the secondhighest grade on the exam. And I went to meet with him to see if I would you know gotten the honors credit which is for like the top five or 10 students in the course. And yeah it was this awkward exchange because he it seemed like he recognized me from before but he did not want to acknowledge that. And then when he did see me you know when he saw the score he sort of had this look of surprise. And it was suddenly like  you know it was a switch. It was like the expectations were so low for a black person if he did this well then you really must be special. You know can you work with me? And so it was like a mixed feeling. You know there is a part of me that you know obviously you are happy that you have succeed and proved yourself. But then there is sort of this like mixed legacy of the whole thing as well.  If you are just joining us my guest is Dr. Damon Tweedy. He is the author of the new memoir Black Man In A White Coat A Doctor's Reflections On Race And Medicine. Let us take a short break then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Dr. Damon Tweedy author of the new memoir Black Man in a White Coat A Doctor's Reflections on Race and Medicine. He started medical school in 1996 and is now an assistant professor of psychiatry at Duke University Medical Center and a staff physician at the Durham VA Medical Center. You know we have talked a little bit about  for a lot of patients who are AfricanAmerican it is important to them to see an AfricanAmerican doctor that a lot of black people are distrustful of the medical system because of just unethical experiments that had been done on black people over the years and because they sometimes feel they get substandard care. And sometimes they do. On the other hand there are patients who do not want a black doctor. And you write about that too. Even some black patients  like you write about a black patient you walk into the room and I am going to quote what you write here. That....  OK.  That the patient says  oh they are passing you off on me. And they think I will not care because I am supposed to be a dumb Nword. So go tell your boss I do not want no black doctor. How did you respond to that?  Yeah that hit me like an uppercut basically. So there  you know there is certainly a legacy. It goes back to the times of segregation and even probably further back than that where it is often thought that whatever was black was inferior right? So you often would hear people say that a black doctor was inferior to say a Jewish doctor or a black businessperson was inferior to you know a white businessperson. So there was certainly that legacy that certainly existed because of you know the history and what we had during the era of segregation. And so that was sort of a reminder that that mindset still was still out there that I had to deal with that. So yes it was certainly like an uppercut. And I stumbled at first but then I realized that this was an opportunity for me to  again to show what I was made of. And that patient  I just made a commitment to really show him how much I knew and how confident I was. And you know at the end of that time he was in the hospital he actually ended up giving me a very good comment. I got to know him as a person and we talked more. And he told me that you know he really thought that I was a good doctor. And he actually said I am the kind of doctor that he would want. So I really turned that really negative situation into a positive one. But yeah it still  there is this lingering sort of feeling that shows that there is still this legacy of troubling feelings about one  about our self that we have to deal with.  When you were in college the first time you dissected a rat you fainted. Did you think that that would make it impossible for you to be a medical student or a doctor?  Yeah that was not the best first impression. So this  actually the very first day of my  I was in a research lab  the very very first day and I walk into the room meet the guy I am going to work with the supervisor for the summer. And then he takes me to this room where there are  where there is like a lab tech person who is operating on these rats. And I am talking to her and then suddenly it is like there is blue spots in my vision. And then the next thing I recall is her just saying watch your head do not let him fall. And then there are a bunch of  and the next thing I know I am on a stretcher and there are a bunch doctors talking in doctorspeak and sending me to the emergency room. So that was like about the worst first impression you can ever imagine on a job. So yeah I think I had some doubts at that point and I think they did too. So they brought me along a little slowly after that. I am sure they were wary of things. But you know it was again one of those things where you have to  you know can I do this or can I not? And what am I made of? And so I really just was determined that I was not going to let that first impression be the last of it for them. So I actually spent the whole summer there and then came back the following year and they gave me great recommendations for medical school. But yeah not a good first impression.  Did it seem funny to you that here you are like you are 6'6'' you are incredibly athletic but you know but you are fainting because you are dissecting a rat.  Yeah exactly.  Right so did you  were you able to like get over that and I am also wondering if not feeling comfortable around like dissections or maybe open wounds or you know blood led to your interest in psychiatry as opposed to surgery?  When I was in medical school you know I got  I actually got over that. And I was  I did well on my surgery rotation. And I was really all set to become a cardiologist. I was really interested in the heart. You know I  diagnosed with high blood pressure myself. My mama  my grandmother had died from heart failure. I was really interested in the heart. I had done some research in that area in college and in medical school. So I thought that that is where actually I was going to head up so I really had overcome that. And psychiatry was actually low on my list of things when I was a medical student. I actually did not enjoy my initial rotation through the field that much. I think the switch happened during that internship year  that very first year as a young doctor. And you know I found myself really gravitating toward  you would have patients admitted to your team who had psychiatric illness but they also had a medical problem. And that is why they had to be in the hospital. And I just found myself being really interested in their stories and learning about them and why they were doing what they did and the struggles they had. Towards the end you know I got more enjoyment out of learning about people than I did so like managing heart failure or pneumonia. And so that is really what kind of led me towards this path toward psychiatry. So it certainly was circuitous.  Were you exposed to psychiatry at all when you were growing up or was that just a  kind of like outside the realm?  So you certainly would see people on television but the interesting thing about psychiatry  and this is a whole another layer to it there was  sort of bring it back to the subject of race and medicine. As if psychiatry is like  growing up it was like that is something for other you know for white people primarily  that black people do not go to a psychiatrist or a therapist and talk about their problems. You deal with them yourself or you talk you know within family or within your church. And so I think there is certainly a whole layer that is there for that. So the idea of me being in psychiatry was really  my mom was incredibly surprised. She is like what? What are you doing? You know and so that is definitely not something that I grew up with at all.  Have you met patients for whom seeing a psychiatrist or admitting to having some kind of psychiatric issue is a sign of weakness? Something that you are not supposed to display?  That is a huge problem. It tends to be more common in men for sure. I mean you know there is the sort of the macho stance that....  Manup.  Yeah exactly. It is certainly that. But I think it is even  again more common in AfricanAmerican people. There is this perception that that is just not something that you do or you need to do and that you know those are largely you know white problems. And so you know you cannot afford to have problems like that. You have all these other realworld things to deal with right? And you have to deal with you know getting by in life and not worrying about you know some of these other sort of things. So that is a huge issue. And that is a barrier that I encounter a lot. And I try and just make it normalized. I think people have all sorts of ideas when they come to see a psychiatrist. They think that  first they think you are going to tell them that they are crazy and that you are going to lock them up in a hospital. People are just really worried about those sorts of things. I try and just make it you know  as normalize it as possible. And just say that you know everybody has stress. I use the word like stress because you know that is something people can relate to. And I try and use that as an entry to sort of get people talking about what is going on.  Damon Tweedy thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you.  Dr. Damon Tweedy is the author of the new memoir Black Man in a White Coat A Doctor's reflections on Race and Medicine. After we take a short break we will hear from Alison Brie the costar of Mad Men and Community. She stars in the new film Sleeping with Other People. And we will find out what our TV critic David Bianculli thought of last night's season premiere of The Late Show With Stephen Colbert. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR. 