 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest Mary Karr is best known for her three memoirs The Liars' Club Cherry and Lit. She is credited with helping turn the memoir into a popular literary form. She is had some exceptional material. She grew up in east Texas. Her mother during a psychotic break tried to kill Karr with a butcher knife. Her father was an oil worker and gambler. Karr was twice abused by pedophiles. Like her mother she became an alcoholic. And after getting sober to her great surprise she became a committed Catholic. But what makes her memoirs great is the quality of her writing. As she is pointed out if dysfunction was all you needed to write a great memoir most of us would have written great memoirs. In her new book The Art Of Memoir she reflects on the process of writing personal stories. How do you know you can trust your memory? How do you write about people you love without somehow betraying them? And how do you find your authentic self and authentic voice? These are questions that are relevant even for those of us who will never write a memoir. Mary Karr is a professor of literature at Syracuse University and has taught memoirs for over 30 years. Mary Karr welcome back to FRESH AIR. It is really a pleasure to have you back on the show. So I should ask you why is your new book a book about memoirs instead of being another memoir? Although I should say I would describe the book as a memoir about writing memoirs .  Well it is partly that. You know I would been thinking about the genre for a long time. And in some odd way even though it has this huge readership I felt some lingering obligation to defend it. You know it is such a  it is a such a lowrant form compared to say the novel. I mean there is no danger of my being invited to the American Academy you know?  .  It is just trashy. It is primitive. It is outsider art sort of. So  and in some strange way  I have loved the form so long and so hard; and I have taught about it for 30 years  that I felt some I do not know sense of cultural jury duty or something to defend it. I would read a lot of sort of  kind of lite LITE howtowriteamemoir books that I found offered all these great exercises or what writing teachers call prompts. And I was always terrible at those. When I was given a prompt I always just wrote I am very sad Mary Karr. You know I just  it never prompted in me anything. So...  You have an interesting theory in your book about why memoirs have become so popular. And you could argue they have even become more popular than a lot of serious fiction. So you want to share that theory with us?  Yes. I mean I think as fiction has become more hyperintellectual or dystopic or unreal I think people hungry for the real  for real lived experience have been forced to migrate to memoir.  So you started writing memoirs before our culture got as confessional as it is become before the word oversharing  was coined.  .  So has that affected your standards of what is meant to be written about and what is meant to maintain silence about?  That is such a smart question. Damn it now I am going to have to think.  .  That is really...  Oh I apologize for making you think .  I really resent this Terry. I would rather it just bumble along. Has it changed? No. I think  I think I am such a worrier and a nailbiter and a rethinker. I have always sent my manuscripts out to people I write about  not because I am afraid of landing all sweaty on Oprah but because I kind of mistrust my own memories. Like most sort of thinking people you know you will defend your point of view at the Thanksgiving table you know vigorously. And then I am that person who goes home and lies in bed and thinks did that really happen that way? So you know what I have done? I  with Cherry I stopped putting things in quotation marks because I really wanted the reader to continue to understand or believe or think that he or she was in my head. You know this is my point of view. It is not objective history. It is memory which is a  you know a faulty form in terms of reportage but which has the added advantage of showing my interior while something is happening. So hopefully a memoir shows lived experience not surface reporting.  But do you find yourself exposing any more or less now that we have the term oversharing?  I do not know. I mean given  given what I wrote about in my first book it would be hard to...  True.  You know to share more.   True.  I mean I never talk about anybody's penis who was nice enough to sleep with me.  .  I just would not ever talk about that. I think they are nice enough to show it to me; I should keep it to myself.   You know you talk about how faulty memory is. You do this fascinating exercise with your memoirwriting class. And toward the beginning of class  I want you to describe what you do.  Well I  what I do is I stage a fight. And I only teach this class every few years so the students do not see it coming. And it is a graduate seminar at Syracuse University. And we sift through sometimes a thousand applications for 12 students so six in poetry and six in fiction. So this is a literature class not a workshop. But these are young very smart people who are very confident about their memories and mostly should be. But I stage a fight either with a colleague or with a student. And then I ask them to write what happened.  And they do not know it is staged. They think somebody else has come in and that you are fighting with them and something really terrible is unfolding before their eyes.  Yes. So if I have a fight with George Saunders who is you know this nice Buddhist kind person who is like you know kind for a living it is interesting that no matter what I have him say and no matter what I do people perceive me say as the aggressor. They will see me and the way that will manifest  it is not that they make up things I say or do. But even though he might advance across the room and I might back up and say conciliatory things they will say things like she held her ground like a bulldog or she took steps back but she was fierce. So you know it teaches them not  that we do not so much apprehend the world as we beam it from our eyeballs you know? We...  Right. You have them write down what they saw after this...  We have to...  Staged fight and everybody saw something different. They all  they contradict  one person's perceptions contradict another.  And they all project whatever is going on with them. For instance often I will have a fight  or have the person call several times at intervals of say 15 minutes before they enter the room. So I make an excuse for leaving my phone on. I do not  I do not answer my phone in class however you know arrogant I might sound. So I say I am waiting for a call from a doctor; I have to leave the phone on. And instead this aggravating person I am going to have the fight with continues to call. And most students resent my leaving the phone on except for my student who has a serious illness a form of sickle cell anemia. And she has all this codependent concern for my health. And she feels really bad for me. So other people are annoyed by my selfcenteredness or arrogance for leaving the phone on. And this one student takes her experience and projects it onto me. A women who had had a stalker assumes that George and I say have been sleeping together and that he is a stalker. Or you know it is also interesting that there are these  what I call these memory aces. There are these students usually a musician or a poet. I had this wonderful kind of New York partythrowing DJ kid and he remembered every single line we each spoke.  Wow.  So there is no variation no mistake in what he hears. And it is all in perfect order. And his perceptions  they are just these remarkable kids. There is maybe one or two in every class. At the end of what he wrote he asked I wonder what Mary had done to make him do this to her.   So it is like  it is like a nowin situation for me.  So is this a humbling experience for your students realizing that they have gotten a little or a lot totally wrong?  It is humbling. And what I say is you know what you are supposed to do in this class is learn the shape of yourself and learn what you do tend to project onto the landscape so you can kind of account for that tendency in yourself and question it as you are putting down your memories.  If you are just joining us my guest is Mary Karr. And she is famous for her memoirs The Liars' Club Cherry and Lit. Now she is written a book about memoirs. And it is called The Art Of Memoir. Let us take a short break and we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Mary Karr. She is the author of the memoirs The Liars' Club Cherry and Lit. Now she is written a book about memoirs and about writing memoirs and it is called The Art Of Memoir. How do you make sure in your writing that you have gotten things right?  Well obviously I do not. I have no doubt that I have gotten a million things wrong and that someday some cavalry of people will ride into my life and say this is so much horse dookey we cannot even believe it. So I am never sure I have gotten things right. I lie awake and worry about writing a scene  really the sending pages out to people who were in them you know which I do with anybody who is alive. But I do not know. I am just somebody who picks at and worries. I think  like a lot of memoirists I had a tormented past and really started into this business I think to scratch at and route out the truth of my lessthanperfect childhood. So  so I keep scratching  I am just somebody who scratches and picks and worries the bone of things over and over and over. So...  Your mother is such a  was such a complicated person. And in addition to having periods of profound mental illness she also had a period where she was a reporter and columnist for the local newspaper in Texas. And I am wondering if she taught you the importance of accuracy and memory.  Oh that is so interesting. I think the fact that she was so wellarmed meant I would not lie about her . I mean you think about my family you do not really want to make them mad at you.  Do you mean armed...  It is scary.  With a butcher knife or armed with journalistic skills? .  No I meant armed you know with a Smith  Wesson.  Literally.  Literally.  Yeah.  No I mean my mother tried to kill me with a butcher knife but she never shot at me. She shot at all her husbands that I ever knew.  Yeah you have written about that.  Yeah.  So OK  so did she ever get angry with you for writing about her and for writing...  You know...  About shooting at her husbands?  She never did. I mean what she said to me  I  first off my mother was an outlaw in the core of her being. So she really did not care about what people thought of her. And she said things like well hell everybody knew about that. I mean everybody did. Everybody in the town knew about that and she did not really care about people she did not know. So no I  truth be told I never had anybody complain about anything I wrote about them oddly enough.  In writing a memoir you are choosing to expose selected chapters of your life. You are in control of that narrative. But the people who you are writing about are not. Do you feel an obligation to protect people? Or do you feel well no my obligation is to the truth?  You know I am sort of a  what you know a pathologist might call a really codependent person. So I do worry a lot about the people I write about. And let me also say I mostly write about people I love. I  I am not somebody you know who has to write about Nazis say or... I am not writing about people I do not know that well or do not care about. So I feel obligated to maybe mention in passing if they did not agree with my take on something. But I do not feel obligated to represent their point of view. So my sister loved our grandmother and I was not nuts about her. And I mention in passing you know my sister would disagree with this you know? But as I also said my sister would only show me wetting my pants and sobbing quietly in the corner or biting somebody. So  so I mention things in passing. And I also  I try not to guess what people's motives are. I  I mostly try to deal with what I see and what I do. I do not say you know because my mother was blah blah blah blah blah she stood over me with a butcher knife. I have no idea why she did it.  What is your obligation to the dead when you are writing about them and you cannot show them the manuscript? You cannot ask them if they mind something being published. Now you could argue that they are dead so it does not matter. You could also argue that you want to respect their memory and preserve their privacy even in death especially if they are not like a famous figure and this is like a biography that is important to history. It is just like someone you knew and cared about who is now dead.  Well that is only happened in one  you know I mean my father  my love for him was so enormous. I think he would have loved how I wrote about him. People tend to love how I write about them. I mean I have had people complain that I have...  Is that because you are funny?  I do not know am I funny? Good for me. I have  that is one point for me. I think it is because I  again I would not spend time writing about somebody I did not  I just thought was a despicable person you know other than my grandmother and a couple of pedophiles. I do not really  in all my books I do not really  I am not  you know I am my problem . You know other people are not my problem. I am my problem. So when there is a jerk in the book it is usually me. I mean I am the one that I am wrestling with.  You also write you have to be willing to throw away pages and revise. You do a lot of revision. And when you were writing  was it Lit or Cherry? I think it was...  It was...  Lit.  Lit.  That you threw away like 1200 pages. I mean that is...  I threw away  yeah I threw away 1200 finished pages pages I could have published  that were publishable  because they sucked. There was something  it is not that I made stuff up but there was something untrue about them.  How do you deal with the pain of knowing that months or perhaps years of your work was going to be deleted by you because you felt you more or less had to start over again?  You know I actually broke the delete button off my keyboard writing that book. And I always say if I had any guts at all I would make a brooch out of it. So it was really hard when I threw all that away. I think I spent about four days in my pajamas. I saw nobody but the curry guy and I was just sobbing. And I  I thought I have to sell this apartment and give the advance money back to my publisher. I just cannot do this. And then I washed my face and put on my biggirl panties and started over writing what I should have been writing from page one. So I find the truth is not  it is not that I had made up events. I was just writing about stuff that was not emotionally resonant or important to me. It was more  I was sort of telling like jokey cute anecdotes about all these guys I dated in my 20s. And it  you know it might have made a bunch of kind of mediumcrummy magazine articles but it would have been of no interest to any sane reader.  So what is the biggest change in direction that your final draft took compared to the 1200 pages that you abandoned?  Well the one thing I was not going to do Terry the one thing I could never do I could not write about my mother anymore. I mean she had died for one thing. But also I just could not dine out anymore on stories of my mother. And yet  there are all these stories to tell. And I was writing about becoming a mother. And I thought it was going to be a story the arc of which was something like I sought love from all these men I got engaged to and one I married. And I failed and then I found this perfect love with having this child which of course I am  you know I am nobody's example of a perfect mother. But  so instead it was about how I had to make peace with my mother. I had to write about my mother and my mother's ongoing craziness and her recovery which led to my recovery  and her death. You know I had to make peace with my mother to become a mother. So I just was avoiding it. I was like a dog staked to a pole. I just walked around and around and around it.  Your mother is such a complicated figure. And one of the things you have written about with your mother is that as a teenager you used to drink with her. And you would both get really drunk. And I am thinking what a strange bonding experience that probably was. What was it like to get drunk with your mother when  I mean she had a drinking problem. It was not like let us have a nice drink...   You think?  And loosen things up so we could have a hearttoheart talk.  No. It was like let us get baked and see if the piano player will buy us drinks.   No I mean  no it was  I was one of those kids at 17 or 18 one of those really neurotic nailbitey girls who says my mother's my best friend. I mean  and you know she was writing  you know she was also capable of really  you know of great cruelty and was just not  you know I loved my mother. I still love my mother. But she was not a supernurturing human being which is fine if she is not your mother.  Right .  It is a fine thing to be. But when that is your mother and the only one you have it is disheartening. So...  Did she initiate you into heavy drinking or were you already a drinker?  Oh no. I mean I was one of those people  I think it was Paul Celan who describes you know taking a drink and feeling a sunflower open in his chest you know?  I was one of those people. I think I just have a taste for it.  My guest is Mary Karr the author of the memoirs The Liars' Club Cherry and Lit. Her new book is about writing memoirs. It is called The Art Of Memoir. After we take a short break she will reflect on writing about her relationship with writer David Foster Wallace. And we will talk about the importance of her prayer life ever since she got sober and became a committed Catholic. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Mary Karr the author of the popular memoirs The Liar's Club Cherry and Lit. Her new book is about writing memoirs. It is called The Art Of Memoir. She is a professor of literature at Syracuse University where she teaches a class on the memoir. You got sober in the late '80s.  Yes.  And at about that time  I think it was like a month after you had started being sober  you met David Foster Wallace who was just going into rehab. And you became very close. And you wrote about this in Lit. Except when I read Lit I did not know that you had written about this because you used the name David not David Foster Wallace. And I suppose that the  I want to say schmatta  the headband  what would you call it?  that he had around his neck. A head...  I called it a head hanky.  Head hanky OK.  His head hanky yeah and his big boots.  Which of course he was famous for. And I suppose I should have put two and two together but I did not. And so I am interested  since we have spoken about how to protect people or let them choose a pseudonym if they prefer it seems like you played that one down the middle. You did not use a pseudonym but you did not use his full name either.  Well I did notify him as I was working on the book that I was planning to write about him. He was alive. And I let him know some of the things I would cover. And I was hoping to send him pages which he killed himself before I was able to do. So I did have a pseudonym for him. And then after he died everyone who knew him and knew me knew it was him. So it seemed kind of disingenuous in some ways. And I did figure frankly  I did figure well he is dead already. And believe me; I was still you know really devastated as you know anybody who had ever cared about him was by his suicide. Anybody who had ever talked him out of killing himself was  you know felt like a failure obviously and was devastated by that death. So  David was very kindly treated. There were a lot of  if I wanted to burn David's house down I could have done that and chose not to. And I did not really go into what it was like in any great detail to date him except that it was tumultuous and very shortlived.  You do write one sentence in describing your fights. You wrote  if David enters the mindset he calls blackeyed redout he is inclined to hurl all manner of objects.  He was violent. I will  I mean he was violent. He became violent when he was angry. I am not the only woman he was violent with. It was  it is common knowledge among women who dated him you know that he was violent. So we knew each other a long time. We were friends a long time. We got sober with a lot of the same people. But the amount of time that we dated was very short.  But it sounds like he had asked you to get married and had your name tattooed on his arm.  He did ask me to get  he did ask me to marry him. He did get my name tattooed on his arm. Although as I pointed out to him it is not like my name was Lucinda you know?  .  You can always put Blessed Virgin above it and it could be anybody. So I told him that because he did not put Mary Karr it was disappointing. But no I mean  but he  David proposed to everybody he dated  that I know of. Everybody I ever met who dated David has  I have a  I probably have a ream of marriage proposals from David. It is not like he proposed to me one time. It is like he proposed to me a zillion times you know. It was like a campaign for him. So before we were dating he was proposing to me. I mean...  I am wondering if you saw the film about him The End Of The Tour because I know a lot of people who knew him feel like his privacy and his wishes were violated by the film because he did not want celebrity. And he would not have wanted to be portrayed in the film and some of the...  Let me correct something.  Yeah.  David Foster Wallace wanted celebrity as much or more than any writer I have ever known. Let me just correct that. David did not like going out and being at the center of scrutiny. But David's ambition  if he could have strafe bombed the planet  which is also true for me by the way. I am not talking from the other side of the street. I think most writers want to sell as many books as they can sell. There is no  you write because you want readers. So believe me. I do not think David  I had to talk to David out of doing a Gap commercial at one point because I said you know would Cormac McCarthy do it? You know would with Toni Morrison do it?  So what are your thoughts about the movie? Did you see it? Would you see it?  I did not see it. I would not see it. I do not know you know. I mean to me somebody who is doing this Saint David thing who was in the car with him for three days to take up that much bandwidth with his memory... I am a little cynical about it. I mean maybe you know  I do not know. It feels so much like cashing in on this small contact with somebody who is a bigger deal than you are. It just  I do not know. I do not know. Maybe it is a great movie. I do not know. It felt a little sleazy.  We have talked about what it is like for you to write about people you are close with including having written about David Foster Wallace. Did he write about you in a disguised form in any of his fiction?  He certainly did. He certainly did. He wrote about a lot of people in disguised form. I mean I read an excerpt of Infinite Jest where he used the names  the real names  of people. And he used their stories in a way that I found very irresponsible.  Were these people who had been in a recovery group with him?  Yes people who had been in a halfway house with him. They are people I knew well. And I saw them  I saw their stories. And I saw them excerpted in these kind of cartoony grotesque ways. And I was horrified. And even then I sort of felt like well it is his book. It is none of my business. And then I met his editor Michael Peach at a party and  right before Infinite Jest came out. And he said you know I now understand this character David wrote about because she talks just like you and she is from Texas and blah blah blah blah blah. And I really had a hard time. I thought about it and I thought about it. And I prayed about it. I talked to a priest about it. And then I called the editor. And I just called him on the phone because we had mutual friends. And I said you know these people in this excerpt are real people. And I am not a litigious person. I am not somebody who is going to sue anybody over a piece of fiction. It is none of my business. I do not care. But you know he could fix this. It is just not that hard. He could make this person blonde instead of brunette. He could make her from Arkansas or whatever. But you certainly should not be using their real names.  If you are just joining us my guest is Mary Karr. She is the author of the memoirs The Liar's Club Cherry and Lit. Now she has written a new book about memoir writing. And it is called The Art Of Memoir. Mary let us take a short break then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. My guest is Mary Karr. After writing three memoirs including the best seller The Liars' Club she has written a book about writing memoirs called The Art Of Memoir. When we left off we were discussing the late writer David Foster Wallace with whom she would once been a couple. She wrote about him and he would written about her. David Foster Wallace took his own life and he had attempted suicide previous times. It seems to me you have been surrounded by more than an average amount of people who have taken their lives. Your mother had tried to take her life. I think you took yourself to a hospital because you were thinking about suicide. You have friends who have committed suicide. And...  Right it kind of makes you wonder if I am a bad influence in the world.  Well yeah what it makes me wonder is how fragile you must think or must have thought life is. I mean to know as many people as you have known who have taken their own lives it just opens the door to the real possibility of that in a way that seems to me kind of frightening. For someone who once considered that as you once did to know people who really walk through that door...  Right.  That must be frightening in a way that it is not frightening for people who have never entertained the idea of suicide.  You know I think I am  I think when you grow up with people who are hurt and unhappy and addicted and suicidal you have an empathy for people who are hurt and addicted. And you could call it a kind of codependence. Or you could just say you know you feel bad for these people. And you  this  you know I grew up trying to cheer my mother up and trying to cheer myself up. And so yes I mean I  you know I have written poems against suicide. I think suicide  maybe you have a terminal illness and you decide to end your life to end your suffering and that makes perfect sense to me. But I think most suicidal people are killing the wrong people. I think  you know  I think it is a permanent solution to temporary states of mind. So I know there are people who say well you know David was suffering so miserably and I know he was. And I do have empathy for that. But yeah I wish he had not done that. I wish he had not done that. I think he would be feeling better now if he had not done that.  Feeling better because conditions would have changed or medication would have been worked out better?  I hope so. But I mean David flatlined when he was  you know before he was 21. So David tried to kill himself hard many times. Now I am not talking  I had a suicidal ideation. I never cut myself or overdosed or...  That means you thought about it but you never really tried it.  Right that is correct.  So just one more thing about David Foster Wallace. I am grateful for you to be speaking some of your truth about him. Does it make you uncomfortable to do that in a public way because he cannot tell his side of the story?  Well if he had not killed himself he would have been able to.  Right.  You know I mean no. I mean he left himself to history. And I am you know one of those who came after. So I would rather he be alive phoning in saying how full of horse dookey I am.  Right so...  But you know the other thing  I spent a lot of  I am still kind of best friends with his best friend from college the novelist Mark Costello who is a great great writer. And I talked to Mark a lot about David's portrait and I sent him those pages. And I made a decision before I talked to David's biographer. And you know I  it is  people have tried to buy my letters from David and I have not yet sold them. So there is a lot of his darkness in there that is  I guess I am protective of in some way 'ecause he was ill.  Right. So you have actually written a poem about David Foster Wallace that  I would love it if you read that for us.  I will. I have written a couple of poems for David. This one was in The New Yorker. It is called Face Down.  What are you doing on this side of the dark? You chose that side. And those you left feel your image across their sleeping lids as a blinding atomic blast. Last we knew you were suspended midair like an angel for a pageant off the room where your wife slept. She had to cut you down who'd been I heard so long holding you up. We all tried to f;aced with your need which we somehow understood and felt for and took into our veins like smack. And you must be lured by that old pain smoldering like wood smoke across the death boundary. Prowl here I guess if you have to bother somebody. Or better yet go bother God who shaped that form you despised from common clay. The light you swam so hard away from still burns like a star over a desert or atop a tree in a living room where a son's photos have been laid face down for the holiday.  Wow. It seems to me like it is a poem that is expressing a certain amount of anger at him for having made that choice for choosing that side.  Yeah and I have got to say  I have got to say I did you know I did think of his wife and her having to find him and...  Find him after he was dead?  After he was dead. I just  I was haunted by that. She wrote about it and I was haunted by that for her.  OK. Well thank you for reading that poem. Why do not we take a short break here? My guest is Mary Karr. She is written several memoirs The Liars' Club Cherry and Lit and now has a new book about memoirs called The Art Of Memoir. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Mary Karr. She is the author of the memoirs The Liars' Club Cherry and Lit. She is credited as being one of the people who helped turn the memoir into a very popular form. Now she is written a book about writing memoirs and it is called The Art Of Memoir. When you got sober in the late '80s that is when you became to your great surprise a Catholic.   So stupid is not it?   And that  I think  do you feel that that continues to help you remain sober?  No. I  well I think my  I think I am granted a kind of spiritual reprieve every day so I think any s