 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross.    You know I always get asked How do you play the piano with all those rings on your fingers? And I always tell them very well indeed.    That is Michael Douglas starring as Liberace in the new HBO film Behind the Candelabra. It is been nominated for 15 Emmy Awards the ceremony is on Sunday and it is just come out on DVD.   Behind the Candelabra is about the fiveyear relationship between Liberace and his boyfriend Scott Thorson which was hidden from the public. Thorson who is played by Matt Damon was 40 years younger than Liberace and still in his teens when they met in 1977. Liberace was already a star famous for his showy piano playing the candelabra that was usually on the piano and his wild flashy outfits bejeweled jackets feathered capes and fur coats. Liberace's home where he brought Thorson to live was also extravagant. For a while Liberace made Thorson part of his act. Thorson wore a rhinestonestudded chauffeur's uniform and drove Liberace onstage in a Rolls Royce. Behind the Candelabra was directed by my guest Steven Soderbergh who previously directed Michael Douglas in Traffic and Matt Damon in the Ocean's movies and The Informant. Terry interviewed Soderbergh in May when the film premiered on HBO. Let us start with a scene from Behind the Candelabra. It is two years into the relationship. Liberace and Thorson are at home on a couch watching videotapes of Liberace's TV show. Thorson has one leg swung over onto Liberace's lap and is eating popcorn. Liberace speaks first.    I was the first person in television to look directly into the camera. I was the first matinee idol in television. I was the one had the idea of putting the candelabra up on the piano. You know I saw an old Merle Oberon movie when I got the idea from  not Chopin what was the name of that  A Song to Remember.   Really? That is like your trademark.   I know. Who knew?   Wow. So really no matter what you did you were just meant to be famous.   I guess so.  Steven Soderbergh welcome back to FRESH AIR. So you were about 24 when Liberace died in 1987. What did you know about Liberace when you were growing up?  I have a pretty distinct memory of seeing him as a child on TV. My parents liked him and found him very entertaining. And I did too although I could not quite at that age put my finger on what was different about him.  So why did you even want to make a movie about Liberace? What interested you in the man and in his sensibility in the feathers and furs and sequins the virgin fox fur with the 16foot train that cost 300000? I mean so much of his sensibility was this kind of like smiling pleasant middleoftheroad sensibility but with all this just like gaudy extravagant luxury. You know I mean it was...   Yeah well I mean obviously there was an inherent visual appeal. You could make an argument that Liberace really invented the idea of bling. I mean nobody nobody was dressing themselves like this. I mean when you look at the people that have followed him whether it is Elvis or Elton John or Cher or Madonna or Lady Gaga you know all these people are sort of building on something that he began. And then the other thing that I realized when I started researching his life and his work was he was an incredible technical keyboardist. And I was really fascinated in this idea of an incredible level of professionalism sort of being almost hidden behind you know the exterior of this flamboyant performer. That was really interesting to me.  I think my favorite line in the film  this is before Scott Thorson has actually met Liberace. And so Scott Thorson played by Matt Damon and his friend played by Scott Bakula are in a club together watching Liberace performing in his sequins at this you know mirrored piano. And you know Scott Thorson says to his friend It is amazing the audience would like something this gay. And the friend says They have no idea he is gay.   Right.  You know I remember Liberace from when I was growing up and I was trying to think like did people I know think he was gay? And I think there was a sense of like he is gay but that meant that that was just synonymous with like feathers and rhinestones or something. I do not know. What do you think? Do you think people knew he was gay?  Perhaps but my sense of it is people just  I do not think they cared you know I really do not. My parents did not and they were I think sharp enough to probably see what was happening. There was a story that was told to us by Ray Arnett who was Liberace's sort of directorchoreographer. He staged all of Liberace's shows. And he told us about when the story broke in the tabloids of Scott Thorson revealing his relationship with Liberace and the beginning of the palimony suit and that they had a show that night and Liberace was very worried about what the response was going to be from the audience. And he was saying What are we going to do if they start booing me or if they start heckling me? And Ray said I do not know. I mean I guess we could do a blackout and you could leave the stage but I do not think that is what is going to happen. And Ray described listening as Liberace left backstage to go out and be introduced and he said the room just exploded like it was a bigger and more positive response than he would ever gotten before. And that to me indicates that people just  they did not care. They just loved him as an entertainer and I do not think that really mattered to them.  You referred to this in the movie Liberace sued a newspaper that wrote that he was gay and he won the suit.  Yeah in the U.K. It is true. I mean he was  Seymour Heller his manager was very aggressive about that kind of thing.  So even Liberace even somebody who was like such a queen onstage it would have been really bad for his career if he had been outed even though as you say eventually when he was it was OK. But still it was a risk. It was a big risk.  Oh I think there is no question for him at a certain point in his career it would have done a lot of damage you know for it to be publicly known that he was gay. So he had legitimate reason as did a lot of other performers to be closeted. And I think there is a  watching the film of course there is this sort of undertow an emotional undertow because you cannot help thinking as you are looking at it you know if it were today or if it were even just a few years ago none of this would be an issue and he could live any way he wanted. And you know if he were in a certain state he could even be married. So it is unfortunate to think that for so long he had to spend so much effort to keep that part of his life a secret.  Is it true that Michael Douglas' father Kirk Douglas lived next door to Liberace?  I know they both had houses in Palm Springs. I am not sure how close they lived to each other. But Michael you know Michael met Liberace many many times when he was younger.  Oh really? Because of his father living in the same neighborhood as Liberace?  Yeah and the parties you know people would throw parties and everybody would show up. And so he at least had a pretty strong reference point. And then of course we had Debbie Reynolds in the film playing Liberace's mother and Debbie knew Liberace very very well because they were both performing in Vegas at the same time. And she knew Frances Liberace's mom very well. And so she was able to sort of recreate her whole affect and her sound pretty remarkably.  So did Michael Douglas or Debbie Reynolds tell you stories about Liberace that were helpful to you as the director?  Only in the sense of  well we talked to a pretty good amount of people and you cannot find anybody to say anything bad about him. Everybody said he was just a sweetheart very generous very kind very loyal and loved performing. So that was interesting just to get everybody's impressions and have them be that synchronous. On the other hand it was clear that he did not  he did not like conflict and he did not like sort of negativity. And so when things would start for  if a relationship started to sort of go south he would kind of avoid dealing with it directly. You know this is where sometimes his manager would come in and sort of take care of things.  Our guest is Steven Soderbergh who directed the HBO film Behind the Candelabra. We will hear more of his conversation with Terry Gross after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. If you are just joining us we are listening to an interview with film director Steven Soderbergh whose HBO movie Behind the Candelabra is based on the life of Liberace. It is nominated for 15 Emmy Awards and is just out on DVD. Terry Gross interviewed Soderbergh last May. Let us hear from Liberace himself in a clip from one of his TV shows in the '60s. He is dressed in a brocaded black and gold suit seated at his white piano with a mirrored keyboard with his signature candelabra on top of the piano. He is talking to the studio audience.    You know ladies and gentlemen there is one song that I think everybody in show business has done and I do not want to be left out I am going to do it too. But I am going to try to do it a little bit differently. First of all to refresh your memory I am going to play in its original form and then as a Viennese waltz by Strauss a Swiss music box in that popular Latin tempo the bossa nova and last of all the way that kids seem to like it best. And all of this is going to happen to Mack the Knife.    That is Liberace from a TV show in the '60s. We will return to Terry's interview with director Steven Soderbergh in a moment. But first here's another scene from his film Beyond the Candelabra starring Michael Douglas as Liberace. Matt Damon played his boyfriend Scott Thorson. When they met Thorson was still a teenager 40 years younger than Liberace. It was backstage in between sets at a Vegas club where Liberace was performing. In the dressing room they also see Liberace's director Ray and his accompanist Billy. After being introduced these are some of Liberace's first words to Thorson.    Ah lost babe in the woods.    It is like a Disney movie little Bambi. Very nice to meet you.   You were incredible out there.   Oh I am just a piano player. But everybody did seem to enjoy themselves did not they?   You were great too Billy.   Ray why do not we fix everybody a drink?   All Right.   I am not going to have one. I still have another show to do.   You are going to do that all over again? I do not know how you do that.   Oh are not you sweet. It is not bad for an old bag huh?   Oh you look fantastic. And those bits with the audience are gold.   They work every time. I stage the show once a year. It works the same way every single night.    Well I will tell you when I was working saloons in my youth back in Milwaukee they called them saloons. I mean that is how old I am.   I am from Wisconsin too.   No. You are? Well this must be fate. Well one night this audience asked me to play this popular Hit Parade song called Three Little Fishes you know it barely had a melody it was not a challenge at all. But I played it you know and they were happy. And then I do not know where it came from but I got this inspiration to play it as if it was composed by Strauss. And they loved it. They ate it up. You would have thought that I invented the piano.    And I knew right then it was all about giving them a good time. And that is what I am all about. I love to give people a good time.  That is Michael Douglas as Liberace from the HBO movie Behind the Candelabra. And my guest is Steven Soderbergh who directed the film. It is so interesting that you cast Michael Douglas because you know most of Michael Douglas' roles he is such a kind of you know macho straight guy and here he is as Liberace and it is a very convincing performance. And even though you told us a little about it earlier I am still surprised that you saw that capacity in him.  Yeah I certainly  in meeting Michael and working with him on Traffic recognized very quickly that he was an intelligent complex person in addition to being a really gifted performer. And he knows a lot about a lot of different things and I never questioned the idea of him playing a role like this. I knew he could do it and my only hope was that he would want to do it which he did. But I think it ended up  you know the movie got postponed a couple of times for various reasons and then Michael was ill for a while and this was the first project...  Ill he had throat cancer.  Yeah so this was the first film he made after recovering. And I think there was an aspect of being there on set that things felt a little more heightened because of you know what he would been through and how long it had taken us to get to the first day of shooting. And he just  he and Matt both I was fascinated to watch how quickly they sort of fell into these roles and how completely. They both just kind of jumped off the cliff and there was no  there was no hesitance there was no sense of them ever sort of looking back at themselves as they were performing. They just seemed completely inside of it. And I do not know if part of that is the physical aspect of putting on the clothes and the wigs and in some cases you know prosthetics that allowed them to feel so comfortable in this transformation but it was really something to watch. I mean if they  they both had to meet each other you know at the exact same point or it was not going to work.  You told us a little about how you wanted to use Michael Douglas as Liberace. What about Matt Damon? You have worked with Matt Damon on the Ocean's film and on The Informant. Did you have to test their chemistry together to see whether Michael Douglas and Matt Damon would be convincing as a couple?  No I did not. It is funny. I had no doubts that their sort of mutual respect for each other and their incredible professionalism would result in something that would be convincing. And I knew it had to be because that was really  at the end of the day the movie is really kind of a twohander between the two of them and my compass was always focused on their interaction. And it is a very intimate movie. It is a very emotionally intimate movie. And there are scenes between them that are almost uncomfortable in their intimacy and would be if it was a man and a woman involved. You know there are some very very...  You are talking about sexually intimate.  No I mean in every way.  You mean in every way right.  Just conversations that take place between people who are in you know serious relationships that can be very volatile and very uncomfortable. You know I always felt that if we did our jobs correctly that halfway through the movie you would forget it was Michael and Matt and you would forget it was two men and just feel as though you are watching a relationship.  I was talking to my producer Lauren about this and you know because I was saying there is something musically in terms of just being an entertainer with the kind of patter he would have with the audience that was just like so middle of the road. And at the same time he is like so extravagant and queenly and everything. And she was saying it is as if Lawrence Welk like you know suddenly became this queen or something. You know it is just like two totally different sensibilities in one.  Well I think you know the story that he tells in the movie about the Hollywood Bowl is kind of instructive and absolutely understandable when he is saying he went to the Hollywood Bowl for the first time to prepare for a performance and was looking at you know the setup on the stage with this black floor and this giant clamshell. And as he said traditionally pianists always wore black tuxedos and he realized I am just going to disappear like literally people will not be able to see me. And that is one of the things that led him to start wearing these gigantic outfits you know as he tells the story. And then he is wearing this crazy getup and he says can you see me now. You know on the one hand it is funny and on the other hand I get it. I think he is totally right. You know when you are sitting in front of a piano on a stage somewhere and you want to be seen you have got to step it up. And so what was funny obviously was over the years to see how he kept trying to top himself. I mean these outfits are just crazy. I mean we  you know we were able to show a fairly decent amount of them but there was  there is you know there are books just entirely made up of images of his outfits and they are just jawdropping.  Steven Soderbergh will be back in the second half of the show. His HBO film Behind the Candelabra is nominated for 15 Emmy Awards and is now out on DVD. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. We are listening to Terry's interview with Steven Soderbergh about his HBO film Behind the Candelabra. It tells the story of Liberace's relationship with his boyfriend Scott Thorson who was 40 years younger than Liberace and a teenager when they met. Behind the Candelabra has been nominated for 15 Emmys. The award ceremony is this Sunday and it is out on DVD. Terry spoke to Steven Soderbergh in May.  It is so interesting that Michael Douglas' first time back acting after throat cancer he is doing a role where getting the voice right is so important. I mean this is not his regular way of speaking and you know he is doing a pretty interesting job of capturing Liberace's speaking voice. Were you or he concerned at all that you know his voice physically could not hold up to something where he would be you know having to put on a voice?  No. He seemed  by the time we started shooting he seemed to be 100 percent recovered and healthy. And I think for us the trick was more because there is a lot of material available to look at that he not get hung up in doing an impression of Liberace. You know I did not want him sort of you know I did not want his focus sort of pulled by having to technically try and reproduce you know exactly how Liberace sounded and I think he found a really nice sort of sweet spot where there is a voice and it is very distinctive and it is not Michael's voice. But it is not just him parroting Liberace. I just think I do not think either of us would have felt that that would be interesting.  You expected this to be studio film but apparently the studios did not want the film. Did you find that out after the movie was already made?  No. I mean we were taking the film around town trying to get a domestic partner and nobody wanted to do it. I think there was a  there was a...  When you say taking around do you mean the script or the actual movie?  The script.  OK.  The script with Michael and Matt attached. And yeah we did not need very much money. We would sort of presold the majority of the film overseas. But there was a sense that the movie would not have any appeal outside of a gay audience and that that audience would not be big enough to return the investment and so we just could not get anybody to do it. And fortunately Jerry Weintraub our producer was in the middle of working with HBO on a documentary about himself called His Way  which I encourage everybody to see it is pretty fun  and he had a conversation with HBO and said you know we are trying to get this Liberace movie off the ground and they said that is exactly the kind of thing we want to do and it was done immediately.  I suspect in the U.S. more people will see it on HBO than would have seen it had it been released to theaters.  Oh I do not think there is any question. Yeah I think you are absolutely right.  But what does it say to you about TV versus movies?  Well you know this is something I have talked about over the past couple of years which is the sort of migration of a particular kind of audience from movies to television. And at a certain level it is not surprising to me at all that we ended up at HBO because I have seen a drift over the last decade or so and it is partially I think as a result of the fact that there is just so much great television being made and a lot of this is I think due to The Sopranos which kind of altered the landscape in a way that is still evolving. But I think everything that is good now is sort of standing on the shoulders of what David Chase did and it just completely changed people's attitudes about TV and you know here we are where I look at it and you know it feels like a sort of second golden age of television. There is really really good stuff being made.  You have said that this is going to be your last movie before either retiring from film or at least taking a hiatus from film. Which do you think of it as now?  I do not know. I do not know. I am just going to step away from that particular job for a while and I do not have a sense right now how long you know my break will last or whether it is permanent or not. I certainly would not be unhappy if Candelabra turned out to be the last movie I made. That would not be a problem for me. But I have got some you know  as we were just talking about television  I have got a few television things that I am trying to get off the ground. So it is not I am not going to be idle.  Oh I see. You are not giving up on shooting stuff and directing stuff. You are just giving up for now on it being in theaters.  Yeah. In terms of what I you know for lack of a better term cinema I am taking a break on that. But I am hoping that a couple of these TV notions will become reality. That would be fun.  And I presume it is premature to tell us what they are?  Yeah because they are not set up yet. I am still trying to get them together. But you know if you are talking about what you know a long form piece it is an opportunity to go narrow and deep and to present characters who are complicated and probably flawed. And in this sort of medium that is not a problem it is a plus.  So what are some of the reasons why you want to stay away from movie movies now? Does it have to do with financial constraints and creative freedom?  It is partially that. It is partially the fact that the box is getting smaller that there are economic pressures that sort of force it to become more and more constricted  and that is neither here nor there. It is just that is just the way it goes. The business is not as fun as it used to be  or at least as fun as it was when I came up a long time ago. And then there are just creative issues of my own of feeling that I need to sort of tear down everything I have done and rebuild from scratch. And that is a process that I think is not incremental. I feel I can go and work on some things in television while I am thinking about my relationship to movies whereas I do not think I can think about my relationship to movies while I am trying to make a movie. I just need to just destroy everything that is come before and see if I can kind of become a primitive again. I am not even sure it is possible. I do not know if it is something you could do...  What you even mean by that?  It means just throwing away everything that you have learned and thought and trying to become in essence a completely different filmmaker because I have hit a wall of what I feel I am able to do at this point  not because I have figured everything out I have just figured out what I cannot figure out and I need to tear it down and start over again.  Why would that be different in television?  Because they are different mediums and they have different demands. And the things that I can do currently I think dovetail very well with what is happening in TV right now. And I like to be busy. I do not like to sit around so it was always in my mind that I would be making things it just would not be movies.  That is director Steven Soderbergh speaking last me with Terry Gross. Since that interview was recorded it was announced that Soderbergh will direct a 10 part Cinemax cable series starring Clive Owen called The Knick. It debuts sometime next year. We will hear more of Terry's conversation with Soderbergh after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to her interview with director Steven Soderbergh. His HBO film Behind the Candelabra has been nominated for 15 Emmys. The ceremony is on Sunday.  When did you first become aware that there was such a thing as a director and that the director had a lot to do with why you liked a movie when you were watching it?  When I was 12.  Through watching what?  Jaws.  Really? Because of the suspense?  Yeah. That was the first that...  Because of the way you were...  No. It was just I came out of that film in St. Petersburg Florida in the summer of 1975 and my relationship to movies had completely changed. I had always seen a lot of films because my father loved movies but in that two hours and four minutes they went from something that I used to view as entertainment and became something else. And I had two questions when I came out of that theater. One is what does directed by mean exactly? And who is Steven Spielberg? And luckily there was a book that had been published around the time the movie came out called The Jaws Log which was written by Carl Gottlieb one of the coscreenwriters and it turned out to be one of the best makingof books that anybody has ever produced and I bought a copy of that and read it over and over again and highlighted any mention of Steven Spielberg and what that job entailed. And from that point on I realized oh this is a job you could have this is as a job.  Does Steven Spielberg know this story?  I have no idea.  So you have not had a chance to tell it to him?  No.  OK.  No.  So then you realized you wanted to be a director and it was before every cell phone had a video camera on it.   Yeah.  And so what did you do to start trying it out?  Well I managed to get my hands on some equipment some you know super8 equipment occasionally some 16millimeter equipment. You know it did  it required you had to save up some money and you know getting  going out and shooting stuff was not as simple as it is now. And there were pluses and minuses to that. The pluses were like I said you really had to plan things out and be very careful about what you shot because you only had a limited amount of film in a cartridge. And this was also a period in which you know in order  this was sort of prevideo videocassettes and being able to get access to everything all the time. Luckily during this period in Baton Rouge I was going to high school on the LSU campus and there was a film program there and there was a repertory house next to the campus. So I was seeing films almost every night of the week for four years. And things imprint in a way when you are a teenager I think that is unique. You know things sort of hit you in a way they will never hit you again. And I was just very lucky that during that fouryear period I saw a ton of movies from all over the world. And they made a gigantic impression.  Now your father I think was dean of education or something at LSU Louisiana State University?  During that time yeah. Mmhmm.  So did he impress upon you the importance of education and then did you like not go to college so you could go to Hollywood?   Well here's what you want  is to see your kid lit up by something.  Yeah.  And I inherited from him a bit of a  both sort of workaholic aspect and also an obsessive quality. And when he saw what was happening he just sort of stood back and let it happen. And I  believe me high school I never cracked a book. I mean I got by just on the fact that I read a lot and sort of coasted on what I knew. But every  every waking moment during that period I was either making a movie reading about a movie or seeing a movie if I was awake. And he just he let it happen. You know he was very supportive. Because he loved movies too. And I think at a certain age  I have had this happen with my daughter who has a pretty remarkable singing voice. And when I saw her perform as a ninth grader in the lead of a school play to see your child do something that you could never do is a great  it is a great moment. And I think he saw very quickly that I was doing things you know that he would never have been able to do.  Your mother taught parapsychology. What were some of the things she believed in?  My mother was ahead of the curve in a lot of different ways when I was growing up. And being in the house it was unusual because she had a kind of fascinating cast of characters floating through. But she was interested in the paranormal. She was interested in the kind of health foods that now again you can get anywhere. But back then you really had to pursue getting you know people  when you talk about you know anything like kale or algae or you know any of the things now that are pretty commonplace back  you know these were things that she was interested in back then. She was just sort of a free thinker and I think I ended up being a kind of combination of the two of them because my father was very structured and very good at working at a job that had certain hours. I could never do that. Like I would not be very good as someone who had to go to an office every day and be there from this point to that point. That would be hard for me. So I am kind of a combination of the two of them. I have her sort of abstract quality and I also have his kind of very linear approach to process and problem solving.  So I read that one of the movies you would like to make now if you were making movies which apparently you are not going to be for a while would be a movie about Leni Riefenstahl who was the filmmaker who did you know just like amazing...  Nazi propaganda.  Amazing Nazi propaganda films.  Yeah.  That when you watch them they are so like powerful and frightening. She is such a controversial figure.  Yeah.  Because you have to keep two thoughts in your mind at the same time  that she was you know a really terrific director and had a great eye and knew how to stir up emotion and at the same time she was doing this on behalf of just like the most despicable ideology. So why have you been having trouble getting the film made?  Well we  Scott Burns who wrote Side Effects and The Informant! and Contagion and I were thinking about this project and we had what I thought was a pretty interesting bold take on the material which was basically Hitler and Goebbels are the studio and she is the aggrieved artist who is fighting for her vision. And so the movie at no point leaves her point of view or delves into any of these moral questions at all. The whole design of the movie is that you are rooting for her to win. And the film ends wi