 Hello.  Good morning Renee.  So let us start with the first semifinal game Oklahoma against Louisville. One team expected to be there the other not.  A little bit of a surprise. Louisville is the team that is there. A lot of people know the men's team...   I am not so sure that the surprise element Renee will work for Louisville anymore against Oklahoma. Oklahoma of course has Courtney Paris the woman who has guaranteed a national championship or she will give back her scholarship. Her twin Ashley Paris they are 6'3 and 6'4 respectively. They are the ones under the basket for Oklahoma. And I think we will see Oklahoma dominate this game.  And Christine I gather the Sooners have some pretty high-profile fans.  It was interesting on a conference call the other day that here we were listening to Sherri Coale talk about Pat Conroy and Thoreau and Emerson and Shakespeare. And that is very unusual. It is usually X's and O's with coaches. But it was fun to hear her talk about that.  Well let us turn for a moment to the other teams in the semifinal - Connecticut versus Stanford. And that match up should be a little daunting to Stanford.  It should be because UConn is the odds-on favorite Renee as you know the undefeated team - one of the great teams potentially ever to play the women's game.  Renee Montgomery Maya Moore Tina Charles. The other day when they beat Arizona State those three outscored the entire Arizona State team by one point.  Well what would it take to beat Connecticut?  Look for their 6'4 junior center Jayne Appel who just scored 46 points in sending Stanford to the Final Four - third highest scoring performance in NCAA tournament history. Stanford's got you know has got a lot of depth so they can keep throwing bodies at UConn. Stanford could throw them off their game just a bit. I do not think we are going to see that. But if anything that is what Stanford has to do to win the game.  Okay Christine gaze into your crystal ball and look ahead to next week's final.  I think it is going to be Oklahoma against UConn. We will go with the big guns. And I think UConn Renee will win the national title. I think they are unstoppable.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Christine Brennen is a columnist for USA Today. 