 How do you convince a carnivore to eat a burger that does not have any meat? There are a few companies that think they have got the answer burgers that look and taste like ground beef but they are made entirely out of plant material. These burgers have been around for a few years but now they are attracting big-time investments and new competitors are trying to get into the meatless meat game. I should disclose at this point I love hamburgers. Like actually hamburgers - made from cows. And I am slightly suspicious of products that try to simulate this culinary experience. NPR's food editor Maria Godoy paid a visit to my kitchen recently to try to show me what it is all about. And that meant trying out two of the two biggest brands the Beyond Burger and the Impossible Burger 2.0.   Ooh. .  It is a good sizzle is not it?  But these look very different.  They do look different. Well they are different. They have different ingredients. They both have coconut oil. Coconut oil like real animal fat is solid at room temperature so it turns liquid at a higher temperature. And it sort of the coconut oil gives it a nice fatty feel.  OK. I like that.  The Impossible one we are making is Impossible 2.0. So it is made of soy protein and it is got some sunflower oil too. And the big thing it has is something called heme.  Heme.  Yeah. Heme is a compound that is found in our blood. It is actually what makes blood red. And it carries oxygen and it is really abundant in animal flesh. But you can also get it from plants. Some plants have it. And so Impossible Foods figured out how to take the heme from soy plants and use yeast to manufacture it in vast amounts.  So what does it do in this burger?  Well heme the idea is that it is going to make a bleed.  Ew. Oh.  OK. It is going to give it that like fleshy red taste...  OK.  ...And give it that slightly metallic flavor that meat has that real meat has.  OK.  That is the idea anyway. And so the Beyond Burger is a different color because that uses beet juice to achieve that.  Interesting.  And it does look a little purplier  does not it?  It definitely looks redder.  Yeah. We do not want to overcook them because then you are going to like dry them out. You know? This is not an actual animal meat  so...  Except we may have overcooked one of them.   .  So we opened a few windows and then got back to the burgers. Maria can you just explain what is driving demand right now? Because plant-based meat products have been around for a while in some form. But this is like - this is a new level of interest in these products.  Well there is like growing concern about the environmental toll of meat production specifically red meat production. And so both of these companies have a report suggesting that the greenhouse gas emissions that they put out are about 87 to 90 percent less from the time they are made to distributed than it would be with a conventional beef patty.  Wow.  Yeah.  So that is a big difference.  It is a big difference.  What is the price point?  So these are expensive. They are 3 a patty which translates to about 12 a pound.  Whew.  Right. So that is a lot more than you are going to pay even for grass-fed organic you know beef at the supermarket.  Right. I imagine there are people who are still developing new kinds of meat substitutes. Right?  Yeah. Well the interesting thing is it is not just meat substitutes. There is actually people who are looking at the molecules that make up things like cow's milk and trying to make yogurt like vegan and vegetarian yogurt that is the tastier and has that texture...  Yeah.  ...By breaking down the biochemical properties of cow's milk. And you know there is also people who are using plant-based seafood. There is actually plant-based tuna out there that is being sold next to regular tuna pouches...  Really?  ...In grocery stores. And plant-based crab cakes and fish sticks. And then further out there is something called lab-grown meat.  Lab-grown meat?  Yeah . Or you know they call it cellular agriculture or clean meat. But basically the idea is you are taking animal tissue and putting it in a bioreactor and feeding it a bunch of nutrients to get meat. And it is not just red meat. I mean they are looking at poultry and fish too. It sounds very sci fi but it is real. The technology has been out there for almost six years and people are just now trying to work to get it to a scale where it is affordable. When it first debuted in 2013 a burger cost 330000 to make.  Wait. What?  Yeah. And now they are trying to get that to a scale where you could buy it one day. I mean we are still several years off from that I think.  Finally the burgers were ready and it was time to dig in.   OK. Here we go.  You know it is interesting. They both have about 20 grams of protein per patty which is about the same as a like 4-ounce patty of beef. The big difference is...  Protein.  Yeah. The big difference is they do not have any cholesterol.  Now this is good 'ecause now we can see the inside of it.  Look at that. OK. So that is the Beyond and it still has that - let us see how...  Looks pretty meaty.  Let us see if it is - if we over or under-cooked it. Ready?  OK.  Dig in. Bon appetit.  Needs more salt.  Yeah. Needs more salt.  Does not it?  But it is - I could get the meat...  It is fine. It is not bad.  No. It is not bad. I wonder if we could have made it a little bit - maybe cooked it a little longer. But I do not know. It is a little pink inside.  It is...  Even though I like my burgers...  Right.  ...A little pink. Yeah.  I still cannot get over - like it is not a burger.  .  It is like - it is a fake burger.  But it is not bad. It is not bad. I would eat it.  No. It is. It is fine. It is just like visually I am still getting my head around it. OK.  Let us try the Impossible.  Let us try the other one.  OK.  What do you think?  I like the crispy exterior.  I know.  . It is good right?  We thought we burned it but I sort of like it.  No. I do too. It is like - it adds to the texture.  But I have to say I do not even taste the burger.  Really?  Yeah. I do not know. It replicates the burger experience for sure.  Yeah. It does. Does not it?  Mmm hmm.  It is funny I was going to say we covered it in condiments so you cannot taste the burger. But that is what my daughter does with like burgers.  I know. It is true. And this one is way way more realistic. This looks like a burger. When you put all the fixings on it it totally tastes like a burger. I mean my kid who is a connoisseur of hamburgers I feel like would eat this burger.  It is pretty good. Yeah.  I am into it.  The idea is not to get people to give up burgers for good. It is to just eat...  Right.  ...A little less. You know?  Every - like alternate. You know?  Exactly.  Like it is a Tuesday night...  Right.  ...Maybe you do not need to have like a big old cheeseburger.  Like maybe Meatless Monday...  Yeah.  ...Is a plant-based burger.    I want some burgers and fries. I want some burgers and fries. There is some right here.  That was Maria Godoy and me trying out plant-based burgers from Impossible Foods and Beyond Meat. My personal take? Anything tastes good when you put enough Mayochup on it. But you can decide for yourself.    I want some burgers and fries. Well there is some right here.   Do not you tell me no lies.   Do not you tell me no lies.   I want some burgers and fries. I want some burgers and fries. Well there is some right... 