 As we have heard the largest banks are often called too big to fail. That is also the title of a book Too Big to Fail The Hazards of Bank Bailouts. Sounds like the title of a book written to explain today's crisis. Yet as NPR's David Kestenbaum reports the book has being out since 2004.  Too Big to Fail was written by two - let us call them ignored prophets Gary Stern the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and Ron Feldman senior vice president there. Okay the book's not best-seller material but it has a catchy cover. Mr.  It is a house of cards. That is what it is.  That is Gary Stern. Today what they wrote about has all come true. The government has stepped in and had to bail out huge institutions seen as too big to fail - AIG Fannie Mae Freddie Mac and major banks. Mr.  Certainly I told you so did run through my mind yeah.  Co-author Ron Feldman. Feldman says he and the folks at the Minneapolis Fed have been worried about this issue for 20 years. And in 2001 something happened in their own backyard. A broker-dealer firm in Minneapolis got into trouble and the firm's lawyer made that argument. The firm was too big to fail. If it was allowed to go under the lawyer said it could disrupt economic activity across the Midwest. That turned out not to be true but Stern and Feldman say this very idea that government might be expected to step in is dangerous because it encourages people to take risks that they should not. The book proposed a series of changes that are now being considered at the highest levels of government. Maybe you have heard about that idea of a systemic risk regulator? They wrote about it five years ago. Feldman says regulators need to pay attention to the financial web that ties everything together. How much is one bank lending to another? How interdependent are they? Mr.  Right now we do not have an entity  an oversight entity a government entity  that thinks to itself what happens if this institution gets into trouble and is going to fail? What would we do about it at that time? The primary focus of most supervision is to prevent them from getting into trouble. And I think it sounds like a generic thing  well just you change your focus. But that is not trivial. That is important. Because it is by focusing on what we would do if they got in trouble that this stuff gets revealed.  And if large institutions do fail they argue there has to be something akin to the procedures nuclear reactors have when they get into trouble  some way to safely shut down the institution. Gary Stern says if you do that it will be clear that the government will not be coming to the rescue and that will discourage risky behavior. Mr.  Risk will be priced more appropriately and that sets up a potential for a virtuous circle.  It sounds like you are basically saying we are not going to do this again. That is what you are going to make clear to them is that Mr.  Oh no no no.  even though it happened now we are not Mr.  No not at all.  going to bail them out again. Mr.  No no no that is not right at all. Doing - if that is all you did if you said we are not going to do this again that is not credible. You have to take real steps to make it credible. That is what we are talking about. You -assertions that we will not do this again are silly. You have got to take real steps.  Stern and Feldman were in D.C. for what amounts to a book tour a talk at the Brookings Institution. And most of the discussion was on what to do next. But there was some looking back at why their warnings about Too Big To Fail had not been given more attention. Alan Greenspan was there. And though too big to fail was not something he talked about when he was the Fed chairman he did think about it. Mr.  Fannie and Freddie were not too big to fail. How do I know? That is what the law said. On the debentures when they used to be physical paper it literally said these instruments are not protected by the full faith and credit of the United States government.  Greenspan says no government official could really say otherwise. Mr.  Indeed I always took the position when I ended up on the Hill that Fannie and Freddie were not too big to fail. Needless to say my fingers were crossed behind my back. But you cannot have that position and still argue that the federal government has credibility.  The Book Too Big to Fail is now being reissued in paperback. David Kestenbaum NPR News.  David's part of our Planet Money team and you can read part of Too Big To Fail at the Planet Money blog npr.orgmoney. 