 The Republican Party is dealing with a scramble for leadership at a very critical time.  That is right. So House Speaker Paul Ryan announced yesterday that he is not going to seek re-election and this will end his three-year run as the Republican leader.   I will be retiring in January leaving this majority in good hands with what I believe is a very bright future.  All right so last night Ryan and fellow Republican leaders were meeting with President Trump at the White House and the president tweeted out this photo of the group. They were giving thumbs-up. They had these big smiles on their faces. And the president's message - lots to discuss as we continue making America great again.  All right for more on all of this we are joined now by NPR's national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Good morning Mara.  Good morning Noel for the very first time. I am happy to talk to you.   So Mara this all comes as we head into what was already shaping up to be a very difficult midterm election season for the Republican Party. Will Ryan's impending departure make it even more difficult?  I think it will. I think it might lead to more retirements. It certainly will be taken as a big sign of no confidence in Republicans' chances to hold the House in November. It raises questions about whether Ryan can still raise money from Republican donors. He is been a prolific fundraiser but will they give money to a lame duck? And even though yesterday Ryan said he doubts his retirement will have - make any difference for someone trying to decide to vote yes or no for a Republican candidate I think it will make him a less effective voice for Republicans in the campaign.  Well as you point out Ryan is not the first Republican to announce his retirement. We are looking now at more than two dozen Republicans calling it quits. Are those numbers normal?  No they are not normal. The - I think they are record-setting. We are up to about 46.  Wow.  Now some of these Republicans are committee chairmen who come from safe seats but they do not want to come back to Congress if they cannot be chairman and they are - they have been term limited out of that. But all in all mostly these are Republicans who think that they are going to lose. That is why they are retiring - huge morale booster for Democrats.  Mara let us switch gears for a second because there are a lot of big national security developments this week right? The president is weighing a decision on military action in Syria. John Bolton takes over as national security adviser. Mike Pompeo has his secretary of state confirmation hearing in the Senate. Given all of this what do you think we should be paying attention to keeping an eye on?  Well I think we should be keeping an eye on Syria first and foremost paying attention to whether the administration has a strategy for Syria. The president has been previewing missile attacks in his tweets and the question is will this be another one-off minimal strike like the one he conducted last year after a Syrian chemical weapons attack when he hit a single Syrian airfield? That did not deter Syria from using chemical weapons again. So the question is will this upcoming strike be more expansive? And if so does it draw the U.S. to greater involvement in Syria possibly a conflict with Russia just after President Trump announced that he wants to get out of Syria completely and very soon?  And let me ask you briefly about Mike Pompeo. Do you think he faces a tough confirmation process in the hearing in the Senate? Excuse me.  I do not - I think that he will face a lot of pointed questions. But I think in the end he will be confirmed. After all he is a sitting cabinet secretary already.  NPR's Mara Liasson. Thanks so much Mara.  Thank you.   It has been five days since a rebel stronghold in Douma Syria was hit by a suspected chemical weapons strike. Now the Russian military says that the Syrian government has seized full control of that area.  OK let us remember a year ago just two days after another chemical bombardment in Syria President Trump ordered a missile strike on that air base in Syria. But this time so far he is holding off on taking action.  For more context on all of this we have NPR's national security correspondent David Welna. Hi David.  Good morning Noel.  All right so a year ago the U.S. response was pretty immediate right? Why is it being drawn out this time?  Well you know I think this is a bit of a political quandary for Trump. After all it was only last week as Mara said that he was saying the time had come for the U.S. to pull out of Syria. And attacking another government in the Middle East is not quite what Trump promised his base when he campaigned on putting America first. There is also the reality that last year's Tomahawk strike against the Syrian airfield failed to stop that country's regime from using chemical weapons. So if this is not to be simply a repeat whatever's done this time will likely have to be more far-reaching which takes more planning. And there is also an effort this time to get some other countries to join the effort countries such as France and the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia which is making things more complicated. And there are at least some U.S. officials with misgivings about carrying out reprisals for an attack that has yet to be investigated by outside experts. And all of this is also giving Syria more time to move some of its assets to safer places such as with Russian bases and out of harm's - possible harm's way from an American strike.  David as the president continues a strike I wonder there is a big question here. Is there a legal basis for the U.S. to attack Syrian military targets?  Well if you listen to experts in constitutional and international law it is - there is slim to none legal basis. They say that this would be a clear violation of international law which requires that either there be consent from Syria for carrying out an attack which there clearly is not or authorization by the United Nations Security Council which is also lacking or that the U.S. be acting in its own self-defense which would not seem to be the case. There is also no clear authorization from Congress for Trump to order military strikes against the government of Syria. And while that did not stop him from carrying out last year's attack there are members of Congress this time who are saying that constitutionally he has to get permission from Congress to act.  All right so Congress is pushing back. If the U.S. were to strike Syria what do you think would be in store? How might this be different this time around?  Well you know besides being bigger it is also likely that a strike would put the U.S. much more in peril of a direct military confrontation with Russia which has both military equipment and troops bolstering the Syrian regime. Trump's tweet yesterday seemed to be responding to a warning last month from Russia that any threat to Russian lives in Syria from a U.S. attack would prompt a Russian military response not just to any rockets that are fired but also to the platforms that launch those rockets. And that raises the possibility of Russia attacking a U.S. warship in the Mediterranean or trying to shoot down any U.S. aircraft that might be involved in a punitive strike.  All right very clearly a lot at stake here. NPR's David Welna thank you so much.  You are welcome Noel.  All right as David mentioned President Trump has been active on Twitter communicating messages to Russia. He is taunted Russia we should say on Twitter. Yesterday the president wrote quote Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia because they will be coming nice and new and smart. Trump also said the relationship between the United States and Russia is at its worst point that it is ever been.  NPR's Lucian Kim is in Moscow this morning. Hi Lucian.  Good morning.  All right so what has been the reaction in Russia to these very bold comments from President Trump?  Well President Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov said yesterday that the Kremlin does not believe in what he called Twitter diplomacy.  OK.  He said the Russian side believes in a serious approach. As for Putin himself he made his first comments yesterday. He said we live in a chaotic world but that he thinks common sense will prevail. Putin's style is really very old-fashioned when you compare it to President Trump's. He is very measured and deliberate. If you look at the Kremlin's Twitter account for example it just puts out links to press releases that are already on the Kremlin website.  OK. Let us say the U.S. and its allies do decide to take military action in Syria. What do you think Russia's next move might be?  Well really that is what everyone in Moscow wants to know right now. It is hard to describe but there really is a lot of tension and you can feel it here. As David was mentioning before there has been a threat out there of possible retaliation if Russian lives are in danger. But again the Kremlin is trying to play the - all that down. We have heard reports in Russian media that there are contacts or there - that there have been contacts between U.S. and Russian defense officials. What we are hearing today is that the first Russian military police units have entered the town of Douma. That is where the chemical attack is said to have happened. But many analysts say that really the Russian - possible Russian reaction is actually quite limited unless Russia's ready to go for a major escalation.  Do you think Russia wants that?  No.  No OK.  I do not. I do not think so.  Little context - why is protecting the Syrian regime and the Syrian president so important to Russia?  Well Moscow historically has had good relations with Syria going back to Soviet times. It now has an air base there and a naval facility. But there is also something more in play. This is about standing up to the United States. Putin is still quite - is still smarting in a sense from being called a regional power - Russia being called a regional power by President Obama. And by getting involved in Syria he really got Russia back on the world stage turned it into an indispensable player in the Middle East. The big question is - really is do Russians - ordinary Russians - care that much about Syria?  And any thoughts on that?  Well there seems to be a divide. I mean when there was a conflict in Ukraine people were very concerned because it is part of the Soviet Union. Many people have relatives there. But Syria is quite far away. It is not clear to people what is at stake for Russia.  NPR's Lucian Kim in Moscow. Thank you so much Lucian.  Thank you.  