 On a Monday it is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Renee Montagne. Police in Tulsa Oklahoma say it is still too early in their investigation to describe the murder of three black residents and the wounding of two others last Friday as a hate crime. Two men were arrested early Sunday morning and are expected to face charges of first degree murder and shooting with intent to kill. NPR's Cheryl Corley reports.  Once Tulsa authorities knew the awful problem they had on their hands they held a press conference calling for help. Tulsa Police Major Walter Evans the head of a task force looking into the murders says shortly afterwards information started pouring in.  The Crimestopper tips were the biggest help to us. From that we were able to develop some really good suspect information on those two suspects and other associates that were involved with them.  The suspects are 33-year-old Alvin Watts who is white according to court records and 19-year-old Jake England he is identified in some records as white and in others as Native American. The men who share a home were arrested about 00 a.m. Sunday in Turley Oklahoma just north of Tulsa.  When we first heard about this terrible event it knocked all of us for a loop.  That is Tulsa Mayor Dewey Bartlett  It was a terrible tragic event. Nothing ever like this has happened like this in our city in modern history  Not modern history perhaps but Tulsa is no stranger to racial tension. One of the country's most infamous race riots occurred here in 1921 and a prosperous black neighborhood called Black Wall Street was completely destroyed. Tulsa Police Chief Chuck Jordan says times have changed here.  Our hate groups are very spotty. We have them over the decades occasionally. They are not something we have to even - we do not have them here to monitor them on a regular basis and we feel fortunate about that.  The shootings caused a sense of unease in the mostly black community of North Tulsa with people afraid to walk the streets. But officials here are reluctant to call the killings racially motivated. James Finch is an Oklahoma FBI agent.  This is where the really tough work starts in an investigation. This is where we cannot afford to make mistakes. It is very premature to talk about hate crimes. We have yet to analyze all the information to understand the motivations of the subjects in this case.  Part of the investigation has focused on Facebook postings that appear to have been written by the 19-year-old suspect and suggest that revenge may have been a factor. The Facebook update has since been taken down. But Jake England used a racial slur and angrily blamed his father's death which occurred two years ago on a black man. The posting said quote It is hard not to go off given the anniversary and the death of his fiancee earlier this year. But while others are not ready to call the killings hate crimes Tulsa city councilman Jack Henderson is.  Somebody that committed these crimes were very upset with black people. That person happened to be a white person. The people that they happened to kill and shoot were black people - that fits the bill for me.  Good evening church.  Good evening.   At North Peoria Church of Christ people continued to fill the sanctuary for the last Easter service of the day. Reverend Warren Blakney the president of the Tulsa NAACP chapter says he did not want the families of the people who were killed to be lost in the shuffle of talk about the investigation.  We spend so much time talking about the shooter or the shooters the people who are responsible for the crime until I did not want to miss the real momentum of why we were doing this. And that is the families. Three people are dead.  There is praise here for how quickly arrests were made in this case. And Councilman Henderson says it may even improve relations between Tulsa police and the black community.  And with the citizens' help we may even do a better job of solving some of these crimes that in the past that are now unsolved crimes because people did not come forward.  Officials add that Tulsa's fast action could even be a model for other cities. But police caution this case is not over and there is much more to be investigated and analyzed. Cheryl Corley NPR News Tulsa. 