 We are about to meet one of the most popular and mysterious rockers in Britain. Like so many in his field Jason Pierce of Spiritualized has pushed the boundaries of his music and his body. He has a history of drug use and in recent years Pierce experienced some serious health problems. Musically he composed his grandiose spaceman-like songs driven by a love of early rock n' roll but often bordering on the abstract. Our colleague David Greene talked to Jason Pierce about what he says is his poppiest album to date beginning with the song Hey Jane.    Hey Jane where you going today? You took a call and you ran all day. That clock going 110 I never said I will get you back again. Said you as not got time to make no mistakes. As not got time to waste my breaks. Hey Jane. Where you going today... I kind of wanted to make a record that was laid out in a way that was easy for the listener.  You are saying Hey Jane is maybe a little more assessable than some of your old stuff?  I think the whole record is. I kind of got to thinking that with the abstract in music with each degree you make it more abstract. You move into a kind of emperor's new clothes area where it almost comes with a disclaimer that you are not musically bright enough to understand. And I kind of wanted to make a record that was not hiding behind any kind of disguise.   There was a story that had me kind of smiling. It was a German nature magazine that had a crew that was looking at Mt. Etna the volcano in Sicily. And their report on Etna started with this line We got as close as we could for safety to the center of the eruption and set up our equipment and our cameras. And then a man in a silver spacesuit marched up to where we were and kept on walking. And the man in the spacesuit was...  Was myself.   What were you doing on Mt. Etna?  Having some fun really. We would been given some money to do a photo shoot actually. We stood about a meter away from the 100 foot-wide lava flow.  And you are lip synching while you are that lose to the lava?  Yeah. Yeah. Just on a little Walkman type thing.  And this is for your song Out of Sight I think. Right?  Yeah.    Or you would have done it.  I would have done for sure. Yeah.  That does not sound safe.  I do not think anything we did up there was safe.  Why is it so important to you to push the line? I mean you have put on some stunning shows - hanging from helicopters going to the 114th floor of the CN Tower in Toronto which I think you described as the highest gig of all time - I mean why these antics.  Because we can you know. And I think that you can kind of go round and play all the normal venues. Or you could look for places where - even before you start pushing the air around and making music - you are in a beautiful environment let us see if we can play there let us see if we can do that.  I want to take you if I may back to 2005. You started having some breathing problems and were hospitalized.  I had double pneumonia then so I was put in hospital for a while.  I understand it got so scary that your girlfriend was getting grief counseling. They were showing you photos of your kids in the hospital. I mean that must have been awful.  I think more so for the people around me. I was not so aware of you know I do not think you know when you are close to death or anything. So I was having a bit of a rest I think.  Has it changed you and changed the way you live your life?  Not as much as I would have thought. It was not so profound. It was almost disappointing that it was the same old me when I came back.  Well your song Death Take Your Fiddle some people have wondered if that captured the sounds of the breathing machine in the hospital and the scene in that hospital room.   How are you feeling these days?   I am doing all right.  Are the health challenges still there? I mean do you have to take it easy on the road and on tour? Or...  No I had a weird one on this album. I have liver disease of all things to happen after all that. And I had to do a proper kind of chemo course.  This new album or this is a...  This is the new album yeah.  This is the new album. Just remind us how many kids you have.  Two.  Your 11-year-old daughter Poppy has a songwriting credit on the new album in the song So Long You Pretty Things. She also sings in the song. I wanted to play a little of that.   There was a lot of themes wrapped up in this record. And some of it was the passing of time. And it seemed like the obvious connection with the passing of time was my children.  Your career Jason has spanned two decades now. You are 46 and I guess I wonder as music fans we see a lot of musicians kind of have a very hard life. And some of them have died early. I mean are you afraid of that? Is that something that you are aware of and trying to avoid?   Is not everybody trying to avoid that a little bit? I am just the same as anybody. I do not you know I just get on with what I do and do not really think about that.   You can hear the new Spiritualized album Sweet Heart Sweet Light at NPRMusic.org. It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Lynn Neary.  And I am Steve Inskeep. 