 North Korea made some choices yesterday withdrawing from ongoing talks on nuclear disarmament. Then North Korea expelled nuclear inspectors and announced a plan to restart its nuclear reprocessing facilities. We are going to talk about this this morning with David Sanger of the New York Times who is written extensively about North Korea's nuclear program. Welcome to our program. Mr.  Thank you very much Steve.  Why would North Korea change its policies now? Mr.  Well in some ways Steve it is not a change of policy. It is replaying an old movie. They went through this exact same dance in 1992 when they were faced with similar sanctions. Again they threw out the inspectors and at that time withdrew from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. What is important Steve though is that this time they are doing it on a different plateau. Because during the Bush administration while the U.S. was spending its time focusing on Iraq - in fact in the very months that we invaded Iraq - they went off and seized out of inspected stockpiles the nuclear fuel that they needed to make about six to eight nuclear weapons and then went off and reprocessed that in January February and March of 2003 - just as our troops were on the other side of the world. So now we are facing a situation in which they already have six or eight weapons or the fuel for them and make it more.  Should we be even more worried because this comes after North Korea did a missile launch that was billed as an attempted satellite launch. Mr.  It was billed as a satellite launch. I think everybody understood that they are trying to work out their missile technology. And let us face it their launch was a failure. That satellite is not spinning around the earth right now it is somewhere at the bottom of the Pacific. That is the good news. The concern about North Korea has never really been that they would launch an attack that had a return address. They value regime survival. The concern here is instead that they would sell their nuclear technology. And you will recall that about two years ago the Israelis bombed a nuclear reactor secretly in Syria and they did so on pretty strong evidence that it was built by North Koreans on a North Korean design.  Well Mr. Sanger we have just got a few seconds here but I am curious if you think that that because of this - if this is more than a negotiating tactic - if the world is farther than ever from getting North Korea to denuclearize. Mr.  You know I have always been in that camp of skeptics about denuclearization in North Korea. A book I published recently called The Inheritance I at the end of this I basically come to the conclusion that the North Koreans are not going to give up their one card here. This is the only thing they have to play. Without nuclear weapons we would remember them mostly on World Food Day and they recognize this.  Mr. Sanger thanks very much. Mr.  Thank you.  David Sanger of the New York Times. And by the way North Korea today - Wednesday in North Korea - is celebrating the birthday of its late founding father Kim Il Sung amid the international criticism of its latest actions. You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 