 China is breaking ground on what may be its first major overseas military base. The location is Djibouti on the coast of Africa at the mouth of the Red Sea looking across at the Arabian Peninsula. - in other words a very strategic location. It is the same port city where the U.S. has its own major base in Africa that is been used to gather intelligence for the last 15 years. For more on China's military ambitions and why it shows in African cities that launch them we are joined by our correspondents in Shanghai and Nairobi. That would be Frank Langfitt and Gregory Warner. Good morning.  Good Morning Renee.  Good Morning.  And so let us start with you Gregory. Djibouti - explain a little bit more why all these countries are there because it is not just the U.S.  Sure. No it is not. I mean Djibouti has an amazing location as you said but it does not have much else and that is important. If you drive through the countryside as I have and you have to keep the AC on full blast you will basically pass mile after mile of just dusty brown volcanic rock you know an occasional camel a mosque carved out of stone but not farms. Most of the food is imported. There is no oil no natural resources. But Djibouti has two major advantages from a foreign military point of view. They have a very friendly peaceful government and they have this location on a busy shipping route next-door to conflicts in Somalia and Yemen - a short flight to the Middle East without having to be based there. And so the U.S. has its base there - its only permanent base in Africa - in Djibouti. France Spain and Japan all have bases. And all this is on the invitation of the Djiboutian government which really sees this as a key pillar to its economic growth.  Well Frank now how would China use it?  Well China first of all just to point out they do not call this a military base. They call it an oversees logistics base because they are very sensitive to the way that they are seen right now globally. But basically every analyst that I have talked to call this a naval base. And what it would allow them to do - they would be able to get everything from instant noodles to fuel. It allows them to dock ships well beyond China which is harder to do in foreign ports. And this allows China to keep ships out longer. It is also ultimately really about projecting naval power and taking a bigger role further from home. And clearly what they are doing here with this base is putting down a marker on China basically having a lot more global military engagement.  Well China is very involved in the continent of Africa so what else does it get from this?  Well a lot of people see this as military catch-up. I mean keep in mind China's now the second-largest economy in the world but its military has not kept pace with all of that economic growth and all of their interests. So for instance in this part you know going up towards Suez Canal there is a tremendous amount of energy going through this area. Chinese Navy ships can be around there to protect Chinese tankers. China's also building what is called a one belt one road. It is a big maritime and a land-based trade route. They want to add what one analyst I talked to called military steel to that road. They are also anti-piracy in this area as well counterterrorism. They also need to really protect citizens. There have been kidnappings in Sudan and in Sinai so there is been domestic pressure to protect citizens. And Xi Jinping you know president he wants to restore China to be a great power. And you cannot really be seen as a great power if you cannot protect your citizens overseas.  And Greg how are Africans reacting to this?  Well the Djiboutians are thrilled. I mean they are getting 20 million a year in rent for this naval base. But Africa as a whole I think has been demanding that China become more of a long-term partner. And China's been responding to that showing that it is not just here to build roads and airports but it is building jobs building security. And so we see a number of uncharacteristic moves by China in the last few years - first dispatching a battalion of peacekeepers to a conflict in South Sudan. We see a tremendous investment in media on continent to tell that China story to Africans and more exchange programs for African students and engineers to go to China something that the West used to offer but has decreased since 911. So China's naval base while serving China's purposes first is also part of that message I think to Africa saying we are here for the long-term.  And as we said the U.S. also has a base there has had for some years. What does that mean for the U.S.?  Well six weeks ago the deputy secretary of state estate Tony Blinken was in Djibouti talking to the Djiboutians about this very issue. Everyone wants to know how big this base is is going to be how many troops. Is it a logistics hub or is it something more? And there is also some concern about the proximity of a Chinese base so close to a U.S. base that is mostly concerned with drone flights and communications exchanging intel about the various fronts on the war on terror. So could this new base allow for the monitoring of those communications? Or on the flip side does this mean that China will start to shoulder more of the burden of fighting terror looks alongside the West?  That is NPR's Gregory Warner speaking to us from Nairobi and Frank Langfitt in Shanghai. Thank You both very much.  Happy to do it Renee.  Thanks Renee. 