 We are hearing this week from some of the millions of Americans who are struggling financially. Social distancing has eliminated the jobs of some domestic workers including Heather Clough  of Whitman Mass.  So I work as a nanny with these two wonderful kids who are 3 and 5 and it is been really hard not being able to see them.  Ms. Clough says the kids love coloring and being read to. There is something that she loves too.  I love the hands-on approach to things. Plus the one-on-one with the kids is wonderful because I can focus on just what they need and I have become part of the family. They call me Auntie.  Now the hands-on approach is not an option. The parents she nannies for are both out of work. They are paying Clough what they can but cannot afford much.  Hopefully with the stimulus when they get the extra unemployment money they will be able to pay me at least three-quarters of what I was making so I can pay my bills.  Now she also co-owns a craft shop which is closed. She is using that space to sell masks for nurses and she is trying to support her 12-year-old son.  It is day to day. I mean we my family and I because my son and I live with my parents and my brother. My son is autistic so he needs the extra support. We kind of make it work as a team as much as we can.  She also has to think of her son as she considers ways to bring in extra money.  Some of our local businesses like grocery stores are hiring people to stock overnight. I am considering doing that just to have some form of income but at the same time do I really want to expose myself to the possibility of getting sick and bringing it home?  For now she spends some time getting on video chats with the kids she nannies to tell them how much she misses them.  We are going to get to go do fun stuff soon but we need to stay safe and follow the rules which is something that I emphasize all the time to them because they are both little daredevils.  Heather Clough of Massachusetts trying to get by.  