 And since we are talking about stars let us talk about Justin Bieber from Ontario Canada who at the age of 16 is said to be on his way to total world domination. Like so many Canadians he is already taken over the teen pop set. And last weekend on Saturday Night Live Tina Fey couldnt resist him either.  Ms.  What Im feeling is wrong - morally ethically and biologically wrong.  Ms  But I mean look at him. He is like a dreamy Christmas elf.   Mr.   Baby baby baby. Oh my baby baby baby. Oh my...  Okay if it affects Tina Fey it is time to diagnose the Bieber fever. So we go to music commentators Maura Johnston and Jay Smooth. Mr.  So Maura did you see Justin Bieber on Saturday Night Live this weekend? Ms.  I did not see Justin Bieber on Saturday Night Live but I did see him on QVC. I saw him on Twitter. I saw him at Easter Egg Roll. I have seen him all over the Internet. Mr.  We have got the thousands of young girls screaming. We have got the sloppy hair flopping around. Ms.  And I do think we have a bona fide teen idol on our hands here.  Mr.   And just shake me till you wake me from this bad dream. Im going down down down down. And I just cannot believe my first love will not be around. And now my baby baby baby. Oh my... Ms.  In a 2010 twist on things he also has this ridiculously large presence on the Internet. Mr.  If you got to YouTube and search the word baby his video for that song Baby comes up number one which will let you know how big it is.  Mr.  And you know how popular babies are on YouTube. Ms.  Yes. Mr.  And Justin Bieber is very savvy about embracing the hate and re-tweeting tweets that are negative about him. Ms.  Yeah. Mr.  And he really has a knack for playing the social media game that I dont think your handlers or P.R. people could teach you. Ms.  In my day you could think about may be seeing New Kids on the Block at the mall but it was something that was totally unlikely and that would have required various cosmic factors to align. Whereas with Justin Bieber if you send him a message the likelihood of him seeing your message and even writing back is much higher. And so it creates this closer bond between fan and idol.  Mr.   Eh eh eh eh... Ms.  One thing that gets lost a lot in the immediate discussion of teen idols is the music itself.  Mr.    Mr.  Justin Bieber became famous for being the little white kid from Small Town Canada that sang black RB songs on YouTube. He is always surrounded by black RB artists and rappers and he got discovered and brought in to be Usher's protg and sort emulating that style. But it is still reaching that same audience that was listening to Taylor Swift and Mylie Cyrus. He is sort of this generation's Pat Boone in a way because he is sort of putting a white face on black music. But whereas Pat Boone was making the blackness invisible while letting you get a semblance of black music Justin Bieber seems to get his credibility from being surrounded by the black artists that he emulates.    She knows she is got me dazing cause she was so amazing and now my heart is breaking but Im just keep on saying. Mr.   Baby baby baby. Oh my... Mr.  So how do you feel personally? Are you wiling to admit yet that youve caught a little Bieber fever? Ms.  I have a little bit of Bieber fever. I would say my temperature is may be like 99.9. What about you? Mr.  You know well I got to say I had the kneejerk reaction of hate that most adults have. But Justin Bieber himself seems to know that the Justin Bieber phenomenon is absurd. He seems to have just enough musical talents that he might be able to do something I would really respect five years from now. So Im looking forward to see what he turns into.  That is Jay Smooth who blogs at IllDoctrine.com and also throws around phrases like this generation's Pat Boone. Also music writer Maura Johnston. And there is more of the Bieber fever epidemic at NPRMusic.org. You know Renee I know you guys are really cool in Los Angeles. But here in Washington D.C. we are not. And people on the staff are like throwing out their teen idols - names like Eric Estrada Annette Funicello David McCallum. How about you?  Oh whoa well what can I say? Im Beatles - all of them. Im a John Lennon girl.   What can I say? It is so obvious.  Ah I suppose so. Well you know my teen idol. Renee Montagne. It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Im Steve Inskeep.  And Im Renee Montagne. 