 The actor Alec Baldwin is in Washington speaking in favor of the National Endowment for the Arts. The government-funded arts organization long ago supported the Sundance Film Festival and the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. In more recent years the NEA has supported writers arts education for kids and everything from jazz musicians to urban design. It has also faced political controversy most notably in the 1990s when its funding was slashed. Alec Baldwin visits Washington as NEA funding has slipped again leading to a question for the star of 30 Rock which is on NBC a network run for profit. What are you guys missing? What is not getting done?  When you work in the field I work in you are surrounded by artistic achievement - set design costuming directing cinematography. But you know acting is the most kind of thin of all of it I suppose. But...  You are selling yourself way short.  Well no. No. But I mean a lot of people feel that way about acting we do not always get the chance to access the material. We do some of its funny and it is entertaining and it is silly and people enjoy it. I mean I am doing a TV show that is fun. It is been a great opportunity for me. But it is a souffle.  You think if you went through commercial entertainment there would be a lot lacking. There is not much there.  I think that most of what is done in commercial entertainment - and this is necessary for people I think because the world - you know you turn on the TV - I am guilty of this as well. When I put on the BBC news hour some days I get a little tired. I might sag in my chair a little bit where it is the you know a bomb exploded in this region of the world and today there was a war declared and over here there was a strike and the world is coming apart again of course. And the world is...  You have got a future as a British anchor...   No but I mean I think that what we do is we are the potato chip business you know when you are doing sitcoms and so forth. But every now and then people need a little break you know. But at the same time I have just enjoyed doing what I can to promote arts education and private and public funding for the arts over the last 22 years.  Why do you think arts funding is periodically a political lightning rod?  It was easier before and I think now you still have these kind of vapors in the air from old battles which when there were individual grants and you could say those hot button words like Karen Finley. And you could say Mapplethorpe and you could talk about individual grants that went to people...  Artists whose work  were considered obscene in many cases.  I have always had the same thing was when I have come down here to speak on this issue which is you know art is something that comes from the artist in this unfettered way or it is not art quite frankly. And you cannot go to the artist and say OK here's a grant we are going to give you and you are going to go off and you know quote-unquote make his art. But when you do it do not do this and do not do this and do not do this. Well this is essentially what they said to the grant recipients. They said you have to return the money for the grant if when you are done it is something we do not approve of.  Are you hitting at what the difficulty is though with arts funding because the artist has to do something individual? They have to do something that feels new that feels very true to them. It is inevitably going to offend someone and someone is going to say Why are my tax dollars going to that?  Well I mean we open up not a can of worms we open up an actual oil tanker of worms in my mind if we start talking about your opinion and my opinion of what the government should be spending money on. You know if you think I am being verbose now I could give you another three or four hours of what - for the record he is actually laughing as I am saying this.  OK yes.  He is silently smiling as I say this. I could give you another three or four hours of my objections to that. Listen it is about freedom of expression.  I want to ask you a couple of questions about your role on 30 Rock I think are relevant here.   Because as people who watch the people will know you play a network executive who is politically quite conservative...   ...a good deal different than you are in real life. Has your character ever come out with a political position that you have found yourself secretly or not so secretly agreeing with?   A conservative position.  Well I think...  Has your alter ego forced to do think about your politics? That is what I am asking.  There are times when you you know television is like the theater where you have the opportunity to play the character for an extended period of time. Like in films it is all like ice sculpting - it is all gone so quickly. And there is not a lot of resonance with a lot of it typically. And then in theater 'ecause in the theater and you go out and play the guy every night or what have you for months on end and then the same with the television series. And then yeah there are some things where I stop and think I have a little bit of an understanding of my character more.   Playing the character has forced me to - it is another component added to many many moderate Rockefeller era Republicans who are friends of mine in New York who will say to you say to you I want the capital gains taxes to stay low. And I say well OK I agree with you. The question is how low is low? Is 20 percent OK for you? You know would you pay 20 percent? Like what is an amount of money we can you know well we can go on and on with examples of that. But I have friends of mine are moderate Republicans and more - they are all fiscal. It is all about money and taxes and hanging onto their money. You know one thing I did was when Romney announced his taxes I called my accountant. I go do me a favor. Shoot me an e-mail. What is the percentage of my income I paid in taxes? And he sent me the e-mail...  And? And?  And I think I have it in my phone here. Let me look it up.  Take a second. Oh you are going to redo your 1040 form and find out...  I am going to do my taxes right now in front of you.  That is great. This is gripping radio.  Yeah I paid 34 percent in income taxes.  Is that about right?  Oh yeah.   Yeah. Of course yeah.  Final thing you got upset at NBC for reasons we do not need to get into here in any detail except that you tweeted the other day I think I am getting out at the right time.  Well no. I know that the end of the show is looming. We are not going to be doing it much longer. We are going to conclude this season. We are doing another season of whatever length. We may do a full season. We may do a partial season. And then I think after this year we are done.  we are done.  So you are not leaving the show. The show...  No. No. No I never wanted to imply that. I guess it may be I - sometimes I am not as articulate on Twitter as I ought to be. I said you know my relationship with NBC maybe is ending just in time. 'ecause The Today Show I mean I was surprised and then they were camped out in front of my apartment. It was kind of disturbing.  It was a story about a stalker and so forth.  Yeah.  Are you running for something?  No I wish I could but I cannot. You know I live in New York and I have had people approach me really very seriously. I mean there was some really heavy duty people that called me up from Connecticut and said come and run against Lieberman. And my problem is I live in New York all my board commitments are in New York and I am a New Yorker to the core. And New York is a completely safe Democratic state up-and-down you know from the governor all the statewide offices...  So what are you saying? You want something a little more of a challenge or...  But I do not think there is anything to run for. I mean...  Oh something that is open basically.  Yeah I mean there is nothing open. I do not live in Manhattan. I am a resident of East Hampton Long Island. I mean unless - I think if I ran for Suffolk County executive I might have a shot. Or the Suffolk County legislature...   I do not know. I do not know. You know it mean? But in New York...  We are going to be calling the Suffolk County executive for comment on your perspective run.  Please do. . But right now the people say do you want to run? And the answer is yes. But the practical thing is for what becomes the real issue.  Alec Baldwin it is been a pleasure.  Thank you so much.  He gave a lecture last night in Washington for Americans for The Arts. It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Lynn Neary. 