 We asked some Pennsylvania voters for their take on Senator Specters announcement. For Democrat Laurie Sinclair of Harrisburg the move was a surprise. Ms.  I am shocked by it but I think with this administration coming in he sees that he can play a vital role.  Bill Schaeffer of Tower City is a registered independent. Mr.  I always thought him as a Democrat anyway. So I think his ideology and his  just his voting record I think has been more along the lines of a - as a Democrat.  Emily Bennett of Hershey describes herself as a moderate Republican. Ms.  I dont think anyone is going to voice the Republican side anymore. I think its just all going to be Democratic and I dont want it to be like that.  Now lets bring in another voice from Washington. Mara Liasson is NPRs national political correspondent and she joins us now. Good morning.  Good morning Renee.  A nice surprise for the president this week.  It certainly is. What a gift on his 100th day in office. President Obama is pretty close to getting a 60-vote filibuster-proof majority in the Senate. Now once Specter becomes a Democrat and if Al Franken from Minnesota is seated once Norm Coleman finishes all his legal challenges to that election the Democrats will have what they need to choke off a filibuster. And so at least on level of measurement politically President Obama ends his 100 days with a lot more clout than he started with.  How does the president intend to mark this 100th day?  Well hes going to do everything he can to control his own 100-day report card. This morning hes going to be flying off to give a - to attend a town hall meeting in Missouri. Thats a nice swing state. And then hes flying back to Washington for a primetime news conference which will be carried live on most NPR stations. And you know just remember 100 days is an arbitrary and pretty meaningless deadline. But there are a lot of things that the president can and will point to as accomplishments. Hes passed the biggest spending bill in history. Hes started bailouts for banks the housing industry the auto industry. Hes made two successful foreign trips. Hes laid out an extremely ambitious comprehensive agenda on health care energy education. So certainly hes had the most active 100 days since Franklin Roosevelt. And on that level he can claim a lot of success.  And though this may be an arbitrary day pollsters have taken note how do Americans think hes doing?  Well Americans are pretty happy with him. The Wall Street Journal is coming out with a poll today that shows he has an 81 percent personal approval rating. His average job approval rating is lower 62 percent but thats still right on par with other presidents at this time in their term whether its Bill Clinton or George W. Bush. Jimmy Carter actually had 70 percent job approval ratings right about now. So hes got some political capital. Americans like the president personally a lot. They like his policies a little bit less and his opponents a lot less. So hes in pretty good shape at this 100th day. He also - one other thing thats changed in the polls is that right trackwrong track number - Americans are asked whether they think the countrys going in the right direction or the wrong direction - has flip-flopped. It was 8020. Eighty percent thought the country was on the wrong track before he was elected. Now its 6040. Still in the face of a terrible economic situation the right trackwrong track numbers have improved tremendously.  And a lot of attention of course going into this and getting to this 100th day today. But how about whats in store for the next couple of hundred days?  Well its true the next couple of hundred days are going to be the real hard part. He has to actually get Congress to pass his agenda and he has to get other countries to do what hes asking them to do. He has to try to figure out how to turn his popularity into real political leverage. And I think the real measure for him is going to be at the end of this Congressional term. He has to get his health care bill passed - some kind of health care bill passed before the 2010 election year begins and starts to complicate things. Hes going to have to make a lot of hard choices that he hasnt had to make so far figuring out with Congress how to pay for the health care bill. He has a very different idea about how to pay for it than the Democratic Congressional leaders do. And we dont know yet how hard he is willing to fight his fellow Democrats to pass his initiatives. How hard will he fight to really get rid of the private student loan industry - something he proposed Congress doesnt really like. How hard will he fight to get rid of subsidies to private insurers for Medicare - something else that he proposed and Congress doesnt necessarily like. So theres a lot ahead.  NPRs Mara Liasson. Thanks very much.  Thank you. 