 Time now for today's Bottom Line in business. We are taking a look at an idea that is getting more popular in this country - car sharing. The basic business model has been around for more than a decade but new companies and concepts are emerging and expanding. Car2Go is one company that seems to be benefiting from the changing way we use cars. From Seattle NPR's Wendy Kaufman reports that car sharing could reflect a shift in what cars say about us.  David Stewart does not own a car. Instead the managing partner of a small social media company relies on Car2Go for getting around. He picks one up first thing in the morning in his neighborhood and drives to the local coffeehouse. He works for a couple hours and when he is ready to visit a client he grabs another which he finds on an app on his smartphone.  And these are the closest Car2Gos. And you see the little Car2Go icon there? There is one right across the street. So I am just going to tap on that and now it is held for me.  We walk about 100 feet to the tiny two-passenger SmartCar.  I am going to go ahead and swipe my card across the screen. And now it is confirming my account. And you wait until the car's unlocked and now we can get in and start driving.  The idea is simple. Customers like Stewart take a car when they want it drive it anywhere within the company's designated area and then just leave it .They might drive three or four different cars in a day but pay only for the time they actually use them - 38 cents a minute or 14 bucks an hour for a longer trip. For Stewart it all works out to about 150 a month - a fraction of what a car payment plus gas parking and insurance would be.  Oh man. I do not even want to think about that.  It is truly a flexible on-demand service for our customers.  Nicholas Cole heads up North American Operations for Car2Go He says its not just 20 and 30-somethings or college students who are using the service. So are retirees who have moved into the city and given up an automobile.  Seattle is a great example. I mean you know we launched right before Christmas. And you know here we are in April with over 18000 people have signed up.  Nationwide they claim about 90000 members. Across the country about 10 times that many are using established car sharing services according to Susan Shaheen an expert in sustainable transportation at the University of California Berkeley.  What a lot of people are starting to see is the emergence of a lot of different companies and a lot of competition.  She says Zipcar was the first company to gain attention for renting out cars on a short-term basis. More recently a company called Drive Now - like Car2Go - offers one way options. And says Shaheen...  Now we see things like peer-to-peer car sharing where you can actually put your own personal vehicle into a car sharing system.  Shaheen counts 12 personal car sharing companies in North America as of last month. There is no question that economics are driving the car sharing market but environmental concerns and the adaptation of smartphone technology are factors too. So are cultural changes says Jeffrey Tumlin of the transportation planning firm Nelson Nygaard.  People of my generation believed that our private automobile said a lot about who were are that defined our power and our status. The younger generations do not seem to be buying into that anymore and they are seeing automobiles as simply a tool.  It is hardly surprising then that automakers see car sharing as a potential new market. Daimler-Benz owns Car2Go BMW's offering is Drive Now. Volkswagen and Ford are exploring this market too Back in Seattle David Stewart is about to end his current trip. He breezes into a parking spot closes the windows and sets the parking brake.  And it automatically ends the trip if you put the key in the spot.   Thank you and we hope to see you again soon.  Wendy Kaufman NPR News Seattle. 