 In Thailand protesters took to the streets today blocking roads and challenging government troops in the heart of Bangkok. The demonstrators are demanding new elections because they claim the government installed four months ago is illegitimate. The riots are taking place the day after the country's ousted prime minister called for a revolution. Joining us now from Bangkok is NPR's Michael Sullivan. Hello Michael.  Hi Renee.  Now the prime minister today called for demonstrators to return to their homes. He said he was using the softest measures possible to control the crowds. How does it look from your point of view?  I think it does look pretty soft. I mean there is been some pretty dramatic pictures on Thai TV of soldiers firing into crowds of protesters that were blocking a key intersection here. But I think this has only happened a few times. And from what I have seen many of the troops in fact most of them appear to be firing over the heads of the protesters. And while several dozen people on both sides have been injured no deaths have been reported so far. And the military of course says they were provoked by demonstrators throwing rocks and Molotov cocktails and the like. The protesters have been pushed back from that particular intersection but they are still occupying several others. I think the military is trying hard not to use excessive force because they know it could quickly get out of hand. It could turn public opinion against them. They do not want it. And they have made no attempt so far to go after the core of the demonstrators gathered at the prime minister's compound government house. There is thousands of them there. They have erected barricades using commandeered buses taxis whatever they can get their hands on. And going in after them would be very very difficult. Let me add one more thing. Aside from these scattered confrontations around the city by and large it is pretty peaceful here. You are far more likely to get soaked by people with water guns celebrating the New Year water festival Songkran than you are to run into these demonstrators. Bangkok is not a city on the brink at least not yet.  Is there anything the government can do? You know those demonstrators that are around the prime minister's house I guess you are saying anything to quell those demonstrations?  Short of going in heavy I do not think that - I do not think they can. I think they have pretty much ruled that out. I think they will probably try to continue the softly softly approach for a while longer and hope the demonstrators just lose steam. But I do not think it is going to happen. I think Prime Minister Abhisit has got a huge problem on his hands here. He needs to act decisively to show he is in charge. But if he orders the army in big time and they listen - which is not a given by the way they refused the last time they were asked last year - then he runs an even bigger risk of this thing spreading. His government miscalculated this one badly. They underestimated the strength of the opposition.  Now what are these long-running demonstrations doing to Thailand's economy and tourism? I mean there is people out here who might be traveling there. I mean what are they to think?  Well I think a lot of them are starting to think that Thailand is a place that they might want to stay away from. And several governments have issued travel warnings to that effect already. I mean you have to remember the tourism industry here was already reeling from last December's airport closures which helped bring down the last Thaksin-friendly government here and install the new Prime Minister Abhisit. That was at the beginning of high season. This is not going to help either. And not only that it is not going to make foreign investors too keen on putting their money here - if there is any money left after the global economic meltdown at least.  Well you know civil war is that actually a possibility?  I do not think it is out of the question you know. Deposed Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra - and these are his supporters out on the streets -he remains deeply popular among his supporters who are mainly the urban and rural poor who make up the majority in Thailand. And on the other side you have the Abhisit supporters the traditional political elite here the middle class the upper middle class and they are diametrically opposed to everything that Thaksin stands for. So there is no middle ground here. And the possibility for widespread violence is definitely there.  Michael thanks very much.  You are welcome.  NPR's Michael Sullivan reporting from Bangkok. 