 The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame welcomes six new musicians and bands next week. Some come from London or from Los Angeles. The Beastie Boys and Laura Nyro come from New York very different artists who were influenced by the music of the streets. Here's David C. Barnett of member station WCPN. DAVID C.  As a girl growing up in the Bronx in the late 1950s Laura Nyro listened to a lot of AM radio.    Maybe if I pray every night...  She loved singing along with doo wop groups like The Chantels who also hailed from the Bronx. Felix Cavaliere a close friend of Nyro's and lead singer of the Rascals says the night time New York streets had dozens of similar groups harmonizing on corners and down in echoey subway stations.  In those days the norm was just to get on a street corner and sing. And the thing that you remember the most about that is this quality of the voices that were around.  Classical music and jazz joined Laura Nyro's playlist. She attended the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan where singer Janis Ian was a year behind her. Ian says both of their families shared roots in progressive politics.  We were surrounded by the Civil Rights Movement by the Women's Rights Movement by the Gay Rights Movement. All of those things were flourishing in New York.  And Laura Nyro reflected them in her music.   In the wake of the 1968 assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert Kennedy Nyro wrote a gospel-tinged number calling for peace and understanding.    Come on people. Come on children. There is a king at the glory River. And the precious king he loved the people to sing babes in the blinking sun sing We Shall Overcome...  Laura Nyro knew how she wanted her songs to sound. And Felix Cavaliere says she was tough in the studio when he produced a record for her.  Being from the Bronx she was a tough guy. You know? So she would talk with a cigarette hanging out of her mouth dangling like you see in the movies. You know? And in the studio if she did not like something I said she would hit me. She would punch me in the frigging arm like a guy - wham. You know oh Jesus.   Cavaliere says Nyro was fond of unusual song structures and tempo changes.    Surry down to a stone cold picnic. Can you surrey? Surry down to a stone cold picnic there'ill be lots of time and wine. Red-yellow honey sassafras and moonshine. Red-yellow honey sassafras and moonshine moonshine. Stone cold...  But the complexities of her music did not endear Nyro to broadcasters who pretty much dictated what a record needed to sound like if it was to get airplay. And Cavaliere says that is why other artists - such as Blood Sweat and Tears and the Fifth Dimension - had more success with her songs.  All they did they took all those little nuances out and made them more palatable to the program directors - 'ecause her voice was certainly good enough to be on the radio.    And when I die and when I am dead dead and gone...  In 1971 after producing five albums in five years Laura Nyro began easing off of her recording and performing schedule. She died of ovarian cancer in 1997 at the age of 49.    And when I die and when I am gone there'ill be one child born in the world to carry on to carry on...  As Nyro's career started winding down three Brooklyn teens were starting to make some noise with a very different kind of music.   The Beastie Boys really began as a hardcore band. Hardcore is a variant of punk. Village Voice music critic Robert Christgau says he did not think much of the Beastie Boys at first although he developed a fondness for them and the other New York punks.  One of the things that I liked about the punk movement is how many of the people who in punk were really funny. And you could see that in the Beastie Boys. You could see that they really had a sense of humor even when they were being completely destructo-anarchistic.   Adam Yauch Michael Diamond and Adam Horovitz were trying to develop a New York version of hardcore. But in a 2006 interview with WHYY's said another kind of music born on the streets of the Bronx started attracting their attention.  We were kind of listening to a lot of hip-hop even when we were a punk band back in those days. Even in the small punk clubs they used to play like Sugar Hill Gang and Funky Four Plus One when it was just called rap.    Well we just cannot miss.   We just cannot miss.   Well we just cannot miss.  With a beat like this.   It is the joint.  Since the late '70s rap had been filtering out of black neighborhoods and across the city. But in order for the Beastie Boys to bring their version to the stage they needed a DJ and they found one in a New York University student named Rick Rubin who went on to produce their first single.    There is no confusion in her conclusion. She wants to waste my time that is no delusion...  She is On It added a hard rock sound to rap rhymes a technique that Rubin had used with Queens rappers Run DMC and would continue to use on the Beastie Boys' debut album Licensed to Ill. It was the first rap record to hit number one on the Billboard charts partially due to the song that remains the Beastie Boys' best known.    You wake up late for school and you do not want to go. You ask your mom Please but she still says no...  Fight For Your Right reached a frat boy audience far beyond the streets of New York. Adam Yauch says that is a cross the group has had to bear ever since.  It was just kind of like one of those Smoking in the Boys Room type things. You just thought it was kind of funny. But I do not think we realized that it was going to be the main focus of the album.  And if the Beastie Boys remain a bit ambivalent about the song that launched their career Fight for Your Right still can tell you a lot about the place it came from with its sense of humor and New York attitude. For NPR News I am David C. Barnett.    You got to fight for your right to party.  From NPR News it is MORNING EDITION. I am Steve Inskeep.    Do not step out of this house if that is the clothes you are going to wear. I will kick you out of my home if you do not cut... 