 It is championship time in Division One college basketball. Tonight in New Orleans Kansas and Kentucky play for the men's title. And we will hear more about that in just a few minutes. First the women's championship game is now also set. It will be Baylor against Notre Dame. Baylor is trying to complete an historic undefeated season. Last night the two teams played their semi-final games and advanced. In Notre Dame's case barely. NPR's Tom Goldman reports from the Women's Final Four in Denver.  Familiarity may breed contempt between Big East rivals Notre Dame and Connecticut. But last night it also bred edge-of-your-seat basketball. The teams' fourth meeting this season was close throughout. In the second half the Irish tried to pull away several times but UConn kept finding ways to close the gap. They did that and more at the end of regulation time.   When UConn junior guard Kelly Faris stepped to the line for two free throws and made them with 11.8 seconds left it completed an eight-to-nothing UConn run gave the Huskies a 67-65 lead. And it sure seemed like they were headed to the championship game. But you never want to exhale when Notre Dame point guard Skylar Diggins grabs the ball.   Diggins at mid court eight seconds. The leaner it rolls away. Rebound Novosel. She got it to go.   As heard on ESPN Diggins miss turned into Natalie Novosel's rebound and put back  tie score as regulation time ended.   Dunks it down low - no shot.   Despite that finish UConn seemed to have the momentum going into overtime although no one apparently told fighting Irish guard Brittany Mallory.   Here's Mallory a three - yes.  Mallory's two three-point bombs in overtime were the daggers in Notre Dame's eventual 83-to-75 win. Mallory missed all four of her three-point attempts in regulation time but was the picture of calm as she launched in OT.  Took a deep breath and let it go and was thinking to myself this one's going in. And finally they both went in and I was so happy.   I could not believe it. I was so proud. I was so happy.  So happy she almost wept she said later. UConn post player Stephanie Dolson did as the final seconds wound down prompting her teammate Kaleena Mosqueda-Lewis to shout Come on Stephanie do not cry. There were no tears in the nightcap. Baylor hammered out a rather methodical and anticlimactic win over Stanford 59-to-47. The buzz was that Stanford had the best shot to derail the Lady Bears juggernaut 38-and-0 going into the game shooting for the first ever 40 win season in NCAA history. While the cardinal post players sisters Nneka and Chiney Ogwumike hounded Baylor super center Britney Griner into a sub-par statistical night  13 points nine rebounds only two blocks  Baylor showed the basketball world what head coach Kim Mulkey has been saying all along and repeated last night  Brittney Griner is the face of women's basketball right now and we embrace that. She deserves that. And its great recognition for Baylor but our team is not just Brittney Griner  It is also point guard Odyssey Sims 11 points last night. Senior Terran Condrey 13 points. Forward Destiny Williams 10 rebounds. So it seems Baylor is a team of destiny. In its way Notre Dame which hopes the luck of the Irish is more than a saying tomorrow night. Tom Goldman NPR News Denver. 