 Health care workers in the center of the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo say they may go on strike if the attacks on them do not stop. Threats and violent assaults have become a way of life for them. Late last week two hospitals were attacked and an epidemiologist with the World Health Organization was killed. Now these health care workers say if the government does not improve their security in one week they will walk off the job. NPR's Nurith Aizenman has been following the story and joins us in the studio. Nurith just describe the violence that these workers are facing on a daily basis.  Yeah so listeners might have heard of some of these high-profile attacks on Ebola treatment centers that began in February. Two of them were attacked. But this violence actually goes a lot farther. The workers who are making the demands today are - there are 200 doctors and more than a thousand Congolese nurses at hospitals and health centers across this hot-spot city of Butembo. And they are really actually at the front line of the Ebola response because they are where the patients come in who are likely suspect cases and they refer them to the treatment centers. And because of years of civil war in this area a lot of people do not trust the government. They think Ebola is a scam or that it is a disease that is been brought to make money off of the population. So when these health workers refer suspect cases to the treatment centers they then get targeted by the community. There are threats. There is even been some killings. And then on top of that the Ebola response has some of the command centers at these hospitals and two of those were attacked last week. That is when that doctor with the W - with the World Health Organization was killed. So yesterday they all marched - all these health workers marched in the streets and they presented the mayor with this demand and a threatened strike.  So what exactly do they want to happen? I mean what would it take to prevent this strike?  Well I spoke to the head of the medical association that is representing all of these workers. And he says that you know the specifics of what it would take to end the violence - he leaves that to the mayor and other authorities. But it is a difficult problem because it is not just that they are being threatened at their place of work. What they describe is that you know gunmen will come to their homes looking for them. And then it is also a controversial issue - whether you should put armed guards at a health facility - because it basically sends the message that health workers are somehow part of this ongoing conflict with the government.  So what has the government done? I mean how are they responding?  Well apparently the mayor says he is taking them seriously. And I spoke with a spokesman for the Ministry of Health and they say that they do understand where these workers are coming from. I mean they are sympathetic.  What are the implications if the strike goes ahead?  Well they are saying that for now there are these two Ebola treatment centers where people with Ebola are actually cared for and those would still stay open in a strike. But every hospital in the area every health center in the area - all those workers would stay home. And that is you know terrible for just the health of the population. This is an area where a lot of people have malaria very serious diseases acute malnutrition. And then it is very serious for the Ebola outbreak because this is the place where a lot of patients are initially identified. And as a result of the violence there is already been a slowdown in key activities like identifying people who have had contacts and vaccinating them. And we have seen a surge of new cases and we are already up to 1400 people infected.  NPR global health correspondent Nurith Aizenman for us this morning. Nurith thank you. We appreciate it.  Glad to do it. 