 And now if you do not mind please place your hand over your heart. Rise if you can to a standing position to salute a small and gallant creature and her fight for liberty. Here's our science correspondent Robert Krulwich.  This is the story of a mouse who lived very briefly 237 years ago. Dr.  Can I just set this up?  And this is Richard Holmes prize-winning historian. He is going to take us back to... Dr.  Mid-1770s.  Mid-1770s to a science lab in England run by a great chemist. Dr.  And this is Joseph Priestley.  And Joseph Priestley was one of the first to discover oxygen. And on this day he is trying to figure out how a body breathes oxygen - how does that work? Dr.  And he sets up a series of experiments.  So he will put an animal in an environment and then suck the air out? Dr.  He can pump the air out.  Uh-huh. Dr.  Okay.  So this must not be too pleasant for the animal. Dr.  That is right.  In fact it is so unpleasant a great many lab mice toppled over and died in Priestley's lab - so many that Richard Holmes believes... Dr.  At this period time the question about whether you should experiment with animals is already there.  This is the dawn of the animal rights movement and maybe its first expression. He says because... Dr.  He has a young assistant who is a woman Anna Barbauld who is also a poet.  And one evening young Anna Barbauld was in the lab. It was time to close up. Dr.  And there is this extraordinary moment and Priestley packs up for the day. And he leaves the next mouse in a cage on his desk for the next morning. He put it in the tank and removed the oxygen and the mouse will almost certainly die. And Anna Barbauld who is clearing up - it would make a wonderful shot in the movies. She just looks at the mouse and the mouse looks at her. And she thinks wait a minute. Wait a minute. And she sits down and she writes a poem. And the poem is in the voice of the mouse. All right it is such a wonderful modern thing.  And remember it is 1773 two years before the start of the American Revolution inalienable rights are in the air and this poem has a revolutionary theme... Dr.  In which the free-born mouse cruelly imprisoned in a laboratory cage appeals for its right to life. And here it is.  Dr.   For here forlorn and sad I sit within the wiry grate and tremble at the approaching morn... Ms.   ...and tremble at the approaching morn which brings impending fate. Dr.  Remember the mouse is speaking. Ms.   The cheerful light the vital air are blessings widely given. Let nature's commoners enjoy the common gifts of heaven. Dr.   The well-taught philosophic mind to all compassion gives... Dr. HOLMES and Ms.   ...casts round the world an equal eye and feels for all that lives. Ms.  So sweet. Oh sweet but sad my God.  Our mouse duet was performed by actress Anne Bobby who is apparently something of a mouse lover. Ms.  Wow.  And by historian Richard Holmes. Dr.  Okay. And I say that is the first animal rights poem all right.   Oh but if it is the  one did it work? What happened? Did the mouse... Dr.  Yes no. She folded it up and stuck in the vase in the mouse's cage. So he found it first thing the next morning. And what cannot - terribly frustrating for a biographer - I cannot tell what the history of the mouse was.  Dr.  I do not know.  Did that mouse  or did that mouse die? Dr.  Exactly. Did that mouse die or not?  Well some things we will never know. Robert Krulwich NPR News.  But there are some things that you can see. We have a vivid image of Anna's little mouse in startling watercolor ready for your inspection at npr.org. It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep. 