 When patients with the coronavirus disease die they often die alone. There is no one there to hold their hand or to tell them in person how much they will be missed. That is because many hospitals have restricted family visits. The risk of infection is just too high. And so for many families the only connection they have to a loved one in their final moments is to a hospital chaplain. As New York City experiences a staggering loss of life this week we bring you the voice of one of those chaplains. His name is Rocky Walker.  Right now I am at the nurse's station here at Mount Sinai Hospital. This is an ICU. And I - from where I am sitting I can see about eight rooms. The doors are shut of course on each of the rooms. The doors have windows. You can look into the windows.  Those windows of patient rooms are where Walker does his work these days. He will stand there on the phone or video chat with a family member describing what he is seeing in the room. Sometimes he will show the family by taking video. He says by this stage of the disease he is there more for the family.  For the patient. My role is nonexistent in their final hours because the way this virus works they have been incapacitated usually for at least a day or two before they - before it is the end. However my role is very active in the lives of their family members. I am first expressing condolences second trying to normalize their feelings of grief. And then thirdly I spend a lot of time trying to make sense of things that just do not make sense - the fact that you cannot be next to your loved one the fact that so many of our patients that are dying - their family members are recovering from y're actually mourning in isolation because no one can be around them - and having to normalize that or comfort and console them in that time. How do I help a father tell his children his young children their mother is not coming back and walking them through that? How do I help a nurse who is new to nursing and has walked into all this death that is nothing that she had ever imagined? And they are walking right into it. So it a lot of all of the above. Even seasoned doctors - this is very hard because it is personal. We - no patient is a number. Every patient is personal. And this is a very good hospital. We spoil ourselves. We - our patients usually live. And to have so many of our patients not making it - it is even hard on the seasoned doctors.  So when you are - I mean family members are not allowed into the hospitals now right? So how are you - like where are you standing when it comes to their loved one who is dying? And how are you helping them - the families?  We - that is really difficult. We try to do Zoom conferences. We try to get the cameras in the rooms with the family members. But that itself is a big logistical undertaking. And it literally pulls the nursing staff away from critical duty. So we can only do that on a limited basis. I have more time than anyone else on the on the medical team. So I have personally taken my phone that you are calling me on and I will stand outside the door and I will FaceTime with families and just let them look. That is better than nothing. So it is really being as creative as we possibly can to try to figure out how to fill that void of family members not being here. And the biggest thing we do is just keep the families informed.  Chaplain I am just going to make this guess about you. I bet when you are doing your job and it is not this coronavirus there is a lot of handholding and hugging that goes on with people who are dying and their families.  That is a really good guess. There is a lot of that. Physical touch hugging - that goes a long way. One of the things about this job is sometimes there is no words. Many times there are no words. Well this time all we have is words. And so it is different. It is different. But I have to tell you the family members - almost all of them have been amazing in their grace and their understanding in the middle of this terrible terrible situation. And it is much worse for them than it is for us. They have shown incredible gratitude. And you have no idea how many times they stop grieving just to thank us. Yeah it is - you know there is - it is hard not being able to hug or hold hands or just put your arm around somebody.  Is there a single family's loss from recent days or something you went through that you just cannot shake?  The hardest thing for me did not happen in the hospital. I am not originally from New York. I am from Kansas City. I have been in New York for 16 years. And I had two guys from my church that - we were just like brothers. And one of my brothers - one of these brothers - he and his wife were hospitalized with COVID-19. And I did not even know about it. I just have not had time to check my emails. He called me last week very happy to tell me he had gone home from the hospital. Of course I was stunned. I did not know he was in the hospital. He also called me to tell me that his wife was doing better. So I am like wow that is so great. I did not even know that they were in a hospital but that is great. He is home and she is getting better. And that was on Sunday. And on Tuesday his wife had died. And that brought everything that I am seeing at work home for me. And I am seeing that a lot. I am seeing husband and wife at work. One dies. One lives. You know I am - you know it is - but that made it very personal. I know we are going to win this. We are going to win COVID. But for those who do not make it through those families are changed forever. And that more than anything has brought it home for me and made it very hard to go back to work.  I cannot imagine. I - as you go through all this I mean is there like a prayer that helps you deal with you know your friend's loss all the loss you are seeing in the hospital all of this?  There is several prayers. The one that I go to and I use the most when I am talking to other people is the Serenity Prayer. What I speak to myself every day - my daughter my sister and I - we read Psalms 91 every single day. And you know there is a lot of application to that here. And if you know it - I do not believe that people who are dying from this they are being - they are the wicked and they are being punished. That part I do not. But there is a lot of application to the protection keeping safe. And for me it is very comforting to - just to recite Psalms 91. It is the same thing I did when I was in war. I am a former soldier. And I - when I went to war in the Persian Gulf my mother gave me that verse to read every day that chapter. And I read it every day then. So...  Yeah I mean you are a 25-year Army veteran. Some people say that the situation feels like war right now in these hospitals. Do you see it that way?  Absolutely absolutely. The - not the threat but the response to the threat. When I see my colleagues who are not calling in sick but they are coming to work every day - I see the team members go in and out of these rooms - it is - it is the same muscles that I used when we were racing across the desert trying to find an enemy that was trying to kill us. That is not natural - to run towards something that you know is trying to kill you. And those muscles that we used racing across the desert looking for Saddam Hussein and the Republican Guard are the same muscles that my colleagues are using today coming in to Mount Sinai Hospital knowing that all the patients here or most of the patients here have the virus and they need our help. And I am very proud to be a part of this unit as proud as I am to be a part of the first infrantry division that I fought in Desert Storm with.  Before we go is there any of Psalm 91 that you know and could recite a bit to us so we get a sense of what that is and if there are people out there who might want to feel a little bit of comfort?  So the part that I find the most comforting is when it says that this plague will not come near you. His angels will bear you up so that you do not even dash your foot against the stone. And that has - that is - I am living that. I am not reading that. I am living that. And it is both beautiful and it is also difficult. It is like wow God thank you for protecting me but why me? And I got to be honest with you - I ask myself that. I am thankful. And I do not - you know? But I - my heart just cries for those who are falling to this thing. My heart cries for it.  Rocky Walker thank you so so much for talking to us.  Thank you so much.  That was hospital chaplain Rocky Walker. He was talking to us from the intensive care unit of Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City.  