 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Renee Montagne. The Food and Drug Administration is considering whether to approve a powerful new prescription painkiller. It is designed to relieve severe pain quickly with fewer side effects than other narcotics. But there are concerns the drug may actually fuel the nation's epidemic of prescription painkiller abuse. NPR's Rob Stein has the story.  The drug is called Moxduo. Ed Rudnic heads the company that developed it. He says Moxduo could help millions of patients who are in pain for many reasons.  Knee replacement surgeries hip replacements neck and back surgeries you know think about automobile accidents construction accidents. Things like that where you you know broken arms broken legs - things where you are going to be in pain.  Here's the idea Moxduo combines two really strong opioids morphine and oxycodone into one capsule for the first time at lower doses then you would need if you took them by themselves. That Rudnic says is safer than taking higher doses of either of them alone.  We believe that we have achieved some benefit in reducing the risk of some of the respiratory complications of these strong opioids.  And respiratory complications are the biggest danger from these drugs the main reason people die from taking too much. Now some pain doctors think the idea behind Moxduo is a good one. Joseph Audette is a pain expert at Harvard. He says a lot of patients cannot take as much morphine or oxycodone as they need because they are risky and have other side-effects - nausea vomiting terrible itchiness.  Who are those people? Its people normal people like you and me. And then suddenly we get in a terrible accident or we have surgery and then we need something. And the typical agents are used and suddenly all these terrible side-effects come up.  But Audette is not convinced the company has really proven Moxduo has fewer side effects.  They have not really done the hard work of absolutely showing that in humans with real pain problems that that synergy is making a big difference compared to just using the agents that we have available.  And some experts worry that Moxduo brings its own problems.  I have serious concerns about this product.  Andrew Kolodny is an addiction specialist who leads a group that is fighting for tighter control over prescription painkillers. Millions of people are addicted to prescription painkillers already and thousands are dying from overdoses each year. Kolodny says Moxduo would only make that worse.  This is pure morphine and pure oxycodone. This is a product that is very easy to misuse very easy to crush and snort or crush and inject. So it is significantly more dangerous than the products that it would be competing with.  Like Vicodin and Percocet which are hard to abuse that way. Kolodny argues that those drugs and others give patients in severe pain plenty of options.  What is very likely to happen if they get this product put on the market and are able to have a sales force going in and out of doctors' offices encouraging prescribing with the marketing claim that this is somehow a safer product - I believe that is likely to exacerbate an already severe public health crisis.  For his part Rudnic argues the company has good evidence that Moxduo is a safer painkiller with fewer side-effects. And it is not true it is easier to abuse.  I understand you know abuse. And I understand the anguish that some of these people have that have lost a loved one to a drug overdose. I lost a brother to a drug overdose in 2002 and it was really tough.  Rudnic promises his company will set up a plan to quickly spot any signs Moxduo is being abused. The FDA is convening a panel to take a look at Moxduo today and recommend whether to allow this controversial new prescription painkiller onto pharmacy shelves. Rob Stein NPR News. 