 Fans of Anthony Bourdain will appreciate this next story. One of his former collaborators helped put together a travel book based on Bourdain's own global adventures over the years as a TV host author and chef. The book is out today. It is called World Travel. It comes nearly three years after his death by suicide and is filled by excerpts of Bourdain's own notes observations and of course his biting wit. There is also an essay from a producer whose life was changed by working on one of Bourdain's shows. Here's NPR's Neda Ulaby.  The South Korea episode of No Reservations started as a joke.   Here we go.  Producer Nari Kye had just graduated from college when she got hired by the company that made No Reservations.   I am Anthony Bourdain.   That is right.  I write. I travel. I eat.  Tall shaggy prolific and profane - Anthony Bourdain was in his 40s when he wrote his first bestselling book Kitchen Confidential that made him a star. Nari Kye did not believe this titan of food and entertainment would take her seriously when she suggested his show visit the country of her birth. But Anthony Bourdain threw himself into South Korean gastronomy with gusto.   Kimchi - the heart and soul of Korea the principal dish.  It is hard not to get emotional when I talk about Tony.  Kye says Anthony Bourdain treated the food and cultures he encountered as sublime.   From a field full of kimchi urns to hanging bricks of dried and molding beans I love the dark forces of rot of aging of fermentation the divine game of chicken between light and dark. But the difference between the divine and the rotten is entirely in the hands of a talented artist.  To Nari Kye's surprise Bourdain insisted she co-star in that episode. Kye had spent much of her life trying to hide her Korean-ness  - what made her feel like an outsider growing up in New Jersey.   My mom cooked only Korean food. My parents only spoke Korean to me.  Kye reading from her essay in the new book World Travel.   We basically lived in Korea in our house in a very American town. All my friends were white blond-haired girls named Jenny and Erin who would wear their shoes inside their houses.  Before they would come to her house Kye would run around hiding anything that looked Korean. But she said the South Korea episode of No Reservations changed her.  I did not know that this had been so important to Nari until after Tony died and we were talking about him and his impact on us.  That is Laurie Woolever who wrote World Travel An Irreverent Guide based on older material from Anthony Bourdain.  Had Tony lived and written his own essays for the book which was the original plan I never would have gotten to hear that story from Nari. And I want people to understand just how deep his legacy is.   .  In the South Korea episode of No Reservations Anthony Bourdain sits down with Nari Kye and her grandfather who escaped from what is now North Korea in 1951. Kye asks her grandfather if he ever thinks about his life there.   .  If I could go back there once before I die he says I would have no other wish if I could just see my parents' graves and just cry my heart out. There is nothing that can be done though.  I might not have learned about these things had it not been Tony and the show. I was one person before I made the show and I was a different person afterwards.  Kye credits Bourdain for changing her creative focus towards celebrating her heritage. She is making a Korean American kids' show and writing an autobiographical screenplay. And she will never forget showing Anthony Bourdain a perfect South Korean evening.   This is just a - it is an irresistible recipe for heaven. I mean really just look.  I know.  Pork beer soju. And I owe it all to you.  He always made people feel like they belonged.  And Anthony Bourdain was someone who belonged everywhere. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 