 Two weeks ago we introduced you to a couple of friends of mine here in Washington D.C. - Mikella Hurley she goes by Mikey and her husband Simon Schropp. When we spoke they were trying to manage their anxiety about having their first baby in the middle of a pandemic. Her scheduled C-section went fine and Mikey delivered a healthy baby girl named Lulu. But an unexpected turn of events meant that the three of them are now at home but separated.  I am upstairs in our bedroom. The upper floor is my zone for the next - well yeah.  I am in there on the ground floor and the first floor together with baby Lulu. And I go up occasionally to feed Mikey and to bring her food and to bring down milk.  Mikey is in isolation because her doctors tested her for COVID-19 in the hospital and it came back positive.  A C-section is a tough surgery and as I was coming out of it maybe an hour after I spiked a pretty high fever which they did not initially suspect COVID because I had been totally asymptomatic. They thought well you know out of an abundance of caution we should probably just test you. And then it took quite some time - well you know it was hours. It felt like an eternity but it was hours before the test came back.  And when you called to tell Simon were you just matter of fact about it? Were you already working through different scenarios?  Yeah the latter. I was definitely working through different scenarios. It was devastating. I assumed that necessarily it would mean that he was going to test positive as well if we could even get a test for him. And what they were sort of saying at that point was we do not know whether it is going to be safe to release the baby to either of you. And so at that point I was feeling pretty powerless but trying to work through scenarios of who we could have to take Lulu if she came back negative.  Right. So we should just say Simon's tests came back negative. The baby's test came back negative. It ended up being I guess the best possible scenario in that you are all under the same roof.  Yeah. Yeah. That is been incredibly - we are incredibly grateful that that was the way it worked out.  So Simon how is it going? You are a solo parent right now.  Yeah and learning the ropes way faster than I had anticipated. I do not know what I anticipated. I think in our last conversation I said I feel woefully unprepared. Turns out I was woefully unprepared. We had assumed that it is going to be the both of us and Mikey is breastfeeding. And turns out it is just me feeding the bottle and taking care of Mikey who is recovering from major surgery as best as I can. So we had a - yeah we had to hit the ground running Lulu and I but she is been a total trooper. She is very patient with me and we are doing well.  What was the first night like? I mean what was the sleeping situation? What was your anxiety level?  The sleeping situation very low anxiety level extremely high. But - and then sleeping it was - you know I woke up when I did not hear a noise. I woke up when I heard a noise. So the first night was a little bit rough also because you know she spent some time in the NICU so I had that in the back of my mind taking her home. Again probably the usual but it was exacerbated since it was only me and really no one can help us because we are under quarantine Mikey is in isolation. Yeah it is kind of hard.  Mikey how are you dealing with that?  It is really hard but it is hopeful. And I think the thing that you know I did not anticipate at all from all of this but that I am going to be hopefully grateful for for the rest of my life is I went into this whole situation believing that I was going to be indispensable. And that is kind of - that is kind of a little bit how I live. You know I live my life thinking you know about just our relationship and my family and it was apparent that he had this and that Lulu was going to be OK and that he was going to do a phenomenal job even without me in the room. And so it is shattered my perception of my own indispensability and I think that is great because she is going to really I do not know she is got her Dad there and she will always be OK as long as she has her Dad there.  I would imagine there is also a grief in that.  Oh yeah.  Because you want to be the one to comfort her.  I do.  You know you want to believe that you as the mother have a special role.  Yeah yeah. No it is hard and it is sad. You know at least once a day I give myself the liberty to cry. You know I am of course afraid that she is not going to remember me. I do not - I think she will. You know I talk to her on FaceTime and we sing to her together. But yeah it is a powerful feeling of loss but I know it is temporary.  What are you singing?  A little Lou Reed.  A little Lou Reed.  Some Townes Van Zandt you know all of her favorites.  Her favorites she does not even know yet.  A Little Grateful Dead and she does not know what a bad singer I am right now. She just thinks I am a good singer.  What do you want other couples to know who might be facing the same situation?  Oh gosh. I would want them to know that they are going to find out that they are much stronger than they believe when they get bad news like we got that if they have a network of friends they should call upon those friends. We have been incredibly lucky to have a phenomenal network of friends that have banded together to you know bring us dinners and do so many things for us. And you will get through it. It is really tough but it is temporary. And at the end of the experience if you have a healthy baby that is what counts.  Yeah. Well I got to see Lulu through the window when my husband and I dropped off dinner the other day. And she is a beautiful baby girl and Simon was holding her and I cannot wait to meet her in person. And thank you guys for sharing what you have been going through. Mikella Hurley and Simon Schropp thanks to you both.  Thanks so much.  Thanks Rachel. 