 It is PR News. Good morning. I am David Greene. You know the drill another week another batch of Republican primaries. This Tuesday it is Maryland Washington D.C. and Wisconsin taking their turns. Despite the three venues all four GOP contenders campaigned exclusively in Wisconsin over the weekend. Mitt Romney is ahead in the polls there and there is a growing sense that a Romney victory could doom Rick Santorum's sputtering campaign and finally confirm Romney as the GOP's presumptive nominee. NPR's David Welna was with both Santorum and Romney yesterday and he filed this report.  Mitt Romney had good reason to feel fired up yesterday. A couple of days earlier he would won the key endorsement of Paul Ryan the influential House Republican Budget Committee chairman from Janesville Wisconsin. Then yesterday another big Wisconsin endorsement came from Tea Party-backed freshman Senator Ron Johnson. He and Ryan showed up in Milwaukee yesterday to campaign with Romney and they led the candidate into what he thought was a ballroom full of supporters.  April fools!   In fact just a few of Romney's staffers were in the ballroom to document his surprise at the April Fool's Day prank. But after a lunch that included fried cheese curds Romney did face a real overflow crowd at a hotel just outside Madison. He did not even mention his remaining three rivals in the Republican primary. Instead he aimed his rhetoric at President Obama and cast himself as on track for his party's nomination.   This president cannot run on his record and so he is going to try in every way he can to divert to some other kind of attack and try and have people disqualify our nominee which will probably be me.  Romney also took on the vice president.   Did you hear Vice President Biden yesterday? He is out saying we need a new global tax. I do not know who he is planning on taxing with this but I know -but he is the gift that keeps on giving Vice President Biden. There is no doubt about that.  That comment followed an appearance by Biden yesterday morning on CBS' Face the Nation. Romney he said did not seem to understand what middle class people are concerned about.   I think that - I think Governor Romney's a little out of touch. Look you know everything that he said the American people do not think the policies have worked.  But some of those who turned out to hear Romney yesterday said he actually managed to connect with them. Bill Rockwell is an independent who can vote in Wisconsin's open primary and he says he may vote for Romney.  Today I think I was a little more convinced that he is actually a real person that he is not this monster-rich guy who nobody can relate to and he cannot relate to anybody else. So...  But he did not close the deal with you apparently.  Well I think he came closer to it.  Eighty-three-year-old Nancy Works says she is voting for Romney because he is electable and Santorum is not.  I am a conservative but Santorum is too far to the right to bring in independent voters and the RINOs Republican-in-name-only types. And I think we need every vote we can get.   At the Pla-Mor bowling alley in Chilton Wisconsin Rick Santorum was once again trying his luck with the 10-pins. Asked how he was feeling about tomorrow's primary here he replied Great.  We are having a wonderful time and feel a lot of energy and excitement out here and we are just hustling as hard as we can.  And how crucial is winning in Wisconsin?  Every place you compete is crucial so we are - you know we are working hard at it.  And you are staying in the race?   I am here.  But not for long. Santorum plans to leave Wisconsin before tomorrow's primary just as he is left other states early where polls foretold a loss. Meanwhile the Republican establishment is quickly closing ranks around Romney. Here's Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell yesterday on CNN's State of the Union.   It seems to me that we are in the final phases of wrapping up this nomination. And most of the members of the Senate Republican Conference are either supporting him or they have the view that I do that it is time to turn our attention to the fall campaign and begin to make the case against the president of the United States.  Still Santorum Newt Gingrich and Ron Paul all say they have no plans to quit the race. David Welna NPR News Middleton Wisconsin. 