 As NPR's John Burnett reports relocation if it happens will be hardest on the elderly.  Today 28 percent of the city is over 65 and the decisions they must make after the tsunami are wrenching. Seventy-three-year-old housepainter Tokuji Yamazaki stands on the porch of his wrecked home.    Many of the newly homeless elderly have been brought here to the gymnasium of Yamada High School. Evacuees sit cross-legged on futons. There seems to be a lot of staring into space. It is loud. It is crowded. It is cold at night. They all want to go home but there is no home anymore.   I want to stay in Yamada.  Sunpei Abiko is a 67-year-old truck driver.    There is a local saying bounty from the sea bounty from the soil - oysters scallops and wakame seaweed from the ocean and prized matsutake mushrooms from the mountain.    Indeed the central government does not know what it is going to do either. Last week Prime Minister Naoto Kan said at a press conference he will shortly appoint a special panel to come up with a blueprint to rebuild the coast.   We should consider having new homes built on higher ground by leveling mountainous areas with residents commuting to fishing ports and fisheries along the coast.  There are no good options. Do they raise the seawalls and reconstruct the low-lying towns? Or do they relocate the populations away from the tsunami zone? That is easier said than done according to John Traphagan an anthropologist at the University of Texas at Austin who has studied the Tohoku region of Japan.  Rural Japan is not like West Texas for example with large areas of open space. It is populated everywhere. There are rice fields and there are houses all over the place. So it is not like there is really any empty place you could put a new community.  Traphagan says the emotional dislocation of moving elders away from their communities would be profound.  They have lived their whole lives in that same place and that is where they want to live and that is where they want to die.  Their ties to place are so strong that many seniors are reluctant even to leave the unpleasant evacuation centers close to their old neighborhoods. But some have accepted invitations to spend a few weeks at an onsen a traditional Japanese hot spring hotel.   Tei Taro and Kiyoko Abe are widows in their late 70s whose houses were swept away. They were already friends. They belonged to the same morning walking group in Yamada. The disaster has brought them even closer.   The onsen is really healing. We are so grateful. I have not had a hot bath for 10 days. We can stretch our legs make new friends in the onsen bath.  The two women sit in an overstuffed sofa in the lobby of the posh Mori No Kaze hotel with its artificial cherry tree and koi fish swimming in clear pools.   What do you think about living on the hill? There are lots of people who do not want to live on the coast anymore.   It is difficult for me to buy land and build a house on the hill since I am almost 80. I do not know how many more years I have and I am on my own.   We are having a great time here but we really love Yamada and we want to go back.  We would be very sad if Yamada disappears. We could never leave Yamada.  John Burnett NPR News in northern Japan.   It is PR News. 