 NPR's Chris Arnold has our report from the fishing port of Gloucester Massachusetts.  If there is a poster child for somebody who should not be getting foreclosed on that would be Debra Dahlmer. Dahlmer is retired and legally blind and she is never missed a mortgage payment. She lives in a modest house with her 80-year-old mother and several very small but very well-fed dogs.  Louie come on. Come on Buddha. Come on.  Why do you call him Buddha?  Because he is so big.  With her long generous head of white hair and an easy smile Dahlmer's less than 5 feet tall and is the quintessential nice lady next door. And she even takes care of another dog that is disabled. It is a little black Chihuahua-size dog with some kind of nerve damage so that it walks all sideways and twisted up.  She has her own little bed and...  She is cute in her own - sort of sad way.   Dahlmer has not lost her sense of humor. But the past couple of years have been very hard. NPR first reported on her case back in December. After her husband passed away it was difficult for Dahlmer to afford her mortgage. But she has guaranteed disability income and she could afford her home with a reduced interest rate. And she actually should qualify for that through President Obama's foreclosure prevention program. But for a year and a half now she says that her lender Bank of America has been losing her documents and dragging out that process. And now the bank has been threatening to foreclose.  Are they going to take my house even though I paid the payments - and always paid the payment?  Dahlmer has been making reduced payments as part of a temporary plan that the bank enrolled her in. But now even though it was the bank that told her to make those reduced payments Bank of America has been telling her because she has not been paying in full she is now considered delinquent. And the bank will foreclose if she does not pay up.  I kind of dread waking up. I know that sounds awful. I know my mind's going to start thinking of this and thinking of this. What would I do? Where would I go? What would I do with my mom? It just - it terrifies me.  Bank of America originally told NPR that it would review Dahlmer's case and hoped to resolve it within several weeks. But now more than three months later it still has not been resolved. The bank did enroll Dahlmer in another temporary loan modification. But in what appears to be some kind of a mix-up the bank at the same time has been threatening to take her house. The foreclosure letter from the bank is sitting on Dahlmer's coffee table.  And I am disabled. I stay in the house most of the time. I had to walk out of here one day to go clear my head.  Dahlmer says she just walked alone for three hours around the town of Gloucester. Even though she can barely see she just did not know what to do.  And I do not like not being in control like that. But that is what I had to do. So - I do not know.  Dahlmer has actually been doing more than just sitting around and worrying. She persistently called around looking for a housing advocate or a lawyer who might be able to help her. And she eventually got in touch with a prominent consumer rights attorney who is suing Bank of America on behalf of homeowners just like her.  There is every reason to believe that there are tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of affected families.  Last week attorney Gary Klein was at a federal courthouse in Boston for a hearing in the case. Klein is suing many of the major banks for stringing along homeowners - Wells Fargo JP Morgan Chase CitiMortgage. Klein says all these banks and others are required to approve qualified homeowners for a loan modification within three months of their application. But often that does not happen.  People are getting the run-around. They are being told their documents are lost. And in many cases what they are getting is a decision that makes no sense whatsoever in light of their personal circumstances.  And are a lot of these people actually getting foreclosed on when they should not be? Or...  We hear from people at all stages of the foreclosure process and we hear from people after foreclosure. People are being foreclosed on when they should not be.  Chris Arnold NPR News Boston. 