 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Renee Montagne  A little bit earlier today we reached journalist Marco Chown Oved in Adidjan. What have you seen in the last 24 hours or so?  Yesterday the United Nations used some helicopter gunships to attack military bases around this city. And again another surprising aspect is that the French pitched in. the French who have a presence here in the country historically - this is of course a former French colony - have always said that they are only here to protect their own citizens. Yet yesterday they pitched in with their own helicopters attacking the presidential palace and the state television.  So we the French U.N. forces and people supporting the elected president on one side moving into the capital. Is it clear that President Gbagbo still has forces fighting on his side or have they fled?  We have been calling around to the different neighborhoods this morning and the fighting is still quite intense in and around the presidential residence. There is where we have heard that Mr. Gbagbo is holed up in a bunker underground. But - and he is surrounded by his Republican Guard which is 2000 to 2500 of his most elite highest trained and best equipped soldiers.  Let me pass on a claim to you that comes out of France. The elected president effectively the rebel in this situation has appointed an ambassador to France. And that ambassador is saying that President Gbagbo is negotiating some kind of surrender. That is his claim anyway. Is there any evidence of that on the ground where you are or any confirmation?  If I was in a house and it was burning and there was fighting around me I would probably be negotiating my way out as well. We are hearing various rumors but nothing concrete.  Just to be clear on the geography here. Is there anywhere for President Gbagbo to go if he loses control of Abidjan or is the rest of the country effectively in the hands of his opponents at this point?  No. No. The country is virtually entirely in the control of forces loyal to Alassane Ouattara. Leaving Abidjan at this point would probably mean only one thing for Laurent Gbagbo and that is exile to a foreign country.  And what shape is the city in? By which I mean how destructive has the fighting been around the city at least as much as you have been able to see?  But in terms of the city itself it is a just quiet lockdown zone except around these key points.  Thanks very much.  Thank you. 