 Several states hold primaries today. And you know who usually helps make those primaries happen? Retired people. They have the time to do it. And they are civically minded. But because of the pandemic a lot of these older folks just do not want to take the risk. NPR's Barbara Sprunt has the story.  Susan Weiss  has been a poll worker in Bethesda Md. for 16 years.  It is really quite an experience doing it. Set up all the equipment - putting signs up putting arrows on the floor et cetera et cetera. The camaraderie of the group that volunteers is marvelous.  But this year Weiss who is 74 decided it is just too risky to show up for work in November.  I am a very patriotic person. I felt this is just a duty that we should have you know? So not doing it it makes me sad. Should I get the virus? I am quite concerned over my being able to survive it.  Weiss is far from alone. In 2018 more than half of poll workers were over the age of 61 which puts them at a higher risk for complications with COVID-19. Election experts fear a massive shortage of workers for the general election.  There is probably going to be the need for a couple hundred thousand people.  That is Bob Brandon the president of the Fair Elections Center which created a web portal where users can quickly locate the hours pay and training requirements for their own jurisdiction. And he says even in normal times convincing people to sign up is tricky.  It still takes something to convince somebody who is never done this before to take the day off to commit to 12 hours to do something they have never done before.  Add in all the health concerns a pandemic brings and it is even harder to attract new workers. Ohio's secretary of state Frank LaRose has been trying to drum up interest among younger people who are less susceptible to COVID and have the added benefit of being more tech savvy. He has a simple pitch.  Help us defend democracy. When you show up at your neighborhood polling location somebody is going to be there behind the table to greet you to check your ID to hand you your ballot. That does not happen by magic.  The primary season saw scores of poll workers dropping out for fear of contracting the virus which led to the shutting down of poll locations in places like Wisconsin.  My heart goes out to them. But our friends in Milwaukee that had a last-minute need to do a massive consolidation of polling locations just because they did not have enough poll workers we cannot have that type of thing occur here in Ohio.  LaRose is working with businesses to give their employees time off to serve as poll workers encouraging attorneys to work in exchange for continuing legal education credit and even targeting 17 year olds.  Maybe the silver lining of this whole pandemic experience is that we recruit a whole new generation of poll workers.  That generation now includes Rocio Hernandez  a 24-year-old living in suburban Chicago. She signed up to work the primary in March because her employer gives staff the day off to serve as poll workers. She intends to return in November despite her worries over the virus.  There is fear in that. But I also recognize that I am fortunate that I have very good health. When I look at the news and I see places that have already had primaries and have had shortages and they have had to like consolidate polling locations that is the consequence of not having enough poll workers. And so I do not want to see that happen in my community.  Hernandez is bilingual and says being a poll worker allows her to make members of her community feel more welcome at the polls.  I think about my own parents right? They speak English. But sometimes they are not necessarily the most secure in their English. And so I think there really is something special about being able to go to the polls and talk to somebody who speaks your own language and get your questions answered in your own language. And I think that is a special opportunity that younger poll workers can really bring to the table.  For Susan Weiss the poll worker we heard at the beginning of the story that generational handover is really important. Her grandson Max is a law student at William  Mary. And this year he is going to work the polls instead of her. He says putting effort into something that is focused on civics not politics is refreshing.  I have always had the energy to go out and campaign. But this is the non-partisan basic democracy saving stuff which is people going out and volunteering so that other people can vote.  And in fact he is set up a group to encourage law students around the country to do the same this fall. Barbara Sprunt NPR News Washington.  