   I am trying to tell you something about my life.  Emily Saliers is the lead singer here. You probably know her better as the blonde one from the Indigo Girls. In the late '80s the two women scored some pretty major hits. Maybe you can picture them - oversized shirts ripped jeans and those acoustic guitars.    And the less I seek my source for something definitive closer I am to fine.  Emily Saliers and her musical partner Amy Ray have been performing together for more than 30 years. And while they are still going strong Saliers is trying something new putting out her first solo album.    Welcome to a strange feast. It is kind of been a long time coming. I think I have been talking about it for at least two decades.  .  Of course Amy has six solo records out already. So I...  Not that anyone's counting .  Not - no  - only 'ecause I talk about it a lot I know the number.    That is the company you are keeping. Spider in your empty web. What are you waiting for? I love RB rap hip-hop. And we do not - Indigo Girls do not do a lot of groove stuff. What I really wanted to do was make a record with a combination of thoughtful lyrics and serious groove.  Did it come easily?  You know I have the typical insecurities like oh Amy's not here. Is anybody going to like it?  .  You know but in the end this album is really me. It covers so many things that I think about from world events to very serious social issues in this country.  Let us get into the album a little bit. I want to play some of the track called OK Corral. And this is something where you start to hear how you are playing around with rhythms and beat.    You might take a bullet for a better plan. But you cannot take the gun from the American.  Yeah that does not sound like an Indigo Girls song. That is something different.   No. There is something about the way that a lot of hip-hop RB is produced that when that beat kicks in it just messes me up in the best way.  .  You know it makes me feel. It makes me feel.  In that song you hear it - and you reference it before - you are diving into a more political space. And the songs definitely have a social message. Where does that urge come from?  You know I think that I was reared to believe and take into account that we are not isolated from other people and not isolated from our communities. And so very early on you know when Amy and I started playing it was just - we just started organizing benefits locally because it was so fun to bring musicians together and take part in social issues. Also for me these songs they are the way that I make sense of the world.    I have spent all my life thinking we could have a meeting of our minds. When I was a child I fought like a child. And now it is not like I am Einstein. But the satisfaction in knowing the equal and opposite reaction. You know that line that you just played I have spent all my life thinking we could have a meeting of the minds - it really was a loss that after the election - and we do not need to say which election because we all know - I saw the division in this country. It really was a loss of that sort of innocent naive belief that we can all get along. We can make this work. I have realized that we are not always all going to get along. And it is never going to happen. I am really not a believer of full peace and heaven on Earth because human condition is rife with conflict you know basically based on fear - what is mine and what is going to be taken from me and what do I need to protect? - but - and who is different from me?  I was thinking about the early days of your career. So this is the late 1980s. And just as you were about to make it really big you and Amy decided to come out. This was a very different time in this country. There were not a lot of openly gay public figures. I actually could not think of one when I was thinking through this. How did the two of you come to that decision? And what was the reaction in the short term?  Well we were pretty young. I mean we got signed when we were in our - I think at our young-to-mid-20s. And so we were working - like when we were in high school there was barely the word gay. There was really no language for what we were becoming as adults. And so for me I had a lot of fear. It was totally cool and liberating to be out and open to family friends to our musical community. But when the national press sort of swept in and became interested I was afraid. And when you are queer and you are afraid it is complicated but a lot of it is a self-homophobia. You know I have worked on that for many many years. And then I was like oh we are going to get stigmatized. We are going to be - the stigma will be we are lesbians with flannel shirts and acoustic guitars. Well the truth was we were.  .  But I always felt we are going to get pigeonholed and people are not going to see the breadth of our music or what we bring to the table. And - which is true - that did happen. But you know what Rachel? As soon as we came out none of that mattered. It was so much more important to be free and to be part of the movement you know because we had a job where we could come out.  I want play one more song from your new album. This one is called Long Haul.    We are a long haul honey. The road was rugged and smooth. Sometimes we are deep in a groove and then we fall out. But we are in it.  That is some good harmony in there that will satisfy a lot of Indigo Girls fans. But that is not Amy Ray. That is the voice of Jennifer Nettles. What is it like standing on stage performing these songs without Amy Ray?  I do not know yet .  Oh you have not done this yet.  No. I did one show in Akron Ohio. But I tell you I am still finding my sea legs you know. It is like oh Amy.  .  But...   That is a lot of years to have that woman next to you in that - singing those lines.  I know. And I love singing with her. I think Indigo Girls will always be the crux. But I saw Amy have a solo show recently in Atlanta. I sat there and I was so proud. I even yelled out like sometimes fans do I love you Amy Ray.  .  That experience was - felt good to me because I know that I can just go up there and just be me you know and just do my thing and be OK with it. But it is a little scary at this point.    And now we are back and meet at five - now we are back at five degrees.  Well Emily Saliers it has been a pleasure. Emily's new record is called Murmuration Nation. Thanks so much. Come back again.  OK Rachel.  .  I had a blast.    A long haul baby... 