 A volunteer trip to Africa over school vacation had a special meaning to several Missouri students this summer. It was the kind of program where young people travel overseas to dig wells or maybe help build a village school. But for these students it was also a trip to the nation where they were born Kenya. St. Louis Public Radio's Ryan Delaney has the story of their trip and also the man who made it happen.  Geoffrey Soyiantet made the move from Kenya to Missouri when he was 29 years old. It was January. He remembers the cold.  To a point I wanted to go back . But I really had a very - lot of struggle.  He says he struggled because there was not much of a community of Kenyan immigrants for him to lean on. Now 43 he spent several years trying to build a network of job and housing resources. Suddenly he was the guy to call for Kenyans moving to St. Louis.  So it reached a point my phone was actually calling all the time.  He now runs a nonprofit Vitendo4Africa which translates to action for Africa in Swahili which assists and mentors new arrivals. But he worries younger immigrants are losing some of their Kenyan heritage.  So most of them they are kind of shying away being immigrants. And because of that they lost some identity.  Through his organization Soyiantet leads trips of teenage Kenyan immigrants back to their home country over summer breaks. Four teenagers joined Soyiantet traveling around Kenya this month. It was the first time back for most of the group. They painted at a rural hospital.   And here in a village hours from the main road they spent several days constructing an addition onto a school.   As they worked to build the frame of a new classroom there were whispers among curious onlookers about whether this group really was Kenyan. But then Sally Gacheru and the others started speaking in Swahili.  .  .  . Since we did that the kids got more closer to us. They stopped like shying off. And so like oh these are people who have stayed here people who know like our language.  And then they brought out soccer balls.  One two three...  There are interactions with older residents too like the school carpenter. One evening while waiting for dinner George Masese quizzes Victor Rotich.  My question is this - what is the difference between Kenya and America?  That is a hard question. Like...  The 17-year-old tries to answer.  I guess like it is maybe - to a point it is an easier life.  Elizabeth Kamau who has lived in the United States less than two years has a measured answer to those who ask about going to America.  Because they expect like life is so easy there. But even though most people may seem it is easy but it is not easy. So it is hard. Even though they might be curious about it I tell them it is not all milk and honey.  Soyiantet their chaperone wants them to remember what their life in Kenya was like. He reminds the teens about his childhood challenges each time they groan about fetching water.   When I tell them about the life I grew what I used to do the distance I used to walk and what I used to do before I go to school - to them looks like a theory.  It is been five years since Rotich moved from western Kenya to St. Louis. He is learned to look back on his childhood here differently.  When I first came to the U.S. like I did not want to be Kenyan most like - mostly. I wanted to like adapt fast become an American. But like as I grew older I learned to appreciate like where I am coming from. So most of the time right now if you ask me where I am from I will just say I am from Kenya.  Geoffrey Soyiantet hopes the kids will return to the U.S. with a sense of pride in their Kenyan heritage and become mentors to younger immigrants. Without that he says they will have a community without a culture. For NPR News I am Ryan Delaney. 