 Over the first six months of his presidency public opinion polls show a steady decline in President Trump's approval ratings. Much of that has been independent voters who once supported him but are changing their minds. There is even a slight softening of support among Republicans. National political correspondent Don Gonyea is in Iowa right now where he is been talking to people who voted for Trump. And he is on the line right now. Good morning Don.  Hey. Good morning.  So I know you have been looking specifically for Trump voters in Iowa to see how the president has met or not met their expectations. Who have you found?  Well the first couple of voices you will hear are actually activists people who spend a lot of time working to get Republicans elected. Ailsa let us start - where else? - at a bowling alley in Ames Iowa.  .   That is where I met Jeff Ortiz. He is the local county GOP co-chair. We did not bowl. We talked politics. He is a supporter of the president.  It is only six months into this thing. And I am pretty sure it is not as easy as he thought it was going to be.  Ortiz is frustrated with the GOP-controlled Congress. He also offers some suggestions to the White House - be less impulsive especially on Twitter.  I do think he has to bring some of those independent voters back to the fold. How he does that - I think at this point a lot of it hinges on getting some legislation passed.  OK. So that local Republican official Jeff Ortiz is still on board it sounds like. But he has some advice. Who else did you go see?  I spoke to the prominent politically powerful evangelical leader in Iowa Bob Vander Plaats. He calls Trump a friend. But - this is a big but - he says friends will also tell you when you are messing up. So I asked him what he would tell a pollster who called him today asking how Trump is doing.  It just depends on the day. We are thrilled that he is in there and Hillary is not in there. But I remind people all the time our bar is not Hillary Clinton. I mean we have to expect more now that we have three branches of government.  He says one day you are thrilled with Justice Neil Gorsuch joining the Supreme Court. Next day you are shaking your head over something. Then there are the days that seem great but...  One was when he announced his support for religious liberty religious freedom in the Rose Garden with a lot of faith leaders which - I am really glad for the words. I am really glad for the statement. But the fact was there was no policy to follow up on it.  All right. Well I also know it is Iowa State Fair time which is always a good place to see candidates and talk to voters. So of course you were there. And knowing you Don you were probably eating all kinds of local delicacies.   So who did you find at the Iowa State Fair?  So I met Bruce Kenny. He is a retired farmer. He is happy with how Trump is doing his job but he wanted to talk also about Trump's very tough words for North Korea.  I think it was pretty strong language but maybe that is what it takes to get through to that character. I think he is just sitting back laughing and seeing how far he can go before we do retaliate in a serious way.  Now one more voice from the fair - June Williams lives in Madison County. She is 73. She is an independent. I asked if she voted for Trump. And she said quote unfortunately yes. So Trump has lost her.  Change was needed desperately I thought. I just - I wanted him to go in and be a businessman not someone that is on tweet - Twitter all the time. If he wants to be a businessman in there and run it like a business then he needs to be like a boss would be and not a high school kid.  So your feelings about him have...  They have diminished.  So one state a state Trump carried and where his popularity has fallen - most of his voters hanging in there some not but lots of them with advice on what he needs to do better.  All right that is NPR's national political correspondent Don Gonyea speaking to us from Iowa. Thank you Don.  All right we will do it again. 