 Musician Raphael Saadiq has named his new album Jimmy Lee. That was the name of his older brother who died of a heroin overdose years ago.    Even when I am clean I am still a dope fiend. Everyone is always trying to tell me something. I wake up I feel things crawling but nobody wants to see a strong man falling.  Saadiq was part of the popular RB group Tony! Toni! Tone! in the '90s. He went on to a solo career after that. When he came to our studios here in LA he told me that his new album Jimmy Lee is helping him confront a lot in his life including the loss of his older brother who was 15 when Saadiq was born.  When I came along Jimmy was - well he was pretty much an addict at that time. But being a kid you do not know what an addict is. So I saw him as being pretty normal. I might have thought maybe he was an alcoholic or something. I mean I did not know anything about you know heroin. So I started looking back over his life and my life with him and I thought about how much I really did not know him. I did not get a chance to talk to him about addiction. But since then I have a lot of friends. And you know I am a musician so you know I have seen so much you know growing up. I just start making this record. I went down the rabbit hole. The record is not really about just Jimmy Lee. It is more about everybody has a Jimmy Lee in their life you know. It is universal.  And it sounds like you have spent years trying to understand him.  Years.  And is this album like almost reconnecting with him for you?  It is - this album is - I would definitely say it is a reconnection. I have never got any therapy about it because you know sometime people think they do not need therapy. I still have not had it. I think this record is a part of the therapy because I actually lost two brothers. I lost Desmond. I was like 17. He took his life with a double barrel shotgun at my dad's house. Being that my dad had a janitorial service and he was like really hardcore strict dude when it happened and they took the body me him and one of my other brothers cleaned everything up.  Oh God.  We just did it. We did not think about it. We just did it. And then I also lost my brother Alvie when I was 7. He was murdered. And I lost a sister in a car accident. So I felt like music was keeping me really strong. I guess there is one thought I used to have is - I call it a happy hour like when people out drinking beer. I have always had this thought of me sitting with my brothers at a bar you know having an IPA and just talking and them just making jokes about me singing you know. Like it would be funny to them. They would take me serious but they would probably you know you know throw you on the ground slap you box you. You know so all of those things I always missed. And so this record made me think about all the - a lot of other people who do not have this platform to talk about it.  Raphael Saadiq is using this platform to really examine addiction. He sings about how the war on drugs has affected people like his older brother. This song is called Rikers Island.    The judge sits in the high chair while the family sits and prays hoping judge and jury that all 12 will vote their way.  I mean the song seems to be obviously grappling with how the criminal justice system affects black people. Do you feel like the system has taken the wrong approach to people who struggle with addiction?  Yeah. I just feel like - I mean if you look at marijuana is now legal. And you have people probably still behind bars for marijuana. I feel like you should let all those people go. I do not think that they care about the crime that you committed. You just you know you just - you are just a number making money off you. I just - I feel like people are not educated at a young age to know like OK you have a choice to go behind bars and become a number and for somebody to profit off of you for free labor. And it is enslaving your brain your mind. And it is just - it is just taking so much away from you. And as a kid I used to visit Jimmy.  He was in prison a lot.  He was in prison a lot. And you know growing up in the hood people think going to prison is almost being a celebrity. It is sort of praised like that. You know like if you look at the culture of wardrobe and you know it is like people dress like they are in jail.  So did you think you were going to - like your brother was doing something cool early on...  I just...  ...When you would go visit him?  ...Thought he was - I just thought we were going to Disneyland on the weekend. Then I said like hey let us go. Let us roll. Let us ride. He is like I cannot go nowhere. He was smiling. You know like I cannot go. I am locked up. I cannot leave. And that is when I looked at everybody in the family like he is not a celebrity. He is locked up. He cannot - who wants to be here? There is too many dudes here for me.    Children home with no fathers and they do not even know why. Mother cannot explain it - the family visits that is all we are seeing.  You have said over the years that even though you have gone through some really tough things you do not have to wear it on your sleeve.  On your sleeve.  And your music was not about it. But now you are not just wearing it on your sleeve. I mean you are...  It is about it.  You are naming an album it is all about it. Like what is - what has happened that makes you just want to use music now to confront that?  I did not know that I was doing it at first. You know I just was in a dark space myself you know? Like maybe like in - once I left Tony! Toni! Tone! in '97 I was introduced to ecstasy to pills right? And I would never done a drug. And the first time I take it you know nothing happened. Next time boom like I was flying in the air you know? And then I thought about my brothers and my mother who had already lost four kids. I looked at my friend and said man you know what? - threw everything on the ground smashed it up and say bro I do not want you to have to call my mother and say she found me dead. They have suffered enough. And I do not want to have to call your parents and tell them that I found you dead. And that was the end of that.  You were close. I mean you could have gone down that...  I could have went...  ...That road.  ...Down the other road. Who knows what chemical make you react a different way that you just go and it is just that is it. That is why the record sounds dark. I some really dark moments myself. And that is sort of how my life has been. When you see me up there is like a really dark filter over me sometime because I did not really get that chance to - you know to just hang out with the bros and just kind of like you know share what I do. You know I get to play all over the world. And I just thought it would have been really nice and to like you know just to just have a IPA with all my brothers you know?  Raphael Saadiq it is real real pleasure talking to you.  And you too. Thank you.  Thanks a lot for coming in.  Definitely.    I have been good and I have been bad in every way.   On my walk.  Raphael Saadiq. His new album is called Jimmy Lee and it is out today. 