  Time for StoryCorps. Martha Escutia and Marina Jimenez are cousins. Growing up in East LA they lived in awe of their grandfather who everyone called Papu. He came from Mexico during World War II as part of the Bracero Program the largest guest worker program in U.S. history. Papu was small in stature but to Martha and Marina he was a giant.  My grandfather's name was Ricardo Ovilla. But the kids in the block only knew him as Papu.  He was very dark-skinned and incredibly strong for his size.  He had very large hands you know the hands of a worker.  I always picture him in his Dickies work pants dancing along to the marimba.  He also had like a twinkle in his eye. I remember him looking like Winnie the Pooh.   But I never understood how Papu endeared himself to so many of my friends. I would see them talking. And then I would think to myself he does not speak English. And they do not speak Spanish. So how are they doing this?  I knew he knew how to curse in English. I heard him one time cuss at somebody over the fence calling him a son of a veechee.   When Papu would talk to us it was like a king holding his court. He lived for seeing the kids laugh. I think because he suffered so much to come to this country he never wanted us to experience any of that.  And thank God that his humor allowed him to bear a lot of indignities. When he came here as a Bracero he had to take these showers with some kind of disinfectant. But he would say ah you know they disinfected me to make sure I did not have the lice - los piojos - the head lice. So to him it was just a joke. You know he traveled all over the country picking sugar beets or laying down a railroad track in Oregon. When he was in Montana he was denied food because they would not give food to Mexicans.  My grandfather hid those ugly memories.  But even though he became a citizen his fear of being deported never dissipated. He would always wear his passport in his shirt pocket. And I told him you know do not do that. You cannot be walking around to the supermarket with your passport. And he told me he would carry the passport because he was afraid that people are not going to believe me a dark-skinned man is a U.S. citizen. You know what can you say to that? He died in 1999. And I am just grateful that he is not alive to see today because it would scare him even more. That passport was a shield for him. Though when he passed away at the open casket I put his passport in his shirt pocket. And then I remember I ordered it closed. I do not think that you need a passport to get to heaven but just in case you know just in case.  Martha Escutia with her cousin Marina Jimenez. They remember their late grandfather over StoryCorps Connect. Their interview is part of American Pathways StoryCorps's new effort to collect stories of immigrants. 