 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am David Greene. There is a lot of speculation today about the future of Apple. Yesterday CEO Steve Jobs resigned. Jobs has been struggling with a rare form of pancreatic cancer. It is hard to think of another person who is shaped our relationship with technology more completely than Steve Jobs. Even if you do not have an Apple product the computer or phone that you do have is likely to have been designed in response to the Macintosh or perhaps the iPhone and it has been Steve Jobs personally who is introduced Apple's new products.  Mr.  Today I am incredibly please to introduce iMac...iPod is an MP3 music player.  Mr.  iPhone...  Mr.  Today Apple is going to reinvent the phone... And we call it the iPad.   Joining us to talk now about Steve Jobs' departure and what it might mean for Apple is NPR's Laura Sydell. Good morning Laura.  Good morning.  So Jobs offers his resignation in a letter. Tell us what he had to say.  It was actually a very sad letter. Jobs wrote that he always said that if there came a day when he could no longer meet his duties and the expectations as Apple's CEO he said I would be the first to let you know and he went on and said unfortunately that day has come. Some of my sources inside Apple say they were not surprised when the announcement came because even though he has been out on sick leave at other times he would show up he would be around he has not been around at all apparently in recent weeks. Folks there have been pretty much told to carry on and not speculate too much. In his letter he advised the board to make Tim Cook the new CEO and they have followed his advice.  And what do we know about Tim Cook?  Well he is been at the company over 12 years and he became the chief operating officer back in 2004. In recent years Jobs has taken several medical leaves to deal with the pancreatic cancer and Cook has run the company and in 2009 under Cook's leadership when Jobs was out the company did incredibly well. It had two stellar quarters. So he is done a good job when Jobs has not been there. He is a logistics guy. So Cook is the one who is done things like develop a more efficient supply chain for Apple products. He is known to be a very calm guy which is actually really good I am told for working with Steve Jobs who actually is a very temperamental personality.  Well you say Steve Jobs has not been seen around the company recently but he really has been the face of Apple. I mean everyone knows his black turtleneck and the blue jeans when we see the announcements on television. And personality is so important in business. I mean can Tim Cook really fill those shoes?  You know the truth is I do not know that anybody can fill Steve Jobs' shoes. Steve Jobs may be one of the greatest CEOs to have ever lived. I mean he is just - he is amazing. He is charismatic he is done incredible things he took Apple from the brink of bankruptcy and brought it back and has turned it into one of the most valuable companies in the world. But here's the thing about Tim Cook. He is actually part of a hand-picked team that Steve Jobs has developed himself. So it is not him alone. It is Jony Ive who is head of the design team and is responsible for many of these beautiful designs that we see on Apple products Phil Schiller who heads marketing and apparently Schiller is the one who was down yesterday talking to everybody and read Steve Jobs' letter to the staff there. And right now Apple's got a line of products going through 2015. So they are set up and hopefully this team will be able to carry through. And remember Steve is not exactly leaving. He is no longer the CEO. He will be chair of the board so chances are he will still be involved. Apparently he talks to Tim Cook every day and we will see how that goes. He is traditionally been a very hands-on CEO. This is going to be a very different kind of role for him but fill his shoes? I do not know that anybody can do that.  And we should say that Apple's not just a gadget company. I mean we all know they run iTunes which is the biggest music retailer in the country. You say their long-term plan's already in place that Steve Jobs has laid out but can a program like that really run on autopilot?  Well you know he was back. In June he actually made an announcement that there will be a new what will be called Cloud Storage for iTunes. What this means is essentially you will be able to store your music and your movies online and access them from anywhere. So yes there seems to be a plan moving forward. But here's the thing about Steve Jobs. This is the guy who took all of the record companies who were afraid of the digital space he got them all together and got them to join up on iTunes. And he is probably been working as well with some of the film companies and the other content providers. As we move forward in this space as more and more people go to the Web go online for their movies their film their music it is getting more and more competitive. So down the line if we do not have a Steve Jobs to go and to talk to the content providers someone who has his charisma it is hard to say where all that is gonna go. It is gonna be a very rapidly changing universe and whether there is someone inside Apple who can navigate those waters I do not know.  Laura thank you.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Laura Sydell in San Francisco. 