 Ari good morning.  Good morning Steve.  So we heard some of the criticisms there in David's piece. Deficit hawks say this bill does not do as much as they would like to reduce the long- term deficit long-term debts. People on the left say it is not going to really help the economy or joblessness.  Mm-hmm.  What are people thinking at the White House?  And also this does not create any good will within the president's own party. As we heard Democrats in Congress are referring to this deal as bizarre as evil in one case as a Satan sandwich.  OK. So some harsh language there but you just mentioned some of the larger concepts - tax reform changing Medicare and the way that that is billed in the way that is paid. There are ideas here that people on both sides seemed close to signing onto and can they plausibly again? Could some of these larger proposals still be alive?  So it is not going to be an easy negotiation but both sides have a real incentive to reach a deal because the alternative if they do not reach a deal which is dramatic cuts in both domestic and defense spending that is something that neither party wants or is willing to tolerate.  Well does that make is not it December 23rd when this committee's recommendations are supposed to be voted on? That is going to become another crisis point here or could become another crisis point.  The good news if you can call it that is that the threat of a government shutdown at least is not as disastrous as a threat of the U.S. government defaulting on its debts and getting a credit downgrade. But these issues are in no way gone. They are going to keep playing out in the weeks and months ahead.  Okay so we have got this compromise. Most of the effects reducing the deficit are in the future several years out out to a decade out. Are people at the White House now Ari talking about things that they could do to deal with the weak economy now do with this Congress?  I think you can expect to see the push for Congress to act on these things grow in volume now that the debt ceiling crisis has been averted.  Ari thanks very much.  You are welcome. 