 Kanye West fans have been patiently waiting for the release of his new album Donda named after his mother who passed away in 2007. But in true Kanye fashion after three missed release dates multiple listening parties and even moving into a stadium to finish the project still no Donda. Our colleague A Martinez talked to Elamin Abdelmahmoud a culture writer for BuzzFeed News.  This album was supposed to come out in late May. What happened?   Well what happened is Kanye happened. The typical workings of Kanye West have happened. So Kanye and his camp set up this big listening party at the Mercedes-Benz Arena  in Atlanta. And they said OK this is the day that the album's coming out. Kanye came out. And he played what sounded like an album. And then the album did not come out. Instead what actually happened is Kanye moved in. So he moved into the arena. And he has been living there supposedly to complete this record. We got another listening party on August 5. This time a much more complete product we heard. It sounded closer to maybe being released - and still no release.  Now I realize it is probably difficult to critique an album that has not officially been released.  .  You know songs sometimes are put in a specific order where things make sense. There is a narrative. But based on what you have heard so far what is your impression of the album?  I - listen Kanye is making absolutely some of the best music that he is made in about a decade. It is just a beautiful beautiful record. At this point I have to wonder if the delay is not a part of the process itself. I mean if you are making an album about grieving your mother does it not make sense for you to very publicly say I am not sure I am ready to put out this album 'ecause I am not sure I am ready to acknowledge that this has happened? It is not even a metaphor at this point. It is like how could Donda the album be finished if you are having a hard time acknowledging that Donda the person is finished? But I will tell you this - there is no other artist in history who might miss a deadline and then people go well maybe that is part of the point. Like this is something that - this is the kind of grace that people I think grant to Kanye that they maybe not other artists.  One more thing on this - there is a lot of people Elamin that dipped out when he told TMZ about slavery sounding like a choice or when he aligned himself with former President Trump.  Yes.  ...And the MAGA movement. I mean what do you say to those people who have dipped out maybe permanently and do not want anything to do with him anymore because of that?  I would never tell anybody that is a wrong position to take. But I would say you know what? - the couple months - maybe it was a month after the slavery is a choice comment at TMZ happened. Kanye West was on radio in Chicago. And he talked about how during that period of time he was abandoned by a lot of really close people in his life. And he was going through this really difficult period. And he broke down crying on the air. And he said look if I had those people around me that would not have happened because I had built my life in such a way that those people would have stepped in and said no Kanye you are going through something and you need to go through it publicly. This is a person who has openly talked about his mental health issues openly talked about his bipolar disorder and openly talked about his struggles with taking Lexapro for example. I mean listen we are free to assess all the parts that he makes public because that is what we do with an artist. But it does get a little bit messy when we assume that the mental health part does not play a part in this at all.  Elamin Abdelmahmoud is culture writer for BuzzFeed News. Elamin thank you very much.  Thanks for having me.    He is done miracles on me. 