 This is PR News. Good morning. I am David Greene.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Having sidestepped a storm in the Gulf the Republican Convention begins a day late in Tampa. Organizers are hoping to give the public a better feel for a presidential candidate that many have been reluctant to embrace.  Mitt Romney faces a historic opportunity a chance to battle an incumbent president burdened by a slow economic recovery. His challenge throughout this campaign has been generating enthusiasm for himself. Surveys show well over 40 percent of Americans have an unfavorable view of the Republican nominee.  President Obama's favorable numbers tend to be higher. Now to learn what the Republican campaign plans to do now we talked with Governor Romney's political director Rich Beeson who is at the convention.   What do you think the public is missing so far about Mitt Romney that you would like them to know?  Well it is not so much what they are missing right now as it is as much as what the Obama campaign has been saying. I mean you have got hundreds of millions of dollars of TV ads well over 99 percent of all of the television ads that the Obama campaign have run have been negative. So that is what people are seeing and hearing out there. And I think as this convention progresses and America is introduced to Governor Romney and his family I think you are going to see people liking what they see and what they hear.  But how do you counter that? Because that what you just described is the reality of politics negative ads.  Well again I think that is what the convention is designed to do is to introduce the governor and his family to the voters. Then you will have three very well watched debates where they will get to see him and hear him and that cuts through. Those things cut through the clutter and all of the noise of 30-second attack ads.  As this campaign has evolved have you begun concluding that just criticizing the president's performance on the economy will not be sufficient to win that you have to do other things as well and send out other messages as well?  Well we have been doing other things. I mean we you know when we talk about all of the attack ads that the Obama campaign has run you know we have been out there with Day One ads talking about in specific states what Governor Romney would do on day one if he were elected president. But certainly President Obama does need to be held accountable 23 million Americans out of work three million who have just given up hope of finding a job you know a president who is been hostile to people who create jobs and gutting welfare reforms.  What have you thought when some commentators have looked at some of the ads which you have been running that accuse President Obama of gutting work requirements? A fact-checking organization PolitiFact - which is based in Florida where you are - called this pants-on-fire false and the ad has continued. Why keep running that ad?  Well you have got nine governors who have sent letters to President Obama saying we do not want to waive the work requirement. So they can parse it out how they like and if you know we can have a policy discussion with the - over the policy of it. But as far as just the political reality of it it does take out the work requirement.  Does not the change mean that the governors can choose or can apply to change the work requirement as opposed to being forced to remove it?  Well again that still is a change. So...  But it is not quote they just send you your check which is what the ad says.   I think reasonable people can have a disagreement over this but he has significantly changed what President Clinton put in in 1996.  Educate me a little bit here on the electoral map. In how many states will this election be decided this fall as you see it?  Well it is still a wide-open map. In fact it is more wide-open than I have seen it in a long time. When we are talking about a state like Wisconsin being in play it is a state Republicans have not won since 1984 when Ronald Reagan won every state but one. So that is a pretty significant development and it was in play before we named Congressman Ryan to the ticket. Another state that you need to look at is Iowa. You know it is a state that launched Barack Obama in the Iowa caucuses. It voted for him. He won by nine points in 2008 and right now it is a tossup.  Can you win this election without the state you are in now without winning Florida?  Yes. There - the Obama campaign has just over 300 past the 270 electoral votes. We have just under 300 past 270 electoral votes. Now certainly...  What do you mean - excuse me - what you mean by 300 past? You mean different ways to do the math?  Different ways to do the math.  OK. All right.  Yeah.  Go on.  So you never want to say that one state is absolutely critical to a win. Obviously Florida is a very important state to us but there are other paths to 270.  One other thing Rich Beeson You are looking at this campaign from the inside. Countless people are trying to analyze it from the outside. As you have read the analysis on this campaign what is something that you think people do not quite understand do not get?  Oh...   ...that is a tough question.  We have got an hour if you have got time.   No. I you know I just think it is sort of the - how close this race really is that it is within the margin of error in virtually every target state and I think it will stay that way until folks hear from each of the candidates in the debates. And the great thing about this race is is there is a very clear difference in the two candidates. They each have very very stark differences in how they will approach the economy putting people back to work strengthening the middle class. There is not going to be a blurring of the lines between the two candidates. There will be very very clear differences.  Well Rich Beeson thanks very much for taking the time to talk with us. I appreciate it.  Yes sir. Thank you for having me on.  He is national political director for the Romney campaign giving there what he described to us as his first radio interview. 