 Here's a number tough number to contemplate - student loan debt surpassed 1.2 billion this year second only to the country's mortgage debt. That is become an issue for both Republicans and Democrats in the presidential race. Yesterday Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton rolled out a proposal to make it possible for students to attend public colleges without taking on debt. The price tag? 350 billion over 10 years. For more on how this might work we turn now to Anya Kamenetz of NPR's ED team. Good morning.  Good morning Renee.  What are the highlights?  So as you mentioned you know we have got 1.2 trillion dollars of student loan debt and Clinton wants to create a debt-free path to a four-year college degree at public universities around the country. And on top of that she is talking about tuition-free community college and a number of changes to the student loan program.  Now that is pretty ambitious. How is she proposing to get all this done?  Well that is a really good question. I mean obviously she has to get elected first and then convince Congress. And then after that the federal government does not really have direct authority over public institutions. That really belongs to the states so what Clinton's team is proposing is essentially a system of incentive grants that would go to states that in-turn would hand them to institutions that agree to do certain things like lowering the cost of attendance or actually eliminating tuition when it comes to community colleges.  Does that mean then that colleges or states might say well they would prefer to keep raising tuition rather than cut it?  Well that is exactly right. You know tuition has been increasing it currently makes up nearly half the revenue that public colleges are collecting these days. And you know to be fair it is a pretty difficult undertaking to try to serve working-class or middle-class students raise graduation rates and bend the cost curve all at the same time. And that is exactly what this plan is asking states and institutions to do.  And what about the changes to the student loan program? That is something that the federal government controls.  That is exactly right. So with student debt Clinton is adopting proposals that have been advocated by progressives and folks like Senator Elizabeth Warren for years. And that includes cutting all the interest rates on student loan debts so that the federal government does not collect revenue from that program and also allowing more people to refinance at new cheaper rates and making it easier and simpler for borrowers to enroll in something called income-based repayment. That is an existing program that is underutilized that ties your loan payments to your income to make it a lot more affordable.  So are you saying that with this plan - I mean you mentioned Senator Warren - Clinton is responding to the ideas that have been put forward on the left?  Well you know it is interesting. There are ideas in here from Bernie Sanders from Martin O'Malley. At the same time Senator Marco Rubio who is vying for the Republican nomination has put forward a lot of ideas similar to this including a bill in Congress that would enroll every student borrower in an income-based plan. So there really is some convergence here and recognition I think from all major candidates that college affordability is important and it is something that is top of mind.  Thanks for joining us.  Thank you so much Renee.  Anya Kamenetz is part of NPR's ED team. 