 Our next story on vision is the result of something that happens all the time to reporters. You run across something really interesting but you just cannot fit it into your story. This happened to NPR's Joe Palca when he was in Boston working on his series on invention called Joe's Big Idea. Joe and his producer Rebecca Davis found themselves in the office of the people who make artificial eyes. Joe tells us more.  Actually this is not Joe. It is Rebecca. Joe gets squeamish when he has to talk about eyes. He says it is something to do with eye surgery he had when he was a small child. So I am going to jump in in when things get what Joe calls icky.  And I promise we will not get too icky because I cannot handle it. Anyway we were in Boston to tell the story of a young boy named Noah Shaw. He was born with a rare eye cancer called retinoblastoma. And as part of his treatment he had to have his eye removed. Well that surgery was five years ago. Noah is now a healthy 6-year-old and wearing a false eye is normal for him no big deal. But because he is still growing he has to get a new eye made from time to time.  So we got to go with Noah and his parents for the fitting and the thing that surprised both of us if you remember was about the shape of that artificial eye.  Yeah I mean I think everybody I know and certainly I did thought that a fake eye would be round.  That is only in the movies when it rolls down the planks.  That is Joyce Jahrling. She is one of four Jahrlings at Jahrling Ocularists in Boston. These fake eyes are actually small curved bits of plastic kind of like a contact lens and they are slipped under the eyelids of the missing eye - that is how it is held in place.  And watching the Jahrlings make these prosthetics as they are officially known is really like watching an artist at work.  I am actually making my own acrylic paints. This is a raw plastic.  That is Eric Jahrling Joyce's brother. He is using a fine brush to paint what looks like a near-perfect replica of Noah's existing eye.  So when he is done at the workbench he calls Noah over. E.  Try not to spill any chocolate milk on it.  Before I can get to work Noah has a question.  Do you have eyes?  Do I have what? N.  Eyes?  Yes I do. E.  OK. Let us take a look at your face mister. I think you need a little bit more gold in there.  Eric takes the eye back to his workbench and he is got a bit more painting to do. He wants to make the pupil a little bigger he wants to add some tiny red threads that'ill look like blood vessels. Now the way they know how to make the right size piece of plastic for Noah is one of those things I cannot talk about.  OK. I will step in. So at an earlier appointment Eric's sister Joyce Jahrling took a mold of Noah's actual socket where his eye used to be. J.  I usually do the impression of the eye socket like they take impressions of your mouth - same gel no flavor but you do not gag.  So Eric's done touching up the eye and Joyce Jahrling comes over to see how it looks on Noah. J.  How is that feel? N.  Good. J.  Let me see. Let me see. Chin way up there. Not bad.  Now I know this stuff can make you so uncomfortable Joe that I was really surprised you asked Joyce how do you take that eye back out again?  Yeah. I was pretty proud of myself. J.  You could use your fingers to take it out. You have a suction cup - or we even say the third method is the wooden mallet to the back of the head .  We heard a lot of that kind of dark humor when doing this story - especially from Noah's parents.  Oh that is so true. Bryan and Elizabeth Shaw have these amazing stories about things that happen when your child has a fake eye.  So one of the most common things when we got the first eye is sometimes it would rotate 100 degrees and so the pupil would be looking like it was staring down below the lid further than you could normally even move your eye. And it would just look creepy. It would look way creepier than if they eye was even gone.  Bryan calls that the zombie rotation. And they also told us that Noah got really good at taking his eye out. B.  He would always take it out when he first got it and chew on it.  And he used to play this little game with his mom and dad. They would put him down for bed. Then they would leave the room and a few minutes later Noah would take his eye out and throw it on the ground. It sounded like an MM hitting the hardwood floors. And then of course mom and dad would go rushing back into the room which would make Noah terribly happy.  And then there was the time that Noah took his eye out when they were on a city bus.  And I did not realize it until after I got off the bus and looked at him and I was like oh my gosh your eye is gone. B.  She put an ad on Craigslist too. It said - lost prosthetic eye - and then she put in parentheses it is not a sphere. And she held up a picture like the old one. E.  I put up a picture of what it looked like. Finally I called the MBTA Mass Transit and I said I think my son's eye might be on your bus.  A few days later the mass transit folks knocked on Liz's door and said excuse me madam is this yours?  OK. Joe now I want to tell you about some of the weird ways that people lose their eyes. I have looked this up little bit.  No.  There is some interesting history here.  No.  Like the 1850s there is a farmer.  No no.  The knitting needle.  No no no no. That is enough. Thank you we are done.  NPR's squeamish Joe Palca and also Rebecca Davis learning more about artificial eyes. 