 This is PR News. Good morning. I am David Greene.  And I am Renee Montagne. Today in Your Health our health policy correspondent Julie Rovner answers more of your questions about the Affordable Care Act the new law better known as Obamacare. First though the importance and difficulty of getting younger people to buy health insurance. That group have come to be called the Young Invincibles because they think they are invincible that they will not get sick or in an accident. But for the new law to work it needs the healthiest Americans to sign up for coverage. Minnesota Public Radio's Elizabeth Stawicki reports.  Twenty-four-year-old Robert Bauer blond wavy haired and lean looks the picture of health. A 2011 graduate of the University of Minnesota he works in organic farm fields three days a week and prides himself on eating well. But he does not have health insurance.  I do not think it is worth the money for me to get health insurance at this point  Bauer is healthy. He exercises. He does not go to the doctor that often. So he really just is not that concerned about health insurance.  I guess I do not worry that much about it. It is just the mentality of that-could not-happen-to-me.  It is this kind of attitude that is one of the biggest challenges for the Affordable Care Act. Getting young healthy people to sign up for coverage is critical to keep rates affordable for everyone. Karen Pollitz is with the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. She says on average adults in their 20s tend to use less health care than people in their 60s. So we should be actively encouraging young people to sign up. Instead we systematically uninsured them.  We kick them off our policy as soon as they graduate from high school or college. We kick them off of Medicaid on their 19th birthday. So they lose their dependent status just as they reach adulthood but before typically they are able to find a job that provides good health benefits.  That is changed a little since the Affordable Care Act now allows children to stay on their parents' policy until age 26. But that does not help young people such as Bauer whose mother is uninsured and whose father is on disability. Minnesota is one of a few states building its own online insurance marketplace called MNsure. MNsure's executive director April Todd-Malmlov says Minnesota will target young adults in two ways in the social media they use such as Twitter and Facebook and the messages themselves.  What really appeals to that younger age group is both affordability - so they feel they just cannot afford it - and also communicating the value of insurance and how valuable it is to have that insurance and why you need it.  Robert Bauer may get health coverage after all. He will be attending graduate school at Virginia Tech to study plant and soil science where he says insurance will cost him 200 a year in out-of-pocket costs. Bauer says he can afford that. After all it is only about 100 more than the penalty he would have to pay if he chose not to get insurance. For NPR News I am Elizabeth Stawicki in St. Paul.  And that story was produced as part of a collaboration between NPR MPR News and Kaiser Health News. 