 NPR's Cheryl Corley is on the case.  The bar the fictional private eye Michael Kelly frequents is on Chicago's Northside. And like any good detective hangout the dim lights and backroom give just a hint of noir atmosphere. But this neighborhood joint is a bit more upscale. And at this hour just a few people sit at the polished wood bar.   The bartender fills a few glasses with ice and booze and then draws a pint of Guinness.  We are at the Hidden Shamrock in the Lincoln Park area of Chicago.  That is Michael Harvey the author of the Michael Kelly series. He is a co-owner of the Hidden Shamrock. He has pale-blue eyes tousled hair and a hint of a gruff beard. On one of the walls of the bar hangs a large framed poster of a boxer.  That is Charlie Kelly who was my great-great-uncle. And he was a boxer in New England I am originally from Boston. And his father was Michael Kelly and that is who the character's named after. So there is a little bit of Kelly on the walls and there is a lot of Kelly in all of the little nooks and crannies of the Hidden Shamrock.  The detective - a former Chicago cop according to the storyline - shows up at the bar to meet with a client or just to nurse a drink at least once in each of Harvey's four novels. He is an Irish scrapper a hardboiled but sensitive investigator who like the author reads the works of Greek poets like Aeschylus and Homer - his epic The Iliad is on Kelly's bookshelf and hidden behind it a gun. Michael Harvey has studied classical languages for much of his life.  These guys are some of the greatest observers of the human condition that Western civilization has ever known. And what do they talk about? Aeschylus and Sophocles all these guys they talk about murder rape incest greed jealousy power revenge - all the stuff of a crime novel.  The more modern-day crimes that Michael Kelly investigates takes him to all parts of Chicago. Those travels says Harvey further the plot. But they also give readers a glimpse of the city that the author has come to love.  I came here right when I got out of law school. And I did not want to go back to Boston did not really want to go to New York - mostly because I was from Boston. So I came out here to interview for a couple of law firms and I remember reading something Oprah Winfrey said which resonates with me When I got here I just felt like I belonged here.  So private eye Kelly meets clients in bars and restaurants as he tracks down suspects finds murder victims and shoots it out with the bad guys leading readers to areas popular and obscure from Chicago's touristy Navy Pier to drug-ravaged areas of the West Side to the opulent Gold Coast down into the city's subway tunnels or on the tracks of Chicago's elevated train.   Michael Harvey reads from The Third Rail.   Fifteen more seconds and he needed to move. He gripped the gun in his pocket and walked back toward the entrance to the L platform. A dark-eyed woman was putting on lipstick and standing by the stairs - her bad luck. He moved closer and snuck a look down the stairwell no one coming up. More bad luck for her.   Randolph and Wabash is next.  So what is the fascination with the L? Or is this just a really signature part of Chicago?  It really is a signature part of Chicago. It fit into the books for a lot of reasons - first of all because it stretches from the north to the south and the east and the west and connects all different parts of the city. And then the other thing about the L and public transportation was I knew that I wanted to get into the whole issue of biological weapons and possibly using them to attack a city. And public transportation in Chicago would be the L. It would be a prime place where that might happen.  Do not want to give people ideas.  They have ideas way before I do.   So if I am getting them they are probably like third- or fourth-hand.   But Harvey's contact with cops prosecutors and criminals comes first- hand. As an investigative reporter he interviewed John Wayne Gacy who murdered 33 teenagers and young men. Harvey and journalist Bill Kurtis would go on to create the Cold Case Files a TV show about the forensics of homicides. The two discussed their early collaboration.  It was right after O.J. and no one really knew very much about DNA and how forensics was changing the face of homicide investigations - except we were because we were out doing investigative reports. And so we would talk to the police and the prosecutors every day. And we would see how forensics was quickly coming online and changing everything.  We called it a cold case file and it kind of picked up and then...   ...went far beyond what we were doing. Think of the rich reservoir that he has to pull from and the detail that he is able to add.  At its fundamental level it is about storytelling. All of the experiences that I have had in the field inform the intangibles of the books - you know how cops talk to each other. You know how a crime scene works how an investigation works what it is like inside a prison. You can write about them in fiction but if you have been there you have a huge advantage.   Michael Harvey and I end our day at North Avenue Beach where hundreds of sunbathers stretch out on the nearby sand. The water sparkles and the city's skyline is etched perfectly against a clear sky as we stand near the running path. Investigator Kelly comes here often.  He runs - basically up and down the lakefront. I mean it is one of the great places to run I think in the country really. Spectacular views and great running paths. And so he gets out there and runs his five to seven miles up and down the lakefront. It is a wonderful thing and it is a great way again in the books to put Kelly in a different environment something that maybe people know about or do not know about about this part of the city. And he can meet all kinds of people while he is running or just be thinking or gives you an opportunity to paint another landscape of the city.  Cheryl Corley NPR News Chicago.   From NPR News this is MORNING EDITION. 