 NPR's Julie McCarthy is in Pakistan's southern province of Sindh and reports on the children and new mothers suffering from the flood.  There are new arrivals at the camps every day.   The U.N. estimates that three and a half million victims of Pakistan's floods are children. In the makeshift settlements that have sprung up around Sukkor children are the principle patients filling up the makeshift clinics. Their ailments range from skin disease to malnutrition to diarrhea. Ayesha is among the lucky ones - she was vaccinated for polio and T.B. shortly after being born.   A local medical team bustles around the beautiful raven-haired infant squealing in the blistering heat beneath a kaki green tent. She is the fourth child of a young illiterate mother who does not know her age. That is not uncommon. Nor is it uncommon for girls to marry by age 14 and have many children by the time they reach twenty-five. Dr. Sahibjan Badar guesses Ayesha's mother Jenna is in her mid-twenties. She sees many like Jenna Rashid - malnourished and overworked.  In the whole of the day they are working as a farmer...  Yeah.  ...under the sun under the heat and when they go back to their homes it does not have good food. Because of that they look like - they are 30 years of age the woman looks like they are 50 and the 40 looks like they are 60.  And can you tell us how long you have been in this camp?      Ten days.    She is saying that we does not have anything we lost everything. Only we came here with our street clothes.  You came with the clothes on your back.  Yeah.  Doctor I wondered if you could explain how this flood really is helping expose...  Yeah.  ...the poverty of rural Pakistan. The baby comes into the world totally challenged.  Challenged. Of course they are totally challenged. And we are counseling them - that please you had the kids before now you can go for the family planning. Please you do not produce more children. I talk to your husband - please be careful because she lost her health - why are you producing more children?  South of Sukkur just outside the city of Larkana the churning Indus River is eating away the Embankment.   Around-the-clock effort is underway to reinforce the crumbling mud and stone barrier. Five hundred trucks are lined up loaded with tons of stones ready to fortify the embankment. The top administrator of the District of Larkana Syed Hasan Naqvi says there is much to protect in the historic city of the same name. It is the ancestral home of the slain former prime minister Benazir Bhutto and the site of ruins of the ancient civilization that took root along the Indus River 5000 ago.  Larkana has a rich history rich agriculture. It has famous ruins and monuments of Moenjo Daro and the Indus passes through it throughout a length of 53 kilometers. That makes Larkana a very prominent place.  Julie McCarthy NPR News Larkana 