 President Trump says the country already has strong background checks for gun purchases. He told reporters Tuesday that the real gun safety issue is mental health. This is a reversal of tone from just a few weeks ago when after the mass shootings in Gilroy Calif. El Paso and Dayton the president indicated he would support expanding background checks. I want to bring in NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith to talk this through with us. Hi Tam.  Good morning.  So why the change of heart from the president?  Well the president has been talking to a lot of people. Among those people - Wayne LaPierre from the National Rifle Association who after speaking with President Trump yesterday tweeted approvingly about the call saying Trump is a strong Second Amendment president. At the White House yesterday Trump was asked by reporters where he really stands on background checks because earlier he had said he wanted strong background checks now he is saying something very different.   We have very very strong background checks right now. But we have sort of missing areas and areas that do not complete the whole circle. And we are looking at different things. And I have to tell you that it is a mental problem and I have said it a hundred times - it is not the gun that pulls the trigger it is the person that pulls the trigger. These are sick people and it is also that kind of a problem.  So just to spell this out that is very much in line with National Rifle Association talking points. And if it was not clear enough from that Trump was later asked well what about a couple of background check bills that have passed the House that would close some of the deficiencies in the background check system? And this is what Trump ended up saying.   A lot of the people that put me where I am are strong believers in the Second Amendment and I am also. And we have to be very careful about that. You know they call it the slippery slope and all of a sudden everything gets taken away. We are not going to let that happen.  Trump really does believe - and I think it is accurate to say - that the NRA and its members were an important part of his base.  But Tam as I said after those recent mass shootings I mean it looked like there was a lot of momentum including from the president around you know new solutions. You have Senator Mitch McConnell saying there is going to be a debate on gun control when Congress returns from the August recess. How does the president's change of heart potentially affect all of that?  Well we have seen this movie before. President Trump has in the past taken a strong position saying even he wanted universal background checks only to reverse later to stop talking about it to get quiet. Here's the thing - this sort of legislation is only going to pass in the Senate which is controlled by Republicans if the Republican president gives them cover if he takes the lead on it. And if he is not taking the lead on it it is almost impossible for something like that to make it through the Senate.  NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith. Thank you Tam.  You are welcome. 