 Some encouraging health news now. There is evidence that we have reached a turning point in the childhood obesity epidemic. A new report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has found a dip in obesity among low-income preschoolers across 18 states and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Here's NPR's Allison Aubrey.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has been quick to frame the dip in childhood obesity as a turning point. Before there were only suggestions - hints really - that efforts to turn around the epidemic were beginning to take root. Now there is evidence of small declines in obesity rates among very young children in many parts of the country. Here's CDC Director Tom Frieden.  We are really encouraged that 19 states show significant decreases. We are beginning to see the scales tip in a more favorable more healthy direction.  There is still a lot to do here Frieden says. But he thinks more Americans are getting the message that we need to eat better and exercise more.  And that is beginning to sink in especially at the youngest ages. And that is so important because kids who are obese are five times more likely to be obese as adults.  Frieden points to lots of factors likely contributing to the downward trend in child obesity rates - everything from community-based wellness initiatives to increases in the number of women breast-feeding and improved access to fresh food especially for those enrolled in the Women Infants and Children federal assistance program known as WIC.  There have been dramatic - and very good - changes in policies in the WIC program. So WIC foods are healthier and stores that carry WIC foods are carrying more healthy foods.  Now it is important to realize that childhood obesity is still a serious epidemic says pediatrician Stephen Pont. He chairs the American Academy of Pediatrics' section on obesity. And he says while it is encouraging to see dips in obesity among young children in many states... DR.  There are still 30-plus states and territories where we have not seen a reduction in the rates of childhood obesity. And that should inspire us to continue our work because there is so much more to be done.  Pont says where he practices -  in the Austin Texas area - lots of the low-income families he works with still face big obstacles to making healthy choices. Take for instance getting enough physical activity. Pont says it can be tough if you live in a neighborhood with lots of crime.  Absolutely. If a parent is working and it is either a single-parent home or both parents are working families are not inclined to let their children play outdoors because they are scared about their safety. They know that their child is safe if they are indoors playing video games.  One solution is for schools to encourage more physical activity. And Sam Kass who directs the firstlady Michelle Obama's Let us Move Campaign says this is happening.  We are seeing tremendous leadership - from states to school districts and individual schools - of trying to find innovative ways to get our kids moving either before during or after school.  Kass says there is still a long way to go here. But he also says it is also important not to lose sight of the progress being made. He sees the new data pointing to reductions in childhood obesity as a watershed moment.  We are seeing broad change and a shift where basically you have the entire country either coming down or flatlined.  And after decades of increases Kass says this shift in the right direction suggests that as a country we are on the right track. Allison Aubrey NPR News. 