 Rats - they have plagued cities for centuries. But as Isaiah Thompson from member station WGBH reports some cities are turning to an innovative method to help keep the rodents away.  It is a steamy summer day. John Stellberger is standing by a reeking dumpster staring at a series of fist-sized holes pockmarking the ground - rat boroughs.  So they come out. They climb up. They climb these. Yeah it smells the food. There is plenty of fresh stuff in here.  Stellberger calls himself an environmental health specialist. He does not like to use the word exterminator. But part of Stellberger's job is to kill rats.  And then they are - so look at all the droppings.  Oh yeah. Stellberger is pouring white chalky pellets into a borough hole. I just saw one.  Someone come out? Oh cool.  Yeah. It just ran under the dumpster. He is using dry ice the same you might find chilling a cocktail. Dry ice is just carbon dioxide. Exposed to air it becomes CO2 gas - and in a tiny confined space like a rat borough lethal. The rats asphyxiate.  Quite frankly this is the good thing because it is a very humane thing. The rats simply go into a kind of a sleep. And they simply do not wake up.  Urban rodentologist Bobby Corrigan advises cities on rodent control. He says dry ice is safer than poison. A couple of years ago Boston one of the top rodent-infested cities in the country started using dry ice. So did New York D.C. and Chicago. But then the Environmental Protection Agency ordered them to stop saying dry ice was not an approved pesticide. Since then the EPA has approved only one company's product called Rat Ice. It is just dry ice. But now Stellberger has to drive 20 miles to buy EPA-approved rat ice and pays three times more. Still he says it is a step in the right direction. After all the real solution is not about killing rats. He says it is about getting humans to be less well messy.  You know I have done work for towns where some of the neighbors are blaming the town for something that is not their fault. It is you know - it is them. You know it is their litter.  Stellberger likes to say that rat problems are really human problems. And dry ice will not solve those. For NPR News I am Isaiah Thompson in Boston.  