 This is PR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am David Greene. Good morning. In the Middle East peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians have been frozen for almost two years now. But Palestinians warn that the situation on the ground is far from quiet. They point to a recent military order to evacuate and demolish over half a dozen Palestinian communities in the Hebron Hills in the occupied West Bank. Palestinians worry it is a sign that Israel is taking advantage of the current lack of negotiations. NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro reports from Hebron.     Ismael el-Adrah is 67 years old living in a collection of tin-roofed shacks tents and concrete homes are also his four wives his 33 children and 150 sheep.   Scattered nearby are other villages similar to this one all of them under threat of evacuation and demolition.   This area has been the property of my family since Ottoman times Ismael says. We breed sheep and farm. Our livelihood is here he says.  Israeli military though says it needs the area for a firing range and it is pushing to get the villagers out through the Israeli courts. But Palestinians say the fight is not just over this one piece of land. It is a much broader battle they say. The communities lie in what is known as Area C. The Oslo peace accords of 1993 divided the West Bank into three sections pending a final settlement of the conflict. Area C is under full Israeli administrative and security control. It is also the largest comprising some 60 percent of the territory. While Israel restricts Palestinian building and residents in Area C most of the Jewish settlements in the West Bank are located there. Abdul Aziz Abu Fanar works in the nearby Hebron municipal center of Yatta.    The Israeli actions in Area C indicate strongly that they want to annex it he says. It is a suspicion that has only been fueled by recent statements from right-wing leaders in Israel who have come out publicly in support of such a plan. Naftali Bennett is a former adviser to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and an advocate of the settlements.  The idea is to apply Israeli sovereignty and law on the Israeli-controlled areas so it becomes Israel. The Israeli-controlled areas become effectively Israel which is what happened in Jerusalem various neighborhoods what happened in the Golan Heights.  So far it is a fringe view that has not gained mainstream support in Israel. Dan Meridor is Israel's deputy prime minister. He dismisses any allegations that Israel will unilaterally annex any part of the West Bank which he calls by its biblical name of Judea and Samaria.  There is no policy of annexing any part of Judea and Samaria. It is 45 years with the exception of Jerusalem we did not annex one inch. Never did we do that. Not only this we agreed to the paradigm of a Palestinian state living alongside Israel as a final agreement.  In fact in court documents Israel claims it is the Palestinians who are trying to create facts on the ground in Area C. It says with the support of the Palestinian Authority and the international community Palestinians are moving people into and building structures in Area C in contravention of the Oslo Accords. Yossi Beilin was one of the architects of the Oslo peace accords. A former left-wing Israeli politician and now an analyst he says actually Israel has no need to formally annex Area C and incur the wrath of the international community.  We are building there. We are announcing universities there. I mean there is no problem whatsoever for any Israeli to move freely in Area C and to do whatever he or she wants to do there. Why bother and make it an official annexation if de facto it is an annexation?  And that say some Palestinians is exactly what is happening.    Back in the Hebron hills farmer Ismael El-Adrah says despite the pending court case over his land the Israeli army is trying to make his life impossible so that he will leave of his own accord. There is just one unpaved road that leads to his homestead. It is how his children get to school and his only way to get into town. As we are leaving Israeli army vehicles block our way. So we are just driving away from the village of Bir al-Aid and we have actually come across a military bulldozer. And they are setting up big concrete blocks across the road so that the villagers cannot actually come in or out using it. And then the Israeli soldier tells us we have to leave as this is now a closed military area. Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News. 