 National law enforcement officials have had an awkward few days. You see they are part of President Trump's administration. And last week in a speech the president asked police to be a little rougher with criminal suspects. The acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration sent a memo saying the president condoned misconduct and the DEA does not saying agents should quote act honorably. The same episode loomed over a speech yesterday by Attorney General Jeff Sessions to black law enforcement officials. Here's Stephannie Stokes from our member station WABE in Atlanta.  When Attorney General Jeff Sessions walked into the Atlanta hotel ballroom the reception was professional polite. Sessions spoke to members of the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives and lamented the damage crime does to struggling neighborhoods.   So that is not right. Regardless of wealth or race every American deserves to live without the constant fear of violence into their lives.  The attorney general then asked the association to partner with him to fight this crime and build community trust.   We have your back. You have our thanks. God bless you all.  Many in the audience stood up and applauded Sessions' remarks. But the reception was a little less warm when Sessions headed into a closed-door discussion with leaders of the organization because of President Trump's comments last week to law enforcement officers in Long Island.   I said please do not be too nice. Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you are protecting their head - you know the way you put their hand over - like do not hit their head. And they have just killed somebody. Do not hit their head. I said you could take the hand away OK?   It was heard around the country by the very communities that we are trying to build relationships with. And I believe it had an impact.  That is association President Perry Tarrant speaking in a press conference after meeting with Sessions. His group confronted the attorney general about the president's off-the-cuff statement. He says it goes against what they stand for - fair and equal treatment.   So we have to take this opportunity to underscore the value of civil rights and the requirement of all law enforcement to behave professionally and protect everyone's civil rights whether they are in custody or not.  A Department of Justice spokesperson would not comment about the closed-door meeting. The White House has said the president's remark was a joke. But Tarrant says the attorney general was receptive to his group's concerns. And members of the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives say they are open to working with the Trump administration so long as it treats all people in the correct way. For NPR News I am Stephannie Stokes in Atlanta. 