 In the next few minutes we are going to enter the world of roller derby. Unidentified Woman All right Los Angeles I got one question for you Are you ready for roller derby action?   We are. And our guide is a voice you have heard on NPR reporter Alex Cohen. Public radio reporter by day that is. By night for several years Alex Cohen was known exclusively by her derby name Axles of Evil. On a recent morning Alex welcomed us to a giant warehouse on the edge of downtown Los Angeles that was once an ice cream cone factory.  This is what is affectionately known as The Doll Factory. And there is actually if you can see a neon roller skate that when turned on is hot pink. So it is home to the Los Angeles Derby Dolls which is L.A.'s banked-track female roller derby league.  Bank track that refers to the sloped track where skaters can get going really fast which is of course at the heart of roller derby. Alex - oh excuse me Axels of Evil has written - with one-time Derby Doll Jennifer Kasey Bomber Barbee - what they call an insider's guide Down and Derby. It is a sport that Alex Cohen never expected to be part of.  I am 5'2 on a good day. I have never been athletically inclined. I was always kind of the theater and speech and debate geek. And when I started doing derby I was really amazed to see that I actually really like beating people up.   If you know one thing about roller derby you know it is rough. And Trixie Biscuit one of the Derby Dolls at a recent practice is proud to be one of the roughest. Ms. K.T.  I am a bigger skater than a lot that you would see. I have always been a bruiser. You know I was the catcher on the softball team that you know go ahead. Slide into me. Try it and see where it gets you.  Trixie Biscuit is real name is K.T. Wiegman. She is a mom who came to derby in her 30's after serving as a sergeant in the Army Reserve. The way she sees it derby is her destiny. Unidentified Woman Oh gnarly block from Trixie Biscuit against Craven Cadaver who is jamming for the Arizona Derby Dames.  If anyone can be credited with inventing roller derby it is a man named Leo Seltzer. Roller skating competitions had been around since the 1880s for men. But decades later Leo Seltzer put women on skates and in short skirts and sent them on the road in his 1935 Transcontinental Roller Derby. Alex Cohen says the derby guys and gals piled into team buses with trainers announcers and trunks full of skating outfits.  It was kind of like a traveling circus. A lot of it was born out of the Depression so you had young kids who basically gave up their lives traveled the country became families with each other. I mean these were the same skaters that were building the track that they would skate on that evening. And it was just this grueling grueling endeavor. They got paid no money but it was their chance at this tiny little sliver of fame.  Over the years among the biggest crowd pleasers had been rivalries between opposite types the sweetheart and the mean girl. Jennifer Kasey Bomber Barbee says it all started with two gals back in the 1930s. Ms.  There was this woman named Gerry Murray and Gerry Murray was kind of the Betty Grable-pinup of roller derby. She was this beautiful woman and very fashionable with her scarves that she would wear. And then there was another one named Midge Toughie Brasuhn. And she was this 4'11 spitfire plumber's daughter. And both of these women you have to understand at the time they were 15 and 16 years old when they joined roller derby and - in the '30s and through the '40s when they were skating. And they had these rivalries that were amazing and the crowd loved to cheer for Gerry loved boo for Toughie.  Unidentified Man Both girls trying to get in. Here they come up the back end of the pack. Toughie knocked down.  Unidentified Man That was a fast one. Toughie Brasuhn knocked down and she is boiling.  Unidentified Man And all this partisan cheap crowd is giving Toughie a little of their opinion as she argues with the coach Buddy Atkinson. Ms.  At one game the fans were so incensed at move that Toughie had made that a woman runs up to the track and threw her baby at her.  Ms.  I mean that blows my mind. Luckily Toughie's also - very lightning-quick reflexes. She was an athlete after all and she caught the baby - thank goodness. For me that is derby in a nutshell right there. I want those kinds of fans. I do not want babies thrown at me but I like that kind of passion.  The key to the fascination with women's roller derby is its mix of bold sexuality females at their fiercest and also a certain playfulness. Those qualities come out in the derby names Georgia O'Grief Tequila Mockingbird Iron Maven Judy Gloom. The one who gets to have fun with all those names is the derby announcer. The best score points with their witty commentary. Comedian Jimmy Fallon played an announcer in the recent Drew Barrymore movie about roller derby called Whip It.  Mr.   Well our favorite Whole Foods checkout girl is about to bag her some honey. Oh ho ho. Clean up in aisle five with time left for only one more jam and the game out of reach. Smashley Simpson is out of here.   Women competing on skates first appeared in the movies back in 1946 in a short film called Roller Derby Girl. In 1972 Raquel Welch strapped on skates in Kansas City Bomber. By then derby was fading. But in the last decade derby has made a comeback. Now there are more than 17000 skaters in more than 400 leagues. Fans pack into The Doll Factory here in L.A. to see Sheila Hot Wheels Noonen and other skaters go at it. Ms.  Out here at the L.A. Derby Dolls you will get your old-school classic cars fan. You will get your punk rockers your hipsters from the neighborhood. You get this really crazy cross-section because it is this word of mouth. Like I saw this thing it was really neat and there was all this other stuff going on. You should check it out. And people show up because of that reputation or because of that allure or the mystique. And when they watch the game it is not you know an alligator pit. It is actually a very difficult and highly choreographed game. You have to work very hard for every single minute of that hour-long game. And I think that is what brings people back. Unidentified Woman Are you ready for roller derby action?  Unidentified Woman Come on Los Angeles.  If you think derby might be your destiny you can take the Am I a Derby Girl quiz at npr.org.    I am talking about roller derby...  The Insider's Guide to Roller Derby Down and Derby is by Jennifer Kasey Bomber Barbee and Alex Cohen - aka Axels of Evil. This is PR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am Steve Inskeep.   Go go roller girl. Look at that girl roll. Roller Derby saved my soul. 