 James Lee Burke joins us from the CBC in Calgary where he is on vacation. Welcome to the program.  Well thanks again for having me on your show. I appreciate it very much.  Now you took your new book which is called Rain Gods to Texas. Why?  Well one of the central characters is Hackberry Holland who narrated a novel I published in 1971. I believed I owed Hackberry an amends. His story was not quite over yet.  Hackberry Holland is a 70-year-old widower he is a reformed drunk and a recovered reformer. He spends the early morning hours watering and weeding his flowerbeds. I mean why this kind of I got to say very different biography.  Well he is. He is very interesting and unusual man. And I have written a number of novels about his family the Hollands who are based on my own family. I did not change their names.  You know there is a lot of violence in your books. I think that some of it is sort of pretty hard to take. And I thought you know when I heard that your hero was an older guy I thought that might mean that maybe he would not get so beaten so severely about the head and shoulders as Robicheaux does.  Well Hackberry of course brings to the story his own history. And he discovers this new antagonist in his life - a man who has hijacked Christianity this killer by the name of Preacher Jack Collins. Who has all the appearances of a sociopath but he has another dimension to him as well - that he is a driven man who believes he is part of a biblical drama.  This guy he is quite spectacular. I mean this man is a serious psycho. I thought maybe he seems himself as a fallen angel.  That is a good term for it. Jack sees himself as the left hand of God. He is the man who in effect brings down God's wrath on the enemies of the children of Israel. But Preacher's a very interesting man. He is the most intriguing antagonist or villain I think I have written about.  I would agree with that. You know one of the differences in Rain Gods from your other books is the country. Hackberry Holland lives in a very dry place - long views no bayous. After the very loving way that you wrote about Louisiana how do you feel about writing about these dry gulches and dry lightning and all of that - you know that long country?  Well there is something about the American Southwest that is enchanting. It is magical. And it is the correspondent of the Mideast and it is almost biblical the landscape is. And it is funny how many Texas towns have the names of ancient cities. But to me it is the perfect place to use as the backdrop for a biblical story.  Just about halfway through the book there is a description of these biblical lands that you are talking about. One of the paragraphs that we want to just ask you to read Holland talks about looking out at his property. Do you remember that?  Yes.  Do you remember that part?  He stood up from his wicker chair and leaned his shoulder against one of the lathe-turned wood posts on the porch. The sun had burned into a red spark between two hills and again he thought he smelled impending rain in the South. He wondered if all old men secretly searched for nature's rejuvenation and every tree of lightning pulsing silently inside a storm cloud and every raindrop that struck a warm surface and reminded one of how good summer could be of how valuable each day was.  So what about Hackberry Holland? Will we see him again?  Oh I think so.   Hack's a great character.  James Lee Burke - his new book is called Rain Gods. It is set in Texas. Mr. Burke joined us from way out west from Calgary in Canada. Thank you very much.  Oh thanks for having me again Linda. It is been swell. Pardon me for calling you by your first name.  You can read an excerpt of James Lee Burke's newest novel plus get more great summer reading recommendations on the new NPR.org. 