 OK Rachel it is time now for a little bit of trivia.  All right. Hit me up.  This game show host said he is thinking of retiring once his contract is up in 2020.  Ding. Who is Alex Trebek?  That is right. On Sunday Trebek talked to TMZ's Harvey Levin in an interview on Fox News' Objectified and he was asked what are the chances you will stay at Jeopardy! after 2020? And here's what he said.   Fifty-50 and a little less.  All right. So do not go panicking everyone. 2020 is still a little way's away which gives the world enough time to adjust to the thought of a Jeopardy! without Alex Trebek. He is been hosting this game show since 1966. Not this game show but shows in general. And in 2016 I talked with Trebek and he told me he appreciates the chance to host a show like Jeopardy! because he likes being around bright people.   I do not like spending time with stupid people...  .  ...And Jeopardy! puts me in touch with bright folks all the time.  Rachel can I tell you my favorite Jeopardy! moment?  Please do.  Alex Trebek meets auto-tune. Here it is.   Alex Meets Auto-Tune. You have to identify the song I am performing with technological help.  I have to try Alex Meets Auto-Tune 200.  Pay attention players.    And the child takes the nurse the child takes the nurse. Hi-ho the derry-o. The child takes the nurse. Paul.  What is The Farmer In The Dell?  Right.  OK. I am sorry. That is just creepy.  .  But as Trebek muses over a possible departure he has given us something else to look forward to. He is been floating possibilities for his replacement. Trebek listed Alex Faust announcer for the LA Kings hockey team as a possible contender. Also Laura Coates. She is a CNN legal analyst and host of The Laura Coates Show on Sirius XM.  We got Laura Coates on the phone and we asked her what would being tapped mean to you?  You would never think that somebody that you are watching and you admire and you respect in their career in what they are doing - and it is an amazing game show that I have watched my family. I love it. You would never think that somebody would see you in that position.  So we are going to be watching closely to find out what Trebek sees for the show is future. But let us end this thing Jeopardy! style.   You are listening to this program.   I am going to go with what is MORNING EDITION from NPR News? 