 She has been called the mother of country music. Maybelle Carter revolutionized how the guitar is played. And even though she is a legend among music historians she is still not as well-known as artists like Hank Williams or Jimmie Rodgers. For the series Turning The Tables NPR Music is highlighting the accomplishments of eight women who formed the foundation of American popular music. Here's Grammy-winning producer April Ledbetter.  Born in the Appalachian Mountains of southwest Virginia in 1909 Maybelle Carter grew up playing music at home and in her rural community. In 1927 her cousin Sara's husband A.P. Carter became intrigued by an ad he saw for an upcoming Victor Talking Machine recording session in Bristol Tenn. He encouraged Maybelle and Sara to take a trip with him so they could audition and possibly record songs as the Carter Family. They ended up recording six songs over two days.    Single girl single girl she is going dressed fine.  That is Sara singing and Maybelle playing guitar on Single Girl Married Girl. The records they made were distributed nationally and gave people an opportunity to hear the musical sounds of Southern Appalachia. Audiences responded well and soon there was a demand for more country music to be recorded. The sessions at Bristol would become known as the Big Bang of country music. As the popularity of the Carter Family grew so did the awareness of Maybelle's unusual guitar playing style which became known as the Carter scratch.   Before then guitar was often a background rhythm instrument. Maybelle's innovative technique involve playing a baseline while simultaneously playing chords creating the sound of multiple guitars from just one instrument. Wildwood Flower is the most famous example of this technique.   The Carter Family changed the way guitar would be used in musical groups from that point forward. Maybelle once said I never dreamed of Wildwood Flower hanging on like it has but it is really been a biscuit for us.    When I woke from my dreaming my idol was clay.  The original Carter Family recorded 292 songs. But by the mid-1930s their record sales had slowed down. Then came an opportunity to reach an even bigger audience.   Here's that original Carter Family to continue your entertainment.  Radio Station XERA in northern Mexico was reported to have a signal that could reach up the Mississippi River into Canada and as far east as Florida and New York City. The Carter Family performed there as often as 10 times a week.    Hello stranger. Put your loving hand in mine. Hello stranger. Put your loving hand in mine.  XERA was shut down by the Mexican government in early 1941. Two years later the original Carter Family stopped playing altogether. Still Maybelle had a dedication to performing and touring something that was often discouraged for women at the time. She continued until the mid-1970s. Maybelle and Sara Carter were the first women inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame. Their plaque states that the Carter Family is regarded by many as the epitome of country greatness and originators of a much copied style. For NPR News I am April Ledbetter.    I am very cold and hungry sir. My clothes are worn and thin. I wander about from place to place. My daily bread I win.  You can listen to April's handpicked playlist of Maybelle Carter's music if you go to our website nprmusic.org. 