 Were going next to Las Vegas where years of falling revenue have not stopped the casino industry from a stimulus of its own. The industry keeps building new casino hotels even though existing buildings are dying for customers. David Schwartz is following the city's latest gambles. He is director for the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada Las Vegas. He is on the line from Las Vegas. Welcome to the program. Professor  Thanks for having me Steve.  So if you go looking for new casinos or new construction along the Las Vegas Strip what do you see? Prof.  Well you are going to see a surprising amount of it. One casino called the Cosmopolitan is about to open up. It will open up in December. And we have also got a couple that have stopped building but if the word came down they would be ready to start again.  Meaning that they are half-built at this point. Prof.  Yeah. One of them is about - probably 5 percent built. That is Echelon where the Stardust used to be. The other one Fontainebleau is probably about 80 percent built. But neither of them is going to open up in the near term.  But you mentioned this one that is going forward. It is called the Cosmopolitan. It seems to be a property owned by Deutsche Bank? Prof.  Yes. Through a series of unfortunate events Deutsche Bank ended up foreclosing on the property. They had been trying to sell it to somebody -you know say an MGM Mirage or a Harrah's one of the companies that owns casinos in Las Vegas - but could not find any takers. So they ended up deciding to open it themselves.  So are they going to end up - you know you can go to a slot machine and pull the arm and you are betting on a derivative or something like that? Prof.  Yeah they might - you know that might give them something to distinguish them a little bit from everything else around them. So who - you know I would not want to rule that out.  Well there you go - distinguishing yourself. This is a situation where there is already a surplus of hotel rooms and a surplus of casinos right? Prof.  Yes. And particularly there is a surplus of high-end hotel rooms. CityCenter which is MGM Resort's new development just opened. And that has some very expensive very high-end rooms costs about 8.5 billion to build. They have Las Vegas' first Mandarin Oriental Hotel which is pretty pricey and the Aria Resorts which was designed by Cesar Pelli - is also pretty expensive. So you have Cosmopolitan also trying to come in at this really high-end price point which may cause maybe not the best results.  Now the number of visitors to Las Vegas has finally crept up a tiny bit after declining for years right? Prof.  Yes. It has. The number of visitors is up maybe about 1.5 to 2 percent. The problem is that the number of hotel rooms is already up by about 6 percent because of all the additions. So if you do the math there there is still a lot of empty rooms. So there is still definitely a need to have even more people come even though the number of visitors is up.  Does this mean I can get a bargain on a hotel room? Prof.  Yeah. It absolutely does. You know you look at a place like Aria which those rooms were probably supposed to go for about 250 a night midweek and people are getting deals as low as 100 a night midweek.  So if prices are down because the supply is far exceeding the demand at this point what would keep people continuing to build more hotel rooms more casinos? Prof.  Well I think in the case of the Cosmo it is that they were just so far along in the process they felt that basically opening it would be cutting their losses. They have got this thing. They have already invested billions in it and having it just sitting there is not going to help them at all. So they figure if they open it at least they will get some revenue coming in.  So is there any sense of optimism as the number of hotel rooms expands even more in Las Vegas? Prof.  Well I think really it is kind of in the DNA of Las Vegas that when a new hotel opens up this is kind of the dawn of a new millennium -no matter what is going on you know. And this is going all the way back to the '40s. So whenever a new casino opens up there is this belief that this is going to be the salvation of the city and it is going to turn everything around. You know whether that actually happens you know nobody can say. But I think there is still definitely some hope that it will happen. 
 Now is there also increasing competition from overseas? 
Prof.  There is a lot more competition from overseas now especially in Asia. Macau is now the world's biggest gaming destination. This year they are going to make about 20 billion in gambling from 33 casinos which is about twice what they are going to make in Nevada from about 333 casinos. So really Macau is a much bigger gaming destination than Las Vegas today. 
 David Schwartz is director of the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada Las Vegas. 
Thanks very much. 
Prof.  Thanks for having me. 
 
Mr.   Viva Las Vegas. Viva Las Vegas. Viva Las Vegas. Viva viva Las Vegas. 
 This is NPR News. 
Copyright  2010 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information.
NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm Inc. an NPR contractor and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPRs programming is the audio record. Prof.  Well I think really it is kind of in the DNA of Las Vegas that when a new hotel opens up this is kind of the dawn of a new millennium -no matter what is going on you know. And this is going all the way back to the '40s. So whenever a new casino opens up there is this belief that this is going to be the salvation of the city and it is going to turn everything around. You know whether that actually happens you know nobody can say. But I think there is still definitely some hope that it will happen.  Now is there also increasing competition from overseas? Prof.  There is a lot more competition from overseas now especially in Asia. Macau is now the world's biggest gaming destination. This year they are going to make about 20 billion in gambling from 33 casinos which is about twice what they are going to make in Nevada from about 333 casinos. So really Macau is a much bigger gaming destination than Las Vegas today.  David Schwartz is director of the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada Las Vegas. Thanks very much. Prof.  Thanks for having me.  Mr.   Viva Las Vegas. Viva Las Vegas. Viva Las Vegas. Viva viva Las Vegas.  This is NPR News. 