 Let us here more now about reports that a leader of Pakistan's Taliban fighters was killed in a U.S. air strike. This is a developing story and sources are difficult to verify. But NPR senior defense correspondent Mary Louise Kelly has been sorting through what is known so far. Hi Mary Louise.  Good morning Steve.  So what do you know?  What we know that the reports we are tracking about Baitullah Mehsud. He is the leader of Pakistan's Taliban. He has been considered the number one security threat in Pakistan in these past couple of years. The reports are - we know that there was some sort of missile strike which thought to be by a CIA drone on the house of his father-in-law one of his father-in-laws. We had had reports within the past couple of days that perhaps one his wives had been killed. And then as of yesterday increasing certainty coming out of Pakistan these are Pakistani Taliban leaders who are seeing this Pakistani government official saying with some certainty that they believe he was killed. Now U.S. officials we should say not quite so far out there in terms of certainty. They are still waiting on some sort of physical evidence DNA evidence a body - that would prove this.  And when you talk about getting evidence we already have a sense of how difficult this would be. This is a situation where the U.S. government is not formally acknowledging that it is firing missiles in Pakistan.  Exactly.  The Pakistani government does not like the practice and certainly does not like to talk about the practice of firing these missiles. And they are fired into remote areas near the border with Afghanistan - hard to access.  And in this case we are talking about - it looks like south Waziristan. This is one of Pakistan's seven tribal agency where the Pakistani security forces do not have a lot of control and freedom of movements. So what they are trying to sort out today as we hear via reports from the region that Taliban leaders have set up some sort of security perimeter around the strike area. And there are real questions in terms of trying to get to the body and produce some sort of DNA evidence that he has in fact been killed.  Setting up a security parameter would seem to imply that they think something is there or that they would like the rest of the world to think something is there in any event.  Absolutely. And also suggests the importance of his role within this movement. What we know about him as we say he is apparently in his late 30s believed to be born around 1972. And he has really been seen as the driving force behind a lot of the attacks inside Pakistan. He - Pakistani and U.S. intelligence officials believed that he was behind for example the assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. He denied that but what is certain is that he was behind a lot of violent attacks and that worryingly for U.S. officials he had increasingly turned his sight on U.S. targets.  And we should emphasize this Pakistani Taliban group is considered to be separate from various Afghan Taliban groups that we hear about.  Right although there are close links. We know that there are connections between Baitullah Mehsud's Pakistani Taliban group and the al-Qaida network that operates out of that region for example. He at this point had focused primarily on Pakistani targets but as I say he had increasingly talked about wanting to set his sights on U.S. and NATO targets for example across the border in Afghanistan. He had also talked about wanting to attack the U.S. homeland and that was something that defense and intelligence officials here in the U.S. had paid attention had taken seriously but had expressed a great deal of skepticism over whether his group at that point - at this point - is able to attack so far from home.  Very briefly you have covered a number of these kinds of missile strikes over the years. Do we usually find out if the target is killed in the end or is it always a little uncertainly?  Eventually but again chatter is one thing Internet talk rooms are one thing. Officials are following this very closely. Until they get DNA evidence you never know 100 percent.  Mary Louise thanks very much.  You are welcome.  That is NPR senior defense correspondent Mary Louise Kelly giving us an update today on news out of Pakistan from some sources that Baitullah Mehsud the leader of Pakistan's Taliban movement may have been killed - still looking for confirmation. It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 