 As Americans continue to tighten their budget they have found some old-fashioned ways to cut costs like using cloth diapers instead of disposable ones. A company called Everything Birth offers diaper parties to convince parents that cloth diapers are not as icky as they might think. They even offer stylish designs. Everything Birth is one of the fastest growing suppliers of cloth. But as Patty Wight reports it is finding it hard to get a loan to expand that small company further.  The cloth diapers of today have a lot going for them.In are Velcro and snaps out are finger-pricking pins.In are a snug fit and dozens of cute styles out is the bulky white blob. But one enduring question remains Ms.  The first question I always get is what do you do about the poop. What do you do about the poop?  That is Christy Reed.She is one of 75 diaper party reps across the country for the Maine-based birthing supply company Everything Birth. Today she is at a party in Augusta Maine for nine friends with about as many babies and toddlers in tow.Some are here as cloth diaper enthusiasts.Others use disposables like Shannon Ferran.She is pregnant with her second baby and says she needs a boost of confidence to make the switch. Ms.  My fears are how time-consuming is it and cleaning them and will my husband be able to use them? That is a huge fear of mine as well.  First Reed highlights one of cloth's best selling points cost. To cloth diaper one baby from birth to potty it will put you back around 500 if you wash the diapers yourself.You will spend around 2500 if you go with disposables.Those savings are creating a new demand that reaches beyond cloth's environmental appeal. Ms.  I am definitely finding we are getting contacted more by people who would not have necessarily even used cloth but did because of financial reasons.  Crystal White runs Everything Birth out of her home in Falmouth Maine. Her garage warehouse is an obstacle course of baby supply boxes. Ms.  It is just - in one year this has exploded.  Let me just see if I need to grab that.   White started diaper parties five years ago after customers lamented a lack of places to touch and feel cloth diapers firsthand. For four years one party kit traveled across the country to curious parents and their friends. Ms.  And then about a year ago the phone was ringing ringing ringing.  Diaper parties got a mention in Parenting magazine and suddenly cloth was re-introduced to a more mainstream population.What was cost-savings for consumers translated into booming business for White.Last year her cloth diaper sales grew 300 percent and this year they are on track to grow even more. Do you think the recession has actually helped your business? Ms.  I do. It is kind of crazy to say that but yeah it definitely has.  But the recession made it harder to expand in other ways.Last summer White tried to get a loan to move to a larger location.She went to ten banks and the only way she could get a loan was to put up personal collateral.But after ten years of running a successful company White did not think she should need to do that. Ms.  I went to you know the bank where I have my business account.And I am like look I have had my bank account with you all these years there is never been a problem. You know I had one banker who was very honest. He was just we do not risk on small businesses anymore. We just do not.  The cushion from the loan would have also allowed White to hire more staff and offer benefits. Right now she can only afford to hire contract workers.Those plans will have to wait while White funds the move herself. She is banking as much as she can from diaper parties. Unidentified Woman  So now the decision is Velcro or snaps? Unidentified Woman  I know. That is a tough decision to make.  Most moms order at least a few diapers including Shannon Ferran. She is sold on the economics.It is that poop question she is still unsure about. Party rep Christy Reed assures it is as easy as a quick shake in the toilet and a pre-rinse setting on the washer. For NPR news I am Patty Wight.   This is NPR News. 