 And David we should mention for people who are not familiar that when you are not here in the studio with us you are our correspondent in Moscow.  And I took the author first to this lovely garden. It was full of music and children eating cotton candy.   We are at the Hermitage Gardens. It is very un-Child 44 this music.  This city - the parks and the gardens - can be so pleasant and these faces...  That is what I - yeah when I drove in from the airport past one of the parks you know there was a real sense of people enjoying the sun and very beautiful quite big very green. And I think that must have been the relief I think from the claustrophobia must have been in the parks. It is why I do not have any scenes in parks maybe in my books.   Claustrophobia was an important part the...  Yeah I guess you know here - as soon as you move into outside space - I guess you start feeling more relaxed.  And Tom Rob Smith does not want you to relax. Fear is what makes you keep turning the pages of his books. We follow his protagonist government agent Leo Demidov into the darkest corners of the Soviet Union the gulags torture chambers...   ...and in Moscow to underground subway stations like this one. If Smith's characters are fictional his settings are largely realistic still today.   A gust of warm air blew down the crowded platform. The train was approaching. As everyone turned to watch Leo caught sight of a man looking in the opposite direction away from the oncoming train directly at him. Leo had never seen him before but he knew immediately this man was a fellow Chekist a state security operative. There was a second agent on the platform   To capture details like that warm rush of air Smith researched a lot. The 31- year-old author lives in London. His only previous visit to Moscow was a 1997 high school trip years before deciding to write these books. And so amazingly his portrayal of Moscow life came from reading. He did visit other locations to write his novels but not Moscow. And while he does not advise authors to do it that way he said spending too much time researching a place in person can distract you from your plot.  Because you take such copious notes when you are there. You take enormous amount of detail you video it you photograph it. And so you get back to your desk and you are like I have got all this information. I know exactly what everything looks like. And you pile it all in and then you cut that all out because you have really got to follow the story.   When his story brings us through Moscow we are not taken to the Kremlin or to the city's colorful Orthodox churches. Instead Smith captures how hard life was for citizens in the '50s. And on this visit he wanted a taste for everyday life today.  Yeah you see people queuing for a bank here. There would have been queues for shops food shops in the '50s. and that is where the story is really set with extraordinary pressures but we are not really exploring the people taking those high level decisions. We are exploring the effect on people who live around here - the people we see now.  Life is pleasant today for Muscovites who have money. It is become one of the most expensive cities in the world with uppity boutiques and fancy hotel lobbies with pianos and 15 cappuccinos. We escaped that side of Moscow.   So if we do it Moscow-style we just wave down an old Russian car. And...  OK.  ...make a price and he can take us around.   OK.  A real tour of this city does mean riding in an old Russian Lada.   Unidentified Man  All these fancy stores and expensive restaurants they are not for ordinary people.  We packed into the car with our translator Sergei Sotnikov. Our author crammed in the backseat listened as our driver talked about his grandfather being arrested in 1939. He had been ordered to relocate and work on a collective farm and he refused. Our driver's grandfather was tortured and died.   Because I think he says that the prison was somewhere in Siberia.  Unidentified Man   And Tom Rob Smith saw how the Moscow that filled the pages of his books is still alive in peoples' memories.  That was really strange it was strange to feel that now and imagine that must have just been everyone's reaction back then.  Smith wrote about the brownish building how the top level has no windows just a small clock - as he wrote - that gazes over the city like a beady eye.   There was no chance you could be found innocent inside these walls. It was an assembly line of guilt. Perhaps Lubyanka had not been constructed with fear in mind but fear had taken over all the same.  And fear was the weapon used by Agent Leo Demidov. Smith's character had blood on his hands the blood of innocent men and women who may have been arrested simply for having lunch with the wrong people or writing the wrong words in a diary. In Soviet times they might have ended up here at Lubyanka.    Leo did not know the precise execution capacity but the numbers were high up to several hundred a day. At those levels practical considerations such as how easily and quickly human remains could be cleaned away became an issue.  In Smith's novels Leo battles for redemption always reminding himself that he became a Soviet agent because he loved his country.  'ecause you are not dealing with someone who is villainous. You are dealing with a hero in a sense who is had his heroism put in this strange directions that made him do these terrible things. As a journey for him he has to try and overcome that. He has to think how do I put right the wrongs I have done. And that to me such struggling against the mistakes you have made is very interesting as a literary character I think.  And maybe that is what makes Moscow interesting as a city. Like Leo Moscow is on a journey to find a new identity and forget its dark past.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am David Greene.  And I am Steve Inskeep. 