 This summer three movies each it made over 1 billion worldwide. They were all sequels from major franchises Harry Potter Transformers and Pirates of the Caribbean. For the movie industry generally though it is anything but high times. Attendance is down. DVD sales continued to drop sharply and a high-profile project the adaptation of Stephen King's The Dark Tower with big movie makers Ron Howard and Brian Grazer was jettisoned by a studio fearful of what it would cost. Reporter Kim Masters covers the entertainment industry for The Hollywood Reporter. And she is here in our studios at NPR West to talk about the movie industry. Morning Kim.  Good morning Renee.  Give us a break down of the summer box office so far. It is a time when studios count traditionally in the summer on making a lot of money.  Okay Renee. Well what we are looking at is a paradox because what is happened is this summer - after a sluggish beginning to the year - has really done great numbers at the box office. The problem is the pictures are doing those numbers but fewer people are going to the movies and that is a troubling trend one of several troubling trends. As you mentioned DVD sales are way down. Three-D ticket prices are not impressing at least in America. They are doing well overseas. But here people are showing a marked preference for 2-D. People are arguing in the industry amongst themselves. Why? Is it because the movies are bad? Is it because the ticket prices are too high? Is it both? So this is a very troubled time for the movie industry even though box office for the summer is up.  Yes. As we just said three movies made a billion dollars worldwide. I mean how could that be?  Well of course these three movies as you pointed out are all sequels. And none of them is in their first bloom. Obviously Harry Potter is finished. Shia LeBouef claims he will not make another Transformers. Pirates of the Caribbean they will probably squeeze out one more. But the studios are desperately looking for some new franchises to create that giant flood of money that these movies - expensive as they are - tend to generate.  Do they the studios have anything in the works to replace those aging franchises?  Well what you have seen this summer is a bunch of a sort of reboots or re-introductions of superheroes Thor Captain America Green Lantern. These are all attempts to launch a new franchise. Now Green Lantern is one of the disasters of the summer - big loser for Warner Brothers. They are so eager to make this work. They are still - despite tens of millions of dollars of losses on that movie - talking about a sequel just to see if they cannot get it right. The rest of them - X-Men Thor Captain America - they did fine - steady but not great.  There have been some surprising bright spots at the box office. I am thinking here of the comedy Bridesmaids which was an I think unexpected hit.  Yes Bridesmaids and the biggest R-rated comedy of all time Hangover 2. So you are going to see a lot of those I think in the future the studios especially probably trying to bring in the women. They are going to try and repeat that success. So you are looking at a world where the studios are dealing with men in tights and raunchy comedies.  And what the odd movie like Woody Allen's Midnight in Paris which was a huge success.  It was a huge success in relative terms. You notice there are not a lot of smart movies for grown-ups to talk about this summer Renee and that is not surprising. You know I was talking to an executive at Warner Brothers which made Crazy Stupid Love which is probably a movie for smart people. And he was saying how he had hoped after - you know with the Black Swan did so well and King's Speech did so well and The Fighter did so well - he was hoping there would be a bigger move toward these movies for grown-ups. But made Crazy Stupid Love did not do that well. And he sort of...   He pleaded he wants to take chances on these movies but people need to go those movies. And people who are going to those movies tend to hang back and not go in the first weekend and that does not help them.  Kim thanks very much.  Thank you Renee.  Kim Masters hosts THE BUSINESS on member station KCRW. 