 Our colleague Scott Simon remembers the moment that he and his wife decided to adopt. Scott and Caroline Simon traveled twice to China to bring back children. In his new book Baby We Were Meant for Each Other the Saturday host of NPR's WEEKEND EDITION says they decided to adopt after struggling to conceive.  We would both been around the world. We would both seen different places. We had - we would both been in places where there were a lot of children who would been abandoned and we just looked at each other and said why are we doing this? There are children in the world now who need our love and we sure need them.  This really is an emotional choice that you make. If you made a rational - if you had a rational thought process about it if you tried to consider it as a business decision you would not really do it. It is something you do because you want to do it.  It is an emotional choice. And for some people adoption is just something that will - that they think will never work with them and so they decide not to do it - all of that being said I would like to open that door for people. It is difficult time-consuming and expensive to adopt a child in this country whether it is - whether you adopt internationally as my wife and I did whether you adopt domestically may I say as your family did.  Mm-hmm.  As your parents did.  My parents did. Yes.  And because of that for a lot of people the assisted fertility industry is just an obvious alternative of that. That being said look the instinct to adopt to take children into our lives is I think practically as old as childbirth.  How much did you think about the fact in advance that the baby you were going to adopt from China was going to be a Chinese baby?  You know we knew it but I cannot say we thought about it much. And we certainly did not think about it - we went to China to get both of our little girls. We want to travel back to China every few years so they can get a chance to see the country up close as they grow up. But all of that being said it is a feature of their personality. It is I think not the defining trait of our relationship.  You write that somebody asked your wife Do you feel guilty for taking your daughters away from their native culture?  Yeah - a very learned woman who we like a lot who is a friend of the family. And my wife just answered No not really. I think I would have had a tougher time holding my tongue. And that is because - when we talk about ethnicity we say Chinese. To someone who is Chinese that is not necessarily their ethnicity. There're almost one hundred ethnicities that are living in China. So in a sense we do not really know their ethnicity so we should not get I think too preoccupied with it. One of my favorite vignettes that I have in the book is about Martin Simon who is the son of the late Paul Simon senator from Illinois - no relation to me alas - and Jean Simon who grew up with - it appeared on his birth certificate that he was Native American. And he grew up - his father was an influential member of the Senate Subcommittee on Native American Affairs. He deliberately ...  Deliberately - I know I have got a - yeah. Got an adopted son.  And people of his high school friends would look at him and say you know Martin he is part Cherokee. And people would say yeah. Yeah. You can tell when you look at him. And you might see where this story is going. Years later he is 28 years old. He meets his birth mother who is only 15 years older than him. They are talking and reaching out to each other and enjoying getting to know each other. But as he said to me she looked just about as Native American as Diana Princess of Wales. And he finally said to her how we are Indian? And she said Indian? He said yes. On my birth certificate it says Native American. And she said oh they asked me what we were and I said we are all American.   And he said you know I spent all that time going to powwows. I mean he felt Native American. He did not feel Scandinavian which turns out to be his ethnic heritage. But I think the point of that firstly is the power of suggestion. He said all of those years nobody ever looked at him and said come on now. You are not American Indian. And I think it is also an instruction to us to not invest too much of our identity in ethnicity.  You are kids must be getting to that age - if they have not practically always been in it - when they start asking you awkward questions about everything. What are some of the hardest questions you have heard from your kids?  Oh the hardest question I have heard is from our seven-year-old daughter Elise who says Why did my mother give up? And that is a rough one.   I am sorry. As you know I get this way when I talk about my children.  It is okay.  That is a rough one because she is old enough to understand that she was given up by a woman who when we tell her you are mother loved you and she wanted to take care of you for the rest of your life and she wanted to be a mother to you but she just could not. Yet it is hard I think for a seven-year-old to understand - how do you explain China's one-child policy? How do you explain...  The bias towards that one child being a boy rather than a girl.  Exactly yeah. How do you really explain that? She also - you know children tend not to be metaphorical the way we are. They are literal. So she asks - because we have told her the story that we know that she was left in front of a light bulb factory. And she says - she asks Was I cold?  Oh.  And well we say no you were not. Your mother wrapped you up before she put you there on the sidewalk pretty confident that you would be discovered by someone who would help you. So she wrapped you up. But you know I think to a degree I really respect in both of our youngsters - and it is audible now with Elise. They are comfortable with being adopted. There is no way that we are going to be able to spare them the sting and the hurt of feeling that at some point there was someone who gave them up no matter how many times we explain your mother loved you no matter how many times we explained that we are grateful for the courage your mother had to even bear you in China. I do not think we can spare her the hurt. But you know we learn from hurts in life do not we? You know? We put something over them and we keep on going. And I think our two daughters are going to be very strong in part because of that. I do not think they are going to be broken by that.  Scott Simon's latest book is called Baby We Were Meant for Each Other. Scott thanks.  Thank you.   Visit Scott's family here at NPR.org. It is PR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Linda Wertheimer. 