 All right. He is big. He is blue. And now he is binge-able . He is the Tick a cult favorite parody superhero. Tomorrow 10 episodes of a new Tick television series debut on Amazon. NPR's Glen Weldon says it is a familiar sort of superhero story but is told in a very different way.   The Tick's been around since 1986. And he is bungled his way through comics a Saturday morning cartoon and a short-lived live-action series in 2001. Here's what you need to know going into the new series. The Tick is a superhero in a city called The City. Played by Peter Serafinowicz he is a mountain of muscle in a bright blue costume topped by two very expressive antennae which bend and curl like the ears of a Doberman. No you are right. Real ticks are not blue and they do not have antennae. But just go with it. As for his super powers he sums them up nicely to his would-be sidekick in the first episode.    I am a superhero Arthur. I am nigh invulnerable. I have the reflexes of an Olympic-level jungle cat. I have the strength of 10 perhaps 20 men - a crowded bus stop of men. But my greatest power is this - when destiny speaks she speaks to me. She says hi by the way.  He is got skills sure. But he is not a thinker.    Oh I always let destiny do the melon work friend. Thought is not my area of expertise. Goodness no .  The thinking gets done by that nebbishy sidekick Arthur an anxiety-ridden accountant in a moth costume played in the new series by Griffin Newman.    I am taking my medication. I have an apartment here in The City - my own apartment you know? I have a job. I am a together person.  Through every previous iteration The Tick has really been Arthur's story told from the sidekick's perspective. The Amazon series doubles down on that by supplying Arthur with - wait for it - a tragic back story. His father was killed by an elderly supervillain played here with wheezy gusto by Jackie Earle Haley.    I have always been here because I am alive you punk living inside your pathetic little skull.  This Arthur is a guy who is living with mental illness. And the series raises the question of whether The Tick truly exists or is instead a manifestation of Arthur's id.    You are real?   Do not get stuck on trivia man. We got a tiger by the tail.  It raises that question and answers it soon enough. And I will not spoil it here. But it is not played strictly for laughs which is surprising for The Tick. Superheroes are always getting grim and gritty makeovers. And this is not that exactly. But it is less broad less silly than previous versions. It is - it is still pretty silly though.    Light against darkness up against down - a struggle as old as time but with a beat you can dance to.  As in those previous versions the series has a great time making fun of overblown superhero narration with its soaring music and tortured metaphors.    Destiny's got her hand way way up in their puppets. It is an unpleasant tingling the deepest of wriggles.  It takes a couple episodes for the two leads to hit upon the right chemistry. But they do find it which is really what matters because it is that chemistry that allows them to be what The Tick and Arthur need to be two hapless broken horribly overmatched heroes who come to realize that they are each other's destiny. Glen Weldon NPR News.  