 Former child actor Melissa Gilbert is running for Congress. NPR's Sam Sanders reports she is the latest in a long line of celebrities turned politicians.  Gilbert's running as a Democrat in Michigan's 8th Congressional District against first-term Republican Mike Bishop. It is a competitive seat. President Obama won it in '08 but Republican Mitt Romney did in 2012.   You might know Gilbert as Laura Ingalls on Little House On The Prairie. Little Laura grew up on America's TV screens in the '70s and '80s from childhood to parenthood.    Laura what are you doing?   You are not going to believe it.   What?   I am going to have a baby.   A baby?  .   Woo hoo.  Gilbert could join a long list. There is Cooter The Dukes Of Hazzard.    Crazy Cooter coming at you. Anybody home on the Hazzard net?  Real name Ben Jones. He served two terms in Congress from Georgia's 4th District. And there is this guy.    I got you babe. I got you babe.  Sonny Bono of Sonny and Cher fame. Bono was mayor of Palm Springs Calif. and a longtime House member. Nathan Gonzales is the editor of The Rothenberg And Gonzales Political Report. And he says Gilbert might have a tough time.  If we were to look at any candidate in the country and say OK this person just moved there two years ago. They have over 300000 in tax problems we would normally dismiss that type of candidate.  Yeah Gilbert is not actually from Michigan but her husband is. And she does owe more than 360000 in back taxes. Once you run the political scrutiny can be tough. And Gonzales says Gilbert's star power is not all that.  Little House On The Prairie it is been decades since the show has been on.  But Lara Bergthold says it can be done. She works for an advocacy firm called RALLY and has helped a lot of celebrities working in politics.  Good politicians are good communicators. And maybe a leg up that actors have is the ability to communicate to the voters.  Bergthold admits it is a different type of communication.  It is a different thing to communicate your policy proposals than it is to read a script.  Melissa Gilbert would not talk to us. But we did hear from Matt Thornton a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. To those who say actors have no business running for office...  .  What do you say to that?  Ask Ronald Reagan how that worked out.  Before he was president one of Reagan's first forays into politics was his stint as president of the Screen Actors Guild. Melissa Gilbert as it turns out has served as SAG president as well. Sam Sanders NPR News. 