 John McChesney visited the restaurant and sent this report.  When you pull up in front of Buck's in the rural but very rich village of Woodside there is nothing to suggest that this is one of the most important business venues in the country. A small white sign on an unassuming one-story redwood building is all that announces the place. But inside the story is different.   The place is packed on a Thursday morning and many tables bristle with laptops and iPhones. That is appropriate says owner Jamis MacNiven because Buck's was one of the first public WiFi hotspots in the nation.  Thursday is sort of a peak day. Partners' meetings are on Monday and Friday everybody takes a three-day weekend so...   Gordon Haight and his sometime-business partner Danny Essindi are meeting over breakfast. Haight casts a seasoned eye over the room.  This is an investor and I need to take the call. Excuse me.  People are lined up for seats and the place is humming with conversations. MacNiven is pleased.  It is after 9 and we are still full which is good for us. A year ago it started to really drop off. We did see a lot of people running for cover but everybody seems to be back.  Dave Coglizer a venture capitalist who invests in clean technology has been coming here for years. He says a year ago a lot of fear was holding back investments.  But for the last six months or so we see a lot more activity see a lot of great business plans and see a lot more promise for the future in the overall markets.  Opened in 1991 Buck's rise as a deal-making diner coincided with the rise of the Internet in the 1990s. And according to MacNiven his restaurant has some serious bragging rights.  Hotmail was founded right here. Netscape had their early meetings in the back room. Tesla was founded here. PayPal got funded here.  Stanford students Jerry Yang and David Filo pitched Yahoo here in 1994. MacNiven chortles as he recalls the hapless venture capitalist who turned them down.  You guys ready to order?  I will do the Woodsider omelet please.  On its surface Buck's seems an unlikely venue for serious business. The dress code is dress-down. A suit and a tie stand out here like a sore thumb. And the place is a riot of color incited by an eclectic collection of - well stuff hanging on the walls and from the ceiling.  Up here we have a chair used to train Ham the chimpanzee to go into outer space and we have a Soviet space suit up there. I went to Russia to get that.  And then there is MacNiven himself decked out in custom-made screamingly loud shirts irreverently seating his customers.  Gentlemen can I get you a table? Here well...  Great.  Sit down shut up and order the most expensive thing on the menu.  Oh I can do that. I would like a nice fillet. The last fillets have been so bad. I would like one that is edible this time.   Oh no.  Can you give me one that is edible?  We will go open a can now.   So how does MacNiven know that things are looking up?  I noticed that one of my waitresses is driving a Bentley. I think that is a sign of good times.   Is that a fact? Not really he says.  Yeah.  For NPR News I am John McChesney. 