 We have just under a month left in this decade so we have been asking artists about their favorite art of the past 10 years. Here are Jeremiah Fraites and Wesley Schultz of The Lumineers talking about their favorite albums of the past decade. And you are going to hear Jeremiah Fraites talk first.  There is this amazing second album by Bleachers Gone Now.  Yeah Jack Antonoff - he is amazing.  There is just a bunch of songs in this whole album that is very different. And it was - I thought it was really cool to see him you know go from that really big band fun. and then to break away and to see - oh wow.    Woke up I am in the in-between honey. One foot out and I know the weight is coming.  He writes for Taylor Swift and a bunch of other you know A-list Top 40 people. And then this album is equally catchy but in a much - I would say much more nourishing and long-term - like I could live with the sound for years to come.    Because I lied to you. I lied to you. I lied to your face in the summer. You had long hair then. I am singing out back.  He is not trying to reinvent the wheel. But somehow he is almost reinventing the wheel with these really subtle production moves. A really fascinating album to throw some headphones on take a walk and listen to.  I would say one of my favorite albums is called Essential Tremors. We toured with this band J. Roddy Walston and The Business.   That is been on repeat for me for years now. And he describes his music as if Randy Newman and Led Zeppelin had a baby.    White light broke back  the burden of proof. And last night you told the terminal truth. Oh who told it to you?  I really like that collision of influences. But it is - it is a type of music that you listen to where you think to yourself - how is this guy not a household name right now? And these songs are incredible. And that album it is - you put it on at a party and people always quickly ask - what is this?    In the black light - in the black light of our love.  It just grabs you. And then you put it on repeat  - for a long time.    Our love - I am seeing...  That was Wesley Schultz and Jeremiah Fraites from The Lumineers talking about their favorite albums of the decade. 