 I cannot believe how much time flies. Amazing but it has been 25 years since MORNING EDITION listeners first met a very un-merry Christmas elf named Crumpet.    I wear green velvet knickers a forest green velvet smock and a perky little hat decorated with spangles. This is my work uniform.  That is writer and humorist David Sedaris reading from his Santaland Diaries the story of his time working as a Macy's department store elf. That reading was first heard on this program back in 1992. The Santaland Diaries catapulted Sedaris into a career as a best-selling author and playwright.    I do not know that I could look anyone in the eye and exclaim - oh my goodness - I think I see Santa. Or can you close your eyes and make a very special Christmas wish? It makes one's mouth hurt to speak with such forced merriment. I think I will be a low-key sort of elf. Gosh what strikes me when I hear that is how young I sound which makes sense because I was 25 years younger then. It is like the same relationship I have to my high school yearbook picture. I mean I just see it and I wince.  .  I do not know if you recognize that laugh or not. But that laugh came from Ira Glass the host of This American Life. He actually produced the Santaland Diaries for MORNING EDITION.  So we brought Ira and David Sedaris back together to talk about recording this. Twenty-five years ago Sedaris was a struggling writer who occasionally read his work in nightclubs. Ira Glass was doing a local radio show in Chicago.  I had seen you read onstage and always had thought - from the very first time I heard you read - like oh this guy would be great on the radio.    I am going to have you fired. I had two people say that to me today. I am going to have you fired. Go ahead. Be my guest. I am wearing a green velvet costume. It does not get any worse than this. I am going to have you fired. And I want to lean over and say I am going to have you killed.  I was always intimidated to approach you to ask you to record it because so many of your early stories are from the point of view of somebody who is nice to people when they meet them...  .  ...But very mean underneath. And so I was just always a little scared of you.  Well if you say to somebody - I am going to have you killed - I mean that is one thing. But does not everybody think it? I mean  you are allowed to have wicked thoughts. Are not you? And that is always been interesting to me that people over the years have come up and said oh Santaland - you know I hate Christmas too. I love Christmas. I mean I thought it came across in the story - love it.  I remember I booked you into NPR's New York bureau to record it. And I remember listening to you read it. And it was going so well. And I remember we got to the part where you sing like Billie Holiday. And I had no idea that you were just going to like break into song and sound exactly like Billie Holiday. Like I was a pretty experienced radio producer at that point. And like - I was like this is a good one.  And so I remembered that so clearly that moment of being like what is happening? Like what is this thing?    Away in a manger no crib for a bed.  I also think that Santaland has - you have a weird relationship to it because there was a phase in your early career as a writer where that was the thing that people knew you for. And I just remember it took years for you to outrun that. And so the fact that it just reruns every year on MORNING EDITION - I do not know. You must have very mixed feelings about it.  Well I realize you are lucky if you have one thing that people appreciate. You are a lucky lucky person.  Yeah.  And I guess if you sat down and you thought about it and you thought - huh what can I write about that people would respond to? Well everybody has to deal with Christmas. And it is either going to torment you or delight you. And maybe that is why it resonated with people - because it affected everyone. But I think if I sat down to do that - if you said OK I want you to - you have got a month to write something that will touch everybody - I would not be able to come up with anything.   David Sedaris with Ira Glass. I hope this got you excited for the 25th anniversary broadcast of the Santaland Diaries which will be tomorrow right here on MORNING EDITION. 