 It would not be the holiday season without Crumpet the Elf.  Right. David Sedaris first wrote about Crumpet in his fanciful Santaland Diaries. He was a little-known writer when his story was first broadcast on MORNING EDITION. The broadcast launched a career as a best-selling writer.  And it became a holiday tradition. So here we bring you the 25th anniversary broadcast of David Sedaris as Crumpet the Elf.    I wear green velvet knickers a forest green velvet smock and a perky little hat decorated with spangles. This is my work uniform.    I have spent the last several days sitting in a crowded windowless Macy's classroom undergoing the first phases of elf training. You can be an entrance elf a water cooler elf a bridge elf train elf maze elf island elf magic window elf usher elf cash register elf or exit elf. We were given a demonstration of various positions and action acted out by returning elves who were so onstage and goofy that it made me a little sick to my stomach. I do not know that I can look anyone in the eye and exclaim oh my goodness I think I see Santa or can you close your eyes and make a very special Christmas wish? Everything these elves say seems to have an exclamation point on the end of it. It makes one's mouth hurt to speak with such forced merriment. It embarrasses me to hear people talk this way. I think I will be a low-key sort of elf. Twenty-two thousand people came to see Santa today and not all of them were well-behaved. Today I witnessed fistfights and vomiting and magnificent tantrums. The back hallway was jammed with people. There was a line for Santa and a line for the women's bathroom. And one woman after asking me a thousand questions already asked which is the line for the women's bathroom? And I shouted that I thought it was the line with all the women in it. And she said I am going to have you fired. I had two people say that to me today - I am going to have you fired. Go ahead be my guest. I am wearing a green velvet costume. It does not get any worse than this. Who do these people think they are? I am going to have you fired. And I want to lean over and say I am going to have you killed.    The overall cutest elf is a fella from Queens named Ritchie . His elf name is Snowball and he tends to ham it up with the children sometimes tumbling down the path to Santa's house. I generally gag when elves get that cute but Snowball is hands-down adorable. You want to put him in your pocket. Yesterday Snowball and I worked as Santa elves and I got excited when he started saying things like I would follow you to Santa's house any day Crumpet. It made me dizzy this flirtation. By mid-afternoon I was running into walls. By late afternoon Snowball had cooled down. By the end of our shift we were in the bathroom changing our clothes and all of a sudden we were surrounded by five Santas and three other elves. All of them were guys that Snowball had been flirting with. Snowball just leads elves on elves and Santas.    This morning I worked as an exit elf telling people in a loud voice this way out of Santaland. A woman was standing at one of the cash registers paying for her pictures while her son lay beneath her kicking and heaving having a tantrum. The woman said Riley  if you do not start behaving yourself Santa's not going to bring you any of those toys you asked for. The child said he is too going to bring me toys liar. He already told me. The woman grabbed my arm and said you there elf tell Riley here that if he does not start behaving immediately then Santa's going to change his mind and bring him coal for Christmas. I said that Santa changed his policy and no longer traffics in coal. Instead if you are bad he comes to your house and steals things. I told Riley that if he did not behave himself Santa was going to take away his TV and all his electrical appliances and leave him in the dark. The woman got a worried look on her face and said all right that is enough. I said he is going to take your car and your furniture and all of your towels and blankets and leave you with nothing. The mother said no that is enough really.    This afternoon I was stuck being photo elf for Santa Santa. Santa Santa has an elaborate little act for the children. He will talk to them and give a hearty chuckle and ring his bells and then he asks them to name their favorite Christmas carol. Santa then asks if they will sing it for him. The children are shy and do not want to sing out loud so Santa Santa says oh little elf little elf help young Brenda  here sing that favorite carol of hers. Late in the afternoon a child said she did not know what her favorite Christmas carol was. Santa Santa suggested Away In A Manger. The girl agreed to it but did not want to sing because she did not know the words. Santa Santa said oh little elf little elf come sing Away In The Manger for us. It did not seem fair that I should have to solo so I sang it the way Billie Holiday might have sang if she would put out a Christmas album.  Away in a manger no crib for a bed. The little Lord Jesus laid down his sweet head. Santa Santa did not allow me to finish.    This evening I was sent to be a photo elf. Once a child starts crying it is all over. The parents had planned to send these pictures as cards or store them away until the child is grown and can lie claiming to remember the experience. Tonight I saw a woman slap and shake her crying child. She yelled Rachel  get on that man's lap and smile or I will give you something to cry about. Then she sat Rachel on Santa's lap and I took the picture which supposedly means on paper that everything is exactly the way it is supposed to be that everything is snowy and wonderful. It is not about the child or Santa or Christmas or anything but the parent's idea of a world they cannot make work for them.   Brings a tear to your eye does not it? Tears of laughter perhaps. David Sedaris reading from his essay the Santaland Diaries which was first heard on this program 25 years ago. 