 Some patients with serious health problems - like cancer and heart trouble -depend on a drug that terrorists would love to get their hands on. It is called molybdenum-99 or moly-99 for short. This drug has been problematic for two reasons first doctors have had trouble to getting a reliable supply and second it is made with nuclear material material that could also be used as a weapon. A new production technique could solve both of those problems and the first shipment has just arrived in the United States. NPR's Tovia Smith reports.  About 50000 times a day a patient in the U.S. is injected with a very small dose of radioactive material that can show doctors for example if a heart is pumping well or whether a cancer has metastasized. It is basically a radioactive tracer that is made of material milked from moly-99 which in turn is made in a process that starts with highly enriched uranium. And it is no small irony that the very same stuff doctors use to save millions of lives a year is exactly the stuff terrorists would use for the opposite effect if they could steal it from a processing plant. Professor  It is a sitting duck for al-Qaida because these facilities are not guarded like military facilities but they have bomb-grade uranium.  Alan Kuperman an expert in nuclear proliferation at the University of Texas says the highly enriched uranium used to make moly-99 is a nuclear terrorist's dream. Prof.  I am talking about the identical material that is used in U.S. nuclear weapons. And in fact it has higher enrichment even than the Hiroshima atom bomb.  And that is only part of the problem. There is no moly-99 made in the U.S. Most comes from two old somewhat cranky reactors in Canada and the Netherlands. So when they both happened to shut down at the same time last summer for example doctors and their patients were left in the lurch. Dr.  The situation was very bad. Very bad.  Dr. Marcelo Di Carli is chief of nuclear medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. Dr.  We were pretty much going day by day how are we going to do the tests tomorrow?  Moly-99 cannot be stockpiled because of its short half-life. During shortages many tests are delayed or doctors may resort to invasive surgery to see what is going on in a patient. And some patients have to settle for some other kind of test. Dr.  Obviously a question is Is that second test as good as the first test? Which becomes a little bit uncomfortable.  Because they are not equivalent anymore. Dr.  They are not equivalent. This is why we are doing the other test.  In recent years shortages have also been caused by everything from striking workers to the volcanic eruption in Iceland that blocked delivery from Europe. But federal officials hope those supply issues and their worries about nuclear proliferation will soon become a thing of the past since scientists in South Africa have just figured out how to mass-produce moly-99 using low-enriched uranium instead of the weapons-grade stuff. Dr.  It was a tremendous eureka moment and it is one of these almost once-in-a-lifetime achievements.  Dr. Parrish Staples is with the government's National Nuclear Security Administration that helped finance the breakthrough. He says that will now hasten domestic production of moly-99 from low-enriched uranium and could soon end the risk of nuclear proliferation from the medical isotope industry. Mr.  I would say by three to seven years we should be extremely optimistic that the international producers will get away from the use of highly enriched uranium for medical isotope production.  Others however say that is too optimistic. Professor Alan Kuperman says producers will drag their feet to avoid the cost and effort of conversion unless the U.S. which buys more moly than any other country taxes or bans the import of isotopes made with bomb-grade uranium. Prof.  The companies would make the argument that they are not in the business of preventing nuclear proliferation. They are not in the business of stopping nuclear terrorism. They are in the business of producing pharmaceuticals. And so it is up to the U.S. government to provide the right market incentives for these companies to act responsibly.  But some in the industry disagree. Mr.  Everything I have seen is that the corporate will is there.  Steve Littlejohn is a spokesman for Covidien one of the major moly producers. He says the industry does understand that making isotopes without bomb-grade uranium is the future. Mr.  To the extent that it does not happen overnight it is because we are working to make the science work rather than some kind of foot-dragging.  In fact Littlejohn says Covidien is already invested in one of several domestic production ventures underway. The federal government is offering some startup money to help and doctors are keeping their fingers crossed. As one put it We talk about reducing U.S. dependence on foreign oil. Relying on foreigners for this is just crazy. Tovia Smith NPR News Boston. 