 The funeral service of one of Iran's most prominent religious figures has turned into a huge antigovernment protest. Tens of thousands of mourners took part in the service for Iran's Grand Ayatollah Hossein Ali Montazeri. He was 87 when he died yesterday and he is being laid to rest in the religious center of Qom outside Tehran. Montazeri was one of the key figures in the Iranian Revolution three decades ago. He was also the spiritual leader of Iran's reform movement. On the line with us is Farnaz Fassihi of The Wall Street Journal. She is at her base in Beirut Lebanon where she is been following this story. And good morning. Ms.  Good morning Renee.  So what is the latest? And it was not unexpected that there would be demonstrations. The question was sort of how big how much they would let them go. Ms.  The latest is that up to about a million people went to Qom today to take part in Ayatollah Montazeri's funeral. There were some reports of clashes in the side streets leading to the main shrine where the funeral actually happened. Iran has started to crack down since last night on prominent figures who were attending the funeral. Several people have been picked up on the way Qom. People have received threats. But the interesting thing is the presence of some of these most senior clerics in Qom which have sort of been silent about the election crisis but they have turned up and stood in solidarity with the reformers and the opposition at the funeral today.  Well Ayatollah Montazeri was a key figure in the Islamic Revolution in 1979. And then much later he accused his fellow clerical leaders of imposing dictatorship in the name of Islam. Did he experience a backlash for that criticism? Ms.  Absolutely. I think he experienced a backlash right from the beginning in the 1980s when he started you know charging the late Ayatollah Khomeini for derailing the revolution's ideals. He was sidelined from politics. He was in line to succeed the supreme leadership of Iran the most powerful position in the hierarchy. And he was sidelined. He was stripped of his title. Between 1997 to 2003 he was under house arrest. He has not been able to lead any Friday prayers or teach. And he is sort of been marginalized. But after this June presidential election crisis he sort of gained a following among people because the things that he is been talking about - giving value to human rights a more reformed Islam democracy - were really put on the spotlight.  And his death - of course he would been ill - but his death - how much of a blow is that to this movement? Ms.  Well it is a blow in the sense that they have now lost the most senior religious figure that was their advocate. But the interesting thing about this movement is that for the first time it is a popular movement in Iran that is not being led by a cleric. It is a people's movement. And the clerics were sort of standing next to the people not in a leading role but supporting the movement. So I do not think it is going to crush the movement or you know even silent it. In fact today's events suggest that people have been galvanized.  And the mourning of Ayatollah Montazeri is not over yet which implies there may still be more protests ahead. Ms.  Right. I think that next week we should expect more protests both mourning Ayatollah Montazeri and celebrating the Shia religious holiday of Muharram. His seventh day coincides with Ashura which is the peak of the holiday and that will probably draw a lot of people out to the streets.  Thank you very much for talking with us. Ms.  Thank you for having me Renee.  Wall Street Journal correspondent Farnaz Fassihi on the death of Ayatollah Montazeri and the protests that have followed. 