 Maybe this is progress a new Netflix series on a woman with superpowers. Marvel's Jessica Jones features a lead character with supernatural abilities like say The Hulk or maybe The Avengers. But unlike her predecessors Jessica Jones has a very different past. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans has this review.  Jessica Jones begins as a modern noir-ish tale of a private eye with a taste for drink and a decidedly caustic view on life.    New York may be the city that never sleeps. But it sure does sleep around.  Jones played by ex-Breaking Bad costar Krysten Ritter is a private eye who mostly earns a living taking photos of cheating spouses.    A big part of the job is looking for the worst in people. Turns out I excel at that.  What she also excels at is jumping three stories into the air and lifting small cars. That is because Jones is an ex-superhero with superhuman strength. That talent comes in handy when she has to deliver a subpoena to a man trying anything to get away.    I will tell the world about you. There'ill be nowhere to hide.   Do I look like I am hiding? No. You want to know why? Because no one wants to know. They want to feel safe. They would rather call you crazy than admit that I can lift this car or that I can melt your insides with my laser eyes.  She is kidding. Laser eyes are not one of her powers. But what is clear about Jones is that she is a pretty damaged person intent on drinking herself to sleep most nights. She is struggling with PTSD because she was kidnapped and forced to serve an evil man a super-villain named Kilgrave who can make anyone do anything he says. Kilgrave is oily and menacing. He is played by former Doctor Who star David Tennant. Here Kilgrave first meets Jones after she stops a mugging. And he sizes her up like a new toy he just found.    You are a vision the hair the skin. An appalling sense of fashion but that can be remedied... Underneath it all the power.  This is the kind of storytelling I have always hoped to see as superhero movies and TV shows finally begin to feature female stars. Kilgrave is a superhuman abuser and rapist. And Jones pulls together an uneasy alliance of women to stop him. Their teamwork feels like an expression of female empowerment I have rarely seen in a superhero-themed TV show. It is a compelling gritty story of a woman finding the strength to confront her abuser but told on the grand scale of a modern superhero epic. I am Eric Deggans. 