 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  NPR's Julie McCarthy has more from the capital Islamabad.  The latest cache of documents shows the United States more concerned than it has let on about Pakistan's nuclear program. The concern is widely shared. A Russian diplomat said there are 120000 people directly involved in Pakistan's nuclear and missile program and there is no way to guarantee that all are 100 percent loyal and reliable.  If you ask my personal opinion I would say that there is genuine reason to worry.  Physicist and social commentator Pervez Hoodbhoy says if the country's most guarded institutions can be attacked why not nuclear facilities? One year ago the army general headquarters came under assault. Hoodbhoy says in three different cities the country's premier spy agency the ISI has been attacked.  Obviously there was insider participation in this. And one cannot rule out that wherever the nuclear weapons are or wherever fissile material is produced that there would not be some level of collusion between those who are inside and those who are outside welded together by strong bonds of ideology.  The case touches a sensitive nerve about mistrust and the safety of the world's fastest growing nuclear arsenal. But Pakistan's Ambassador to Britain Wajid Hassan told the BBC that the United States does not have to worry about he called the dearest assets we have.  We have always been telling them straightforward that they are in secure hands. They do not have to worry about it. And we will protect them and we will not allow them to fall into any adventurous hands.  Analyst Ahmed Rashid says more problematic than the nuclear gamesmanship between two allies is a costly arms race underway with India.  You have a budget which is very constrained because of the economic crisis and the floods. Yet we are still pursuing clearly a huge nuclear race. You have all the American money that is going to the Pakistani military - two to three billion dollars a year. How much of that is being used for the nuclear race for example? I am sure that is of concern to Congress and to the Obama Administration.  But Professor Pervez Hoodbhoy says there is little danger of the military attempting to take over.  It is economically very powerful. It has its own industries. It has its factories airlines insurance companies banks whatever. Why would they want to get into the messy business of governing a country that is so hard to govern?  Julie McCarthy NPR News Islamabad. 