 Now let us talk about Americans who are just at that age where they are beginning to notice that they are getting little older. A new survey finds a problem. The age that women think they can conceive a baby is far different from what their bodies are actually capable of delivering. This poses an increasing problem as more women wait longer than ever to have children. NPR's Jennifer Ludden reports.  Kate Donnellon Nail never imagined she would have trouble conceiving. For one thing people always tell the San Francisco musician she looks much younger than her 43 years.  I work out regularly I have a personal trainer I do yoga - I have been doing yoga for 15 years.  Nail's grandmother gave birth at 42 so she figured she was predisposed to fabulous fertility. Doctors say there is no such evidence. But Nail is healthy and makes a point to eat well.  Unfortunately that does not always translate to those little eggs in your ovaries. They are not getting the message.  When she was nearly 41 Nail and her husband went to a fertility doctor who laid out the stark stats for someone her age.  They put them out on a piece of paper on the desk right in front of me and I was like whoa. It just seemed so fashionable to have kids in your 40s these days.  It is. And according to a recent poll it also seems so easy. The survey funded by the biopharmaceutical company EMD Serono finds women dramatically underestimate how much fertility declines with age. For a typical 40 year old many assumed up to a 40 percent success rate in one try. It is actually less than 10 percent. The survey finds women also think you can get pregnant more quickly than actually happens. And while many do realize some older moms used fertility treatments they overestimate their success rate.  The first thing they say is why did not anybody tell me this?  Barbara Collura co-authored the survey and heads Resolve the National Infertility Association. She laments that no federal agency pushes this issue. And neither women nor their OBGYNs tend to bring it up though Collura admits fading fertility is a hard message to deliver.  Let us be honest women do not want to hear that they cannot have it all. We can have a great job we can have a master's degree. We do not need to worry about child-bearing because that is something that'ill come. And when it does not happen women are really angry.  After all everywhere you look these days the message seems to be women can have it all.    No one can take your place there as not nobody better oh Rocky Rocky...  Mariah Carey's among a wave of 40-something celebrity moms. She recently showed off her twins to ABC's Barbara Walters.   He is just very mellow...  Look at that look how he looks at you.  Carey did admit to fertility treatments. But many do not. Then there was this summer's Real Housewives of New York. Fifty-three-year-old glam mom Ramona Singer confided to a friend she would missed a period.   Are you pregnant?  I might be.  That is right a woman who is 53 - around the age most enter menopause - assumed she was pregnant.   You know Dr. Bramer just told me I have a very young uterus. You must have one too!  Needless to say - or is it? - Singer was not pregnant. So we need a public awareness campaign right? Well it is tricky.  I just feel like it is just something else that they lump onto women that we have no control over.  Monica Mingo has blogged about her decade-long effort to conceive. She says the real issue is society at large which is pushing back the age people are expected to settle down and have kids. Mingo did not even meet her husband till she was 32.  You tell us oh your fertile years rapidly decline in your mid-20s. Well if I am not dating anyone and I want to have a family what is that information going to do for me?  A decade ago a fertility ad campaign on public buses in several big cities sparked a vicious backlash. It featured a baby bottle shaped like an hourglass to warn women their time was running out. But women's rights groups called it a scare tactic that left women feeling pressured and guilty. Another ad campaign? Sure says Mingo.  And it needs to come on at times when men are paying attention. Heck put it on in the middle of a football game or something I mean...  The ticking biological clock she says is not a burden women should bear alone. Jennifer Ludden NPR News. 