 What should we do with all of the art made by terrible men? That is one of the questions New Yorker TV critic Emily Nussbaum tries to answer in I Like To Watch. It is an essay collection that NPR's Elizabeth Blair picked for this year's Book Concierge. And a quick warning - this story has a description of sexual misconduct.  I am a huge Louis C.K. fan - or was. I am not sure which verb tense to use and whether I should even admit it. So I feel a kinship with Emily Nussbaum even though we have never met.  Louis C.K. was a hero to me.  That is Nussbaum reading from the Audible version of I Like To Watch. In case you are not familiar a little more than two years ago Louis C.K. was one of the most powerful figures in comedy - a revered writer producer actor and director. Nussbaum writes that she likes his work because of her own desire to quote see things in an ambiguous light to dwell in gray areas. That is Louis C.K.'s specialty.   Everybody has a competition in their brain of good thoughts and bad thoughts. Hopefully the good thoughts win.  This is from one of his HBO specials.  For me I always have both. I have like the thing I believe - the good thing that is the thing I believe. And then there is this thing.   And I do not believe it. But it is there.  In November 2017 Louis C.K. admitted in The New York Times that he would masturbated in front of women without their consent. His career screeched to a halt. So do we cancel Louis C.K.'s work altogether? In her search for answers Emily Nussbaum brings up another one of my favorite comedians - Hannah Gadsby from Australia.   Pablo Picasso I hate him. But you are not allowed to.  Gadsby has a degree in art history. She does not separate the art from the artist. In her Netflix special Nanette Gadsby says Picasso was a misogynist who had sex with an underage girl. He said things like quote every time I change wives I should burn the last one. That way I would be rid of them.   I hate him. But you cannot - cubism. And if you ruin...   If you ruin cubism then civilization as we know it will crumble.  Gadsby writes Nussbaum punctured every excuse that I made for the male artists who had fascinated me. That leaves Nussbaum - and me - in that gray area wrestling with what to do with the art of bad men. Sometimes there is no easy answer - nor should there be. Elizabeth Blair NPR News.  