 This is the season of gifts lights and theatrical productions with Christmas themes. There is the Nutcracker   Also Handel's Messiah.  Unidentified Group  Hallelujah hallelujah hallelujah hallelujah hallelujah.  And all across the country African-American theaters churches and colleges groups are performing rollicking gospel versions of another traditional Christmas story Black Nativity written by Langston Hughes. One of those productions is in its 11th season at a theater in San Francisco. Lisa Morehouse was there.   Unidentified Woman   It was a time for the savior to be born but there was no room. Unidentified Group  No room.  It is pretty common and lucrative for performing arts groups to put on holiday shows. But Stanley Williams the artistic director of the Lorraine Hansberry Theatre thinks many of those performances are missing something. Mr.  When I go see Christmas Carol you know one would think that America consists of only white people to be really quite frank with you. In Black Nativity you really get to see another perspective.   Unidentified Woman   No room. Unidentified Group  No room. Unidentified Woman   It was a time for the savior to be born but there was no room. Unidentified Group  No room. Unidentified Woman   No room. Unidentified Group  No room.  Langston Hughes' Black Nativity premiered on Broadway in 1961. Every year it plays in cities across the country from Seattle to Birmingham. Boston's production is 40 years old. Hughes' original script often gets adapted and modernized. The Lorraine Hansberry Theatre's version always includes wayward shepherds. They find their way to the baby Jesus by singing songs by musicians who have died in the past year.   Unidentified Man   'ecause they got nowhere to go. That is why I want you to know I am starting with the man in the mirror.  One of the shepherds is played by 16-year-old cast member Darius Johnson. Mr.  Do not get me wrong. Christmas motets and the Latin Mass and everything that is great. It is beautiful. But when it comes down to the birth of the Savior I want to hear it told to me not just hear the Ave Maria Gratia Plena.  The first act of the play is a contemporary take on the biblical story of Mary and Joseph's journey to the manger and the birth of Christ.  Unidentified Man  This gospel church where his word is spread is but an extension of his manger.  Whoa. Unidentified Group  Whoa my God God is good.  The second act takes place in an urban black church with deacons and ushers and women in their best hats.   Unidentified Woman   God be with you till we meet again. We are so... Unidentified Group  Glad you came here tonight. Everything will be all right. Unidentified Woman   Oh God. Unidentified Group  God be with you till we meet again.  Artistic director Stanley Williams hopes Black Nativity will draw African-American audiences that do not always go to the theater and keep them coming after the holiday season. For NPR News I am Lisa Morehouse.   Unidentified Group  May the Lord God bless you real good. Oh real good. Real good. Real good. Real good. May the Lord God bless you real good. Real good. Real good. May the Lord God bless you real... Unidentified Woman   ...good. Unidentified Group  ...good.   This is NPR News. 