 And let us hear about a new law that applies to schools in California. It is set to go into effect next year and it would expand the rights of transgender students. They will be allowed to use the restrooms and participate on the sports teams of their gender identity rather than their biological sex. But some churches and religious groups say the law is a threat to students' privacy and they are trying to overturn it. Aaron Schrank reports.  At Azusa High School in Southern California Pat Cordova-Goff has just finished class and is heading to a student government meeting. She is student body president a varsity cheerleader homecoming princess and a straight A-senior. She is here a lot.  Because I am so involved with everything I come here around 50.  And she leaves sometimes more than 12 hours later.  Yeah. Yeah it is a lot of time.  But Cordova-Goff is not always comfortable at school. She is Azusa High's only openly transgender student. And when she is here she tries to avoid using the bathroom altogether.  If I were to go to the boys' restroom you know like there is a chance I might be bullied hurt even harassed. But if I go to the girls it is kind of not allowed and I will get in trouble so it is kind of like I have nowhere to go.  Under California's new law Cordova-Goff's school would be required to allow her to use the girls' bathroom. And it is precisely this bathroom policy that has riled opponents.  That is so confusing. And so it opens the door for predators.  That is Judi McDaniels a mother and grandmother who went door-to-door in the LA suburb of Chino Hills petitioning for signatures to repeal the law. The School Success and Opportunity Act is its official name but McDaniels and other critics call it the Co-Ed Bathroom Bill. She says it will send a mixed message to kids whose parents have told them to value privacy.  Now we are telling them you are a young man and there may be a girl in your bathroom but that is OK.  The campaign to repeal the law calls itself Privacy for All Students. With help from hundreds of churches and some of the same groups that fought gay marriage in California they gathered more than 600000 signatures in just a few months. Those are still being verified. They need just over 500000 valid signatures. A big part of this campaign was centered at McDaniels' church Calvary Chapel in Chino Hills led by founder and Senior Pastor Jack Hibbs.  Forty-six thousand one hundred and twenty-seven signatures were gathered by these people here at this church.  Hibbs says his duty as a pastor and as a parent is to shield children from discomfort and danger.  And I want to be very clear. Those who are struggling with their identity that is not evil. But I have to protect those that would be offended by this.  Hibbs is also concerned that the law is too vague and that teenage boys could use it to sneak into girls' bathrooms.  Maybe a couple of guys bet him hey pretend you are a girl today go on in there take a peek. A child whose hormones at 13 14 15 are raging and we expect them to be civil? We are asking kids to be more adult about their body parts than we adults are.  We do not arbitrarily let students decide that they are going to be girls for fifth period only.  That is Judy Chiasson with the Los Angeles Unified School District.  A transgender student is somebody who consistently every day all day long wants to be recognized by their gender of identity.  Chiasson helped craft the policy in her district that protects gender identity. It is a model for what is required under California's new law. It is been in place since 2005 and Chiasson says there have been no cases of misconduct.  If somebody is worried about safety in the bathroom or appropriate behavior in the bathroom I think that looking to our transgender children as the possible risk is very misdirected. If anything they are going to be the target of misconduct not the perpetrator.  The National Transgender Discrimination Survey found that 78 percent of transgender kids in K-12 said they would been harassed based on their gender identity. Sometimes that discrimination is subtle something Pat Cordova-Goff says has come to expect at her school in Azusa. For example this year she asked her cheerleading coach for a custom outfit - men's pants with a women's top. When Cordova-Goff was handed a standard male uniform she was crushed.  I think in high school where we are all supposed to find ourselves it is pretty hard to find yourself when the person you have found is not the person society lets you be.  Backers of the California law argue that it simply lays out for school districts how existing state and federal non-discrimination laws already require them to treat their transgender students. It is set to go into effect on January 1st but if the signature efforts prove to be enough it will be put on hold until a statewide referendum next November. For NPR News I am Aaron Schrank. 