 Merry Christmas. You might not know it but you are part of a giant experiment. As you check out the presents you have gotten over the holidays and reactions of friends and families to your gifts you are testing a question that has intrigued psychologists for years. What makes for the best gifts? New social science research might help you understand why some gifts are better received than others. NPR's social science correspondent Shankar Vedantam is here to explain. Hey Shankar.  Hi Rachel.  So what gifts are the best?  Well there really are two kinds of gifts Rachel. One is where you take a look at a person's interests and you buy them a gift that matches their interest. So they like baseball you buy them a baseball glove.  Sure.  The other kind of gift is sentimentally valuable. The gift itself does not have great value but it brings to mind associations and memories. So for example you give a partner a pebble from the time the two of you went for a walk together on a beach or you print out a photograph from high school and you give it to a friend. I was speaking with psychologist Jeff Galak at Carnegie Mellon University. He said the baseball glove-type gifts tend to be safe. Sentimentally valuable gifts on the other hand carry risks.  For the sentimentally valuable gifts there is a lot more uncertainty. You know if I give you this customized something that is meant to remind you of our relationship that might be a slam-dunk and that might be a 10. But it also might not be something that the recipient wants at all and it might be a two.  So I am guessing people are risk-averse and they end up doing the safe thing and giving a baseball glove to someone who likes baseball.  Exactly. Very often that is exactly what happens. Galak and his colleague Julian Givi asked both givers and recipients what makes for the ideal gift. Often they found givers make a mistake.  The givers are wrong right? They are worried about this risk because they think that recipients will not like the sentimentally valuable gifts right? They are worried that there is a chance they are going to give something that is not going to be a hit. But it turns out sentimentally valuable gifts by and large are a hit all the time.  So why is there this disconnect?  Well Galak thinks that givers and receivers might actually have different goals and even different scripts.  Givers generally speaking are thinking about what is the thing I can give that is going to put a big smile on somebody's face? And recipients when you actually ask them what is it that you actually enjoy? What they are actually enjoying are the things that are going to provide long-lasting utility.  When someone likes baseball and you give them a baseball glove Rachel you get a big smile and big smiles make givers happy. What givers do not ask is what happens afterwards. How many of those sweaters and ties and baseball gloves wind up in some closet never to be seen again? If the point of gifts is to strengthen the relationship between the giver and the receiver sentimentally valuable gifts put the relationship front and center. Yes they do carry risks but they keep that smile on the recipient's face for a long time afterwards.  I have got this napkin that you used when we had lunch recently...  Oh dear.  ...And I am going to go wrap that up and give that to you for Christmas.   Thanks a lot Rachel.  I know it will mean a lot to you. Shankar Vedantam - he is NPR's social science correspondent. He is also the host of a podcast that explores the unseen patterns in human behavior. It is called Hidden Brain. Shankar thanks so much. Merry Christmas.  Thanks Rachel. Merry Christmas.  