 California launched this ambitious program during the pandemic to house thousands of homeless seniors and people with medical conditions in hotels but now many of those hotels will no longer serve that purpose. And as you can imagine that means uncertainty for a lot of vulnerable people. From member station KQED Erin Baldassari reports.  For the past three years Gillette Christa has been on the move bouncing between shelters couches even a tent she pitched in downtown San Francisco. The 63-year-old says the routine was exhausting.  Oh man you do not even know the half of it because we would have to go through what they call one-nighters. One night you go over here. One night you go there and maybe for a weekend you might get two nights you know.  But for the past seven months she and her dog Shepherd have been staying in one place a hotel in San Francisco. It is part of a state program called Project Roomkey that is aimed at keeping the most vulnerable homeless people safe during the pandemic.  Being here is cool. It was like taking a load off. And then we were able to rest.  Now Gillette is not sure where she will go next. The city plans to stop using the hotel as a shelter in March. Like many of the 22000 people in California who have lived in these hotels Gillette is waiting to find out if she will get into long-term assisted housing.  I am trying to stay optimistic.  But getting into permanent housing is no easy task in a state that has a chronic shortage of affordable homes. A KQED analysis found that in seven Bay Area counties near San Francisco the vast majority of people who have already left these hotels have gone back into street homelessness to shelters and to other temporary housing. Only 16 have gone on to a long-term home.  We simply do not have enough permanent housing options.  Dr. Margot Kushel is the director of the Center for Vulnerable Populations at the University of California in San Francisco. She says there is not enough funding for affordable housing or enough federally subsidized rental vouchers for all the people who need them.  We find ourselves in the same position we are often in which is you know it is hard to create something that just simply does not exist.  In San Francisco city officials have backed off plans to stop operating seven of its 29 hotels this month and instead plans to keep them running until the end of March. Abigail Stewart-Kahn is the city's interim director of homelessness and supportive housing. She says running these hotels costs tens of millions of dollars each month the bulk of which is reimbursed by FEMA.  They were always intended to be temporary. They are not a sustainable solution and they are not housing.  Stewart-Kahn says the city is committed to making sure people do get a long-term place to live.  The rehousing plan is all about getting people housed not back to the street and not back to shelter.  California Governor Gavin Newsom allocated more than 800 million this year to convert hotels and other buildings into permanent and transitional housing. That'ill add more than 6000 new units including 260 in San Francisco. But it is still only a fraction of what is needed. With coronavirus infection rates rising advocates like Dr. Kushel say it is critical that the people in these hotels stay housed.  To return them to homelessness would be a big lost opportunity and frankly a tragedy.  Researchers have warned that job losses and evictions related to the pandemic could result in even more people becoming homeless. For NPR News I am Erin Baldassari in San Francisco.  