 Its open enrollment season at many work places which means opportunities to make changes in your retirement savings plans. The investment company Charles Schwab has found that many American workers lack the confidence to effectively manage their retirement savings. In search of advice we called up The Washington Post's financial columnist Michelle Singletary. Glad to have you back.  Oh it is my pleasure to be here.  Let us begin with something extremely basic and that is is there a figure a single figure for how much one should be putting away in a 401 or 403 account at any given time in your life as a worker?  Yeah. I wish I had a number that I could just un-wrap in a nice little bow and let you say it is 10 percent 20 percent. But really it depends on so many factors. What are you going to get for Social Security? How much do you have in other savings? You know what kind of debts are you going to have to service if you are going to take those into retirement? Is your house going to be paid off? So really you have to look at your numbers and come up with a number that is specific to you. But here's one thing that you can do. If your employer has a match so they will match whatever percentage you put into your retirement plan up to a certain point at least put in enough to get that match because that is just free money that you are leaving on the table if you do not put in enough to get to get the employer match.  For those of us who do have these kinds of plans and get to choose how that retirement money is allocated why can this still be so confusing for so many of us? You would think it would be simple.  Right. But you know it is not simple. There is a lot that goes into this. They have people who you know professionals who do not get it right. So to expect the average person who is just trying to live their life to figure out how much should I put it in where should I put it? Should I put it in this stock fund this bond fund? And they say bonds are really safe but then right now the market is roaring so should I have it in market? And oh my gosh the market could go down I could lose my money. So you can see how people get so scared that they do not do anything and they opt for the most conservative. But if you have a long time to retirement you want to have a really good balance. And the good thing about it is the law changed that allows a lot of companies to have the people managing the plans to give their employees advice. Maybe not very specific advice like put 100 in this plan but basically give you examples...  Parameters really.  Right.  Yeah.  Exactly. So if you were 20 they will say well this is probably a good plan for a 20-year-old. If you were five years out of retirement they would go well look you know what? You probably are not going to take as much risk. Take advantage of those services. Really call up that 800 number. This is a great time of year to do it.  So is the 800 number really the best - at least certainly the least expensive - place to turn for help? You know within reason are there other ways to get help in how you allocate your money?  I think it is a good place to start because it tends to be free and this is the people running your plan so they know what is in your plan. But if you want to really get a very specific plan to you that is long term that does not just include your retirement but insurance needs and other things then you want to consider hiring a financial planner. Now when I say that right away people are thinking well why should I pay money to make money? Well these are professionals who can look at everything you have and help you come up with a plan. Is it going to cost you money? Yes it is going to cost you money. But definitely do that. If you really feel like you have no clue and you just you need someone to hold your hand I think it is a good investment of money so that you be sure that you have enough money for what you want to do in your retirement.  Just one last question. When you think about going to a financial planner is there a red flag or red flags one should watch for?  If you go in and they have got oh you should buy into this you should buy into this before they have really sat down and talked to you about your needs that is a red flag for me. They need to listen to you. The first question would be what do you want to do in retirement? Where do you want to live? What do you - they should be asking you those kinds of personal questions to get a sense of where you are. You want them to be conscious of your risk tolerance but also make sure that they create a plan that is going to give me enough money to retire. So if they come with a pre-sold kind of these are the things that I want to put you in that is a huge red flag to me. And if they are talking to you and you do not understand what they are saying or they are trying to sell you something that you do not quite grasp that is another red flag.  Michelle great talking to you again.  Oh you are so welcome.  Michelle Singletary is a financial columnist for The Washington Post.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 