 OK. The city of Detroit has reached a major milestone. Five years ago it went bankrupt - was saddled with more than 18 billion in debt. Well now Detroit is not only out of bankruptcy but is issuing bonds backed by its own credit instead of bonds guaranteed by state government or insurers. As Quinn Klinefelter of member station WDET reports while the city's economy is improving some Detroiters fear it may be leaving behind those who toughed it out when the times were bad.  Detroit shed 7 billion of debt by going bankrupt. It then restructured and declared itself open for investment. New development poured in led by hometown businessman Dan Gilbert who invested more than 5.5 billion in about a hundred Detroit properties moved his mortgage company and Bedrock real estate firm downtown and is now reportedly the city's largest private employer and taxpayer. At a recent groundbreaking for a new downtown office tower backed by Gilbert Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan marveled at just how fast the once bankrupt city is changing.   Well is not this an amazing week in Detroit? I mean we...   ...We started Monday with a historic commitment by the corporations to help transform Detroit neighborhoods. And three days later on Thursday we are here with Dan Gilbert and Bedrock - an announcement that is going to help transform the skylight.  Moody's Investors Service analyst David Levett says the city government is balancing its budget now saving funds to cover pension obligations Detroit will have to resume paying in 2024. And he estimates impending job cuts in Detroit is auto industry really will not hit much of the city's workforce. But Levett cautions that Detroit is public school system has no money to make badly needed repairs and investors are not spreading their wealth across the city.  The growth in the city has been largely concentrated in the greater downtown area. There is still declining population if you look at the city as a whole. And the income levels are still low in the city as a whole.  And some here expressed concern that investment is skewed towards bringing new upscale residents downtown neglecting the neighborhoods where most Detroiters live. The exodus from those neighborhoods has slowed to a mere trickle of what it is been over the past few decades. And in some people are actually moving in.  OK.  Thank you for coming in.  No problem.  The Art in Motion Studio and Gallery sits on what is called the Avenue of Fashion - once a prime shopping area. Owner Kay Willingham says she is stayed in this neighborhood for almost 50 years. While there are crime issues like any big city there is also a vibrancy.  Families are moving back in 'ecause that is one thing that had not happened. We see a lot of families that are moving in. And I think that is a great thing because that is what this community needs. They are not afraid to get out and try something new. They are not afraid to go for a walk take the dog out take the kids out - where at this neighborhood for a long time that was not happening.  Detroit officials are targeting hundreds of millions of dollars to build up neighborhoods already doing well like this one. Willingham says that can be a mixed blessing.  Now we are getting ready to go into construction next year which is a good thing. They are getting ready to take the median out. They are expanding the sidewalks putting in bike lanes. But that is going to be a two-year process. So for a small business that is a lot to endure to keep business going.  In other neighborhoods stretching across Detroit is 143 square miles residents are still waiting for a rejuvenation.   A soft rain is falling on heavy traffic along Jefferson Avenue connecting a mostly barren edge of Detroit with the affluent Grosse Pointe suburbs. Detroit officials have plans to lure new business to the area providing tax breaks assembling parcels of land even offering to match investors' money with grant funding. But community activist Luther Keith says too many stores here still sit empty.  To bring them back requires somebody to walk down this block of closed storefronts and say I think we can change this I am going to put up the store - first storefront I am going to open the first coffee shop.  The city recently announced it will renovate two vacant buildings in the area to create new residential units - half of them affordable housing for people with low incomes. Keith says that helps offset fears among some Detroiters that the city's tearing down of tens of thousands of blighted buildings makes way for new upscale residences while overlooking resources for those already in the neighborhoods. But he says the enduring challenges to transforming Detroit go far deeper.  The real issue in Detroit is not gentrification. It is poverty - poor people. We need jobs. We need investment so folks can take care of themselves.  Detroit is poverty rate has dropped slightly but almost half of Detroit children live below the poverty line. City officials say there are jobs here. And they are offering training in skilled trades everything from construction work to database administration.   Detroiter Thomas Sampson supports himself driving for the ride-share service Lyft. As he cruises towards downtown he says he and others like him are making Detroit is post-bankruptcy economy work for them even if they are not the kind of new property owners the city wants to fill its tax base.  But because we have the decisions that was made...  Turn left. Then turn right.  ...And now we have got all these folks that is coming down. It enables me to do well in the ride-share program. And that is what is the most important thing about Detroit - is you know we are strong. We are resilient. You know when we fall we get back up.  That is a mantra Detroit officials have adopted too touting the resurgence of the Motor City moving past bankruptcy far faster than experts anticipated but with many miles to go on the road to resurrection. For NPR News I am Quinn Klinefelter in Detroit.  