 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am Linda Wertheimer sitting in for Steve Inskeep. Today we take a look back at the decade that is coming to a close. The aughts as some are calling these past ten years saw the music industry turned on its head. The revolution actually began in 1999 with a little project by college student Shawn Fanning. He called it Napster. By 2000 the online file-sharing service was being sued by record labels and musicians. The next year it was gone. But as NPR's Laura Sydell reports its legacy lingers on.  In the early days of the Internet the only way to share a song was to send an email attachment. Napster made it possible to access millions of computers. Mr.  Now suddenly with a search engine anybody could access any piece of content in the world at the click of a mouse.  That is Eric Garland the CEO of Big Champagne a company that is been tracking online music habits for the past decade. Although the big recording labels shut down Napster in 2001 it was a Pyrrhic victory. Mr.  Napster was not the problem. Napster was just one symptom.  Online file-sharing services turned out to be hydras. Shut one down and two more grow up to take its place. The music industry started a war against what it called piracy that included suing music fans and enlisting celebrities like Kid Rock to make public service announcements.  Mr.  It is true it is just a song. You know you take the song. You download it. Big deal right? Listen to this. Let us level the playing field. Steal everything. I mean if you need a new mp3 player or computer go in there get a new laptop.  But millions of fans were numb to the pleas or sarcasm. Talk to a random sampling and they will give you a long list of reasons they feel justified in downloading music without paying for it. Jennifer Louis a music teacher says after years of paying 15 to 20 for CDs with only one song she liked she felt ripped off. Ms.  When you overcharge your customers for your music that they love you are treating them like their enemy almost.  Other fans like Don O'Neil a retired furniture maker say they heard stories about artists who never saw any money from CD sales anyway. Mr. DON O' Those artists get charged back for every single thing the record label can think of to charge them back for. They charge them back for the janitor who swept up the studio after they finished recording their CD.  True or not it did not matter. These were the rationalizations that floated around the Internet along with access to an unprecedented variety of music. For fans like 35-year-old student Nate Mannan this is a golden age. Mr.  I know some artists that might disagree with that. But yeah I think for the music fan who is able to basically sample all the flavors out there it is unprecedented.  But something may be changing. According to Big Champagne's Eric Garland for the first time in a decade unauthorized file-sharing has stopped growing. Garland thinks it is because there are more legal options. Music teacher Jennifer Louis says it is just a lot easier to download legally. Ms.  The quality when you download from iTunes  it is just a lot better.  Unfortunately Eric Garland does not think iTunes or streaming services like Pandora will save the music industry. Sales of individual tracks or monthly subscriptions do not generate as much profit for the labels as CD sales. Mr.  Now the legitimate marketplace is in many ways the culprit. It is responsible for the decline of the fortunes of the industry.  Garland says a decade on industry executives may be longing for the days of Napster  when they could blame piracy for all of their problems. Laura Sydell NPR News.  Our coverage of this past decade in music is an ongoing feature on our music site at NPR.orgdecade. 