 The Atlantic Monthly has a special issue on newsstands focusing on the Civil War. It makes sense that they would. One hundred fifty years after it began that war remains central to the American story. Seems we cannot read enough about it. Yet deep in that issue the writer Ta-Nehisi Coates suggests that some people are not so interested in the war - African-Americans he says the very people whose ancestors were slaves until the war freed them. When Coates began exploring the Civil War he discovered that he is a rarity - a black man who is as obsessed with the conflict as many white people are. What does it mean to be obsessed with the Civil War? How do you spend your days?  Well that is interesting because for different people it means different things. There is a group of people who that means obsessing over military tactics and what Lee did her and what Grant did there seeing you know what a flanking maneuver might have looked like. But I think when you simply look at the tactics you reduce it to almost like a game of football. It becomes sort of like a sport that you are talking about and you are analyzing it as a sport - but it was not a sport. It was about actual people actual things. This was not the Green Bay Packers against the New England Patriots. It was something totally different.  You argue that when we think of the war that way there is a particular kind of people that we are missing.  Yes yes. People like me as it turns out - African-Americans yes. African-Americans do not have the luxury of thinking about the Civil War as a sporting event. We have to think about it as the event that gave us our freedom. Or I probably would actually amend that and say as the event in which we claimed our freedom. I would go so far as to put it that way. And so it is a totally different perspective. There is a real actual issue at stake when you are an African-American and you go to Gettysburg and you learn the fact that free black people were kidnapped in the campaign up to Gettysburg. Gettysburg had a thriving black population a free black population - fled the town at the advance of the Confederate Army. These are actual things that are not necessarily covered in terms of maneuvers and you know military tactics but things that we just cannot avoid thinking about.  Although let us follow up on that because some people will think what are you talking about that African-Americans are not discussed in the context of the Civil War? I mean people understand that it was about slavery on one level or another even though they will argue about how much it was. People know the name Frederick Douglas a great leader of that time. People may have heard the 54th Massachusetts Infantry an African-American unit. So what do you mean blacks are missing?  So I think one of the interesting things is as you just outlined over the past 30 or 40 years there is been tremendous progress. But I think if you take a look at the culture and how the Civil War's actually presented - take the new show on AMC Hell on Wheels. We vaguely understand it. I think you know we can go back and forth about the depth of how much people understand the Civil War was about slavery and where in the country that belief holds sway and where it does not necessarily hold sway.  There are people on the Confederate side who even today who will argue that...  Yes certainly so.  ...it was about something else.  Certainly so. And you say states' rights for what? But if you look at the culture in terms of how the Civil War is presented you know I do not think it is been 10 years since Gods and Generals where you had this sort of presentation of faithful slaves to Stonewall Jackson. You take the new show Hell on Wheels which is a post-Civil War Western and the gentlemen fought for the Confederate but conveniently lets you know that he freed his slaves before the war. So there is a kind of avoidance where we have not yet learned to confront the fact that this was a war for the establishment of a republic based in white supremacy and it failed. And it is very good that it failed. It is a very very good thing that it failed. I think that is a little harder to take because so many people have actual ancestors who fought in the Civil War. It is in so many of our bloods.  Although it is really interesting that you point out here when you look at the history and the way that Americans have looked at the Civil War over the generations it was people in the north who were happy to gloss this over and overlook it.  That is right.  Why?  Because re-union was essential. Now when the Civil War started union was obviously the goal. And I think Lincoln said this himself you know Lincoln who was in fact anti-slavery. But if he could have united the country and you know left slavery intact he probably would have earlier in the war.  He explicitly said he would do that if he had to do it.  Yes he explicitly said as much. As the war dragged on until you start getting into 1863 1864 it becomes clear that there is no going back that...  They had issued the Emancipation Proclamation by then.  That is right that is right that is right. And after the war re-union really became the priority. I think Ulysses Grant when he became president he strived mightily you know to make sure African-Americans had their rights and everything. But in the coming years the main priority became coming back together forging a national myth.  People shifted the narrative and spoke of the South's great lost cause.  Right right right. That is exactly right. And that became a way of giving the South it honor which the North was more than happy to do. I mean there is no loss to us. I mean you still lost the war. So I mean you can have all the honor you want. You know as long as the actual results of the war are still in place it is totally fine. The inconvenient fact though is for African-Americans. That meant either cutting them completely out of the story or reducing them to basically a servile population who was happy in slavery. Because the war could not be about slavery and the South be honorable at the same time. It is such a dishonorable cause and quickly fell into disrepute like immediately after the war. But the echoes of that are still with us today.  Let me ask about this from the other side. You are talking about history is something that is done to African-Americans here that African-Americans have been cut out of the story and yet the question you pose in this article in the Atlantic is why do so few blacks study the Civil War suggesting that African-Americans themselves are not actively seeking out this part of their history.  That is right. And one of the conclusions that I end at the end of the story saying it is all fine and good to you know say exactly - as you just put it - what someone has done to you but at some point you know we have to decide that we are going to actually interpret the war. But as a tour guide once told me at Gettysburg you could sit there for hours and you could count on one hand the number of African-Americans that come into the battle part. This is Gettysburg. I mean this is the seminal battle in you know what made freedom real for this country and yet very few African-Americans come in to visit. When you tour the battle park and you look at the monuments they are dotted with monuments to the Confederate dead. I am sure there is one somewhere but I have never seen a monument to any of the colored troops who fought in the Civil War. I went down to Petersburg and saw the famous Battle of the Crater which is getting a lot of attention now in Newt Gingrich's new novel. There is no monument to the African-American soldiers who died there. So at some point I really really believe that we have to claim the history for ourselves and do part of that ourselves.  And that is significant because if I am not mistaken a lot of those war monuments were raised by the people themselves...  That is right.  ...the soldiers themselves the families of the soldiers...  Yes they were. Yes they were.  ...the people who were in that unit at a later time...  That is right.  ...descendants of them.  That is right.  Meaning if anyone was going to do that monument today it would have to be African-Americans.  It really would have to be African-Americans. You know it is a strange thing I did a tour of Tennessee about a year ago where the Civil War is very much alive. And I will tell you in general the places I went the feeling about the Civil War is definitely different than mine and yet I was struck with this odd admiration for the fact that they had not forgotten they will not forget. They made sure that you know history would be remembered. They had put up monuments they were cleaning out graveyards and making sure that the people who had died there would be remembered. And so I was in this odd position of being totally opposed to their interpretation of the war but admiring their effort to preserve history and to claim it and to own it. And I think you know at some point we have to do the same.  Ta-Nehisi Coates is the author of Why Does So Few Blacks Study the Civil War? an article in a Civil War issue of the Atlantic Monthly. Thanks.  Thank you so much. 