 Something unusual happened in the state of Pennsylvania yesterday. Officials there gave out free naloxone at about 80 locations across the state. This is a lifesaving medication that can revive someone during an opioid overdose. Sarah Boden of member station WESA went to a giveaway site in Pittsburgh.  Volunteers sit on metal folding chairs and sip coffee as people arrive at St. Peter's Episcopal Church in search of free naloxone.  Hi. May I help you?  Yeah. I am here to get a box of...  Sure.  The day's only halfway done yet volunteer John Franz estimates he is seen already 40 or 50 people.  Yeah we have given away a lot of this. We have been through two large boxes and we are working our way through the third.  This naloxone is the nasal spray which comes with a plastic applicator. Franz says it is really easy to administer.  Just squirt it in the nose.  Pharmacies around Pittsburgh sell naloxone for between 75 and 170 so it is a big deal to get it for free. One person picking up naloxone is Brian. NPR's only using his first name because he is used drugs. Brian says he is four years in recovery but has friends who use opioids some of whom have fatally overdosed.  Yeah I have seen people die. It is not anything to - it is scary. It really is. They turn blue and it is not - something you will never forget.  Mental health therapist Melissa Kuzmah  is getting the medication for her office's emergency kit.  I think it is good for people to know that we are able to talk about those things and we are prepared if something were to happen.  Some argue these resources are being thrown away on people who are not interested in addressing their addictions. Shawn Wypych 24 and says he is been revived with naloxone seven times. He says he is grateful he is alive for his son and has now been in recovery for four months.  Eventually like a seed's going to be planted. Like if the addict lives like there is going to be a time where something's going to click in their mind where it just does not work anymore. And sometimes it takes a couple times for that to happen.  Pennsylvania ranks 12th in the country in the rate of fatal opioid overdoses but Allegheny County has some good news. The number of people fatally overdosing decreased throughout 2017. Public health officials hope that the more people who have naloxone the more people will be saved. For NPR News I am Sarah Boden in Pittsburgh.   This story is part of a reporting partnership with Kaiser Health News. 