 President Trump is saying that the fight against ISIS in Syria is over.   We have won against ISIS. We have beaten them and we have beaten them badly. We have taken back the land. And now it is time for our troops to come back home.  That was last week. This week sounded like a different message. Our colleague Tamara Keith asked the president on his trip to Iraq if he planned to remove U.S. forces who are in that country.   No plans at all. No. In fact we could use this as a base if we wanted to do something in Syria.  Do something in Syria. OK. So what is the something? And does this mean that the U.S. has not really finished the job in Syria? Douglas Ollivant is in our studio. He was director for Iraq at the National Security Council under Presidents Bush and Obama. He is now a fellow at New America. Thanks for coming in this morning.  My pleasure David.  I just want to step back here. I mean ISIS has been one of the most feared terrorist organizations in the world. So it is no small thing to declare as the U.S. president that they have been defeated. Are they defeated?  Well they have been defeated. We use some different terms here in military speak. Defeated means you cannot do what you were trying to do before.  OK.  So ISIS is defeated in the sense that there is no - physical caliphate is the word that Brett McGurk uses. I think we all know what that meant.  He was the U.S. representative...  He was the U.S...  ...In charge of the fight against ISIS yeah.  That is right. So a physical caliphate where they controlled cities were able to govern land where they - people had to effectively work under a proto-state. Well that is gone. Maybe there is a little bit of land along the Euphrates River valley but they are really really pushed back and essentially no longer control any terrain in Iraq and Syria.  So geographically if we thought of them as sort of like their own country we have taken that land away...  Right.  ...From them.  That has now shrunk down to pretty much nothingness. So in that sense yes they are defeated. Now that does not mean that there are not lots of ISIS cadres true believers still running around who have now gone to ground and are starting to form terrorist groups going back to their terrorist roots essentially and - you know from whence they came in Iraq and Syria. And further it does not mean that we do not have affiliates around the world - in Africa in the Sinai in Afghanistan. And then further it does not mean we do not have sympathizers throughout the world - as we saw in Europe a couple summers ago the San Bernardino shootings here. So there is kind of three levels. That center level that core the physical caliphate is gone. And so I think to say that they are defeated in that sense is true.  But it sounds like this other - I mean...  But these other things are still there and they are...  And still threatening...  And still threatening.  I mean could carry out terrorist attacks and still threaten...  Could tomorrow morning.  So what do you make of the president's strategy here? If they have been physically defeated is it a good move to move these 2000 troops out of Syria? Does that still give the United States the capability to go after sort of the new ISIS in 2019?  Well I think so. The troops in Syria were starting to transition to other missions. We were starting to worry more about protecting the Syrian Kurds from the Turks and countering Iranian influence inside Syria which may or may not be important missions - we can debate them - but is not fighting ISIS. So those troops are now leaving. They really did not have a legal basis for their presence in the first place and so they will be leaving shortly. That does not mean that the region cannot handle it. We have commandos all over the place in bases all over who can project power throughout the regions. It is not as if we are now helpless and emasculated because 2200 troops are leaving Syria.  Is that what the president is talking about when he talks about using Iraq as a base? Having commandos who could sort of go in at a moment's notice and go after like an ISIS cell somewhere?  That may be what he is talking about. I kind of wish he would not do it in Iraq because the Iraqis get very touchy about that - having their sovereign territory used as a base to project American power. But yes essentially that is what we are talking about.  So are you optimistic looking at what the Trump administration has done so far in the fight against ISIS that they are doing all they can to protect us protect the United States from potential attacks and potential threats from this group?  We have long-term continuity of course from the time the Obama administration realized this was a real problem until the present day and we have improved and gotten better in how we fight ISIS throughout that time. It is a kind of continuity of government between the two administrations. But yes I think we have a pretty solid strategy for dealing with ISIS. ISIS at least now in Iraq and Syria is no longer really a military problem. It is an intelligence service problem. It is a police problem. It is a special forces problem but it is no longer a problem that lends itself to artillery or even airstrikes for the most part.  So you agree with this move to move the troops out of Syria?  I have some issues with the way it came about but as term - in terms of the policy itself yes. I think this is probably the right path.  OK. Douglas Ollivant was the Iraq director at the NSC under both Presidents Bush and Obama. He is now a fellow at New America. We really appreciate it this morning. Thanks a lot.  My pleasure. 