 The NATO summit in London has exposed quite a few rifts over the role of Turkey in the alliance for one and President Trump's close relationship with that country and also a few personal divisions as well. For that we turn to NPR's Frank Langfitt who is been following this story in London. Hi Frank.  Hi Rachel.  So we got a hot mic we got a Canadian prime minister and a cancelled press conference by Trump.  Yeah.  What happened?  Well what happened was Prime Minister Trudeau was caught last night at a public meeting - I believe it was at Buckingham Palace - seeming to be mocking the president for a very long impromptu press conference with Emmanuel Macron the president of France yesterday. And he said even the - what he said is that even some of Trump's staff had their mouths open. Now the president was upset about this and talked about it today and this is what he had to say about Prime Minister Trudeau.   Well he is two-faced.  Do you think that Germany's too...  And honestly with Trudeau he is a nice guy. I find him to be a very nice guy. But you know the truth is that I called him out on the fact that he is not paying 2 and I guess he is not very happy about it.  OK so Frank explain...  Sure .  ...What he is referring to there - the 2.  What he is talking to there is - President Trump has criticized many countries - legitimately - one apparently including Canada - for not spending the 2 of GDP on defense which is a NATO guideline. And what the president is suggesting here is that Prime Minister Trudeau was just getting back at him. In fact Prime Minister Trudeau said no no no I am glad that we bring this up it is an issue. And so that is what the president was referring to.  And so did he cancel his press conference later today because of all this? Or we do not know?  Well he did. He has canceled it. And it certainly would appear to be that he did so in a fit of pique. This is not the first time that he is walked out of these meetings. You remember last year 2018 the G-7 in Canada - he walked out of that meeting as well. So yes. And actually things have been going relatively well here at least in terms of the way people were perceiving Trump - President Trump's behavior.  So why? I mean what has changed in relation? Because as you note he has been a difficult guest sometimes at these gatherings. So what do we know has changed?  I think a number of things. I think that he is aware of that. He has often come into these NATO meetings criticizing the other members. But you know one thing is Boris Johnson the president - the prime minister of the United Kingdom had asked him to stay out of the election which is coming up and the president has abided by that. But what seems has happened most recently is this hot mic if you will with Trudeau really seemed to set him off. And what is really interesting Rachel is even Sadiq Khan the mayor of London who is often - he gets into Twitter spats with the president of the United States - even he had - was singing President Trump's praises early this morning before the president got mad and pulled out. And this is what Mayor Khan had to say to us.  Donald Trump's been the president for three-odd years. It is the first time I can say hand on heart so far he is been impressive. This was a president who called NATO obsolete. The fact that he is not said anything offensive he is not threatened NATO he is not caused grief so far leads me to be impressed by him.  So that is where the bar is?   Yes. And also as you can see Mayor Khan was speaking just as the president was losing his cool.  Anything we should take away from this latest spat between Trump and Trudeau and to the larger summit?  Yeah. You know I think it is a distraction Rachel. NATO faces very big challenges and issues. There is divisions over how to approach Russia - as you mentioned Turkey the question of how to address terrorism. This is a - it is supposed to be the 70th birthday of NATO and what you see is a lot of division in NATO and unfortunately the United States the biggest military power and the most important power you know walking away. It is not something that you want to see given the challenges that NATO faces.  NPR's Frank Langfitt in London. Thank you.  Happy to do it Rachel. 