 And the 2018 decision was another surprise. Russia will hold that competition. Quite a coup for Russia so we are going to go to our Moscow correspondent NPR's David Greene. Hi Dave.  Hi there Steve.  I suppose people tend to think of Russia more for their hockey than their soccer.  I think you could say that although you know it is a surprise here at the moment. But in the last few months and weeks I mean Russia was considered one of the favorites. I mean this is a large country. As you know they have never hosted a World Cup and so they thought that they had a pretty good argument. But the last few days people started saying well it is probably going to go one of the big countries like England and people started feeling the air go out of the effort here. So I think there is some surprise but I was just out on the streets and there is no honking no one is celebrating. It is like zero degrees. I think people must be in their living rooms watching this coverage on TV.   Jumping up and down indoors.  Exactly.  Well you know it is easy to run down Russia. It certainly gets a lot of bad press. But Moscow has been quite a glittering city that is had a lot of development is not it?  It has. I mean Moscow's an incredibly expensive city. You know a lot of critics say this is where the elite can live and play and work and that the rest of the country is in bad shape. So as they start looking at the venues we will have to see if this is really an opportunity to - for Russia to start developing other cities in the way that Moscow really has.  Is it also an opportunity for the prime minister of Russia the man who is seen in many cases as running the country Vladimir Putin?  And Russia you know gets a bad rap in a lot of the WikiLeaks documents we have seen you know sort of a bad reputation in the eyes of U.S. officials. So I think Russia is going to see this as an opportunity to improve its image and really show people some of the positives of this place.  Well we still do not have all the WikiLeaks documents out so maybe we will discover there are documents relating to Russia's effort to get the World Cup here or America's effort to get it. Who knows who knows.  We will be watching.  Is it clear where it will be in Russia by the way David? Largest country in the world here.  But there are a lot of fans and I think a lot of cities that will be very excited to host some of these matches. So we will see what they choose.  Now we are talking seven or eight years in advance so the Russians will have a chance to improve their game.  Who is going to be prime minister? Who is going to be president? We have no idea. But yeah they have a good chance to build up the program. I think they will not want a repeat of this last World Cup. They will actually want to qualify for the World Cup that they are hosting.  David thanks very much.  Thank you Steve.  That is NPR's David Greene in Moscow. Russia has won the 2018 World Cup in soccer. The 2022 World Cup will go to Qatar. 