 Time now for StoryCorps today how an elementary school responded to AIDS during the early days of the crisis. It was 1986 in a Chicago suburb called Wilmette. A second-grader named John Graziano was diagnosed as HIV-positive. John had been adopted by the Graziano family and had contracted HIV from his biological mother. His father Tom sat down with John's elementary school principal Paul Nilsen to remember him.  He was one of the first children in the state of Illinois to be diagnosed as HIV-positive. We went to our pediatrician and the doctor said he did not want to be John's doctor. It was an indication of what might be ahead of us of how John would be treated and how we as a family would be treated.  You came right after Christmas vacation I remember and you told me about John. I said John stays in the school. There was no question in my mind that that is where he should be.  I really did not know Paul. I did not know how you would handle this. When you made that statement that John belongs here it was a big sigh of relief for me.  The more I got to know John the more I loved him. At first I remember - we became very cautious. I used to spray alcohol on his desk and clean it up. But then one day I said this is ridiculous. We are going to treat him no different than we would treat any other child in the room.  Do you remember how the children reacted?  They were very protective. If anybody would say to one of the kids in the room who has AIDS every child would say I have AIDS. I remember one time one of the parents came to me and said just tell me who it is. And I said to him I cannot do that. He says just tell me who it is. I will not tell anybody. And I said no you are not going to get it for me.  I want to thank you. John loved school and it made those last few years of John's life as good as they could be. He died on May 13 and the day of the funeral was his birthday.  We sang happy birthday to him.  Yeah in his final months he was suffering and that was painful for us. But if you had not acted compassionately it would have been so much more difficult.  I believe that everybody has choices and there is something that just leads people to what they need to do.  Paul Nilsen and Tom Graziano remembering Tom's son John who died in 1989. The conversation was recorded in Northbrook Ill. and will be archived at the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress. The StoryCorps podcast is on iTunes and at npr.org. 