 For sports commentator Frank Deford this year cannot end soon enough.  I want to jump the queue here to get ahead of all the annual stories about what-a-wonderful-sports-year-it-was. Please understand In sports it is always one fabulous year. That is because in all sports years there are myriad games so therefore there must be lots of winners. Ergo what a great year we just had sports fans. The fact is though that  2010 was a lousy sports year overall.  A really terrible sports year for the United States. And  2011 looks like even more of a bummer. Sorry to be such a sourpuss but you know things are desperate in sports when the Boxing Hall of Fame selects Sylvester Stallone for induction just because he acted like a boxer. And hey you know things are at a new low when the United States cannot even beat out Qatar in soccer trying to host the World Cup. Golf as we know it actually disappeared in 2010 because what is-his-name the guy who was guaranteed to be the best golfer of all time got into a spot of trouble and could not win at all 0-for-2010. But in  the same driver somebody named Jimmie Johnson keeps winning. But Jimmie is one boring dude and he never gets into trouble. So NASCAR fans are just as unhappy as golf fans. Yo what was the basketball highlight of 2010 - a game maybe? No. LeBron James who everybody used to like made a calculated fool of himself on his own reality show took his talents to South Beach and now everybody roots against him. The good news is all the evidence suggests that by next season there'ill be a lockout in the NBA so nobody will even care about LeBron James or basketball. The NFL is also in lockout mode for next fall. Well there is a silver lining here There'ill be nothing for Brett Favre to come back to even if he wants to. Everybody is in a funk about college football because of the stupid BCS. And the guy who won the Heisman Trophy was arrested for stealing a laptop at Florida and is playing for Auburn only because his father could not sell him to Mississippi State. Oh well. Be grateful for small favors. The likely MVP in the NFL is an ex-con. But then hooray we finally had a hero everybody could cheer for - Zenyatta the wonder horse. But she missed going undefeated lifetime by a nose. That is 2010 for you. The best athletes in the world in 2010 were a Filipino a Spaniard a South Korean and a Canadian Manny Pacquiao Rafael Nadal Kim Yu-Na and Sidney Crosby. Unless of course you count Sylvester Stallone. And you thought the economy was bad.  Frank Deford has comes to us every Wednesday of this banner year from member station WSHU in Fairfield Connecticut. It is PR News and I am Linda Wertheimer.  I am Steve Inskeep. 