 Those looking for a story about how Ms. or Mr. Smith goes to Washington and fixes everything - well they will be disappointed in this one. Democrat Ann Ravel has led the Federal Election Commission for the past year. That is the agency that enforces campaign finance laws. And as she steps aside as chair Ravel spoke to NPR's Peter Overby about leading what she calls a broken agency.  Unlike Mr. Smith in the movie Ann Ravel did not come to Washington as a neophyte. A Californian she is been a government lawyer for years. In 2013 the California Campaign Finance Agency cracked down on some prominent nonprofit groups. She was head of the agency.   We are here to announce today that a record fine for a campaign violation in the state of California of 1 million has been levied against a dark money network of political nonprofits.  Two weeks after that Ravel arrived at the FEC.  I actually realized after about a week or two that what was being done was essentially nothing.  The commission has three Republicans and three Democrats. Party line votes are routine. In an interview on the day of her final meeting as chair Ravel said she began at the FEC looking for ways the two sides could work together.  But obviously I was naive.  In 2014 Ravel tried crossing the partisan divide. She voted with the Republicans to dismiss 20 enforcement cases also defying the set rules supporting the Supreme Court's 2010 Citizens United decision.  One I thought that it was the right thing to do.  And second she wanted to change the atmosphere.  To create some goodwill in the hopes that there would be some willingness to work with me on issues that I care about such as disclosure.  Even Citizens United praises disclosure - that is the case that unleashed corporate and union money in elections - but the FEC's Republicans say Congress makes the law. Here's Republican Commissioner Matthew Petersen at this month's meeting. He is the incoming chairman.  I do not view my role as a commissioner to feel like I step into the void when Congress does not act.  Meanwhile Ravel held a day-long hearing for the public something unheard of at the agency. On a small listening tour in op-eds and speeches she said political money affects America's daily lives more than you would think and the agency is broken. Back at the FEC they could not even agree on bagels or donuts for an office celebration so dealing with a four-year backlog of enforcement cases - fat chance. Democrats want to use existing laws. Republicans want to wait for new challenges to the laws to be settled. At the September meeting Republican Caroline Hunter said Democrats used to stall cases too.   The difference is we have legitimate reasons why we are waiting on a couple of matters and I just explained them to you. And so do not - please do not sit there and just forget history and just you know go on and on about how it is just the Republicans fault when it is not.  Petersen the incoming chair said in an interview that the commission was set up not to be efficient but to keep Americans safe.  Safe from partisan enforcement of the law and safe from an overly aggressive interpretation enforcement that could infringe upon First-Amendment-protected activities.  Ravel talks about a session she had last summer with House and Senate interns. At the end...  A number of these kids raised their hands and said I do not vote. Why bother? I mean if those kids are not engaged in these issues I want to continue to try to do something to change that.  Ravel's term at the FEC runs for one more year. Peter Overby NPR News Washington. 