 Let us take that idea of playing out a little further now. The budget standoff has been described in all sorts of dramatic terms. So we decided to look into what the great works of the stage can tell us about this debate over tax hikes and spending cuts and how it will play out. Think of it as The Fiscal Cliff for English Majors. NPR White House correspondent - and English major - Ari Shapiro has this take.  It is Act 4 in Shakespeare's tragedy King Lear. The Earl of Gloucester is blind. He believes he is standing at the Cliffs of Dover about to throw himself to his death. The audience can see the blind man is not on the edge of a cliff at all. But Gloucester's son describes the vertiginous sight to convince his father that the cliff is real.   This is the moment that comes to mind for Gail Paster of the Folger Shakespeare Library when she considers the standoff in Washington an imaginary cliff that is conjured up by the people on the brink of it. After all says Paster every tax hike and spending cut in this debate was created by the lawmakers who are now creeping towards the edge.  We will so frighten ourselves with the consequences that we will have to do something. And in some sense it seem to me language is making that landscape more terrifying than it might have even been in reality.  Some lawmakers in both parties are making this argument. They say the fiscal cliff deadline is no more deadly than Gloucester's imagined cliffs of Dover. Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island is on the Senate budget committee.  This is not a fiscal cliff in the sense that January 1st happens and it is all the way to the desert floor like Wile E. Coyote.   Tetreault says the play captures Republicans and Democrats perfectly. The two main characters fight like cats and dogs.  You have the Republican Horace Vandergelder who is a small businessman running his grain-and-feed store and you have the Democrat Dolly Gallagher Levi who in her great famous line says in the play Money is like manure. It is not worth a thing unless it is spread around encouraging young things to grow.  At the end of that show the two rivals fall in love and get married. So maybe art does not always imitate life. Ari Shapiro NPR News the White House. 