 Officials are investigating a deadly shooting on a U.S. military base. Early this morning authorities responded to a shooter at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida. Four people were killed including we have learned the shooter. NPR's Debbie Elliott is just outside the base. Hi Debbie.  Good morning.  What do we know about what happened today?  Well authorities say they got a call about 50 a.m. Central Time. Escambia County sheriff's deputies responded to the active shooter on base and that they quote neutralized the threat. In all four people were killed including the shooter. Another seven are wounded including two deputies who were shot. But officials say they are expected to recover. They say notifications of family are now underway. They say there is no longer a threat on base and that it is now basically a crime scene investigation.  Debbie do we know anything about who the shooter is?  No details are not forthcoming. Navy Captain Timothy Kinsella the commanding officer of the base when asked about that today refused to give details or say whether the shooter had business on base or is in the Navy or Marines or what kind of weapon was used. All we know is that it happened in a classroom on base. There is no information on motive. And there - officials again refused to speculate on whether they considered this to be an act of terrorism. Now just to tell you a little bit about Naval Air Station Pensacola - it is a huge training base. All Navy and Marine aviators come through here to train. It is home to the Blue Angels the - you know the aerobatic flight group...  Yeah.  ...That is very popular around the country. It is a huge base - 16000 military 7400 civilians here on base.  So what is happening there now? You are just outside the base. What are you seeing?  Well the base is on lockdown. You can actually hear echoing off of the base loudspeakers telling people to shelter in place.  Wow.  So it is still very much closed down. Here outside the gate of the base there are family members who have gathered waiting for their loved ones to be able to leave or some people actually waiting to get back on base where they live. There is one woman whose little baby daughter is still on base and she is trying to get reunited back with her. So some family separation underway. Officials say they are going to very orderly allow people to start leaving the base today once the crime scene is secure. You are seeing a whole lot of emergency vehicles going back and forth. And it is obviously been a very harrowing morning for the people here trying to be connected with the people that they know who still are on base.  I am sure. And Debbie this is the second shooting at a military installation in the past week is not it?  Right. And it has a lot of people here asking questions and being very upset about that. The second active shooter situation coming just days after a Navy sailor killed two civilians at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii.  NPR's Debbie Elliott in Pensacola Fla. Debbie thank you so much.  You are welcome. 