 And as we say goodbye to the old year let us take one final look back at one of the great records we overlooked in 2013. We conclude our annual series Music We Missed with bluegrass from James King.   James King is a musician with a sterling bluegrass pedigree. He was born and raised in a traditional hotbed of the music - Southern Virginia's Carroll County.  And my great uncle played the banjo and they had a band called the Country Cousins.  King got his break performing alongside one of the all time greats Ralph Stanley.  I guess that is the most important thing probably that is ever happened to me in my life. What I learned from Ralph was the simpler the better.  On his latest album this bluegrass traditionalist performs a collection of songs from a very different branch of country music covers of classic Country Western tunes from likes Hank Williams and George Jones.   King says at first he resisted when his long time producer Ken Irwin suggested the project.  I kind of looked at him with a distant look in my eye. I thought I do not know about this.  Basically says King he did not feel worthy.  But Ken explained to it me Look those songs was cut years ago and they was cut in a country format. We are doing this bluegrass. You just sing it the way James would sing it.   The album is called Three Chords and the Truth.  As not that a title?  King says the phrase pretty much sums up his musical approach.  Basically what I try to do is I try to play the chords. And I tell the truth about the song.   King says he grew up poor struggled with substance abuse went through three divorces and then a year ago tragedy struck. His 18-year-old daughter died in a car crash. So it was not difficult for him to connect with a Country Western song like Things have Gone to Pieces.   For now though the sun appears to be shining on James King. He is now sober and happily embarked on his fourth marriage. Plus the album he long resisted is up for a Grammy.  It was a great idea. I sing those songs my way. And I think I done a fine job on them. I am not ashamed of them now whatsoever.  James King's album is called Three Chords and the Truth. And you are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Happy New Year I am Renee Montagne. 