 President-elect Donald Trump has chosen former Texas Governor Rick Perry to be his energy secretary and here's someone who thinks Perry would be good in the job.  He is got a military background and he comes from a state that has a huge diverse energy portfolio.  That is former Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham. He worked under President George W. Bush and has something in common with Rick Perry. Before being chosen to lead the Energy Department he had called for the Energy Department to be abolished. For Abraham that was back when he was a U.S. senator from Michigan.  I did obviously have to tell employees the department that I was committed and you know wanted to work with them and build a trust.  You had a credibility problem that you had to get over.  Yeah yeah. And I mean I think we did OK on that. I am - you know I cannot be the judge of that. But I thought that it is certainly surmountable and obviously he will have to figure out how he wants to characterize things.  Now Rick Perry has also worried some people because he is a climate change skeptic. We raised that issue with Spencer Abraham beginning with this question. Do you believe in climate change that the science is settled?  I actually have worked on the boards of companies that are active in addressing a lot of the climate change issues. At this point no one has the categorical answer to the question of how fast the climate's changing and when we are going to face consequences from that.  I just - I just want to be really really careful with this because a lot of people would hear what you were saying and they would say that you do not believe the science is settled that you might be denying that climate change is .  Well that is - you know I think that is the problem right now to be honest with you. I think that is the problem because if people say we do not have total information they suddenly become treated as climate deniers.  I mean there are a lot of people out there who feel the science is absolutely settled that humans are causing the climate to change. I mean do you - even though there are a lot of questions to be answered as time goes on do you believe that that is the case?  I believe that the climate is changing. I believe that it is likely that humans are playing a role in that. How fast it is changing is the main issue I think that we have to deduce now. And in the meantime I think moving forward with nuclear energy renewable energy energy efficiency and more natural gas are all ways that we are going to change the energy mix in a positive direction.  Mr. Secretary it sounds like some of the very questions I am asking you have been asked by the Trump transition team in a questionnaire that was circulated at the Department of Energy asking for the names of people who have been involved in climate change programs people who have gone to conferences. I spoke to a former colleague of yours from President George W. Bush's administration Christine Todd Whitman who ran the EPA at the time. I asked her about this questionnaire and here's what she said.   If I were a federal employee I would be very nervous about it. Why? Why would you need to know that? If they are a career civil servant that is carrying out the policies of the incumbent administration why do you need to know that they have been good civil servants for this one issue?  It sounds like she is saying that civil servants in the department should be nervous if the incoming president is...  Yeah I do not know - I do not see why they need to be because it seems to me it is perfectly typical for the new administration to want to know what the current people working in a department are doing. And the idea that that should not be provided is first of all I think silly. And second the people who are career people should not be worried. They are career people. They cannot be you know punished for what they have done in a previous administration. I cannot imagine that will happen.  Could not they be fired by the Trump administration if...  Well they are not political appointees.  And there is no way that a civil servant scientist could be pressured or fired if the Trump administration believes that...  I am not going to speculate on some - I mean look if you are going to take that kind of approach that that is the immediate supposition I mean you know you are taking it to the extreme.  Is it normal practice? I mean did you do that? Did the the Bush transition team do this when you were coming in and starting at the department?  Well first of all it changes when there is actually a designated person to serve in the Cabinet. And I think whatever happened before Rick Perry's announcement is you know sort of prologue. Again I am not saying that you know somebody could not read into it what you are reading into it. But at the same time I think you could read into it simply that there is an effort to try to find out who is working on what and how much time has been devoted to the various priorities of the department.  All right Spencer Abraham always great talking to you. Thank you so much.  Thanks yep.  That is former Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham. We should say the Trump transition team has walked away from that effort to identify people who have worked on climate change. The Energy Department had already declined to share any names. 