 All right. The president recently signed a 738 billion defense bill. This is a bill that had wide bipartisan support. What is striking about that is not just the bipartisan part but that it included funding that launches a new branch of the military - the U.S. Space Force. Space cybersecurity - these are part of new threat assessments. Times are changing and that includes in our reserve military forces. Here's more from Colorado Public Radio's Dan Boyce.  Before we talk about this next big evolution in the National Guard let us talk about the last one.  911.  That is historian Anne Armstrong.  Director of the National Guard Memorial Museum Library and Archive.  In the decades before September 11 when people thought of the National Guard Armstrong says they pictured job duties like...  Stuffing sandbags for a river flood in the local community.  The National Guard was just that - national serving in the American homeland. After 911 recruitment exploded except the Guard was not looking to keep those recruits at home.  Next thing they know they are on a C-5 on their way over to Afghanistan.  911 was the catalyst for something the Department of Defense had been slowly inching toward for a long time. The goal was to train National Guard soldiers and make them essentially interchangeable with any other battle-ready soldier. Over the last 18 years from 911 on that is really come to fruition.  The National Guard has become more like the active duty than ever in the history of the National Guard.  But now comes a new pivot. This past summer the annual National Guard Association of the U.S. Conference was held in Denver.   On Wisconsin...  Guard members came in from the states and territories.   The National Guard Association of Mississippi.  Over the several-day conference top military officials struck a recurring theme. Counterterrorism is a fading priority. Competition with other world powers like Russia and China is on the rise and the importance of technology right along with it. Here's Air Force Vice Chief of Staff General Stephen Wilson telling the crowd about the modern threat from China.   Last year they graduated eight times the number of STEM graduates that we did.  Eight times the people earning science and technology degrees.   And we have to stop thinking like we are Goliath and start thinking now like we are David.  The military is looking for a lot more people with skills in tech and for the Guard in particular looking to the private sector.  I commute to Los Angeles and usually fly three to four Delta Air Lines trips a month.  James Reeman lives in Denver and flies big commercial jets for his day job.  And then in between I will serve for the Air National Guard and I usually average between four to 10 days a month.  Reeman commands soldiers who focus above the atmosphere - the Colorado Guard's 138th Space Control Squadron. About half of the National Guard's space personnel are based in Colorado. The state's also a likely location for many of the increased space resources sought by the Trump administration. Reeman was brought into instill the warrior's mindset he learned as a former fighter pilot in his new soldiers who spend most of their time tied to a desk and computer.  To kind of help these space war fighters as we call them realize they are not a support function anymore. They are at the leading edge. They are war fighters. They are relevant.  Even more relevant because of their non-military day jobs. Reeman reports to Colonel Micah Fesler. Fesler says the military is realizing more and more it needs to leverage the innovations from private companies especially in the space and cybersecurity realms.  We can take advantage of their expertise on the outside and use that on the inside.  And here the Guard might have a leg up over regular military service. The country's top space and cybersecurity talent may not want to leave their lucrative full-time private sector jobs. The Guard gives those high-end professionals another option for military service.   Thank you.  Back at last summer's conference Air Force Vice Chief Stephen Wilson told the gathered guardsmen the Pentagon knows how valuable they are.   Never before in our nation's history will our nation rely on our National Guard like they do today.  He then said the National Guard provides 40 of the Air Force's offensive space capability a percentage they plan to grow significantly in the next few years. For NPR News I am Dan Boyce in Colorado Springs.  