 Good morning Tom.  Good morning Linda.  Tom you have been talking with recruiters. Last week you were talking with recruiters. What are they saying?  And recruiters also see something new. They say parents are now interested in considering the Army as an option for their kids especially now that the violence has decreased in Iraq. So the Army we are told will once again exceed its recruiting goals for the month of January.  You have reported before that the Army has had to settle for lower quality recruits. Is that still the case in this bad economy?  Yeah you know it still is. Army documents obtained by NPR show that they are still bringing in about the same number of recruits with waivers for the past four months than they did during the same time last year. We found several dozen with felonies hundreds of them with misdemeanors for drug and alcohol problems and hundreds more for - waivers for medical conditions things like asthma and other kinds of medical conditions. Overall for the past four months about 1800 recruits had some type of waiver. Now that is about 18 percent of all recruits.  So...  Now in general the - if you look at the statistics we have the National Guard recruit tends to be a higher quality recruit. More of them have high school diplomas. They score higher on their aptitude tests. And also overall the National Guard recruits have fewer numbers of waivers.  Well let us talk about the Guard. You have learned that the Guard is having more trouble hitting its targets than the activity duty Army is?  Right.  What is causing that?  Well that is what we found. Those who are looking at the military now are looking for a full time job not the kind of part time job that the Guard would offer. You know many Guard units have been to Iraq and Afghanistan but in general they train one weekend a month and then two weeks in the summer. So - and another reason is that the Guard is looking to improve the quality of their recruits overall so they are not taking those now who have lower scores on their military aptitude tests.  Is the Guard worried about its numbers?  Well they are a little bit but really not quite yet because the Guard actually has a surplus of soldiers because they have been doing so well recruiting over the past several years before the economic trouble started. They are supposed to have 358000 soldiers. They actually have 366000 on their books. But over time in the coming months is a concern that they could have trouble making sure their units are at full strength if people tend to go to the active duty Army rather than the National Guard.  Thanks very much Tom.  You are welcome Linda.  NPR Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman. 