 United Nations has declared today World Radio Day a chance to celebrate radio's ability to bring people together. But we wondered in this digital age can you still buy a simple cheap radio - a radio that is well just a radio? We sent MORNING EDITION producers Barry Gordemer and Jessica Pupovac off on a radio scavenger hunt.    Rockin' rock and roll radio let us go.  Here's our criteria. We want a radio that is inexpensive and portable small enough to fit in your pocket.  And you do not have to plug it into something or connect to anything so no Internet no Wi-Fi no Bluetooth.  And finally it is got to be radio only no smartphones no satellite radios just standard AMFM.    This is radio clash from pirate satellite.  We started at a Target in Washington D.C. Team leader Michael Yost took us to a lonely corner of the electronics department and showed us some boomboxes.  This is essentially the most basic generic radio that you are going to get pretty portable.  And cheap about 20 bucks. But it had a CD player. Remember we just wanted a radio.  So if you come right over here for about 9 you get an alarm clock radio.  Can you put batteries in it?  No. You have to have them plugged into the wall so you cannot really take it on the go.  Nope sorry. Remember our radio has to be portable. Now here's what Michael Yost really wanted to show us.  This is a Bose SoundTouch.   Bose SoundTouch.  It is 399.99 and it is almost like being front row at anything you would imagine a concert.  Wow 400 for a radio that is not a radio? You know we were looking for something a little more retro.  This is a 1938 Zenith. It is called a shutter dial because as you flip the switch here it switches from one shortwave band to the broadcast band.   That Brian Belanger. He is curator of the National Capital Radio and Television Museum in Bowie Maryland. The radio he showed us - gorgeous yes - portable no.   Our search for a basic pocket radio took us next to Best Buy where we met radio technician Azikiwe Seace.  Everybody here calls me Queezy.  Queezy showed us some boomboxes the size of my old Lincoln Town Car.  So when we get to our smaller radios they kind of put them over here to the side. Let me see - huh Georgie?  Yes.  Where are like the smaller radios? They move those things around a lot. They might be over here as well. Oh here we go right here.  Queezy found some sporty little AM-FM radios meant for joggers close to what we wanted but there was no speaker. You had to plug in headphones.  But we found exactly what we were looking for across the street at RadioShack a 14 gray plastic transistor radio. It looks like it came right out of the disco era.    On the radio whoa oh oh on the radio.  Now we were happy to find our radio but just a little worried that it came from RadioShack a company that just declared bankruptcy. But it is actually pretty easy to find pocket radios just not in stores. They are all over the Internet and people are buying them.  In the U.S. we are spending about 200 million just on traditional radios. Many businesses would love to be turning that kind of revenue year over year very steadily.  That is Brian Markwalter of the Consumer Electronics Association. He says about 98 percent of U.S. households have a radio and that is held steady since the '70s.  That means it is from my perspective nearly a permanent part of our lives.  Which is very good news on this World Radio Day for our little plastic transistorized friend. I am Barry Gordemer.  And I am Jessica Pupovac NPR News.    This is radio clash on pirate satellite orbiting your living room cashing in the Bill of Rights. 