 Now to a story in Asia that we are following closely this morning - China has deployed advanced surface-to-air missiles on a disputed island in the South China Sea.  That has been confirmed for the first time by the Pentagon and also Taiwan's military. The U.S. Admiral in charge of the Pacific is calling this move a quote clear indication of militarization. Let us turn to NPR's Frank Langfitt who is following this news from Shanghai. Good morning Frank.  Good morning David.  So I do not think I am exactly familiar with where we are talking about here. What is this island and what is happening there?  Well this is in a place that is called the Paracel chain. And it is right sort of - it is in the middle of the South China Sea. It is about 200 - more than 200 miles from China's nearest province. And it is called Woody Island. And what they have done - the Pentagon is saying the Chinese have put what are called HQ-9 surface-to-air missiles. They have got a range of more than 100 miles. And this has just been discovered recently. And so it is kind of dominating the news here today in East Asia.  And this island is disputed we mentioned. That means China claims that it belongs to them but other countries also claim same thing.  Absolutely. And of course this is the problem across the South China Sea. China's controlled it for a long time. I want to remind people this is not one of those artificial islands that they basically built from sand. China's had it for many years.  They have got a population of about 1400 Chinese there. But Vietnam and Taiwan they also consider it to be their territory as well.  OK so those are countries that are friendly with the United States. This is China now as we understand it putting surface-to-air missiles that could take down aircraft. This sounds pretty significant.  I think it is. I have been talking to a lot of analysts today and this is the first time most of them can remember China actually putting missiles on disputed islands. It might have happened a long time ago but certainly recently as we have seen in the last few years there is been a lot of tension in the region. And this is the first time that people can really remember this happening. And people generally I think saw it as China upping the stakes in the area and kind of making the next tactical move. The U.S. Admiral Harry Harris - he is head of U.S. Pacific Command - he was in Tokyo today. He did a briefing and he said that this represents a militarization of the South China Sea. And I think it is important for people back in the States to remember that these are really crucial sea lanes. A lot happens out here. You have got more than 5 trillion in trade. Twenty percent of that is U.S. trade. All the oil goes to Japan through the South China Sea. And we also have these countries here - China Vietnam the Philippines Taiwan - all kind of arguing over these islands.  Well you mentioned what we hear - or what you are hearing from a U.S. admiral. I mean the United States has been active the military in this region right? I mean running aircraft sort of keeping an eye on this...  Very much so. And people think that this is sort of a countermove by the Chinese. As we have seen in the last few months the Americans have been flying surveillance planes over these islands and getting yelled at by air traffic control - the artificial islands that we have been talking about earlier. They have also sent destroyers very close to the islands and then the Chinese are saying hey as far as we are concerned this is sovereign territory. And so a lot of people watching this today say well this is China's next move. It is kind of ratcheting up a bit and putting missile batteries on these islands.  Well Frank just listening to you there I mean are we inching closer to a potential military conflict between the United States and China?  Most analysts here do not think so. They think that even as both countries make moves and countermoves they are also very very aware of the risks. Everybody here's watching it very closely. And they hope that both countries can kind of work out an understanding that they are going to be very very careful even as they try to kind of enforce their interests in this huge very important body of water.  And real briefly Frank anything yet from the Chinese government talking about this?  Yeah I mean what they said is - first of all they did not confirm or deny. But the foreign ministry spokesman today said well you know if we were doing this hey you know it is perfectly reasonable. This is just for defensive reasons. And so they are basically arguing - as they have throughout these disputes - this is our sovereign territory and you have to get used to that.  All right NPR's Frank Langfitt reporting for us in Shanghai this morning. Frank thanks a lot.  You are very welcome David. 