 The film Green Book is up for a best picture Oscar on Sunday. It is the story of how Don Shirley a black concert pianist went on tour in the segregated American South driven by a white bodyguard. The movie has been controversial. Shirley's family complained of misrepresentation and some have dismissed the film as yet another story about a black character as told through a white lens. NPR special correspondent Susan Stamberg reports on one element of the film that is undisputed the incredible piano playing. She explains how it is done.  There are three pianists involved in making the movie's music. The first is Don Shirley who was popular in the 1950s and '60s in person and on vinyl.   He is making a symphony out of Irving Berlin's song Blue Skies. The second Green Book pianist is Mahershala Ali who portrays Don Shirley in the film. He plays Shirley but not the piano.   That music is being made by the movie's third pianist Kris Bowers. He does all the playing in the film. So will you just play like...   Yeah for sure.  OK.  .  We are sitting at the Yamaha in Kris's Hollywood Hills apartment. He is recreating the music Don Shirley played just as Don Shirley a virtuoso played it. But on screen you would swear Mahershala did the playing. The actor's tempo is perfect. His fingers hit the right keys. Kris says director Peter Farrelly insisted there be no edits the first time you see Ali at the piano. The camera starts on his hands and slowly pans out to see his full body as he plays. How did they do that? Kris will tell in a second. But first an amazing factoid. Before Green Book had you ever heard of Don Shirley?  I never heard of him.  To play Shirley's playing Kris immersed himself in Shirley's recordings. That made him nervous.  I was pretty scared actually once I listened to it because of how intricate it was how difficult it was.  Don Shirley played jazz as if it were classical music - played it as a fine art. There was no sheet music. Kris was no slouch at the piano. He trained at Juilliard. So he could transcribe Shirley's performances and then go over and over them listening to five seconds at a time learning as he listened. How hard was it for you to play? Because he was a virtuoso.  Yeah it was pretty difficult. I was pretty nervous. I probably almost broke down a few times just questioning whether or not I was going to be able as a get it done. And I was practicing eight nine hours a day.  Why did not they simply lip sync - finger sync - to the original Don Shirley LPs?  Those original recordings just have a lower quality to them so they are a little muddier. You would immediately recognize that this must be an old recording that we are listening to. And so we wanted to re-record them so that it could just feel live.  Which means Kris had to teach actor Mahershala Ali to actually appear to be playing. Kris began with the basics.  . Our first lesson was only supposed to be an hour and we spent three hours playing this major scale because he was so attentive to detail in a way that I had never really seen before. And he just wanted to make sure that he got it as accurately as possible.  After the first lesson the actor could play a major scale with both hands. They had lessons once a week for three months. By the second month Ali was playing Shirley's complicated arrangements. You never hear him playing but you would not know that from seeing him. You must be some teacher.  Yeah. It was more...   ...That he was a great student. I have not that success rate with other students at all .  Yeah. Mahershala Ali was a great student.  When he knew that he was shooting a song the day before or a few days before he asked me to record video of myself playing through the song so he could watch me over and over and over again. And then after that before we did the take we set up a keyboard in his trailer. And I would play for him over and over again just so he could watch - sit across from me. And then we were on stage - when he was playing I was standing off in the wings doing air piano to show him where he should be. .  Mahershala Ali mastered the choreography of the playing so it looked authentic. Are your hands the same size?  Just about actually - he has pretty massive hands. They are a little darker than mine but about the same size.  Do we ever see your hands in the movie?  Yeah a lot of the time you are seeing my hands.  In the edit room they made Kris' hands look darker through color correction. And Kris contributed other body parts.  They did a combination of hands. Sometimes it is my body and it is head replacement. Like there are times where I actually am not sure if it is made my hands or my body or his.  Being Green Book's ghost pianist has opened many doors for Kris - lots of offers for TV video games. At 29 he is doing exactly what he is wanted to do most of his life. In fact Kris was born to make music. When he was in utero his parents decided he would play the piano.  And so they started finding like piano sampler CDs and started to put them on my mom's stomach and play music for me. .  It seems to have worked. Kris Bowers can be heard - but not seen - in the Oscar-nominated film Green Book. In Los Angeles I am Susan Stamberg NPR News.  