 Here in LA there is a lot of speculation about what will happen to one of the nation's most prominent news organizations. The parent company of the Los Angeles Times is in talks to sell the paper to a billionaire doctor in a deal worth half a billion dollars. That is according to a source who talked to NPR. Other news outlets are also reporting on this potential deal. It has been a tumultuous time for this newspaper. LA Times journalists recently voted to form a union and the paper's CEO was placed on leave following sexual harassment allegations first reported by NPR media correspondent David Folkenflik who joins us. Hi David.  Good morning David.  So it sounds like this is not a done deal yet but maybe close enough that it is worth talking about this buyer - right? - and what this could mean.  I think it is sort of the frenzied frantic last stages of negotiations. But I have been warned it could fall - all fall apart. The prospective buyer's one of the largest investors in Tronc the parent company currently of the LA Times. His name is Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong. He is South African-born. He is a very respected doctor surgeon inventor and entrepreneur a billionaire many times over. And yet there is - there are elements of a pattern of questions being raised about for example the ethics of a program he helped to fund at the University of Utah. Stat news in Boston has raised questions through thorough reporting about some of the claims he made about the so-called moonshot he is proposed and is attempting to do to try to create a cure for cancer praised by vice president - then-Vice President Joe Biden and others. So there are some interesting wrinkles about Dr. Soon-Shiong as a prospective owner as well.  Well and I wonder I mean some of the wrinkles that this paper has been seeing in the past - in past months and how much this sale has to do with that. I mean this paper is going through a sexual harassment investigation into its CEO that followed your reporting. So are these things all linked here?  I think there is a link. Look Soon-Shiong has wanted to buy the LA Times. He is a Southern California guy. And he is - he would in this transaction take over The San Diego Union-Tribune a sister paper as well. He is wanted to do it and was always told by Michael Ferro the controlling owner that he would have to buy all of Tronc's newspapers. In this case he is offering it at a premium. The package deal would be close to a half-billion dollars. That is a lot of money for how newspapers are valued these days. But it does seem as though the timing is taking advantage of the crisis at the Times. They did vote after months of growing mistrust within the newsroom toward management for a union last month. But also our look into Ross Levinsohn the publisher and CEO really knocked him sideways and out of his job in a way that then undermined support in the newsroom for other key executives and for what they were doing.  So there is been a lot of conflict in this newsroom recently.  It is been incredible. I think it is worth also focusing on the until-recent editor in chief a guy named Lewis D'Vorkin who was handpicked by Ross Levinsohn to help offer and implement Levinsohn's digital strategy. There were concerns about pushing a lot of the journalism being done from outside the newsroom. D'Vorkin then went after leaks from his newsroom with the intensity of Richard Nixon and it killed any kind of support he might have had.  Could this change the media landscape? I mean this is a big newspaper.  I think the implications are twofold. One is that you know if you are going to do wrenching change within newsroom to deal with changes in finances you have to do it with the support of the newsroom rather than simply working against them. And I think also you know even if Soon-Shiong proves to be a savior for this newspaper they have got to resolve the financial troubles besetting the entire industry.  All right NPR's David Folkenflik talking to us about a potential deal - the parent company of the LA Times in talks to sell the paper to a billionaire doctor. And we will be following that story obviously. David thanks a lot.  You bet.  