 On StoryCorps today a father's lesson about taking risks. Kevin Craw always encouraged his children to embrace the unexpected. His daughter Kate grew up with a love of singing. One night when Kate was in high school her father invited her to go see his friend's band play at a local bar.  It was a school night. Yeah I remember going and...  .  ...Drinking my Shirley Temple feeling very awkward. But I remember you got excited and asked if I could step in and sing with the band. You did not ask me first. You just came back and said oh it is cool. You can do a number with the band.  But I thought well hell my daughter can do it because my daughter can do anything.  And I just remember being like flooded with panic. And I checked with the band. And I said do you all know Little Wing? And of course they said sure. And I get up there and the band starts playing. And it is way in a super low key. The rhythm is different from what I know and I am not even on beat and realizing like OK the train is off the track. And yet I am going to just keep singing until the song ends.  Yeah.  The only thing to do is just hold on and not die.  It came off much better than you remember. I do not recall it ever as a - putting you under the gun for which I apologize profusely.  No no no no. I mean looking back there have been other moments of not being in control not knowing where I was going not knowing how it was going to end and kind of being able to go back to that moment of like yeah sometimes it does not feel so good. And you just kind of keep stepping.  I think it is never harm to try taking a swing.  Just taking a shot yeah. I do think that there were things that I watched you do that gave me a sense that I could do it. And I think a lot about - remember the Triumph?  Yeah.  This rusted-out body of the car. There was not anything else in there. And I remember at one point going out to the garage and seeing you through the window. And there was just like a pile  of like multicolored electrical junk.  Right.  And then you were just sort of sitting there like rocking just looking at it you know?  Yeah.  Like what is he doing  you know? And then asking you and just - like the answer was so stunning to me. Just - I am going to sit here. And I am going to stare at this pile until it tells me what to do next.  Right.  And so that sense of like only being able to see just enough in front of your nose to just know what the next step is. So it was interesting for me as a you know kind of not quite a kid not quite a grown-up to kind of recognize that in you.  The desire to protect the ones you love is never-ending. And that keeps me up at night. You are so invested in them. And you so want them to thrive and you cannot make it happen. They have to make it happen for themselves. If you make it happen for them it will not be worth a damn. So you simply say I guess I am doing my best. I am not sure.  Yeah.  But if your heart is pure and your goal is right you cannot go wrong.   That was Kate Quarfordt talking with her father Kevin Craw. Their interview will be archived at the Library of Congress.  