 John Logan a demographer at Brown University says we are becoming a more integrated nation but at a very slow pace.  Certainly there is been a change since 1960. I think that is probably the point where there was the highest level of blackwhite segregation in most American cities and that is been changing. On the other hand change has gotten to be very slow. Every decade since then it seems that the pace of change has diminished.  Let me make sure I understand what you are saying things are still improving but not as quickly. It is almost like one of these economic booms where things are still growing but slower and slower and slower and it makes you worry.  That is right blackwhite segregation is a phenomenon that is dragging on and on and on.  What is dragging things?  At the same time there is a counter trend. There is another substantial share of the white population that is perfectly willing to live in diverse neighborhoods although the proviso seems to be not in a white- black neighborhood but a neighborhood that has already been integrated with the arrival of Asians and Hispanics. And people get a comfort level about diversity and then when African Americans join the mix it seems to be easier to be accepted.  When you use the term white flight I feel like you are talking about some other time. That seems so 40 50 60 years ago that a white family would say oh my gosh a black family moved in down the block. I better sell the house - whatever price I can get. I have got to get out of here. That seems like a historic story. Are you saying that it is still happening today?  I do not think there is the outright hysteria comment in the 1960s and 1970s. What is happening is there is not much pioneering by whites into minority neighborhoods at all.  I want to challenge you on that because I think I live in a neighborhood that could be described this way. It is happened over a period of decades it is in central Washington D.C. it was a historic black neighborhood - and white people have moved in in substantial numbers over time.  Yes that is right. It can happen. And it might even happen that this is an area that can remain racially integrated over a long time. However I do research that looks at thousands of neighborhoods and between 1980 and 2000 I found - out of say a total of 5000 census tracts in the country - only a handful - 20 or 30 - that were predominantly minority and in which whites established a significant presence.  How does the picture change when we move beyond questions of black and white Hispanics Asians and others?  Both Hispanics and Asians have increased very rapidly in number in metropolitan areas and they have established ethnic neighborhoods. Hispanics now on average live in neighborhoods that are more than 50 percent Hispanic.  Could it be that the perfusion of diversity in this country the larger number of immigrant groups that have become larger over time contributes to this slowing down of integration that you see in your statistics 'ecause you have just got lots of immigrant groups who as immigrant groups historically have will concentrated in certain neighborhoods for a while.  Well that is a factor. And we find in fact when we measure the level of segregation of Hispanics and Asians there is really been no change since 1980. So the continuing immigration is feeding into ethnic neighborhoods. But at the same time there are a lot of people moving out of those neighborhoods.  Let us say that the country continues changing at the rate that it is changing now which is becoming more integrated as you said but not as quickly as people would like. What would America look like in another generation - 20 30 years?  Well 20 30 years it really will be not very different. If we take the current rate of change and extend it over 50 years blacks then would be as segregated as Hispanics are today. And Hispanics are not exactly fully integrated into the society. Now that is 50 years from now. That is my grandchildren's lifetime that we are talking about and that seems very very slow.  John Logan a demographer for Brown University concludes our series on cities in transition. 