 Mark Ryan says it was in September when he first heard of a new legal drug being sold throughout the southeastern U.S. Ryan the director of the Louisiana Poison Center says bath salts is just one way the drug is labeled and sold.  We have also seen it as growth stimulator PH optimizer pond scum remover not deodorizer but odorizer - quite a few different things but they were never intended to be any of those things.  What they are intended to be are legal drugs snorted or smoked not unlike cocaine or meth. In September Ryan says his poison center got its first call from an emergency room unsure about what it was dealing with. Soon his center and poison control hotlines in Florida California and all over the nation were seeing several cases a day. And Ryan says users high on this drug are not easy to deal with.  For lack of a better term they are flipped out. It is almost like a psychotic break. They are extremely anxious and combative. They think you know that there is stuff trying to get them. They are paranoid. They are having hallucinations. So the encounters are not pleasant. And we were finding that some of these guys could not be sedated with the normal drugs that we would use for other stimulants.  In Panama City Florida two incidents alerted authorities to the drugs' serious effects. In one case several officers were needed to subdue a man who tore a radar unit out of a police car - with his teeth. Really. In another incident police say a woman attacked her mother with a machete thinking she was a monster. Those experiences alarmed the county sheriff Frank McKeithen. He took his concerns to Florida's attorney general who filed an emergency rule banning the sale of the bath salts. At a news conference recorded by the County Press in Panama City McKeithen said the ban will help his department get a handle on what was developing into a significant problem.  We were all literally just absolutely worried to death about what was going to happen in spring break. And we still may have issues but it will not be because they are buying it in the local stores  The active ingredient in the bath salts is a chemical called MDPV. Mark Ryan says it is similar to cathinone a compound found in khat a plant that produces leaves which are chewed in Africa.  It is a stimulant much like the coca leaves found in Colombia and South America. These substances we are dealing with are not organic but they are you know designer drugs synthetic drugs made-in-the-lab drugs.  The ban was announced in Florida recently and at least one county has already begun seizing the bath salts from retailers. That makes Randy Heine angry.  These people are out to create crime. This product was legal yesterday. Today it is illegal.  Heine owns a store called Rockin' Cards and Gifts in Pinellas Park near St. Petersburg. He says he is been forced to take his stock of the bath salts - worth thousands of dollars - off the shelves because of a hasty and in his view wrong decision by Florida's attorney general.  There is no one who should have so much power as to be able to outlaw a product without due process.  Heine is working with a group the Retail Compliance Association which plans to file a lawsuit challenging the bans in Florida and Louisiana and which are being considered in several other states. Heine believes many of the stories about the bath salts' effects are exaggerated. But I asked Are they a hazard?  Not more of a hazard than alcohol. How many people every day try to kill themselves doing alcohol? And that is still legal.  For Heine and for law enforcement authorities this is just the latest round in what is becoming a familiar fight - one that in the past has involved synthetic marijuana herbal ecstasy salvia and other legal highs. Bath salts though have gotten the attention of Washington. The White House drug czar has issued a warning to parents. And in Congress Senator Charles Schumer says he is introducing a bill that would impose a nationwide ban. Greg Allen NPR News Miami. 