 Welcome back to the program.  Thank you.  I want to ask first about the United States. Here in Washington in the last 24 hours we have heard the CIA director say that he thought that President Mubarak was likely to resign last night. He did not. Other strange statements were made. Do you think U.S. officials understand what is going on Egypt right now?  It is not outside of the realm of possibility that they felt like they had gotten to some kind of agreement where Mubarak would go peacefully. And they communicated that to their opposite numbers here in the U.S. And then we just kind of jumped the gun.  Can we assume that if the United States has good connections with anybody in Egypt it would be the military?  I would assume so. I would think that the military given the amount of aid that we provide them and the huge dependence they have on us for training and materiel that they would actually - we would have very good connections with them. So I think again the kind of indeterminacy on our part in what we are saying I think is a function of the fact that the situation there is just very fluid.  Although there is also - there was a strange statement made yesterday at a congressional hearing. James Clapper the director of national intelligence was referring to one of the opposition groups the Muslim Brotherhood. He called them largely secular. Later they had to correct the record on that backup on that.  Yeah.  There was some confusion here about what is going on.  Well I think that is maybe the verbal equivalent of a typo. I mean the Muslim Brotherhood are lots of things. They are certainly not secular. But I do not think we should take that as evidence that we really do not know anything about what is going on in Egypt and we are just flying blind. I think that probably was just a misstatement.  OK. So we think that the United States government has good connections with the military. We thought the military was largely in control of the situation in Egypt but what was expected did not happen. Could that possibly suggest that Mubarak is still somewhat independent of the military that he can defy them to some degree as he is defied the protestors in the streets?  And then today obviously we see these protests not abating. And so the military may be forced to make a choice. But I think that what they are trying to do is find an honorable exit for Mubarak.  Do you think the opposition knows what to do in this situation?  We do not really know what is happening among the opposition. We do not really know if they have a unified position. We do not really know if they have somebody who can actually negotiate on their behalf for the government. And that is going to be essential going forward whatever Mubarak decides to do.  It was thought a week or so ago that Mubarak might have succeeded in dividing the opposition to some extent. Is it possible that yesterday's developments divided them further?  It is possible that yesterday's development might have united them because you know him not acceding to the demands to withdraw him not making concessions that people thought were significant enough. I think the crowds are very angry and so the opposition may - it may sort of focus their minds around this idea that he needs to leave and let us demand that.  Tarek Masoud always a pleasure to speak with you.  Thank you.  In Egypt crowds are in Tahrir Square and have moved to other locations as well today. For example the television studios State Television. And we will continue brining you more information as we learn it on MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 