 All wars bring innovations in weapons and in ways to repair the damage done. Penicillin is one of the more famous examples. It came into use as a treatment for troops in the Second World War.  The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have brought their own breakthroughs none more dramatic than the prosthetics that come close to giving back what was lost. And big advances in treating grievous injuries have meant many more troops coming home alive. There are enough of them who want to stay in uniform that the military is finding ways to accommodate the disabled which has led to a grand experiment at an army base in Virginia they call the Wounded Warrior Home.  Hi. I am Casey Nolan. I am a project director for Clark Realty Capital and we are the developer of all the housing at Fort Belvoir including this innovative home here.  As he speaks Casey Nolan ushers us into a charming four-bedroom cottage bright yellow with trellises and a white picket fence. There is no way to tell it is designed to accommodate a wide range of special needs - until you really look. So this is?  This is the stove top moving down   The stovetop moving down with the push of a button is not a big change just inches really.  When you are in a wheelchair it is a game of inches whether it is the width of the doorway or it is the height of the counter - how far you can reach.  These were just some of the challenges Casey Nolan's company wrestled with when it took over housing on Fort Belvoir nearly a decade ago. That was a time when nearly all military base housing was being turned over to private real estate firms to develop and manage. Clark Realty's situation was typical. The 2100 homes it inherited were badly in need of fixing up. And while it did make some of them handicapped-accessible Casey Nolan says it was still difficult for the returning wounded. Things like hallways too narrow to turn a wheelchair around.  And it just kind of hit me one day of you know what are we doing? Is there a better way to do it? Let us just reinvent this completely.  You know I mean for me it was difficult to reach my right hand up and to pull stuff off of the shelf.  Alvin Shell was one of several advisers on the design of this home. His expertise was hard-won. Back in 2004 he was an Army lieutenant a platoon leader in Iraq. They were traveling just outside Baghdad when his convoy was ambushed. An IED hit a truck trapping one of his sergeants in the burning wreck.  I went into the fire and after putting him out I caught on fire because the diesel fuel got all over me. So I had to pull off all my clothes which were on fire. And my skin was on fire my body was on fire my muscles were on fire. So I put myself out and then I jumped back into the firefight.  By the time the fight was over Alvin Shell was badly burned over 30 percent of his body. It would be two years in hospitals and a series of painful skin grafts and surgeries before Alvin shell could begin again.  I considered myself you know a very top-notch officer and a top-notch soldier. I mean I closed my eyes and I woke up and this was a new life for me.  As it happened another person key to creating the Wounded Warrior Home was also forced to make a new life for himself. A decade ago one of the country's most celebrated architects Michael Graves fell ill with a devastating infection. It left him in a wheelchair unable to walk. So when he was contacted about this project Michael Graves wanted in.  When I was interviewed I rolled in in my wheelchair and I thought I had a pretty good chance of beating out the competition because I was with the Wounded Warriors.  Now Casey Nolan remembers that story rather differently.  We were not sure if he would even respond. I mean this is just but one or two houses on a military base. And he is known for building institutional buildings around the world. But Michael showed up - showed up to every design meeting and personally was doing the sketches himself.  And brought in to conceptualize the home Michael Graves would design was the firm IDEO. David Haygood is a partner and Haygood's war was Vietnam. His hands shake from Parkinson's disease developed years after he was exposed to Agent Orange. Sitting in the Wounded Warrior home he marveled at how things have changed since Vietnam.  Back then there was this feeling about  there was something we called the million-dollar wound which was what is the least wound I can get that they will send me home out of the Army? The thing that I see now as I talk to the Wounded Warriors on this project the number of them with much worse wounds they want to know when can I get back to my unit.  Until the Iraq War it was unheard of for anyone to stay in uniform after being seriously wounded. And now that is an option. Captain John Votovich is the battalion operations officer on Fort Belvoir.  This is an all-volunteer army. You know not to be cavalier about it but you know the old joke is you know you signed a blank check to Uncle Sam for up to - and including - your life. And you know we have more of a wounded population today that probably would not have survived in earlier generations. They are still productive members of the military. And they will continue to be so.  In the years and months after he was wounded Alvin Shell and his family had to find their own way to accommodate his needs - things as simple as opening the front door. Outside the Fort Belvoir model home he shows us how the damage from his burns left him unable to rotate his hand even to turn a knob. But he can easily hold a key card. All right now. Let us try it out here. Now at your house do you have a button...  A push button. Yes it is actually a key pad where actually you just push the keypad and we have a combination in that keypad. So we push it and then the door opens up. I do not use a key at the house.  But this is even simpler.  But this is even better. It is a lot easier to manage. You just literally put it against the door and it opens the door.  That automatic door is one of many features that address physical disabilities. But much of this house is also devoted to emotional scars. Huge windows and French doors are everywhere so one can be aware of their surroundings inside and out. That is important for soldiers struggling with PTSD. And there is the therapy room where a Skype connection could replace a trip to the doctor - or as Alvin Shell suggested to the designers one could quietly process some very painful memories.  You know to have that therapy room and to be able to see outside just the outside world and be able to pull the shades when you are not ready for it and lift the shades when you are ready for it I mean that is therapeutic.  After he was injured Alvin Shell was promoted to Captain. And while the Army wanted him to stay in he decided to leave the service when offered a good job at Homeland Security. We asked would it have made a difference if there would been a home like this available to him.  I - man maybe. I do not know. You know and I think if I knew that I could get this housing at every base it might have. And maybe somebody who does have the injuries that I have if these houses catch on and they go from base to base to base maybe that will change someone's mind to stay in. I do not really regret my decision. But I have got to tell you you know I miss it. I miss the Army. I really do.  More of these innovative homes will be going up at Fort Belvoir breaking ground this summer. And there is one other already built across the street. A Marine sergeant and his family are living there. He lost both legs six months ago in Afghanistan and he is still on active duty.   You can take a tour of the Wounded Warrior Home at npr.org. 