 So I was chatting recently with the author Diane Les Becquets about one night when she was hunting with a bow and arrow in the backwoods of Colorado.  I was bow hunting by myself covered in elk estrus camouflage paint.  And elk estrus - just a - this comes up in the book but explain it for our listeners just so they know.  I mean my understanding is that it is really elk piss. You know you are covering yourself with the scent of a female elk so that you are luring a bull elk.  OK so we should clarify that you actually - not just your character in the book but you - have covered yourself in elk urine. OK so this is the first thing you need to know about Diane Les Becquets. She loves the outdoors. She was living in Meeker Colo. hunting hiking writing books until life took a turn. She got divorced and said goodbye to her beloved Colorado to take a teaching job in New Hampshire to support her three sons.  I eventually met a logger who was a forester out there. And I got married - fell in love got married and he passed away from brain cancer. He was in my life for two years.  I am so sorry.  Thank you. But he also - he had a lot of dark places in his life that he was trying to overcome. And I could see him with those struggles toward the end of his life really trying to overcome that. And in many ways I thought you know that is kind of like hunting right? You are hunting that prey. And that prey were these dark spaces in his life. They are our own demons.  And her newest novel is about exploring these dark places in nature but also in ourselves. Breaking Wild is the story of two women. Amy Raye is a hunter who gets lost while tracking an elk and Pru is the ranger trying to find her. Here Diane Les Becquets reads from the book at the moment Amy Raye spots her prey and draws her bow.   The elk turned his head his eyes frozen at a direct point with her own. Seconds moved between them like rainwater through mud. The arrow sailed cleared the trees and made contact with the animal its impact like a sharp clap against plywood. The elk pivoted and sprang in one broad leap back into the wall of timber from which he had emerged his body crashing through the woods snapping and breaking limbs.  It is so clear in this book that you love nature. I wonder what you tell people who cannot compute the idea of someone loving animals but also hunting them.  That is not an easy question to answer. I know that the hunters who I have surrounded myself with have a true reverence for animals. And they cry when they take an animal down. There is something very spiritual about it. And they see animals as gifts to us. If we take an animal down we should use that animal for our own sustenance. I mean people buy cattle meat at the grocery store. I bet the respect that animals are shown through hunters is much more - if I use the word beautiful - than what you see in slaughterhouses.  I want to ask you about the American West. For people who do not spend a lot of time there they might see a movie like The Revenant which is nominated for the Oscar. And it is a place that is so often depicted as you know the terrain of men. Were you consciously in this book you know putting two skilled outdoors women at the very heart of this landscape to show that it really is not always that?  Absolutely. Absolutely - what I loved living in Meeker Colo. was I met one woman after another who was so brave so courageous so strong. And these women were inspiring to me. I remember having a ranching woman. She was in her 70s. But she would be up in the middle of the night calving and working and then coming in and feeding all of these men lunch. And I love that. I love women who are not afraid to use their bodies. I love women who are strong mentally and emotionally but also who have a physical strength to them. You do not have to have a large frame to have that kind of physical strength and courage. So yes I wanted to show that and especially women who have a relationship with the natural world.  And do you have that same relationship? I mean I know one of the women in the book - she says that the wild spaces allowed me to hear the whispers of something much greater than myself and I could not get enough of it. I mean does that describe your relationship with these wild spaces?  Absolutely. I remember so many solo hikes so many backcountry trips. Literally I would look at the landscape and I would think this is the body of God. When I have gone through periods of loss I find my comfort outside. But not just you know outside I am going to go get some fresh air. I need to use my body in a physical way.  It is such a metaphorical book. And I am not going to give too much away I hope by saying this but there is such a dramatic scene where Amy Raye realizes that she would have been closer to being rescued had she stayed put rather than be on the move. Is there a moment in your life where you really compare it to being in the wilderness and having to make one crucial decision - whether to stay in a place of safety rather than take a risk - that really speaks to this book?  You are a really good reader because I am so glad you picked up on that. For example last night I was getting to visit with my son who lives in Boulder. And we talked about this. You know life gives us so many choices. And I think some of the biggest grief I have is when we see people who have reached a point in their life and they end up nowhere where they thought they would have been meaning it is really sad. They lost opportunities. And we talked about - life is a risk. If we protect ourselves too much nothing will happen - nothing at all.  I do not know if I have ever read a novel that after speaking to the author it feels like it could have been a memoir in so many ways. I mean you talk about being a mom with such a close relationship with your sons being someone who loves the wilderness being a bow hunter. Did you ever wonder what it would have been like to do this as a memoir as opposed to writing a novel?  I had a lot of people tell me you still have that memoir in you and you need to write it. There is definitely a lot of pain in there. And there are a lot of things I would like to cover. But for now I think I will write autobiographical fiction.  And what is the difference? Like what does it do for you as a writer - you know doing it this way versus you know writing very personally?  It frees me up because I care so deeply for the people in my life not to have to inflict any shame or hurt on anyone else.  That is the writer Diane Les Becquets. Her new novel is called Breaking Wild. 