 In Oregon today a governor will take the oath of office for the second time in as many months. Kate Brown will serve as the state's new governor after her fellow Democrat John Kitzhaber resigned amidst a criminal ethics investigation. Chris Lehman of Northwest News Network reports.  Last fall John Kitzhaber became the first person ever elected Oregon governor four times. Now he is the first Oregon governor to resign under pressure. Kitzhaber is accused of looking the other way while his fiancee Cylvia Hayes was paid by interest groups that wanted to use her influence to advance their legislative agenda. There are state and federal investigations underway. With Kitzhaber resigning Oregon's next governor will be its current secretary of state Kate Brown. On Saturday she made a brief public appearance at a celebration for Oregon's statehood anniversary. But she gave few clues as to what she plans to do as governor.   I am just delighted to be here to honor Oregon's birthday today. As everyone in this room knows Oregon is a very special place to live.  Brown will take the oath of office before a joint session of the Oregon legislature. A press advisory says Brown will lay out a series of measures designed to restore public trust in government but gives no detail beyond that. But Brown is far from a political enigma in Oregon. She served in the state legislature for 17 years before getting elected to statewide office in 2008. Jim Moore teaches political science at Pacific University in Forest Grove Ore.  Kate Brown is seen as much more of a classic Democrat. She seems farther to the left. So she does not tend to cross the public employee unions - big on environmental things not known for compromising with Republicans during her time in the legislature.  The outgoing governor was known for working across the aisle. Kate Brown will serve as governor through at least the 2016 general election. That is when she would have the chance to win the remaining two years on Kitzhaber's term. For NPR News I am Chris Lehman in Salem Ore. 