 There is a new show coming to NBC next week it is called Awake. Promotional ads for the show ran during the Super Bowl. A middle-aged man who is lost his family in a car crash quietly talks to his psychiatrist.    I close my eyes. I open them.   And this has been happening since accident.   Yeah.   Your mind created an entire reality. Your wife survived in one and your son in the other.   Detective Britten the reality is that you cannot tell whether you are asleep or awake at this very moment.  A daring premise. Awake was created by writer Kyle Killen. His entire career has been defined by interesting failures - TV shows and movies that ended up losing millions of dollars for the companies that gambled on them. NPR's Neda Ulaby met Killen and asked him about taking creative risks in an industry that is generally risk-averse.  It probably does not hurt that Kyle Killen is the kind of Hollywood writer who looks like an actor the kind who would star in an upbeat romantic comedy. But Awake is just like all his other scripts challenging densely constructed. And it is about an emotionally wounded family man with a psyche splintered by trauma. So it is a little surprising when Killen mentions the movie that made him want to be a screenwriter.  MICHAEL J.   Are you telling me that you built a time machine out of a DeLorean?   The way I see it if you are build a time machine into a car why not do it with some style? Look out.   Yes the splashy mainstream comedy Back to the Future.  The structure of that thing like the brilliance of how it was put together and everything interlocked and it all worked. And it worked in this way that was super emotional and made you happy.  Happy is not exactly Kyle Killen's stock in trade. He studied screenwriting at the University of Southern California. And when he graduated he found himself writing in L.A. coffee shops filled with other people doing exactly the same thing.  My wife had become pregnant with twins and we literally had a conversation about how I needed to either make money writing or get a different job by the time those kids were born.  Now most people would say OK I need to write the most commercial screenplay possible - something I can sell. But not Kyle Killen.  I just decided I would do something even if it seemed super problematic and unlikely to ever be made a story that I believed in telling. And so for whatever reason that involved a man and his British beaver puppet.    Did you read the card?   Yes.  Before The Beaver became an epic flop and one of last year's most denigrated movies it was widely regarded as one of most intriguing screenplays floating around Hollywood.    Read the card.   The person who handed you under this card is under the care of a prescription puppet designed to help create a psychological distance between himself and the negative aspects of his personality.  Here's where I have to admit this story about Kyle Killen was not really my idea. It was suggested to me by Linda Holmes. She is NPR's pop culture blogger. She supports Kyle Killen's career so much she is even got something nice to say about The Beaver like it is wildly original.  It is not as if you can say not another movie where a guy has his personality taken over by a prescription beaver puppet.  She says if you look underneath all the noise about Mel Gibson's bizarre comeback movie after so many years of horrible behavior you will find a smart idiosyncratic screenplay. And like many other TV critics she adored Kyle Killen's next flop. The Fox TV show Lone Star was about a con man torn between two women he is leading on and his scheming dad.    I am not working an angle here.   What do you mean?   I mean I am not doing this anymore. I do not ever want another situation like Midland again.   You mean the fact that you had a girl there too? Now whose fault was that son? I mean I have always taught you you can play any character you want. Never play yourself - that is what let us you walk away when the time is right. Now you forgot that and you got hurt. That is why we play by rules. Eat up.  Lonestar was one of the very few perhaps the only well-reviewed network pilot of Fall 2010 Season. And it lasted two episodes.  Two episodes. Then canceled because practically nobody watched it in spite of all that critical love.  I think we were all stunned and disappointed by scale of its failure.  Kyle Killen is trying not to look morose as he says he is learned a lot from his last show. But it is possible he is being set up to fail again. Bill Gorman runs a website called TV By The Numbers and he cast an appraising eye on Awake's chances.  Its already going in with a lot of handicaps.  Gorman said first of all it is a midseason premiere. That does not signal confidence. And it is replacing a show with pathetically awful ratings - even by NBC's low standards.  That cannot be good. I mean I do not know. Is the show going to be successful? That is a really really really difficult timeslot for NBC.  Awake will be up against The Mentalist and Private Practice two of the most highly rated shows on CBS and ABC. Now if Awake was a novel or even a studio recording the stakes would not be as high. It would not cost a fortune to produce create work for scores of people or be one of the last hopes of a network desperate for hits. But Awake is all of those things as well as being a complex relentlessly somber TV show about a cop caught between two devastating alternate realities.   I do not think I have ever seen a coping mechanism quite like it. An elaborate and ongoing dream relieving you of the obligation of dealing with his death.   It all feels completely real to me.  I asked Kyle Killen what it is like to have produced such a string of interesting failures when the stakes are so terribly high. But I was a little more diplomatic. How do you balance being a creative risk taker with reality of the industry that you are in?  Perhaps not very well. I mean I think like you cannot make good TV by committee. Somebody has to be following their own North Star. And mine has certainly led to places that it turns out there are not a lot of other people there.  But Kyle Killen has gotten chance after chance in a high stakes industry partly because it is seemed as though his interesting failures hold more promise than uninteresting hits. But keeping perspective he says is not a problem.  I was working construction like not very many years ago and all of this is sort of like all right. I mean at some point people will wake up and realize like I am still a guy who belongs over there doing that.  Or may be not. Even if Awake becomes the latest of Kyle Killen's interesting failures the people who admire his choices and follow his career still think he is off to a good start. Neda Ulaby NPR News.   This MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Steve will be back with us tomorrow morning. I am Renee Montagne. 