 Some other news now. Today is the day that the Boy Scouts program begins calling itself instead Scouts BSA and will allow girls to earn the rank of Eagle Scout. Seventy-six thousand girls have already signed up for Scouts BSA. Here's Katie Blackley of WESA.  On a recent morning at the Laurel Highlands Council headquarters in downtown Pittsburgh 12-year-old Elly Riegner rummages through containers of small circular patches. She picks up a red badge with gold lining and shows it to her mother Abby. This one's her favorite she says. And she is done the sport before.  Archery. It has a bow and an arrow.  Who has the bow?  Oh Vincent.  Who is Vincent?  My brother.  Do you know what he is in Cub Scouts? What is his rank?  Webelos.  Elly's brother Vincent is 9 years old and has been in Cub Scouts since he was eligible to join at 6. Elly says in those three years she would often go to her brother's pack meetings and watch activities like the well-known Cub Scouts' pinewood derby.  It is where you paint cars and you race them down a track.  And this year for the first time Elly made a car of her own.  I did blue and black and I did not have any problems. And yes I went down the track.  This is not the only first Elly will take part in this year. Younger girls have been able to join Cub Scouts for nearly a year. But now older girls have a path to earn the highest rank of Eagle Scout. Elly's mom Abby will be the scoutmaster for the new all-girls troop. She says she is glad girls can take advantage of the Scouting program.  I was just like that is awesome. I was the kid who wanted to be a Boy Scout and my daughter kind of missed out on all of that. And I wanted to give her an opportunity to do the things that I know she really likes.  She says they will model the new older girls troops on the boys combining the two for things like opening pledges and announcements. But for the majority of activities and outings troops will be single sex. That is something Laurel Highlands Council Scouting Executive CEO Sharon Moulds says she wants people to understand.  It is not a coed program. There is boy troops and girl troops.  It is important for the development of young men and women to have separate troops she says especially in their early teenage years when they are learning leadership skills. There has been criticism from Girl Scouts USA who filed a complaint against the Boy Scouts name change last year. Moulds says Scouts BSA is not discouraging girls from joining the 107-year-old Girl Scouts. Within Boy Scouts there was also some resistance with allowing girls. But she says most members have come around.  It is kind of a mix because we have some that - they are grandfathers and they are saying oh I can get my granddaughter in. And I think generally what they are concerned about is they think they are going to merge together and be coed which is never going to happen.  The decision to invite girls into Boy Scouts was not an easy one Moulds says. Families told the organization it would be more convenient for their increasingly busy schedules to drop their children off at one meeting. Moulds says girls are already telling her how much they are looking forward to being involved.  They are excited about having the opportunity to do what they have seen their brothers do or the other boys do. I think a lot of them what we are seeing is they just want to be Eagle Scouts.  That is the case for 12-year-old Elly Riegner. With her first official day as a Scout coming up she is been reading up on the ranks in her future.  Scout Tenderfoot Second Class First Class Star Life and Eagle.  For NPR News I am Katie Blackley.  