 To find out what this may mean we turn now to David Wessel. He is economics editor of the Wall Street Journal. Good morning.  Good morning Renee.  So David what would nationalization look like? I mean does it mean the government would take over Citigroup or Bank of America and run it like a government department?  Well that is not the idea. The whole idea is for the government to take a failing bank cleanse it of all its bad loans and lousy assets and then put the bank back into private hands. That is what the government did with a big bank called Continental Illinois in the 1980s. And in fact the federal government did that. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation took over IndyMac last year owned it operated it as a federal bank and is now in the process of selling it to private investors.  And of course it never used the word nationalize at the time. But what has brought us to the point where we are even talking about this?  So the government would love for the banks to raise capital privately. They are unable to do that in this climate so the government is stepping in buying shares to restore their capital so the banks can resume lending.  What argument for nationalization? Give us some more.  And then finally there is the notion that it is just cheaper in the long run than this dribbling dribbling in of capital. And if it is going to happen eventually maybe it is better to just do it now and get it over with.  Well you just mentioned shareholders. Shareholders of course can be us as a lot of people would say. What are the arguments against nationalization?  I think there is a limit to how many big financial institutions the employees of the U.S. government can even hope to oversee or supervise and so why make it bigger? And then finally there is the concern that if the government nationalizes the banks and says some day it is going to return them to private hands it may be a lot easier to say that than to actually do that. And most people do not think that it is a good idea in the long run for the government of the United States to operate the banking system.  You know one thing David - and just very quickly - in this country nationalization is a very loaded term. How is that influencing this whole debate?  I think it illustrates how fundamentally Americans are uncomfortable with the government running the economy. And so this is the last choice of our policymakers. And they are going to try to make it sound palatable.  David thanks very much.  A pleasure.  David Wessel is economics editor of the Wall Street Journal.   This is NPR News. 