 This is PR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Good morning. In Libya it is been a day in which the government of Moammar Gadhafi has been calling on protesters to turn in their weapons and the government is offering rewards for those who inform on protest leaders. It is also been a day in which countries around the world are trying to rescue their citizens from Libya by air and sea. And in the eastern part of the country it is been another day of freedom from Gadhafi's rule. Communication with that part of the country is not easy but we have reached NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro on a scratchy phone line. She is been traveling along the Libyan coast. She is now in Benghazi which was the center of the rebellion. And Lourdes who have you been talking to today?  We spoke with General Suleiman Mahmoud. He used to be the head of all the eastern forces here in Libya for Gadhafi. He defected over the weekend and he is now leading the anti-Gadhafi forces. He says that because there is compulsory military service here most of the young men who are volunteering  and there are loads of volunteers he says coming in every day  already know how to use small arms but they are training them in heavy weapons because they feel that is what they will need to take Tripoli. When I asked him when was this going to happen he said it is going to happen very soon. What we are seeing here is a lot of organizations in the east political military and they want to take Tripoli. They want the west to come and join them and they feel that they need to help the West overthrow Moammar Gadhafi.  So you are talking to this General Suleiman Mahmoud who says he will lead military forces against Moammar Gadhafi  a significant statement there. Let me ask one question though Does he have military forces to send? Because one possibility you could see in this situation is that the forces simply disintegrate.  Well what we see is that the military here is extremely fractured. They basically joined the pro-democracy protesters in the east and now are having militias that are half military half sort of young guys with guns and they do not seem particularly organized. And I think what General Suleiman Mahmoud says that they are trying to do now is to sort of whip these people into some semblance of an army. But it remains to be seen how it effective they will be and whether they can get all these looted weapons back. I mean we have gone down streets where we have seen anti-aircraft guns basically parked on the side of the road with young men sort of sitting around them. It is very unclear if they can actually be a credible threat against the Gadhafi regime. But there is a real sense here in the east they started this revolution and they want to finish it and they do feel that people in Tripoli need their help. And there is a sense that they do not want to be a breakaway republic. They do not want to be Free Libya in the east. They want to have a free full Libya that includes the capital Tripoli.  Do you have a sense there of how much fighting and how much violence there was before Gadhafi's forces were driven away?  We have been traveling all through eastern Libya and now we are in Benghazi. And everywhere we have gone there is been a real sense of the violence that has taken place here. What we have seen is bloody battles in every city. Yesterday in Bayda the head of the hospital said that 63 people had been killed in the fighting just in that town - of course the numbers much greater here in Benghazi which is the second-largest city in Libya and the scene of much of the violence against the protesters. So really quite bloody battles people talking to me the whole time about what they experienced what they saw. People here are now heavily armed as well. They are afraid that they might face retaliation if Moammar Gadhafi's forces manage to rally in Tripoli. They do not know what is going to come next but they are preparing for the worst.  NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro is in eastern Libya. Lourdes thanks very much.  You are welcome.  And we should mention that forces loyal to Gadhafi are securing the area around Tripoli. They are setting up roadblocks. Witnesses say troops attacked protestors to the west of Tripoli. 