 It is been more than two weeks since Pope Benedict XVI astonished the world by announcing that he would resign. The response to his decision among the world's more than one billion Catholics has been mixed. NPR's Philip Reeves says to truly understand Benedict's decision there is an unusual man you need to meet a hermit from many centuries ago.  Only two popes have resigned voluntarily. One is Pope Benedict now in his final days in office. The other is here amid the mountains and ancient hilltop towns of central Italy. His name's Celestine V or as the Italians put it Chelestino Quinto. We have come to a big honey-colored medieval basilica. The winter sun is just strong enough to melt the snow on the roof tiles.    Patrizia Innamorati works here taking care of the church which is called the Basilica of Santa Maria di Collemaggio. Right now the church is locked but Patrizia is a big fan of Celestine. She is eager to introduce us to a cleric who very briefly - some 700 years ago - was the most powerful man in the world.   She unlocks a big wooden door and leads us inside the basilica to a glass coffin on a plinth. Beneath the glass wearing a miter and faded vestments of purple and gold there is a tiny man in effigy. Somewhere in there are his bones. It is freezing. Patrizia's hands are blue with cold yet her eyes sparkle with warmth as she tells Celestine's story.    He was a monk a hermit and a saint she explains. He never wanted to be pope.    He just wanted to guide the faithful. Celestine came from the mountains not far from here. His life was austere.  Celestine during his life as a hermit would sleep on bare rock in a cave on the side of a mountain.  George Ferzoco is from the department of theology and religious studies at Bristol University in England. He is an expert on Celestine V or Pietro di Morrone as Celestine was known before becoming pope. Ferzoco says Pietro practiced mortification of the flesh - the belief that pain distracts the mind away from worldly temptations and towards God. He wore a horsehair shirt and an iron girdle.  The combination of the hair shirt and the iron chains which he would wear around his skin these would have cut very deeply into his skin and caused profuse regular bleeding.  Pietro became famous. He attracted a lot of followers and set up his own branch of the Benedictine order. Then in 1292 the pope Nicholas IV died. For the next two years the church's endlessly scheming cardinals were deadlocked over a successor. They had heard about Pietro or Peter as some called him. They figured he was old and easy to manipulate so they set off on horseback to his mountain cave.  And when they approached in essence they said to him guess what? And he would have said what? And the reply would have been You are pope.  Pietro was 84. The job did not work out.  Well he was really rather an appalling pope.  Eamon Duffy is professor of the history of Christianity at Cambridge University and author of books about the popes.  For a start he was extremely feeble. He was also very much under the influence of the king of Sicily and appointed a number of stooge cardinals really. And he really had no head for administration or business so it was a rather inglorious period.  After just over five months Celestine quit. To do so Celestine signed a document legalizing his resignation. This was drafted by a cardinal who promptly became the next pope - Boniface VIII. Seven hundred years on that is proved crucial says Ferzoco.  The law passed by Celestine the day before he actually resigned served as the legal bedrock for the decision that Benedict XVI made to resign the papacy.  Back outside the basilica Angelo Micheri arrives to pray as he does every day. He reveres Celestine.   He is important because he helps people in need.  Times are tough in Italy these days. Angelo's a carpenter who cannot get a job. To survive he begs. Angelo's confident though that Celestine will  one day answer his prayers for work.   Yes I think he will. I asked him before and I found work.   Some construction laborers who do have jobs start working within the basilica. The church is just outside the city of L'Aquila. It is still being repaired after part of the roof caved in during a big earthquake that struck L'Aquila four years ago. After the quake Pope Benedict came here to console victims. He prayed before Celestine's coffin. In a highly symbolic gesture Benedict laid upon it a most sacred vestment - his pallium or a kind of scarf.   Shortly after that because of the repair works Celestine's coffin was moved for a while. It was paraded slowly through the narrow streets on the back of a small truck to the nearby town of Sulmona. Pope Benedict went to pray before Celestine's remains there too.  I think the significance of these two visits is quite staggering.  George Ferzoco says it is amazing no one saw the message behind Pope Benedict's actions.  He was showing that it is permissible licit and in some cases spiritually beneficial that a pope may resign for the good of his soul and for the benefit of his flock.    Amen.  Grazie.  As he performs his final acts as pope Benedict will be aware that controversy continues over his resignation. That happened to Celestine too. Celestine's departure divided intellectual opinion in the medieval world. The poet Dante in his Inferno describes an unnamed figure in hell. This is He whose cowardice made the great refusal he says. For centuries many have assumed that is a damning reference to Celestine though some scholars disagree. Others at the time though saw Celestine's resignation as heroic the rejection of a church mired by greed and politics. Celestine's story has a grim footnote. After quitting Celestine wanted to go back to being a hermit and headed for his cave. His successor Pope Boniface was worried by the idea of two living popes and feared people would still rally round Celestine. He had Celestine arrested and imprisoned in a castle. Soon afterwards Celestine died. As she stands next to Celestine's glass coffin wringing her cold blue hands Patrizia Innamorati hopes the world will be a lot kinder to Pope Benedict.   I will miss him a lot because he was a person of great sensibility and courage.  Philip Reeves NPR News. 