 Most of the stuff around us right now - I do not know - the television screens and microphones in the studio products in your house parts of every car parts of almost every building were once transported by truck. And the system that moves all that freight has a fundamental problem. There are not enough drivers. Trucking companies say an acute shortage is causing delays and driving up consumer prices. Frank Morris of our member station KCUR has the first of two stories.  John we just need you to back this truck up in a straight line. And remember...  On a parking lot in Springfield Mo. marked with orange traffic cones John Bounds is changing career lanes learning to drive a semi truck. A mouse click at home in Georgia landed Bounds behind the wheel of this big rig.  I clicked on Wil-Tran . And it was not a couple days later they called me back got in touch with me you know made it really easy for me to choose this company.  Wil-Trans courted Bounds 43-year-old meat cutter with zero trucking experience like a star athlete for a job that starts above 40000 a year because as fellow students like Jessy Dager 21-year-old in Philadelphia know this industry is desperate for drivers.  I like this company a lot so I am not going to say I am not going to be here. But if I wanted to go somewhere else there is a plethora of places I could go and get a job almost anywhere in the country.  The trucking industry's been short of drivers for decades but the problem keeps getting worse. A big run-up in shipping demand baby boomer retirements and a staggering turnover rate have left trucking companies unable to fill some 60000 jobs. T.J. O'Connor president of YRC Freight says that is forcing them to turn down lucrative business. TJ O' Well I think as an industry we need to be more creative and resourceful to attract and retain top-notch people that are very safety-focused that have an interest and understand what they are getting into.  Of course money is part of the solution. Some companies are offering signing bonuses referral bonuses longevity bonuses paid time off retirement plans and health care. Last year average trucker income spiked to around 60000.  Pay has gone up tremendously. And in some cases you know you are talking 10 11 percent.  Lori Furnell is director of talent acquisition for Walmart's huge trucking fleet. They have got 900 openings.  Our first-year drivers with Walmart will average about 87.5 this year.  Eighty-seven thousand five hundred dollars with good benefits. And like some other trucking firms Walmart's also offering drivers nearly free online college tuition. But Walmart only hires experienced drivers with sterling safety records. Todd Spencer president of the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association says average driver income slumped for decades before last year's boost.  The only real shortage is - it is a pay shortage  so that is the shortage. Even the crappiest job will attract workers and keep them if they pay enough.  Most long-haul truckers do not get a salary or even an hourly wage. They get paid by the mile. It is been that way since the 1930s partly as an incentive for drivers hauling unrefrigerated food to move it as fast as possible. Drivers liked it. They made more that way. Now the government enforces strict limits on the amount of time drivers can spend behind the wheel. Many face long delays in traffic and hold-ups loading and unloading that can eat up much of their driving time all without pay.  You put in a whole lot of hours for the money you get.  The driver shortage in tight freight markets are making it more expensive for shippers to waste drivers' time. Companies are trying to structure routes to give drivers more predictable pay and schedules. But all that is not enough to fix the driver shortage. And companies are working hard to broaden the appeal of trucking. For NPR News I am Frank Morris in Kansas City.  