 One of the most wanted men in the world has been living for the past three and a half years in the Embassy of Ecuador in London. Julian Assange the founder of WikiLeaks took refuge there to avoid going to Sweden to face an accusation of rape which he denies and also because he feared Sweden would allow him to be extradited to the United States. Assange asked a United Nations panel to support his contention he is being detained without cause and should go free and the panel agreed. NPR's Leila Fadel joins us now from London. And Leila what was Assange's reaction to this decision?  Well Assange and his legal team say this is a victory and that Britain and Sweden have to comply now with the U.N. panel's ruling that has called for his freedom of movement and for compensation. Here's Assange at a press conference today.   I have been detained now without charge in this country the United Kingdom for five and a half years. Today that detention without charge has been found by the highest organization in the United Nations to be unlawful.  Now he is been arbitrarily detained the U.N. says for over five years - from the first time he was arrested in London in 2010.  Right and then three and a half years in the Ecuadorian Embassy. What did the panel find exactly?  They said that he is being deprived of freedom of movement that he deserves compensation and that the U.K. and Sweden must allow for his freedom of movement. Now he is being accused of sexual misconduct in Sweden and Sweden wants him extradited. The U.K. says they will send him back to Sweden for questioning.  And what has been the reaction from Sweden and also the U.K.?  Well they both dismissed the panel's opinion. They say it is not legally binding that this is frankly ridiculous as Britain's Foreign Minister put it this morning that Assange has voluntarily been at that embassy as a fugitive hiding from justice and that they will arrest him if he steps out of the embassy.  Just lastly Leila what about his fear of being extradited to the U.S.?  Well he has expressed fears that ultimately all of this is a ploy to get him to the U.S. so that he can be questioned and possibly jailed over the WikiLeaks dumps of classified documents that have exposed so many things globally from unlawful killings to torture.  So he has consistently said that this all a way to get him to the U.S. and possibly imprison him there. Now the U.S. has not charged Assange or called for his extradition.  NPR's Leila Fadel speaking to us from London.  Thanks very much.  Thank you. 