 Many Americans who have lost their jobs in recent years are looking to replace their lost income with home-based businesses. Think Tupperware Avon and Pampered Chef. But as NPR's Tamara Keith reports making real money is real work.  When Cindy Tisdale was laid off from her job as a transaction tax analyst she started looking for new work right away. Ms.  The niche that I am in in tax law is so small that there is hardly any positions anywhere.  Then a former co-worker who also lost her job started selling jewelry for Silpada Designs. It is a direct sales company where reps hold jewelry parties. Tisdale thought it sounded like a pretty good deal. Ms.  I did like and I love tax law which sounds really nerdy you know because I am an you know my degree is in accounting and statistics. But I am just like you know what okay maybe this is a midlife crisis I do not know but time to change. I want to do something that is fun.  So on a recent Saturday night she brought a bunch of catalogs and jewelry samples to a friend's house for a small party. There was wine and cheese and shopping. Ms.  I like those rings a necklace and a bracelet I believe a bracelet.  Tisdale is still searching for a full-time job but she is hoping she will be so successful selling jewelry she will not need one. Ms.  A lot of my faith and hope is on this right now at this point. I feel like I can do this. I know I can do this this is my dream to you know work for myself. This is what it is. I want to work for myself.  There are a lot of newly minted sales people out there just like Cindy Tisdale. Silpada CEO Jerry Kelly says his company's sales force has grown by 7000 since the start of the recession and many of the new reps were looking to replace lost income. Mr. JERRY A When you have car payments when you have mortgage payments those payments do not wait until you get another job. And the best part about this is you cannot be fired.  Silpada says its representatives make an average of 285 per party. With any of these direct selling home-based businesses it is difficult to replace a full-time income says Neil Offen. He is the president and CEO of the Direct Selling Association a national trade group. Mr.  Anyone who says it is easy is lying. It could be fun and it could seem easy but it is not.  Of the more than 16 million people in direct sales in the U.S. he says only about eight percent do it full time. Half of them are making 50000 a year and fewer than one percent of direct sales representatives earn 100000 or more. Mr.  To make six figures or even the 50000 level come on it is going to be hard work very hard work.  Or in other words this is not a get rich quick situation. Gabrielle Schwartz ran up against that reality when she joined a company that sells green home products. Ms.  I have failed at just getting people to reply on email or phone. Or I have met strangers that said they would do appointments and then they cancel when you confirm.  Schwartz lost her job at a St. Louis marketing firm more than two years ago when the company downsized. She initially thought this home-based business would be able to replace her old job. Now she is just hoping some day it may be a source of vacation money. Tamara Keith NPR News Washington. 