 Of the many challenges immigrants face especially those without documents getting health care is high on the list. And in New York one group faces the special problem of a high rate of HIV infection. They are the Garifuna people who are of African descent and live mostly in Honduras. As Alexandra Starr reports for NPR's Code Switch one doctor is trying to get more of these immigrants tested for HIV and in treatment.  At a recent ceremony in the Bronx men and women decked out in red-and-white checkered shirts and headscarves sang shook maracas and drummed. Speeches were given in English Spanish and Garifuna.   We want to give thanks to Dr. Julie Hoffman for giving the opportunity for our ancestors to do this program.  Julie Hoffman was the guest of honor. She is a doctor specializing in treating patients with HIV. In Spanish she offered words of thanks.   Too many members of this community continue dying. That is why I am here. I want to work with you.  At least 100000 Garifuna live in the Bronx. That is where Jacobi Medical Center the hospital where Dr. Hoffman works is located. In recent years she noticed that a growing portion of her patients were Garifuna and many only sought treatment after they had developed full-blown AIDS.  I have seen many Garifuna in the hospital dying because they came way too late.  There are no reliable figures of how high the HIV infection rate is among the Garifuna living in New York. Dr. Hoffman suspects it may be roughly the same as the rate in Honduras. About 4.5 percent of the Garifuna living there have the virus according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. That is the highest rate among all ethnic groups in Central America.  .  That is the doctor greeting a long-time patient. He is Garifuna and HIV positive. He is also an undocumented immigrant and for that reason he asked us not to identify him by name. The man is a faith healer or buyei in the Garifuna community. A year and half ago he brought one of his patients to Dr. Hoffman. That patient turned out to be HIV positive. And Dr. Hoffman wondered if buyeis could serve as a bridge to the community.  I thought why do not I give him a test kit? And then from there he can bring the patients to me.  She ended up giving him 20 home HIV test kits. Three of his patients tested positive and they are now in care. He says they are grateful.   They did not realize they could get access to free medication and have medical coverage.  Dr. Hoffman's hospital does provide service irrespective of a patient's immigration status or ability to pay. But she believes outreach is imperative to help Garifuna men and women who have HIV.  There is really no way we are going to get a handle on this except if we can get sort of into the community and have them start doing the testing themselves.  Back at the ceremony Dr. Hoffman made the case for a partnership.   The buyeis have pledged to work with me. We share the same goal - reducing the incidence of AIDS in this community.   After the speeches the drumming started again. Dr. Hoffman hopes the ceremony marks just the beginning of the collaboration. She says finding even one HIV-positive person would make the outreach effort a success. But she is hoping to identify and provide care to many more. For NPR News I am Alexandra Starr in New York. 