 The good news about the coronavirus vaccine - 25 million Americans have now gotten at least one dose - is competing with the bad news about the virus itself. There are new variants to contend with now. NPR's Allison Aubrey is with us as she often is on Mondays following this story. Good morning Allison.  Good morning Noel.  Let us start with the good stuff. The rate of new infections is dropping.  Yes that is right. New infections have declined to about 150000 documented cases a day. That is still a lot obviously. But it is a 30 drop compared to mid-January. Hospitalizations deaths are also declining too. So this is encouraging.  And in the meantime for all we hear about vaccinations going too slowly the pace of vaccinations is also increasing.  Yes about 1.3 million doses are being administered a day now. As this accelerates a key focus is boosting supply of vaccines. If the one-dose Johnson  Johnson vaccine is authorized soon as is likely this could help a lot. I spoke to Dr. Atul Gawande about this. He is a professor at the Harvard T.H. School of Public Health and a surgeon and he has been an adviser to Biden. He says even though the one-dose vaccine is not as effective overall as the two vaccines already authorized it appears to be very effective at preventing what is most important.  This vaccine is apparently 100 protective against hospitalization and death. So far the only thing that is been seen is in a press release. You want to see the actual data. But this would be a very big boost to supply.  The FDA is reviewing the data. The federal government has actually pre-purchased the vaccine. And Johnson  Johnson would be expected to deliver millions of doses by June.  My mom has gotten the vaccine now and is practically rubbing her hands in glee every time I talk to her.   I like that.  I imagine a lot of people have this question - if you have been vaccinated can you go back to quote-unquote normal behavior?  You know because the virus is still circulating so widely it is possible that someone who has been vaccinated can get exposed to the virus become infected and perhaps spread it. There is a lot to learn here still Noel. But Dr. Atul Gawande says it is important for people who have been vaccinated to continue to be vigilant to wear a mask be cautious.  We are seeing more and more signs that there is going to be some degree of continued infection in people who are vaccinated but at low or even asymptomatic levels which means that they can transmit to other people. That is why we are going to keep on asking you to wear masks.  This goes for everyone who is been vaccinated as well as for all of us of course who have not been. Vaccines will help end this pandemic but it is going to take time Noel. And right now there is still a lot of virus circulating.  What about the more contagious variants that are circulating? Do they change how we need to respond?  You know at the moment it is kind of impossible to know which strains are circulating in your area. CDC director Rochelle Walensky has said the agency is committed to increased surveillance but right now it is unclear. I spoke to Angela Rasmussen about this. She is a virologist at Georgetown University.  We are still not sequencing nearly enough of the viruses that are circulating here in the U.S. So we do not have a really good idea the extent to which any of these variants are circulating in a given community. So I think that the best thing for people to do is to assume that those variants are circulating in your community and take precautions to protect yourself.  And this means basically just keep on keeping on. I mean some of these variants are more transmissible but Rasmussen says they do not acquire some kind of magical properties. I mean we fend them off with the same strategies we have been told to follow all along - avoid gatherings wear a mask double mask if you can. This can be beneficial. You know here's the bottom line - Rasmussen says if we all do our part to reduce transmission the less likely that more variants will emerge.  Viruses cannot evolve if they do not have the opportunity to replicate. So by reducing transmission now we can reduce the likelihood that there are going to be additional variants that may be more resistant to the vaccines emerging in the future.  The two vaccines being used in the U.S. right now are the Moderna vaccine and the Pfizer vaccine. Do they work against the variants that have emerged?  So far the answer's yes. Dr. Anthony Fauci says there is a lot of focus on this.   When you are looking at the U.K. variant what we are seeing is a very slight if at all impact on vaccine-induced antibodies and very little impact on anything else. So we are covered with that.  However they do not seem quite as effective against the South African variant. Fauci called it a moderate diminution so there is some concern there. And the good news is these vaccines can be retooled to tackle new variants. Here's Dr. Gawande again.  The mRNA vaccines the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines have the ability to do it just by almost like retyping the code of the genetic material that is included in the vaccine. And that means it can be done relatively quickly.  In a matter of months so this is encouraging.  It has been about two months three months even since we started vaccinating people. And there is still a lot of confusion over where and how to get a vaccine and who can get it. Is some of that being sorted out at a high level?  Yes. And I should point out you know the CDC tracker finds about 30 million doses have been administered so far and about 50 million have been distributed. Some of this gap is a delay in accounting. Some is holding back for second shots. And some of this is just lack of coordination you know capacity to administer the shots quickly. You know if you have had an appointment canceled or you have been told it will be months before one is available you are not alone. But cities and states are finding their footing. There are multiple channels opening up - everything from hospital sites pharmacy programs mobile clinics. Derek Burleson of Tyson Foods told me as soon as supplies ramp up they will actually bring vaccine clinics to their employees at the meat-processing facilities.  A lot of our facilities are in rural areas and so we will bring in mobile health clinics. We want to make it as convenient as possible to them.  There are also a lot of megasites opening Noel - you know stadiums fairgrounds in some states. One is opening this week at Fenway Park the baseball stadium in Boston. The idea is to make it convenient accessible by public transportation and get the efficiency of a large-scale operation.  NPR's Allison Aubrey. Thanks as always for your reporting Allison.  Thank you Noel. 