 And now to northern Iraq. In the city of Mosul preparations for tomorrow's election have taken a violent turn. Mosul is a mixed city with an Arab majority and a substantial Kurdish minority. But it is the Kurds who have controlled the provincial council for the past three years. Mosul's Arabs are vowing to change that this time around. NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro spent some time with U.S. forces in Mosul and has this report. Mr.  . Lieutenant  Just stopping around today to kind of check the security and also get some information about the polling sites in your area.  Lieutenant Todd Kirwan with the 1st Battalion 8th Infantry is searching all the houses on this street. They are near what will become this weekend two voting centers. On this day the Americans are working with Iraqi army soldiers all of whom are Kurdish. This is an Arab neighborhood. The house owner Abdul Khaliq Nayef Sultan tells Lieutenant Kirwan that the area is safe and that there are no problems. But as the U.S. and Iraqi soldiers are leaving Nayef whispers to a visiting reporter that he does not like the presence of the Kurdish soldiers in his home. Mr.   It is really difficult to have them here but we are helpless. We really feel invaded. I expect 100 percent that come Election Day they will try and prevent us Arabs from voting.  Suspicions are rife and tensions are high on both sides here ahead of the elections. Because of the Arab boycott in 2005 the Nineveh provincial council is controlled by Kurdish parties despite the fact that Mosul is predominantly Arab. The Arabs in Mosul accuse the Kurds of targeting the Arab population through assassinations and intimidation. At least two Arab candidates have been killed in the run-up to the vote and the main Arab party in Mosul known as al-Hadba says its offices have been raided repeatedly at the behest of Kurdish officials. The Kurds for their part cite the long history of repression of Mosul's Kurds during the reign of Saddam Hussein. And Kurdish lawmaker Mahmoud Othman says that more recently Arab-Islamist extremists have terrorized Mosul's Kurdish population. Dr.  From 2003 'til now we have had 2500 Kurds killed in Mosul. That is a lot of casualties. So Kurds have suffered more than others.  The struggle for control of Mosul has involved the highest levels of the Iraqi government. Shiite Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has repeatedly tried to purge the two Iraqi army divisions in the region of Kurdish officers to the outrage of senior Kurdish officials in his own government. Sami al-Askari a confidant of the prime minister says that Maliki is trying to stop Kurdish expansion in the North. Mr.   Wherever there is a Kurdish population they want the land to be part of Kurdistan. They are working towards that in legal and illegal ways through creating facts on the ground through political pressure and through illicit alliances.  Those fears have been taken out to the stump principally by the al-Hadba party which is expected to do well this weekend. Major Adam Boyd is the senior American intelligence officer in Mosul. He says that because the Arabs have been politically disenfranchised all these years here the Arab majority has been up until now sympathetic to the insurgency. Major  They run on a very anti-Kurd ticket but at the same time they run on a security ticket. They can run - the Hadba can run on a ticket of they could not provide security we can. We get elected back in? A good deal of the insurgents go away.  The Kurdish parties which are running on a unified list know they will lose their position of dominance. Last month Kurdish members of the current council tried but failed to postpone voting in the province. Maj.  Do you have any concerns with having polling sites right here in your neighborhood? Unidentified Iraqi Man .  Back on patrol with American troops here Kurdish Sergeant Ali Farouk says he is loyal to the Iraqi army and their mission of protecting all citizens. But he acknowledges that the Kurds have bigger ambitions. Sergeant   We want an independent Kurdistan of course and we want Mosul to be a part of that Kurdish state.  The Arabs here vow that will never happen. Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News Mosul. 