 As longtime listeners know this program works to help you find books that slip under the radar. Librarian Nancy Pearl gave us a pile of them yesterday and this morning we have one more. It is a book from this past year by Elizabeth McCracken called An Exact Replica of a Figment of My Imagination. NPR's Lynn Neary describes it as a beautifully written book about McCracken's first child who was stillborn. Lynn visited McCracken and her family and has the story.  A fiction writer Elizabeth McCracken thought she would never write a memoir.  And I probably especially had some scorn for memoirs that were about the worst thing that ever happened to you. Then something really really bad happened to me and I realized that I needed to write about it.   As McCracken talks her 2-week-old daughter Matilda sleeps in her arms and - as newborns are wont to do - wakes up every now and then.   Oh yes.    Oh Matilda. Hard to be a baby it is very difficult work sometimes.  Matilda is McCracken's third child with her husband Edward Carey. Their first died inside McCracken's womb in April 2006. McCracken and Carey are very clear on the number of children they have had. If a stranger asks on the street or in a store they might say we have two but to them it is unquestionably three. In large part it was the need to hold onto the reality of their firstborn that led McCracken to write the book. It poured out of her in several weeks after the birth of their son Gus a time of conflicting and complex emotions.  I was worried about my grief for the first child somehow interfering with my love for Gus but I was also very worried about the other that somehow it was disloyal to my first child to pretend that now everything was all right that this new and fantastic baby somehow meant that that first death was not as deep a sorrow as it was.  McCracken and Carey who is also a writer were living in France during her first pregnancy. They had settled in an old farmhouse near Bordeaux working on their writing and getting ready for the next stage of their life to begin. But just before the baby was due it became clear that something had gone wrong. When a sonogram confirmed that the baby was dead McCracken learned that she would still have to deliver her child a delivery that was delayed for 36 hours so that doctors could do tests to find out what had caused the death.  The day delay was kind of amazing to me. But the worst thing had already happened the fact that my child had died was the worst thing. And so I sort of thought well you know if he has to be delivered he has to be delivered and you know it did seem sort of like the last thing that I could do for him.  At one point McCracken and Carey left the hospital and went to a cafe McCracken still looking heavily pregnant. Here McCracken reads from that section of the book.   There was no oxygen in that little plaza in Bordeaux Edward and I both felt it. I could not look anyone in the eye lest they smile and ask me about my baby. This was a mistake said Edward we do not belong here - meaning out in the world. We would escaped but where could we go with me in my condition? Time had bent again. Time had developed a serious kink. Our old life the one where we planned our existence around the son we were expecting had ended but our new life the one where we tried to figure out how to live without him could not start yet.  The baby who died had a name. During the pregnancy McCracken and Carey had been calling him Pudding. And in the end Carey says they made that official.  You know we had a couple of names that we were possibly going to call him but he would only ever really been Pudding. And he would have stopped being Pudding and he would have become something else had he lived. But he did not and so it seemed absolutely sensible that that was his name.  Pudding is what you put on the death certificate?  It was on the death certificate. It is what was on his little coffin and that is who he will always be.  After a summer spent in England staying as busy as possible McCracken and Carey returned to the U.S. but first they scattered Pudding's ashes on one of Carey's favorite beaches on the Norfolk coast.  And that part of the world is sort of stamped now in our heads as a sort of sacred sacred place. And we took Gus there this summer and seeing him running around the...   On the beach was just fantastic.   Oh oh Mister Gus.  And there he is on cue.   And as Gus bursts into the room with the furious energy of a toddler his father scoops him up into his arms and comforts him.   Once settled down the two sit on the floor reading books.  Doh.  That is a dog. And what is that one?  Cat.  That is right. It is a cat.  And looking at this beautiful boy so full of life one wonders is he the exact replica of the figment of her imagination? Is he their happy ending? No says McCracken Gus is not an ending.  He is the start of his own story. He is unconnected from this thing that happened before him. That is part of my story but not part of his story. So it is not that I think that Gus is the exact replica but maybe the book itself is - that I wrote the book trying as I say to get every single detail about this person whose face I never looked at while he was alive and that I could not manage to give him a life but I could write his biography.  But McCracken knows the biography will always be incomplete. The details of her firstborn's personality will always be as she puts it entirely imaginary.   I am holding a 2-and-a-half-week-old in my lap who is snuffling and snorting and I already have a much clearer idea of who she is from knowing her for two and a half weeks. I think she looks like when she wakes up she looks like an old lady who is woken up for no reason at a discotheque.   What? What is going on? Why are the lights so bright?   What is that infernal racket?   Next summer McCracken and Carey will go back to the beach in Norfolk with Gus and his new sister. It seems says Carey like the place where all three of their children are together. Lynn Neary NPR News Washington.   NPR's Morning Edition is produced by Tracy Wahl and Barry Gordemer. Our senior producers include Cindy Carpien and Tom Bullock Neva Grant and Jim Wildman. Our deputy executive producer is Madhulika Sikka. The director of morning programming is Ellen McDonnell. Morning Edition's theme music was written B.J. Liederman and arranged by Jim Pew. I am Steve Inskeep. 