 All right. I do not know if you know this but peak online dating season is here. Match.com says now through Valentine's Day is the busiest time of the year for dating apps and sites. So we are taking this month to find out how technology affects the way we find and think about love. Here's our co-host David Greene.  OK. So we are calling our online dating series What Makes Us Click. Get it? We kicked it off in San Francisco. We just asked people a simple question do you like online dating?   No. I do not like it. .  I guess nobody really likes using dating apps. It is kind of like do not look at my phone. You know?  Like...  I just prefer like meeting people face to face. You know what I mean? It is more real that way.  It is something that is fun and it is kind of a social experiment.  It is way different to - say if you see a girl at a bar and you go up and introduce yourself whereas Tinder's much more - shallow's the word I am looking for.  So a lot of mixed feelings there as you heard. But actually most Americans 60 percent say online dating is a good way to meet people. And that is actually a 15 percent increase from a decade earlier according to the most recent numbers from the Pew Research Center. So what does all of this swiping left and right mean for our psyches for society for the culture of romance? Well we sat down with two people who spend plenty of time thinking about this. Skyler Wang is a Ph.D. candidate who studies the sociology of online dating at the University of California Berkeley. And Megan Murray works for the dating app Zoosk. And I started out by asking them what is different about dating today?  I feel like dating's always been hard and it is going to continue to be hard but the way people meet is different and that has to affect the relationships we form. I have found people do not approach each other as much in person when you go out to bars.  Yeah. And I think it is so fascinating that like you know friends and I would go out and before hitting the clubs you know they would go on Tinder right? And I was with friends who you know inside these gay bars they would turn on Grindr and find someone to dance with.  This has turned everything on its head because it used to be it was sort of like taboo and strange to go online and find someone and now it is a little strange to meet someone in person unless you have connected with them online. I mean is that OK?  I do not think it is like good or bad. It is just different. But I think a lot of times you see people go on these interspace dating sites or dating sites that focus more on interest. So I think a lot of the apps are kind of moving towards that.  You are almost Googling like I want a person interested in Star Wars and guacamole.  Yeah.  So there is a really nice metaphor. It is called relationshopping. So basically people are treating dating like it is shopping. So like as if you are trying to look for the next dress or the next handbag or whatever and you are browsing.  Do you ever feel like you are a commodity when you are doing online dating or feel objectified?  Yeah kind of. And I think because I have like data about my own profile sometimes  so I can tell if I like - I have a picture of myself with glasses and books in the background but the picture of me holding a beer does better. And also like you are doing it too. Like there is literally a giant red X on someone. And there is something like a little gross about saying like no I do not want this person in my life.  Well I am just so fascinated because both of you share this thing in common that you are both using online dating but also writing about it thinking about it which has to shape the experience personally. Did not you have Excel spreadsheets of dates and people and...  Yeah. .  Not that that is a bad thing.  Yeah. So people use lists nowadays to basically get a better sense of who they are attracted to and to really put a very quantitative twist to something that did not used to be like that. I think it is just it is you know why do we wear Fitbits? Like why are we tracking how many calories that we are eating? It is really new cultural phenomenon and I think it has basically encroached onto our dating lives as well.  And Megan just listening to that like if someone is thinking wow technology offers a lot of good things - like a lot of opportunities to keep track of myself and you know find people but I also do not want to lose the magic of romance and meeting people. Like what is your advice on the balance?  Yeah I do think the romance and the magic sneaks in there no matter what. Like if you really care about someone and you meet them there is going to be these indefinable moments or something that you realize or maybe you find out you are both keeping spreadsheets. You know? Like there is always going to be some sweet little thing that comes through.  It feels like there is something about dating that it is like it is become something crazy and new and data-driven and you can use all of these new toys but that there is something central to romance and the magic that everyone wants to make sure to hold onto.  Yeah. And I think that is what a lot of companies are saying - we are not an online dating service we are more of an introductory service. The dating does not happen online. The dating happens in person. So in a way they are trying to preserve that magic right? So they are really framing their services as more of a way to just bridge connections and then you go out into the world and do the real dating.   That was Megan Murray who works at the dating app Zoosk and also Skyler Wang who studies sociology at the University of California Berkeley. And we should tell you Skyler gave us the title of this series What Makes Us Click. You can find more of our stories online and on the radio all this month.  