 And I am David Greene. And Steve I do not have to tell you how excited I was the other night when my Pittsburgh Steelers hung on to beat the Kansas City Chiefs and it is on to the AFC Championship Game against England.  No you actually do not.   You can hear it.  You actually do not have to tell me how excited you are David. I can - I knew I knew. But go on go on. Anyway your Steelers were excited themselves about the game in the locker room which we usually do not get to see except that this time a wide receiver Antonio Brown pulled out his phone and started streaming the locker room party to Facebook Live.  Yeah our star wide receiver and this was just not a good idea as we hear here from Cindy Boren. She is a sports reporter for The Washington Post.  There was a lot of nonsense in it you know just yelling and screaming and jibberish. But then you could hear a voice in the background talking about the upcoming game. And that voice clearly belonged to Mike Tomlin the coach.  The Steelers coach who apparently has no idea that he is being sent out to the world.  Right.   When you get to this point in the journey man not a lot needs to be said  but let us say very little moving forward. Let us start our  preparations. We spotted those  a day and a half.  So the worst part Steve Tomlin used a vulgar term to refer to the Patriots so the Patriots now have more motivation. And here's the crazy thing - Tomlin actually ended his speech by telling players to lay low this week stay off social media.   Do not curse about the other team or anything like that . And we should say we do Facebook Live here. Facebook pays NPR to make live videos that run on the site. But this is news.  But not in our locker room.  We are talking about this because it is news.  Not in our locker room . In an in NFL locker room you would think - I mean players coaches they think this is private and sports journalists they have just been piling on. This is Manish Mehta an NFL columnist for the New York Daily News.  Well there are myriad factors. One of course is you do not want to rile up the other team needlessly. And of course it is disrespectful to the coach because you have a coach here relaying a specific message to his team that is not meant to be heard not only by fans but it is certainly not meant to be heard by the opponents.  It was actually heard by more than one million people before it was taken down on Monday. It is not clear by the way if Antonio Brown is going to face any consequences.  Yeah as in fines. But consequences the team might face - I can imagine some of what Coach Tomlin said about the Patriots probably already up in the Patriots locker room. 