 President Biden has called closed schools a national emergency. He says he wants most K-12 schools in this country open in his first 100 days. And he signed several executive actions aimed at getting that done. Anya Kamenetz from NPR's education team has been following this story. Good morning Anya.  Good morning Noel.  Before we get to Biden let us step back for a minute. And let me ask you broadly what is happening with schools right now?  Well it is been a hectic picture. It is been changing week by week. The organization Burbio reports about half of the country's students right now are enrolled in virtual-only remote-only districts.  Half OK. Now the problem is no longer just the virus right? It is the surge in numbers of cases. How is that complicating things?  Well it complicates things quite a bit because you know there are basically two types of districts right? Districts that have not come back yet are finding it very very hard to do so now. And so you are seeing debates in D.C. In Chicago they are taking votes towards a strike. It is really hard to open up a large urban district during a surge. Other places that had opened up are having to close down quite frequently either individual schools or entire districts or even states as they run out of staff. They have to quarantine people. So - and then there is worries about of course the new variants what that might bring in terms of the safety strategies that we have.  So how can a new administration help here?  Well the actions that were signed yesterday instruct federal agencies to get schools more PPE more masks gowns gloves more testing vaccines and more data and guidance. So schools can now be fully reimbursed for safety supplies through FEMA. There is a new pandemic testing board. And there is - they are talking about producing and distributing more rapid tests supporting schools in doing rapid testing. That is something Noel that some private schools have been able to do to stay safe but many public schools have not been able to afford that. We heard about the expansion of federal vaccination sites. And these orders specifically mentioned teachers as a group that should get equitable access to vaccination very soon.  Now one of the quirks here is that the federal government does not much get involved in funding public education. So the Biden administration is going to need to do something other than more money right?  Right. So overall the federal government's responsible for about 10 of funding to public schools. Most of that is very targeted. Any significant pandemic-based relief to public schools is going to have to come through Congress. It may be through state and local government aid. And so that is - you know that is to be determined. But with these orders what Biden is asking his federal agencies to do is do what they do best which is collect aggregate analyze and report the data and the best practices in order to help schools stay open safely. And this is a big deal Noel because up until now there is been no centralized federal data collection of cases or outbreaks or strategies. So we do not even know what is safe or what is not safe in schools very well.  NPR's Anya Kamenetz thanks.  Thanks Noel. 