 And tomorrow marks the start of the Chinese New Year and also a time when China's big cities feel empty. Hundreds of millions of workers who migrated there for work are returning home for the holiday. NPR's Rob Schmitz is still in Shanghai where it really does sound quiet.  Any other time of the year Shengping Lane bustles with life. But the Lunar New Year holiday is near. Half the city has left for their hometowns and Shanghai has returned to the Shanghainese. The only vendor left in the alley sells calendars but soon he will pack up too. It is the time of year when Shengping Lane lives up to its name rising peace.   It will soon be the Year of the Rooster and Yuan Shuizhen is preparing chicken feet in her kitchen for the big meal. The 85-year-old retreats outside and plops down on a chair along the side of the alley chatting with friends.   All of the outsiders have left for home. It is much quieter this time of year less crazy.  Her two friends nod. The three grannies go through a list of food they will make for their families.  .  .  Beef fish dumplings hot pot. After a meal with family they will go to the Buddhist temple to pray and burn incense.   When I was young we would go to the cemetery to worship our ancestors and then we would cook one pot of rice serve it in small bowls and we would eat it for the next five days. Now we cook meals every single day. Life has improved.  Yuan's friend Ni Jindi agrees. But the 94-year-old still grumbles about her grandchildren. They are all working professionals and they rarely have time to visit their grandmother here in the lane. This is the only time of year she gets to spend time with them and her great-grandchildren.   They are leaving on the third day of the holiday to go travel somewhere. I do not know exactly where they are going. I am too old. I will stay here.  She will have company. Her two friends are great-grandmothers too. And their families will also fly somewhere exotic after the first of the year. With their families gone and the holiday setting in Rising Peace Lane will grow even quieter with just the chatter of three grannies sharing memories of family. Rob Schmitz NPR News Shanghai. 