 The third season of the sitcom Kim's Convenience debuted last night on the CBC in Canada. The first two seasons are available in the U.S. on Netflix. Now the show focuses on the Kims a Korean immigrant family that owns a convenience store in downtown Toronto. It is Canada's first-ever show with an all-Asian lead cast. NPR's Ashley Westerman has more on this one-of-a-kind sitcom.  Kim's Convenience is not your typical show about Asian immigrants.    Mr. Kim are you homophobic?   Roger.   What word you using?  In the first episode Mr. Kim played by Paul Sun-Hyung Lee has been accused by a customer of being homophobic for refusing to put up a gay pride parade poster in his store. But Mr. Kim honestly just thinks the poster is ugly and that parades are annoying and to prove it he comes up with a clever ploy on the fly.    Yeah yeah yeah look look look I am not homopebek . Look if I am a homopebek then why - why do I give a gay discount?  The episode takes off from there into a humorous look at stereotyping. The first two seasons of Kim's Convenience take on everything from running a convenience store to class issues in Korean church to generational differences between immigrant parents and their children. At the start of Season 3 daughter Janet an aspiring photographer played by Andrea Bang wants to change her name.    This website - it belong to .   Yeah me.   You Kim Janet.   That is my English name. This is my new unique Korean name. It means Justice Treasure.   Who give to you this name?   I did. I need it to stand out because my parents gave me a super boring English name.  I came in with an idea - write what you know.  That is Ins Choi who adapted his play Kim's Convenience into the show.  My father is a pastor. He used to be a pastor of an immigrant church in downtown Toronto. All my friends growing up in the '80s '90s their parents owned convenience stores and I wanted it to be funny. My family's funny.  Paul Sun-Hyung Lee has played Mr. Kim or Appa meaning father in Korean both onstage and on TV. And no he does not really have a Korean accent.  I read the first two scenes and my heart - it exploded because that was my appa. And I would never heard him represented that way before. And it was like a key turning in my head and his voice just started coming out.    Korea used to be spelled C-O-R-E-A. Then Japan tell England Korea spelled with a K so that Korea come after Japan in the English dictionary.   That is your most messed up conspiracy theory yet.   I am not conspiracy theory - conspiracy truth.  In Canada like the U.S. Asians are the fastest growing minority group. Lee says this is why it is important for viewers to see well-written and well-rounded roles for Asians.  They are three-dimensional characters with wants with hopes with needs with fears and that is what is so exciting about playing them as you know an actor of color because we have been so cut off from playing real people.  Nancy Wang Yuen is a media critic and author of the book Reel Inequality. She says Kim's Convenience is refreshing.  Compared to the U.S. family sitcoms with the Asian-American families they tend to resolve everything kind of in one episode. And the humor even when it takes on social issues they are more I guess light. And I think that Kim's Convenience takes on a little bit more complex layers.  Yuen says she came to Kim's Convenience binge-watching it on a plane. You can binge-watch the first two seasons on Netflix but then you will have to wait for Season 3 unless of course you are in Canada.    OK see you.  Ashley Westerman NPR News. 