 The people across this country given priority for coronavirus vaccines include first responders medical workers and in some places Cherokee speakers. The Cherokee Nation based in Oklahoma offered vaccines to some of the few people who speak its language. To understand why it mattered so much to keep Cherokee speakers alive it helps to meet one. We reached Meda Nix on the phone from the Cherokee capital of Tahlequah Ok. She teaches Cherokee in this region where she grew up.  I am from Jay which is a little town north of here.  Do you spell that J-A-Y?  Uh-huh. I was born and raised there from - of course I am full-blood Cherokee and of course we are in the heart of Cherokee country here in northeast Oklahoma.  And so I have to ask kind of a rude question which you can...  How old am I? .  Well yeah. That is where I was going with this. Yes madam.  Well I do not mind telling you. I am 72.  Seventy-two. She teaches a language that is centuries old. American schoolchildren commonly learn a fact about it. Cherokee was only spoken until the 1800s when a Cherokee man named Sequoyah developed his own system for writing it. The language nevertheless declined as Cherokees were forced out of the Eastern United States. Did you grow up speaking Cherokee in the home?  No actually I did not. My mom spoke. I grew up in the Indian Methodist Church and then people that came to visit would speak Cherokee. So she spoke Cherokee all the time.  When Meda Nix grew up she worked for the Indian Health Service. She did not try to speak Cherokee herself until after she retired. That is when she traveled to the traditional Cherokee heartland in the Smoky Mountains of North Carolina. She came back to Oklahoma and went out for a drive.  And I just started seeing these children's faces you know and I thought oh my goodness this is where I am supposed to be. So you know I just started praying about it and God just put that in my heart that I needed to learn the language.  She signed up for a class. And the instructor took the students outside giving the names for trees and birds. That is when it all started to come back to her. Today she reads a Bible that is in both English and Cherokee. As we spoke she turned to John 16 - for God so loved the world he gave his only son.  So if you go right next to it it is written in Cherokee. OK - .  She now teaches Cherokee to a class of fifth-graders. When you preserve this language what is it that you are preserving?  Everything - our culture our beliefs our ways. I went to a small church up in Jay and the pastor was Cherokee. And before Sunday school would start we would all be sitting in the sanctuary and they would just be laughing. And I would say now I know you told a story now tell it in English. He said no it is not funny in English.  .  So if you ever - it is just the way it is told.  Have you lost some Cherokee speakers in the pandemic?  Mmm hmm. We have. In fact I just lost a brother. It is been I guess maybe a couple of months now.  Oh I am sorry.  And so yes we have lost speakers.  So when you were offered the vaccine did you have any doubts or hesitation?  At first I was not going to. I thought no I do not want to take that. But I was able to participate in a Zoom meeting with a COVID team I guess and some elders and some speakers and they asked some of the same questions that I wanted answers to. So after that I felt a lot better about it. Of course the week that we were going to get the vaccines  then I got scared again. I thought oh my goodness Meda . Then I thought no I am going to do this.  What was scary?  I guess just thinking about the side effects and what might happen you know? But like I said I believe in God and I believe in his sovereignty and I believe what he says. He says I am going to be with you. I am not going to forsake you I am going to take care of you. And I believe that.  She got the first shot. She is waiting for the second. And she continues teaching Cherokee to fifth-graders. One way to learn the language is to sing hymns.  OK I am going to do this. We will do At The Cross if that is OK.  Yes madam.  That OK? .  Meda Nix of Tahlequah Ok. is one of the Cherokee speakers who were early recipients of a coronavirus vaccine. The hymn she is singing is called At The Cross and is also sung by the Cherokee National Youth Choir.   . 