 So this is sound from a few days ago on the Hollywood Walk of Fame - you know all the big stars have their names emblazoned on stars right on the sidewalk there. The newest addition?   Hello Hollywood.   Andy Madadian better known as Andy - or as some call him the prince of Persian pop.   They told me to speak from the heart and the problem is I cannot catch up with my heart because it is running too fast.  OK here's the thing - this guy is a big deal. He is toured the world. He has a huge fan base especially among Persian and Armenian Americans. People turned out for the unveiling of his star. They were chanting his name.   Andy Andy Andy Andy Andy.  Thank you. I would not be here...   .  All my life I dreamed of playing rock music and I knew this was the place. Los Angeles was the destination and everything else was the journey.  He is been living here in LA for some 40 years now but he was born in Tehran.  My grandma my parents and six kids - we did not have electricity or running water until I was grade seven.  Andy loved music. His dad took out a loan to get him his first guitar and by his early 20s Andy was just about to release his first single - but then political upheaval in Iran.  There was a revolution. Everybody fled. And of course I was lucky. The beginning of it I came to America.   Did I mention Andy is a big deal? Yeah that includes in Iran where you are really not supposed to listen to his music. It is actually banned there.  Especially because our music is from LA - it is kind of sexy Americanized. That music is definitely banned.  Nevertheless people have found ways to listen. His music videos were dubbed onto VHS tape and smuggled into Iran.   His fans would watch these tapes in secret these images of Andy dancing through the streets of LA.  People were persistent. It shows that you cannot stop music and regardless of how tough the government gets people will find ways to listen to it.   .  Andy Madadian has never returned to Iran. And the unveiling of his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame comes in the midst of a crisis unfolding thousands of miles away - there have been protests bloody crackdowns and these escalating tensions with the U.S. which Andy nodded to at that ceremony in Hollywood.   I am just hoping and wishing for a day when America and Iran will be friends so we are able as Iranian Americans to take our American friends back home to Iran and show them how beautiful Iran is and how beautiful the Iranian people are and how much they love Americans.   Andy Madadian aka the prince of Persian pop has a new star on Hollywood Boulevard.  