 Of all the days to visit the United States Capitol the first day of Congress may be the best. Nearly all the members are on hand some bring their families to that vast ornate building with its murals on the ceilings and statues in the halls.  On today's first day of Congress the House will go through the formal ritual of electing a speaker. It is mostly just a formality. Republicans have already chosen John Boehner in a private meeting.  But beneath the ritual lies some tension. The vote reveals a regional split in the GOP. NPR's Juana Summers reports.  The modern Republican Party is rooted in the South. But if you look at Congress or at least its leaders there is little evidence of that. When the new Congress begins its session Kentucky Republican Mitch McConnell will lead Senate Republicans. But across the Capitol it is not a Southerner that wields the gavel. It is Ohio Republican John Boehner whose brand of conservatism is in many ways different from the bulk of House Republicans. Jack Pitney a professor at Claremont McKenna College in California explains why that matters.  Republicans had their base of support in the Midwest and the West. Now the center of gravity of the party has shifted to the South. I think in the future you are going to see more and more members of the extended leadership coming from the South.  But for the moment the party grounded in the South is not led by members from culturally Southern states where sweet tea is the drink of choice social conservatives rule the roost and Democratic presidential nominees do not stand a chance. Here's Pitney again.  Rank-and-file includes a large number of members from the South who had very socially conservative constituencies. Speaker Boehner on the other hand is much more of a traditional Republican. He comes from the old-fashioned Republican heartland of Ohio. He is broadly conservative but I do not think anybody would characterize him as ideological.  House Republicans now have the biggest majority in more than 80 years. Boehner's expanded rank-and-file now includes members from some of the bluest states in the country. But lawmakers from the South are still a sizable voting bloc. Members from four states alone - Texas Florida North Carolina and Georgia - make up a quarter of the Republican majority. But for all of the southern GOP members there is just one in leadership. And that is what makes the recent controversy surrounding Steve Scalise the third-ranking Republican all the more awkward. His candidacy to become majority whip got a boost from southern lawmakers who seemed to want one of their own in the leadership ranks. But in six months on the job he found himself having to apologize for a speech he made more than a decade ago to a white supremacist group with ties to former KKK leader David Duke. Boehner came out in full support of Scalise. Two conservative Southerners Congressman Ted Yoho of Florida and Congressman Louie Gohmert of Texas each have said they will challenge Boehner. Here's why Gohmert told Fox News he decided to run.   The numbers are 25 to 33 percent already to abandon the Republican Party. They are so fed up that we are not fighting for what we said. And if we do not show them that it is going to devastate this country. We could have another Democratic president in 2016.  Neither is likely to win. Boehner has a firmer grip on the job and he is coming in on the heels of a historic election-win. But no one knows more about the ebb and flow of politics than Boehner. In his early years Boehner was a conservative reformer himself. He won a spot in leadership in 1994 but then fell out of favor. Then he made an unlikely comeback. David Cohen is a political scientist at the University of Akron.  John Boehner's very much a political survivor. You might recall that he was in leadership once and then he was kicked out. And then he was able to wrangle his way back into leadership and then eventually become speaker of the House. He does what he needs to do to gain power and keep it. And he will do what he needs to do to remain as speaker of the House.  And after he secures his reelection as speaker then he can get down to the business of governing. Juana Summers NPR News Washington. 