 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Deborah Amos.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Today the Pentagon releases its report on what the military missed before a massacre at Fort Hood Texas. People who worked with him say Major Nadal Hasan left many warning signs before allegedly opening fire last year. But that did not stop the psychiatrist's transfer from Walter Reed Medical Center to Fort Hood for additional work. Defense Secretary Robert Gates summed up the Pentagon's conclusions a short time ago.  In particular the review concluded the DOD force protection programs are not properly focused on internal threats such as workplace violence and self-radicalization.  Let us try to translate that with NPR's Daniel Zwerdling who is been covering the story from the beginning. Daniel good morning once again.  Good morning Steve.  DOD force protection. That is people who are supposed to look after things - security basically - were not properly focused Gates says on internal threats.  Interesting. He said the military basically is focused the whole structure was focused on foreign enemies the Cold War spies...  Or enemies trying to infiltrate spies from outside. Okay.  Let me just mention that the military has not yet released the actual report so I have not seen any fine print.  Okay so this is a general idea of what they are going to be reporting a little bit later on today. Now they talk about the problem - Gates talks about the problem of self-radicalization. That seems to be part of what happened here. He also just mentions workplace violence which suggests that Gates is concerned not only about Islamic radical threats but simply about mental illness and difficulty of that kind.  Now remember back in November I reported starting four or five years ago Hasan's supervisors at Walter Reade and at the military's medical university had serious concerns about his - what one supervisor called his lack of professionalism and poor judgment. They said he was simply at best a mediocre psychiatrist and at worst a really bad one. The caught him proselytizing the patients about Islam.  And still he kept his job and got promoted?  Exactly. He got a fellowship that normally is only given to the best psychiatrists and so what the report should show we hope is you know who knew what about him who reported it to whom why did they promote him instead of kicking him out of...  Well now did Gates talk about the failure of Major Hasan's commanders to pass on information that they had about him?  He did actually. And as I reported in November they sent him to Fort Hood - the top Army officials decided to send him to Fort Hood partly because they sort of hoped it would get him out of their hair. And we have another clip of Secretary Gates. Let us listen.  One of the core functions of leadership is assessing the performance and fitness of people honestly and openly. Failure to do so or kicking the problem to the next unit or the next installation may lead to damaging if not devastating consequences.  You know it is not just the military that does this. It is institutions everywhere. Let us kick the problem guy to the person in that office. They will deal with him.  Daniel thanks very much.  Thanks Steve.  NPR's Daniel Zwerdling is reporting this morning on a Pentagon report due out a little bit later on today. Secretary Gates the defense secretary says that this report finds the Pentagon was not properly focused on internal threats like workplace and self-radicalization. 