 Let us turn for a few minutes to one person we know has won big - Katy Perry. In 2011 the pop singer was the most played artist on the radio. She went number one five times. And her album Teenage Dream was massively popular. Strangely in the record industry it is hard to know if this kind of success translates into huge amounts of money. Zoe Chace of NPR's Planet Money team tries to answer that question how much a label can make by sending an artist to the top of the charts.  This would seem like a simple question. So I walked over to Katy Perry's record label in Manhattan. She is on Capital which is under EMI. I met Greg Thompson a record exec. And I asked. I know it was an expensive record and pushing out the singles was expensive. Did you guys end up in the black? Did you recoup?  As far as I know yes.  Let us just pause for a second here. Katy Perry number one artist by all of these measures and the exec at her label is not sure? How do you not know?  No I believe we did absolutely.  It is actually complicated. And it is also something the record labels do not like to talk about. EMI would not show me the numbers. So I decided to do some back of the envelope calculations and figure out for myself. There is two things we need to know. How much did they bring in and how much did it cost?  You know we invested substantially to make a great record.  What does substantially mean? I called up Andy Tavel he is an entertainment lawyer. He is had clients like Mary J. Blige and the Cure. First expense? The album itself. How much did it cost to record Teenage Dream?  One point five million to up perhaps even up to 2 million.  Why so expensive? Look at this track.   Greeting loved ones. Let us take a journey.  That is Snoop Dogg. He is pricy. And the production underneath.   That is the sound of the top producers in the business - Dr. Luke and Max Martin. They charge about 100000 each track according to Tavel. Twelve songs on the album it starts to add up. On top of this there is Katy Perry's advance.  That advance could have been perhaps a million dollars net perhaps two million dollars. I cannot say for certain.  That is 1.5 million in recording costs plus a one million dollar advance 2.5 million shelled out by the record company before anyone's heard the album.  Remember a song is not a hit song unless you hear it everywhere.   This is our next expense. Andy Tavel says it could cost up to 250000 just to get the first single played on radio. Special promotions free merchandise  and presents. I walked into Rob Wagman's office. He is a program director at a Top 40 station there was a painting of Katy Perry on the wall. She is naked wrapped in a cloud of cotton candy.  They usually send that out before the next single.  The Katy Perry songs also tested well - and Top 40 played them. So a boatload of money goes to Katy thousands of dollars to people like Snoop the producers the radio around 4 million in cost is our estimate. Now how would they make it back? What we do know is what Katy Perry sold in the United States - two million albums 25 million digital tracks. And EMI the record label only makes pennies on the dollar. Here's EMI exec Greg Thompson again.  Being in the business of pennies...  Mm-hmm.  ...at the large scale can actually be good business.  Let us say you buy the One That Got Away that is the sixth single off iTunes for 99 cents 30 percent off the top goes to Apple 15 cents goes to the songwriters who wrote lines like this...    In another life I would be your girl.  And Katy Perry gets a cut of the songwriting credit for adding lines like this...    The one one one one.  The label gets the rest. By our estimate the record-shattering top-charting Katy Perry made her label around 8 million in music sales in the U.S.  That is not even counting revenue from movie trailers or commercials or overseas sales.  But the record industry's in trouble right?  The problem is that their batting average is not high enough - that those success stories like Katy Perry are unfortunately too few and far between.  EMI needs a whole roster of Katy Perrys to make money hand over fist the way they used to. But they hit it out of the park with this one. Zoe Chace NPR News New York.    Summer after high school when we first met we make out in you Mustang to Radiohead. Talk about our future like we had a clue. Never planned that one day I would be losing you. In another...  You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 