 OK. Some American ambassadors stationed in South American nations headed by left-wing governments have faced their own version of hostility. Some have even been expelled. In Ecuador the top U.S. envoy has found a novel way to reach out to his host country by playing keyboards in an Ecuadorian blues band. John Otis has the story.   Shortly before taking the stage at a Quito bar the Ecuadorian band Samay Blues plugs in for a sound check.   Some of the bar-goers tonight are Americans. That is because the word is out. U.S. Ambassador Adam Namm will be sitting in on keyboards. U.S.  I am glad to get out of the office once in a while. Thanks for coming. I need my bench. They gave me a chair and I have got to find one of my roadies.   Namm took his first piano lesson at age 5. After joining the U.S. Foreign Service he played with bands in the Dominican Republic and Pakistan then hooked up with Samay Blues here in Ecuador. The band practices in the ambassador's official residence where Namm's bodyguards helped set up the amplifiers and plug-in microphones. Besides playing keyboards Namm often sings lead vocal.    Yeah love my baby like the finest wine. Stick with her until the end of time.  For Namm playing with the band several nights a week is a way to break away from traditional buttoned-down diplomacy.  It is a great way to connect. So sports art whatever your passion is get out and share it because it you should not be the stiff ambassador who only shows up at speeches and cocktail parties.   But it turns out singing the blues is one of Namm's dwindling options. Ecuadorian President Rafael Correa is a fierce critic of the United States. He expelled the previous U.S. ambassador and has refused to meet with Namm. He is also kicked out U.S. military advisers and aid workers. Elsewhere in Latin America it is also been tough sledding for U.S. diplomats. The left-wing governments in Bolivia and Venezuela have expelled American ambassadors. In September Kevin Sullivan the top U.S. diplomat in Argentina was nearly given the boot for commenting on that country's debt default which involves U.S. hedge funds.   .  Here in Ecuador President Correa sometimes lashes out at Namm. In this speech Correa warned the ambassador not to misbehave after Namm criticized a government crackdown on the news media. Namm plays down the conflict.  The U.S. relationship with Ecuador certainly has its difficulties and it is had its difficulties over the last several years. But I think both governments recognize we have a lot more in common than differences. And it behooves both countries to work together.   So does all this blues diplomacy make any difference? Moises David the drummer for Samay Blues says Namm's soulful performances help debunk the caricature of U.S. ambassadors as overbearing imperialists.  .  Namm is so warm and communicates so well with the people that they want to come back and see him David says. He gives diplomacy a new image.   Music has also helped Namm break the ice with Ecuadorian officials like Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino who delights in both slamming Washington and in singing.  He asked me to play. He had an Ecuadorian band and I played some piano. And he sang and it was a great experience. It was - actually we played Besame Mucho.   The song was an intriguing choice given the bad blood between the two governments. In Spanish Besame Mucho means kiss me a lot. On this night however Namm and his bandmates closed their set with another classic Roadhouse Blues by The Doors. For NPR News I am John Otis.   This is NPR News. 