 The blizzard in New York City has not yet stopped the street crews.   That is the sound of a street sweeper in New York where the snow is underwhelming so far. Elsewhere it is falling as much as 3 to 4 inches per hour a very serious storm in many parts of the country. Roads are closed in five states that issued travel bans. NPR's Hansi Lo Wang is covering the noreaster. He was out walking the streets of New York this morning. Hi Hansi. HANSI LO WANG  Good morning Steve.  What is it looking like out there?  Well it is very very quiet here in the streets of New York which is very unusual to see empty streets even so early in the morning. I could not even get a cup of coffee. The most of the people that you see are cleanup crews. And the first guy I saw his name is Angel Cartagena from the Bronx he stayed overnight in Manhattan in the high-rise where he is working at. And he is what he told me.  The mayor said do not go out. You know it is going to affect the city if whoever went out you know is going to get stuck.  I mean you are stuck.  Yeah I am stuck but I have a place to stay tonight you know? I will probably be back home Wednesday night.  So he is stuck in Manhattan so are other New Yorkers wherever they are in the boroughs because the subway is closed and so are the streets. And that is the same for folks in Boston. Also there is a travel ban in Massachusetts of course but Rhode Island Connecticut and New Jersey. But in New York right now it really is a beautiful scene. You see kind of snow dusting all over the city and it looks like kind of frosted buildings. It is a really nice kind of winter wonderland.  Yeah and I suppose the city never sleeps - people get a chance to sleep in since the city shut down.  There you go.  But you mentioned that even though things are not so bad in New York City they are quite bad in other parts of the Northeast. What is going on there?  Yeah. Along the coast a lot of places are being pummeled like places in Long Island N.Y. and also just up the coast through Maine. There is about 3 to 4 inches falling per hour as you mentioned in some of those areas and more than a foot in some of those places that have accumulated so far overnight. And there is also reports of flooding in - along the Massachusetts coast because this storm - this blizzard's bringing such high winds where we are seeing flooding as high as 3 feet. And as the storm's making its way north right now this morning Maine has just added itself to a list of states that have declared a state of emergency. And so this storm is not over yet even though in New York it is not as big as we expected.  I am glad you mentioned the flooding of up to 3 feet. This is a regular thing that people have to deal with the Northeast that I guess we should describe for the rest of the country. You sometimes have inbound winds that essentially blow the ocean onshore. Is that what is happening here?  Right and there is a real threat to that shoreline. And folks officials warned that this might happen and it is happening in some parts along the Massachusetts coast. And it is something we are watching.  So how long is this storm going to last?  Well we are expecting the weather conditions to continue for the rest of the day today so people are pretty much going to be stuck home. And cleanup officials say it should start around midday Wednesday. But with - you know in New York City with the subway shut down and also in Boston it is going to be an interesting kind of waking back up if you will to shut down such big systems and to get it back online again. That is going to be an interesting wake-up.  Well Hansi enjoy your long long long stay in Midtown Manhattan then.  Thank you Steve.  That is NPR's Hansi Lo Wang. 