 This is a one-hit wonder from the group Spandau Ballet.    I I I I I I - I know this much is true.  This song True was a Top 10 hit in 1983 success that Spandau Ballet was never able to match again - at least not in the United States. That is what longtime BBC radio DJ Zane Lowe wanted to emphasize for our series One-Hit Wonders Second-Best Songs.  It just blows my mind that America did not recognize the value in Gold. Gold is a smasher.    Thank you for coming home. Sorry that the chairs are all worn. I left them here I could have sworn.  I mean the beginning is melodic and it is emotional. It is almost melancholic. And it just leads you up to this dynamic Thor-style hammer drop of the chorus which has like...   I mean any song that has a...   ...In it is a smash.    Gold - always believe in your soul. You have got the power to know you are indestructible always believing. You are gold - gold.  I have had one default karaoke song. I mean that would suggest I am invited to karaoke. I am never invited to karaoke. But if I was invited to karaoke my go-to karaoke song is hands down Gold.    After the rush has gone I hope you find a little more time. Remember we were partners in crime.  I know I am putting like a slight humor on this because it is one-hit wonders and you have got to approach this thing with tongue in cheek but for me you know I have really vivid memories of driving around with my mom in Auckland when I was growing up listening to the radio and Spandau Ballet you know kind of being omnipresent not just True. Gold was one of those moments that really jumped out even as a kid. I just think it has that real power has a powerful vocal. And it is just a strange song. They are a strange band Spandau Ballet. Maybe that is why they are a one-hit wonder because you know True was the most kind of obvious straight-down-the-line smash Top 40 radio-type moment for them but they definitely had enough hits to make a greatest hits album which kind of goes to show that Spandau Ballet in other parts of the world predominately the United Kingdom are considered a legacy at.    Something I could have learned. You are indestructible always believing.  Zane Lowe talking about the song Gold by Spandau Ballet his choice for our series One-Hit Wonders Second-Best Songs. You can hear Zane Lowe these days on Apple's Beats 1 radio.  