 Now the trouble in Europe affects American travelers there. Deflation and the falling euro mean visitors to Berlin pay less for currywurst. It also affects Americans at home as is apparent to anyone who takes a drive through the Southeast. From WABE in Atlanta Susanna Capelouto reports.  Interstate 85 from Spartanburg South Carolina to Atlanta has a German nickname.  We have come to call this the Autobahn because that is the focus of German investment to the region.  Christoph Sander represents Germany as a consul in six Southern states. I-85 is a road he travels a lot to visit German businesses.  Two-hundred fifty companies around the Atlanta metro region about 200 companies in the Charlotte region - and then we have 130 or so between Spartanburg and Greenville.  German car brands like BMW Volkswagen and Porsche have brought thousands of jobs to the region. And last week Governor Nathan Deal used his State of the State address to thank Mercedes for moving its U.S. headquarters from New Jersey to Atlanta.   The Mercedes-Benz slogan is the best or nothing. The company that accepts nothing but the best chose Georgia. I will take that.  Mercedes also got more than 23 million in tax incentives to come to Atlanta. But Germans are not the only ones bringing jobs. Plenty of French British Dutch and Irish firms have a strong presence in the South. And that is why the region should pay attention to what happens in Europe says Jeff Rosensweig. He teaches international business at Emory University.  In America we forget how close our ties are.  European firms bring investment to the U.S. which could dry up if Europe's economy does poorly. Rosensweig also points out U.S. companies get big profits from European subsidiaries. But now he says there is this...  Accumulating fear that Europe you know one of the great potential engines of the world economy is an engine that is stuttering.  The euro has already taken a hit against the dollar making it more expensive for Europeans to travel. That could hurt another big European connection to the south - Florida tourism.    When you wish upon a star.  Many Europeans visit Disney World and Naples is very popular too. Europeans drawn to its beautiful beaches and shops pumped 216 million into the local economy last year. JoNell Mody is with the convention and visitors bureau there.  Well they come and they stay longer and they typically spend more money than a U.S. visitor. And they also like to come when they have the bulk of their vacation time which is the summer which is our slower season. So they are a very very important part of helping us stabilize our tourism economy.  Economists like Rosensweig want the European Central Bank to pull out all the stops much like the U.S. Federal Reserve did during the U.S. recession and help stabilize European markets.  When Europe does well we do well. And the reverse is true also. I do not want either of us to sneeze because the other one might catch cold.  The European Central Bank will meet Thursday to decide on a policy to help Europe's economy fight off a recession. For NPR News I am Susanna Capelouto in Atlanta. 