 If you have heard the band OK Go it may have been on the internet.   ...here it goes here it goes here it goes again. Oh here it goes again.  Viewers clicked on the band's 2006 video Here It Goes Again 50 million times. It shows four goofy guys on treadmills in skinny pants and neckties. They leap jog slide and duck from treadmill to treadmill. Three minutes of video led to nearly three years of non-stop touring. Next week OK Go has a new album coming out. It is called Of the Blue Colour of the Sky. Singer Damian Kulash and bass player Tim Nordwind were inspired this time by a record they first played in elementary school Prince's Purple Rain.    It said thank you for a funky time. Call me up whenever you want to grind. Mr.  I mean I remember hearing it as a 12-year-old kid and it made me jump on my bed. It made me feel like crying. It like - it really sort of fills a spectrum of emotions which I think this record that we made kind of also does a little bit. Mr.  This is Damian the singer. And what is weird about Purple Rain is that it is such a sexy record and I did not know what any of that meant at 12 you know like when Nikki started to grind I was like she is got - she should get like a mouth guard or something. I had no idea what he was talking about but like the emotional propulsion of that song is - I mean it is so raunchy even before you know what sex is you know.  Right right. And even the way in one of the songs I think it is Skyscrapers you shriek. Mr.  Oh yeah there is a real...  That is a very Prince-y shriek. Mr.  It is a very Prince-y shriek yeah.  Mr.   Yeah I was blind. I was blind. I was blind.  Now you recorded this album far far away from where you live in Los Angeles. Mr.  Yes. Mr.  Yes that is right. Yeah this is Tim. Yeah we recorded it in Fredonia New York which is almost Canada. We were basically locked up for 12 weeks in a converted Amish barn. There was like 24 feet of snow every day and I - there was some weeks where you know we just would not even leave the cabin 'ecause we lived and recorded in this barn basically.  So how much of the sound - this new sound because the sound it is got a lot of effects on it and what is it called with a guitar kind of sounding like it is... Mr.  Exploding.  Exploding yeah. Or overmodulated. Mr.  Yeah there was a lot of plugging stuff in. You know sort of like that sounds awesome let us plug in something else. So it makes it very spontaneous at the same time that it is very overthought you know and that is a good process for us 'ecause we are people who tend to overthink everything.  Give me an example off this album of some of that spontaneity that you just mentioned. Mr.  The song Skyscrapers...  Um-hum. Mr.  The end of that song the way we tracked that was Dan the drummer and me Damian I was playing guitar. At the end Dan was supposed to sort of just watch me for a cue to end the song but he would gotten really really into the groove and so the entire guitar solo at the end of that song which is like 45 seconds is me trying to get his attention just trying to get him to look up. And I never would have written a guitar solo that way but it is perfect for the song. Mr.  Yeah that is great.  Should we hear it? Mr.  Sure.  Mr.  Look up Dan.  Mr.  Dan?  Mr.  I mean if there is ever a cue to stop a song it is like Dan I am not even playing it was just... Mr.  Yeah it was just one man. Anytime.   Is it just me or is there a tone of melancholy throughout this album? Mr.  The record sort of is kind of I think our attempt to find hope in hopeless situations. You know we toured for 31 months on our last record and that basically destroys everything in your life. Mr.  It takes a toll on you emotionally personally.  So you both sacrificed personal relationships for the band? Mr.  Not intentionally necessarily but it - yeah you wind up three years later a totally different person unsure of how you have gotten there kind of. Mr.  And it is a strange thing to look back and eventually we all sort of ended up at a point where all the sudden we were back at home sitting in some chair or in our bed going like oh my God did - I think we - I think we won a Grammy. I am not quite sure but I think I remember that. Mr.  Well and you know I hate being complaining like oh it is so difficult being on tour because it is not. It is wonderful. I mean it is a dream come true but you - sometimes when you get your dreams then you realize like when you come back to real life like this is my life?  Is there a song on this album that sort of gets at that that moment where you get back you realize what do I have what am I doing? Mr.  Oh boy I feel like a lot of the songs sort of have that.  Yeah. Mr.  I think the song that is closest to that is probably Before the Earth Was Round. Mr.  Um-hum. Mr.  It is a sort of absurdist allegory where the whole world goes and they figure out the Earth is round. And they have knowledge now and everything goes wrong because of it. And you know they sort of lose - they lose mystery and poetry.  The bite of the apple. Mr.  Yes it is the bite of the apple exactly.    Before the earth was round and there was no end to things. No one tried to measure what they knew... Mr.  The challenge for us personally especially in making this record was to keep it creative and to be looking for the things that actually turn us on creatively as opposed to following the pattern that works.  Um-hum. Mr.  Because even when you are not wildly successful financially and even when you are not at the top of the charts anything that works gives everybody a reason to sort of push you in the direction of that thing that worked and you can spend your life sort of imitating yourself. And it - and we had some things on our last record that were wildly successful and coming home and trying to figure out how to play the part of yourself you know like how am I going to be that person that wrote this thing four or five years ago and who I just do not associate myself with at all anymore. It takes like some pretty big acts of courage I think to just be like I am not going to do anything like I did last time.  Mr.  We would been having to describe this record - it is really difficult because it is a very like contradictory record. It is the happiest thing we have ever made and the saddest thing we have ever made. It is - we are proud of it. That part's good. Mr.  Whatever it is. Mr.  Yeah.  Well thank you both for coming in. Mr.  You are welcome. Thanks for having us. Mr.  Thank you.  That is Damian Kulash and Tim Nordwind of the band OK Go.   You can find a link to their latest music video and the making of it at npr.org. 