 Now of course besides new television seasons the New Year brings resolutions and many of us are - or at least were planning to - rev up our exercise. Here at spending the next few weeks asking athletes actors and also you - our listeners - about the music that gets your workouts going. And who better to start off with than the artist behind that classic workout track?   Your body's surely talking. Olivia Newton-John musician says the song that would become an exercise anthem did not really start out that way.  When the song actually came out I recorded it thought it was a great song but then had a panic attack and called my manager and said you cannot put this out. It is too over the top and it is too risque. And he says too late it is gone to radio. So then I said well you know what? I think we need to make it more about exercise.  So they made a music video. In 1981 that took place in a gym with sweatbands and leotards - remember those? - and they tried to cast the lyrics in a less risque light.   Now Olivia Newton-John herself does not work out to this song. She told us that listening to her own music while exercising would be weird. Turns out she does not listen to any music when she does her cardio. She does not have an iPod or anything and so she says she puts on CNN or the History Channel.  I have a home gym so I get on my treadmill and I put on the television. That is when I usually catch up on the news or I catch up on a documentary or something.  But being a good sport she did pick out three songs for us that get her moving.  There would be a couple of songs I could think of that I would love to work out to. One is the Rolling Stones' Brown Sugar - always loved that. Every time that comes on in a club I have to get up.   Olivia Newton-John is a true Stones fan she also mentioned the song Honky Tonk Woman. And she chose something a little more contemporary too.  I Gotta Feeling by the Black Eyed Peas.   Yeah that is it. I love that song.  So there you have it - three songs that get actress and singer Olivia Newton-John up and moving. And in the coming weeks we will be talking to all sorts of people to find out what music inspires a run or a gym visit or a swim. Let us call it the Ultimate NPR Workout Mix - we will make the CD later. You can weigh in with all of your picks at NPR.orgMusic.   This is NPR News. 