 With the Winter Olympics approaching in Sochi Russia one of the world's fastest skaters trains far from the limelight. His routine has remained the same for years. He is even been criticized by some skaters for his dedication to the same coach in Milwaukee. Marge Pitrof of member station WUWM reports.  Brian Hansen realized long ago that he would be alone with the sport he loved.  I would ask the kids when I was little if they knew who Dan Jansen was and they would say no. And then I would say you do not know who Dan Jansen is? He is the fastest speed skater in the world.  Ever since the 23-year-old has been working to become the fastest. At first that meant commuting a couple hours from his home in Illinois to the Olympic-size oval at the Pettit Center in Milwaukee.  We started driving up here you know a couple times a week. And it is always been so successful that you know I decided to stay here and not move out to Salt Lake City.  Salt Lake City where many of his teammates have trained. There is not much hoopla surrounding speed skaters at the Pettit Center. So this is where they are training?  Yup they are training out on the oval and...  Brian Hansen is one of the few people here every day along with the center's Marketing Director Kevin Butler.  They are going upwards of 30 or 40 miles an hour at peak speed. All for what? You know it is just chasing their dream and the Olympic dream.  Lap after lap a break for water more laps - slower faster. A sleek colorful flash whizzes by. The coach hollers. NANCY ce really good. Nice.  Hansen has also stayed with the same coach.  Alright pretty good.  That is not the norm especially at the elite level.  We worked well together as a team and you know I kind of just stuck with it.  A multiple Olympian once said to me When are you going to let your skaters move on to a real coach.  That is Nancy Swider-Peltz Senior Hansen's coach. She is been to the Olympics as an athlete and as a coach with Hansen in 2010 when he won silver in team pursuit. Swider-Peltz says you will not see many long trackers with female coaches or even the same coach as last time.  In the world's opinion people tire of things. They get you know I want to try something else. But on our level it is are you producing results?  Brian Hansen is now among the best in both the 1000 and 1500-meters. He is confident the familiar will work for him at the Olympics along with his Spartan routine eat train sleep.  And there is no other crazy element. It is just who can skate the fastest.  Hansen is glad it is nearly that time when his former schoolmates may pay attention to his sport. For NPR News I am Marge Pitrof in Milwaukee. 