 A new movie out tomorrow is getting a ton of buzz even by Hollywood standards. It is called Sorry To Bother You. It was a hit at Sundance. And it has been described as - get this - defying description. Here's Shereen Marisol Meraji from our Code Switch team.  Let us go back to the dead of winter - January 2018 Park City Utah. Writer Andreas Hale's attending the Sundance Film Festival for the fourth time. And he is going through that long list of movies.  I started marking my list of what I am going to cover. Mostly I am skewed towards African-American films because you know there is not a lot of people covering them that are African-American. So I looked. And I was like Boots Riley? And I had to look at it again because I was like he do not direct.  Sorry To Bother You is Riley's directorial debut. So if you know him you probably know him as a rapper with the group from Oakland Calif. called The Coup.    I am Boots Riley. It is a pleasure to meet you. Never let their punk ass ever defeat you. They got us on the corner wearing pleather and see-through. All you all is gold mines. They want to deplete you.  You are listening to the track My Favorite Mutiny from The Coup's 2006 album Pick A Bigger Weapon. It is one of Andreas' favorites. He says before stepping into that packed theater on January 24 he was not sure he made the right decision. There was no trailer for Sorry To Bother You - only a vague description of what the film was about a photo of the film's star Lakeith Stanfield who he knew from the FX comedy Atlanta and...  The intrigue of Boots Riley. That was really all we had. So I had no idea what I was walking into. Fifteen minutes in the film your preconceived notions are completely blown up. Within 30 minutes after that what you thought 15 minutes ago - that is gone. What is happening?    I just really need a job. MICHAEL X.   This is telemarketing. Stick to the script.   Hello.   This is Cassius Green. Sorry to bother you. I just wanted to...    You want to make some money here? Use your white voice.   My white voice?   Like this young fella.   Hey Mr. Kramer  this is Langston from Regal View.  I am Boots Riley the writer and director of Sorry To Bother You. This film is an absurdist dark comedy with magical realism and science fiction inspired by the world of telemarketing.  OK my turn to describe it - this film takes place in Oakland Calif. The main character Cassius Green played by Lakeith Stanfield needs a job. He is living in his uncle's garage and he is late on rent. Cassius finally lands one as a telemarketer. The working conditions are deplorable. His colleagues and friends organize for better wages and working conditions. But Cassius get special treatment because he can persuade just about anyone to buy stuff using his white voice.    Was that Visa or MasterCard?   You are going upstairs my compadre.  He gets promoted. He is a power caller now selling poor people's hard labor - labor they traded for food and a place to sleep. But Cassius is gettin paid. And all kinds of wild things happen which takes us right back to Boots Riley's description of the film - an absurdist dark comedy with magical realism and science fiction inspired by the world of telemarketing.  I have designed it in a way to have ups and downs and pauses. It is like a song lyric.  That is how he designed the movie description and the film itself with ups and downs and pauses in odd places - a dark and funny movie about how capitalism works and how workers can fight back. Born into a family of labor organizers and artists the art Boot's creates is an extension of who he is - the content and the approach.  My music has always been strange - in the sense of not normal. Like we have a song called 5 Million Ways To Kill A Ceo.    Make sure you as not got no priors. Do not tell them that we conspired. We could let him try to change a flat tire. Or we could all at once retire. There are just a few of the five million ways to kill a CEO. Slap him up. And shake him up. And then you know.  And besides it being funny and being about capitalism and how it works it is also a 5-17 count which is not something you want to do if you want to make a song get on the radio. However we hid that 5-17 count inside a four-on-the-floor beat.  Full transparency I have never heard of a 5-17 count. And part of me wonders if this is some musical magical realism at play. Regardless Boots says the four-on-the-floor beat for Sorry To Bother You - what keeps it steady through multiple plot twists magical realism and science fiction - he says that is the actor's stripped-down realistic performances. Actors like...  Tessa Thompson. And I played Detroit in Sorry To Bother You.  Tessa's probably best known for her roles in the blockbuster films Thor Ragnarok and Creed or the HBO hit Westworld. She is everywhere right now. But she decided at this point in her career to sign on with a first-time director because she is always wanted to do something in the magical realism space.  And for whatever reason it just seems like black and brown people are kind of excluded from those worlds in film - all these brilliant films like Being John Malkovich and Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind. And I could go on and on. I literally just never saw myself in those films. And I have always wanted to. And so when I read this screenplay I just felt oh finally.  Her character Detroit is an artist and activist - a creative spirit who will not stand by and watch her boyfriend Cassius Green sell out. Her role in Sorry To Bother You is the only robust female role - something Boot's has gotten some heat for considering his progressive politics.  I mean I think he sees versions of himself in all the characters. But in terms of an artist that lives right at the intersection of art and activism I mean that is Boots Riley. So it is interesting that he would have made sort of the closest depiction of himself be the woman. And she is not the you know subject of the narrative. But I will say. I do not think she is just an object of it.  Speaking of the narrative film critics have also knocked Boot's for its lack of clarity and one too many subplots. Andreas Hale who we met earlier wrote in his review for The Root that the film quote may have benefited from pulling back on a few social critiques unquote. That said he was pleasantly surprised and totally inspired after watching it on that chilly January day in Utah.  This film is one of those things where there is going to be a whole group of young directors - whether they are African-American or not they are going to say I can do this now because somebody is just as crazy as I am.  Boots Riley's Sorry To Bother You opens in select cities this Friday and across the country on July 13. Shereen Marisol Meraji NPR News.    History has taught me some strange arithmetic using swords prison bars and pistol grips. English is the art of bombing towns while assuring that you really only blessed the ground. Science is that honorable useful study where you contort the molecules and then you make that money. In mathematics dead children dont get added. 