 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer.  But just blocks away a lot less attention was being devoted to a conference featuring doctors and hospital administrators from around the country people who actually have figured out how to provide higher quality health care for less money. NPR's Julie Rovner reports.  The problem with the current state of the health care debate in Washington says Don Berwick is that it basically is only providing the public with two choices.  Either we are going to do less cut benefits you know make it harder for people to get care put up new barriers or spend more find the revenue tax the health insurance premiums.  Adds Berwick who heads the Massachusetts-based Institute for Healthcare Improvement...  There is a third way. And it is redesign. It is do it right.  David House runs a health care system in Maine. He told the story of one doctor in his early 50s...  Who essentially left his office each day with a profound sense of depression because of the enormous pile of incomplete charts the inability to get patients into his office. Simply an overwhelmed overworked person.  After House's group helped the doctor install an electronic medical records system and hire a team of professionals to reorganize his practice his entire workday changed.  Such that what is coming to him now is that critically important set of activities. Seeing and touching and talking to patients making decisions that only he can make.  Dr. Atul Gawande of Harvard is known for a recent New Yorker article comparing some of the highest health spending areas of the country with some of the lowest. He said he was particularly impressed by communities that have been able to bring about change recently.  Half of these communities used to be high cost and transitioned to low cost over the last decade. So they have made me hopeful that we could do it.  And he says they did it in spite of payment systems for the huge Medicare program that provide every incentive to keep medical spending up. Elliott Fisher of Dartmouth Medical School says if Congress actually changes the system it would make replicating those community successes even more likely.  And I think what is now a barrier - the current payment system - could become an enabler if there were positive incentives created for physicians to come together to work with their hospitals to work within their communities to work for the goals that they came to medicine with you know to provide better care for their patients.  White House Budget Director Peter Orszag addressed the problem in a conference call with health reporters yesterday.  I guess the way I would put it is even if I were a benevolent dictator for a day I would not feel comfortable at this point given the state of knowledge completely overhauling the Medicare payment system.  Julie Rovner NPR News Washington. 