 The drought that has swept over the Horn of Africa has ravaged several countries but none more so than Somalia. Many Somalis most of them women and children have walked for days across a parched landscape seeking food and shelter. The U.N. has begun airlifting emergency supplies into the Somali capital Mogadishu and the arrival of food has been followed now by an outbreak of violence. Many other places are also in urgent need of food. NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton reports from a remote outpost in Western Somalia.   Another day another flight another VIP delegation meeting and greeting local government officials. This time it is the U.N. World Food Program on an assessment mission to Doloow in Somalia near the border with Ethiopia. Thousands of Somalis are flooding into Doloow in search of food shelter and medical care like Abdir Hussein. Ms.   There is famine in Bakool. That is why I came here. Because of the drought that is why we have been forced to come out from Bakool and to come here. I have not got any food yet.  Some of the women we have been speaking to here have said that they have walked for days that they have lost all their livestock that their children are going hungry that they are going hungry. Josette Sheeran is the head of the United Nations World Food Program. She says the children are the priority. Ms.  Our focus really is on the people that have not had access to the help and aid and trying to be able to reach those who are in dire need of the help.  The landscape in Doloow is bleak and dusty with occasional thorn trees offering some shade to dozens of families squatting and sitting beneath. The sandy rocky soil yields very little vegetation. Nearby a one-man operation has rigged up a mini water tank at the back of a donkey cart. A line quickly forms as a young boy struggles to keep up with requests to fill buckets and water bottles. The Doloow District Commissioner Abdirashid Hassan Abdinur says this is an emergency. Mr.   The famine in Somalia especially the one in Doloow this district it needs really an urgent support. We hope for practical action.  Desperate Somalis are crossing in their thousands into neighboring Ethiopia and Kenya. But they are also heading to the capital Mogadishu. The city is divided one part controlled by Somalia's weak U.N. and U.S.-backed interim administration. Other areas of Mogadishu and Somalia are in the hands of the anti-Western al-Qaida-affiliated militant Islamist group al-Shabaab. Somalia's Prime Minister Abdi Weli Mohamed Ali is appealing for international food aid deliveries to all areas. Last year al-Shabaab banned the U.N.'s emergency food agency from operating in areas it controls in Somalia accusing the World Food Program of pushing a pro-Western agenda. Yesterday the WFP began a series of emergency airlifts to Mogadishu carrying 10 tons of a peanut-based therapeutic supplement for malnourished children. Regional spokesman David Orr was on board the first flight. Mr.  I understand we are reaching about 18000 children. There is of course security concerns here in Mogadishu as everywhere but this is an emergency and we go about the business as well as we can.  The U.N. and humanitarian groups warn there is a funding shortfall of more than 1.5 billion and are appealing for cash urgently to be able save more lives in the drought-stricken Horn of Africa. Ofeibea Quist-Arcton NPR News Doloow Somalia. 