 And now we will hear about how another Chinese city is learning about democracy American-style. Each year the port city of Dalian flies some of its bureaucrats to Los Angeles. They attend a sort of democracy camp led by Joaquin Lim. He is a former mayor of Walnut which is a suburb of L.A. KQED's Rob Schmitz sat in on a class. Mr.    Joaquin Lim looks positively energetic as he greets 25 groggy-eyed mostly middle-aged male students in Mandarin. They muster a rather formal round of applause. Today's lesson California's open meetings law otherwise known as the Brown Act. Mr.    Among those taking notes are vice mayors party secretaries airport managers a sampling of the bureaucratic ladder in communist China. They will spend three weeks here taking classes on how to foster a democracy and empower citizens - eye-opening topics for officials who back home allow little room for a public dissent. Mr.  Back in Dalian you know these people walk on water. And for them to come into a classroom in California and sit there and have to listen to you know lectures about ethics and about empowering you know citizens I give them credit.  Dalian is known throughout China as being a progressive city. But many other similar sized cities in China are infamous for corrupt local officials. Lim who grew up in China does not harbor any illusions that his classes will transform the country overnight. But he says it is a good sign that China is willing to send officials here to learn. Mr.    Back in class Lim tells the students that most cities in California like his hold their city council meetings in the evening to make it more convenient for residents to attend. Sin Dren the deputy director of Jinzhou a district within the city of Dalian shakes his head when asked if he would consider holding evening meetings back home. Mr.   We have our meetings during the day while we work and we do not publish any sort of agenda ahead of time. I recognize your meetings here in California are very democratic but our meetings and your meetings are not the same.  The next day Lim took his class on a field trip to a Los Angeles City Council meeting. And that is where they saw democracy in action. Unidentified Man  I am here to say it is going to be a pay-for-play scandal that is rocking city hall.  A rather angry resident took the podium to berate elected officials for allegedly mishandling city pension funds. Lim says the Chinese delegation was shocked. Unidentified Man  I am here to tell you this is the big one people. This is - people are going out in handcuffs over this. Mr.  One of the students lean over to me and said that he looks very mad. I said he is very mad.  Mr.  I said could this happen in China? He said oh no. No way.   This cultural divide is evident when I a Mandarin-speaking journalist chat with students between classes. After a pleasant conversation about what it is like to be an American journalist a bureaucrat in the back of the class chimes in. Unidentified Man    He actually says he wants me to be a representative of Dalian here in the United States. Unidentified Man  Yeah in this city in Los Angeles in the United States.  Oh that sounds like a very important job. He just met me a half an hour ago but the head of Dalian's state-run television network has offered me a foreign correspondent job. After three weeks of classes on ethical governance this gentleman has offered a position with a salary equal to several times that of an average Chinese worker to a complete stranger. Old habits die hard.   But other lessons have been learned in this class. One former student has moved his district's public meetings from day to nighttime to better accommodate residents. In this class there looks to be some promise too. Yu Liyan is a young energetic vice mayor of Jhonghe a city of around a million outside of Dalian. She says before she came here she did not see much difference between how government was run in the U.S. compared to China. Ms.   But I have noticed that Americans have a heightened awareness of democracy and a highly ethical system. We are trying to learn from that in China. When I go home I think I am going to make sure that I do my best to heighten China's democratic awareness in my city.  She is not yet sure how she will do this but something in her eyes assures teacher Lim she is serious. For NPR News I am Rob Schmitz in Los Angeles.   This is NPR News. 