 Germany's largest bank is restructuring. Deutsche Bank is known for huge deals and also some big risks. Now as it cuts its workforce Deutsche Bank wants to isolate the risky investments that did not pay off by putting them in something called a bad bank. NPR's Jim Zarroli explains.  Deutsche Bank has been in the news in recent years for all the wrong reasons - it paid billions in fines for crimes such as money laundering it is under investigation by Congress for loans to President Trump. But Deutsche Bank has problems completely separate from that. It is made a lot of bad investments and its share price hit a record low last month. Yesterday the bank said it was setting up what it calls a capital release unit also known as a bad bank.  It is a polite euphemism for this is where the garbage goes.  Karen Shaw Petrou of Federal Financial Analytics says Deutsche Bank is taking all the poor investments it is made - 81 billion worth of bad loans and sketchy derivatives - and creating a separate unit for them. Then once it is roped them off from everything else the bank owns it will try to sell them. It will not be easy because Petrou says once you have put an asset into something called a bad bank it is pretty much stigmatized.  You cannot pretend anymore. You have really said OK here are my doggies. And investors will then try to get what in the market you call fire-sale prices.  Petrou says buyers try to cherry-pick the best assets cheaply and Deutsche Bank will not exactly be in a position to bargain. It is bound to lose a lot of money. But here's the good part - once it is unloaded those bad assets it can send a message to shareholders and regulators that it is cleaned up its act and it is ready to move on.  It is finally in a sense baring its soul isolating its troubled assets instead of sticking with the game face - well maybe they will soon be good.  Petrou says this is not a step banks take lightly it is a last resort. But the strategy has worked in the past. After the financial crisis a decade ago Citigroup Credit Suisse and the Royal Bank of Scotland all set up bad banks and they all recovered. Now Deutsche Bank is trying the same thing. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 