 The Census Bureau recently put out a list of the fastest-growing cities in the United States. Four of them are in central Texas including the number one San Marcos. It is just outside the state capital of Austin. Reporter Joy Diaz of member station KUT paid San Marcos a visit and sent this postcard from a place where a lot of people are flocking.  From the highway it is hard to tell San Marcos is the country's fastest-growing city. On the right there are vast open fields on the left two large and very popular outlet malls where you can find anything from the Gap and Guess to Ralph Lauren and Saks Fifth Avenue.  When it comes to the outlet malls we are very blessed and forward-thinking.  San Marcos mayor Daniel Guerrero describes how important the malls are to his city.  It attracts almost 13 million individual guests each year.  And it is a huge financial support for the city. Mall shoppers do not stay of course but what does bring people to live here is Texas State University. It is the city's largest employer.  The average age of a citizen in San Marcos is roughly about 25 to 26 years old as well so we are a young community.  Students make up many of the 10000 people who have moved to San Marcos since 2010 pushing the population from 45000 to just over 54000 today. Amanda Hernandez came from Ohio for a job at McAllen before moving to San Marcos.  I knew I wanted to live in Central Texas. I was considering Houston for a while and it just was not right for me. I had visited both places and it is just the way it made me feel when I was here versus everywhere else that I was.  Hernandez wears her hair short and in her corporate pantsuit she looks the part of the city planner she is. She carries a colorful tote with her towel and snorkel. She often goes for a swim in the San Marcos River during her lunch time.  We try to go if it is warm enough and we do not have 1 oclock meetings. You do not want to walk in with you know the snorkel thing you get on your face. It is kind of embarrassing for a 1 oclock meeting. But wet hair I do not have any hair. It does not bother me.  Hernandez's move is typical of what demographer Ryan Robinson calls the Texas two-step.  So people move to Texas because the economic opportunity in Texas is still far greater than almost every other part of the country and maybe they initially move to Dallas or Houston. And then they slowly realize that Austin's really where they want to be. And they do a stepwise - a two-step migration.  The influx has created a housing shortage. Only half of the university students can find a place in San Marcos. The other half commute from Austin or San Antonio the two cities that flank San Marcos.  We do mostly apartment locating.  That is real estate agent Amir Kaikhah. The two phones on his desk barely stopped ringing.  That is how busy we are. They call in twos. They call at the same time you know.  Kristy Stark the city's assistant director of planning and development says the greatest need is for single-family homes a fact that has not escaped the notice of investors.  People who had been holding stuff back are now actually bringing that to us and say hey we are ready we are ready to build. You know some of that actually has been permitted and is ready to go. Some of it we are just in that process right now.  All this growth has brought challenges.   We are still looking at very slow traffic coming southbound on 35. They really do not...  Interstate 35 is the only route into the city and traffic is almost always stop-and-go. All this growth is straining the region's natural resources too. In this drought-stricken state even the most successful cities struggle to find an adequate water supply. For NPR News I am Joy Diaz in Austin.  This is NPR News. 