 Friday means time for Story Corps. Recently county clerks in Colorado have been challenging a ban on same-sex marriage by issuing marriage licenses to gay and lesbian couples. The state's Supreme Court is expected to rule on their actions any day now. But this is actually a bit of history repeating itself. In 1975 Clela Rorex was the new county clerk in Boulder when she began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. She told her friend Sue Larson about how two men came to her office door.  The couple came in they asked for marriage license and it is the first time I met openly gay people. I said I do not know if I can do this and at that point I went to the district attorney and he said that Colorado marriage code did not specify that marriage had to be between a man and a woman. And therefore I did it. I honestly did not anticipate the degree of hate. It was threats people needed to kill me for doing this and that kind of stuff. And I had entire church congregations writing me that it would be Sodom and Gomorrah in the area. I had a small son he was about eight and people would call on the phone and if he answered they would spiel their hatred to him. And one day I walked into my office I was standing and looking out my window and this horse trailer drives up and some media vans. This cowboy gets out all of the sudden it gets dawned on me he was going to ask for marriage license for his horse. My deputy and I were flipping through the marriage code like crazy you know what are we going to do? So the cowboy comes in and asks for a marriage license and I started taking information. I ask him his name and Dolly's Dolly was the horse. And I said how old is Dolly? He said eight. And I put my pen down calm as can be and said well I am sorry but that is too young without parental approval.  But what did not feel good was my actions made me kind of a laughingstock. And you know I did not see through my term in office I would not have gotten re-elected anyway.  Well there are some people out here who know what a big deal that was and what a stand you took.  Thanks Sue but I was just this young woman in this place at this point in time and thank goodness I made that decision because it would be so hard for me to look myself in the mirror today if I had not made the decision.  Clela Rorex former clerk of Boulder County Colorado speaking with her friend Sue Larson about issuing marriage licenses to gay couples in 1975. Their interview will be archived at the Library of Congress. Story Corps. podcast are at iTunes and also at npr.org. 