 NPR's Larry Abramson reports.  Colorado was at the forefront of an effort to reward teachers who boost student achievement and to get rid of those who do not. After a bitter fight in the legislature the Colorado branch of the American Federation of Teachers helped broker a deal. Brenda Smith president of AFT Colorado says her members recognized it was time to stop resisting an idea whose time has come.  The question that I get most often is How do I become an active member in building this system? I think our teachers see it as a challenge and I think they are ready for it.  But that positive attitude masks deep wounds from the fight over the legislation. The much larger Colorado Education Association fought the new evaluation proposal and only embraced it when it was clear it would pass. Spokesperson Deborah Fallin says the bill was a desperate gambit to appease Washington so Colorado could qualify for the Race to the Top an administration program meant to spark education reform.  They felt that this was rammed down their throats.  Deborah Fallin says districts are in for a surprise as they try to make this change during the worst budget crisis in decades.  Districts do not have the money to train principals to move from evaluating every three years to every year.  Wholesale retooling of teacher evaluations has never been tried before on such a huge scale. In a big experiment there are bound to be mistakes.  Absolutely. This all could go south.  Kate Walsh with the National Council on Teacher Quality says even if most districts do a good job of writing new evaluations some will screw up leading to painful stories in the media.  So-and-so has been the star teacher every year. Her peers look up to her. She is absolutely the best teacher around but her evaluation found her to be unsatisfactory.  Trepidation is widespread from Colorado to Illinois to New York which also passed a law tying teacher evaluations to student progress. Dick Iannuzzi the president of New York State United Teachers says his members really are behind the changes but they also have their guard up as the pressure on teachers grows.  There is more than just a bad taste. There is a feeling that our allies have joined the blame game. And if we are going to make real reform it cannot be about blaming.  Teachers also warn the hangover from these legislative changes will have consequences in the fall. Deborah Fallin of the Colorado Education Association has this warning for politicians counting on them to get out the vote.  If it is a lovely Saturday morning in October and I have the choice of staying home and doing what I want to do or going out and walking precincts for somebody and that person did not stand up for us on this issue I just might not go.  Larry Abramson NPR News.   This is NPR News. 