 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep. The White House has spent part of this week dealing with economic anxiety. Rising unemployment numbers - 9.5 percent now - may be connected to some slipping poll numbers. Yesterday Ohio Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown told us that people are frustrated. They expected a big economic stimulus plan to show more results sooner. One big question is how much longer the White House can blame the economy on the last president. We dropped by the office of a leading House Republican Eric Cantor of Virginia. He is already argued that the stimulus failed. Here's something I would like to know In your mind what is a reasonable amount of time to give this administration to do whatever it can to turn the economy around that it says it inherited? Representative  Steve I do not necessarily think that is the right way to approach this question. When we considered the first stimulus bill in January representations were made promises were made by President Obama that if we acted quickly and passed the bill we would be able to stave off job loss and stop the unemployment rate from exceeding 8.5 percent. So I think that the proper test is the representations and promises that were made did not come to fruition.  But the reason I ask that is because as you know the administration has said wait a minute we never said it would work in the first few months. We have not even gotten around to spending all the money yet. Give us a little bit of time. What is a reasonable amount of time to give them? Rep.  Well again this is not what the administration said. The administration said that we needed to act with a sense of urgency. That is how we were going to be able to save jobs and avoid folks from having to go in the unemployment lines. That should still be our goal. We should not have been expediting the review of an 1100-page bill without anyone in the House reading it if the course that we expected was going to be a one- or two- or three- or four-year period in which to see the money go out. That is where we get into the situation where you waste taxpayer dollars.  Although the administration is saying now it took years to get into this mess it will take time to get out what is a reasonable amount of time? What is the time on the clock for him as far as you are concerned? Rep.  Steve there is not a question - and we should not be arguing about how we got here because that is pointing blame. I think the American people are tired of that. They want to know how we are getting out of this situation. Republicans had a plan. I went and personally gave him our stimulus plan back in January. We still want to work with this president. The way we see an economic recovery coming about is through investment. We have got to get small businesses back into the business of putting their money to work taking risks so that jobs can be created.  Do you think the economy will be the heart of next year's congressional elections? Rep.  Well listen no one has a perfect crystal ball but clearly I think that the economic situation before us needs to be satisfied in order for the electorate to begin to have some confidence in their leadership. I think what you are seeing in polling right now is a reflection of the fact that this president and this Congress own this economy.  How many Democrats do you think are vulnerable? Rep.  Steve again you look at the numbers out of last election there are 49 Democrats sitting in seat if John McCain won. Obviously not all of those are vulnerable but I do think you start there. And then you also begin to look at the seats that have you know individuals who are new to Congress that perhaps were in seats that were held by you know the Republican candidate prior. So I do think that there are a sufficient number of vulnerable Democrats that will allow Republicans to make significant gains if not take over this Congress and the U.S. House in 2010.  Congressman thanks very much. Rep.  Steve thank you.  Congressman Eric Cantor Republican whip from Virginia. 