 For weeks now wearing a mask has been politicized here in the United States. But that may be changing. President Trump tweeted out a photo of himself wearing a mask and calling it patriotic yesterday afternoon. Twenty-five states plus the District of Columbia now have mask mandates. And many retail stores are requiring them. In a moment we are going to ask Dr. Anthony Fauci what we can do to turn the tide on the pandemic here in the United States. But first NPR's global health correspondent Nurith Aizenman reports on the science of masks.  For months scientists have been poring over data from across the globe - China Japan Germany the U.S. - to compare what is happened in places where most people use masks versus places where most do not. Ali Mokdad is on a research team that is tried to make sense of all these studies. He is with the University of Washington's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation.  You take every study that has been published on the protective effect of masks and then you reanalyze all the data.  And they came up with a bottom-line estimate. If 95 of people wear cotton masks when they are interacting with other people it reduces transmission by 30. In other words each infected person will go on to infect 30 fewer people. In fact says Mokdad...  The mask could be even more powerful.  Because that is assuming everyone is just wearing cloth masks not surgical masks or N95s which are even more effective. Then Mokdad and his colleagues ran a simulation. Based on the pandemic's current trajectory through the U.S. they forecast that by November 1 about 85000 more people will die from COVID-19. But if 95 of Americans start wearing cloth masks...  We find that 40000 of these mortalities could be avoided between now and November 1.  And there is more. Based on the U.S. experience this past spring Mokdad's team have come up with an estimate for how bad it would need to get for U.S. officials to return to full-on lockdown. Texas is just a month away. But if everyone there started wearing masks right now they just might avoid it. Ashish Jha of Harvard largely agrees.  Look. We have never tried to use masks as our primary strategy when outbreaks are this bad. But I do believe that if we want to avoid a complete lockdown we have got to at least give it a shot.  Jha who directs the university's Global Health Institute helped build a tool for counties and states to determine when the virus is spreading fast enough that the only way to get a handle on it is to revert to stay-at-home mode. And yet he says...  If you look at the hottest of the hot spots in America - the Arizona Texas Florida South Carolina - I think there may be a window.  Of course this would require a major change in Americans' behavior. Some estimates suggest only 40 currently wear masks nationwide. Natalie Dean a biostatistician at University of Florida says this is one of many reasons she is wary of focusing too heavily on masks.  It is the idea that if we just did this one thing perfectly that we would be fine. But I think the real solution is going to be doing a lot of things OK.  Nurith Aizenman NPR News. 