 The U.S. Army has an ongoing critical need for medical personnel and native speakers of foreign languages. It fills that need in part with recruits who are not U.S. citizens. In exchange those recruits get to become Americans at the conclusion of their military service. The future of that program however is now unclear. And to talk about it we are joined now by NPR's Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman who is been following this. Hey Tom.  Hey Rachel.  First explain how this program has worked.  Well first of all it is a military program so you have to use an acronym. It is called ry Accessions Vital to the National Interest.   OK.  And it is an 8-year-old program. In essence it was created to bring in those with critical skills. Languages strategic languages - there are some three dozen languages here. And also medical skills too - I am told about two thirds of the Army Reserve dentists are in this program. Now after eight years those in the program if they serve honorably they get U.S. citizenship. And that is the draw for these folks who have green cards or are on visas. And about 4000  to 5000 have already been through the program are in uniform and serving. And I am told around 4000 or more are awaiting basic training. They are just kind of in limbo now.  So...  By the way the program has been frozen. So let us say if I am from Guatemala I go to a recruiting station...  Yeah.  ...They are basically going to say you know sorry we have frozen this program.  Frozen the program.  Yeah.  All right. So on its face that sounds like a great deal. Right? The U.S. Army gets these people who have these valuable skill sets. These people get to become U.S. citizens which is what they want. What are the problems?  Well what is changed now from the Obama administration to the Trump administration is some in the Pentagon now - in the intelligence community say listen the vetting of these recruits is just not strong enough. And there have been I am told possible security issues - some investigations of some of these recruits with possible ties to foreign intelligence agencies. So there is talk of...  Spies? They think they are spies?  Possible spies right. So I am told there is talk of improving the vetting but that is time consuming and expensive. And of course the thousands of recruits could tie up those doing security clearances. I am also told there are problems with poor management of the program. Some of these recruits with language skills are not being used as linguists. So while there are problems you know those in the Army say listen this is vital.  Yeah.  We really need this. This is a good thing to do.  Are there specific countries that are more worrisome than others specific recruits from places who are more worrisome?  Well I am not sure about that. But what we do know is that most of the folks in this program are from China or Korea. But there are about three dozen other languages here everything from Arabic to Thai to Swahili and Urdu. And...  So these are not recruits coming from Central America South America?  No they are from all over the world. And here's the thing that the Army will say in support of this program. They are saying these recruits from other countries have educational levels that exceed the Army average. And also they have higher re-enlistment rates compared to recruits who are already citizens. So the Army's really hot on this program.  So then where is this going? I mean if there are supporters of the program in the Army at the same time they are calling for this thing to be cut what is the endgame?  Well the Army is pushing back. They want to retain as many of these folks as possible. They say the program's important. But there is a concern again with vetting of these folks. Congress is also weighing in now as the Pentagon tries to decide the way ahead. Congressman Steve Russell a Republican from Oklahoma says there are some major issues when it comes to vetting these immigrant recruits. And then you have Senator Mark Warner of Virginia who says listen the U.S. should honor the contracts signed by these recruits and these language and medical skills are necessary. He does not want to end this program. And I am told that this has reached Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. He is struggling with this too. But we expect some sort of decision in the next several weeks. And again they would like to keep some of these folks in the program as many as possible.  In the meantime as you note there are people who already made this deal they believed with the U.S. government - with the U.S. military. And now their status is unclear.  Absolutely. And some could be deported by the way if they get thrown out of this program and the visas expire. Some who raised their hand and want to serve the United States military could be deported.  NPR's Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman - thanks so much Tom.  You are welcome Rachel.  