 With oil prices now hovering around 70 a barrel and gas prices rising the longing for cars with better gas mileage continues. We have been hearing a lot about hybrid cars. Some car makers are offering another option clean diesel cars. Some get 40 or even 50 miles to the gallon. As Chris Arnold reports these are not the noisy smoke-belching and sluggish diesels of years ago.  When a lot of Americans think about a diesel car they remember something like this.   That is a 15 year old Volkswagen Jetta diesel.  Yeah you definitely know it is a diesel or someone will tell you that there is something wrong with your car.  Keith Harley is a mechanic at KMH Motors in North Chelmsford Massachusetts and he works on older diesel cars.  A gasoline engine can make this noise when it has a serious problem.  And what makes a diesel so loud like this?  Well it is more violent explosion combustion so I think that is what makes it louder.  That is also part of what makes a diesel engine more efficient. It is a higher pressure more complete combustion of the fuel and so you can drive around 30 percent farther on every gallon of fuel that you put in the tank. And in recent years a lot of European car companies have been perfecting the diesel and making it a lot cleaner and more quiet.  I am going to start up the 2009 Jetta clean diesel.   So okay we are pulling out of the onramp here. I am going to hit the gas a little bit.   Yeah that is got some pick up. Are we going to go down 93 or -  Yep.  The car is rated at 40 miles per gallon on the highway though some customers report better mileage. One car analyst that I talked to said managed to 53 miles per gallon by avoiding quick starts and stops. And with gas prices higher again that is making this car pretty popular right now.  This is probably our number one selling vehicle and we cannot get enough of them. The demand is so high. The TDI sport's wagon which are a very unique vehicle people are putting their name on multiple waiting lists at multiple dealerships.  Still overall diesels make up less than 3 percent of the U.S. auto market.  We are definitely getting more diesels available in the U.S. One of the biggest obstacles though is the state of California which has not decided yet if they are comfortable with the level of carcinogenics that diesel puts out basically does it cause cancer?  But Lindland says that California might craft tougher regulations. And she says that makes many car makers nervous about developing diesel models for the U.S. Still Lindland herself is a big fan of these new diesel cars.  By far and away the most fun car that I have driven this year and I drive a lot of them was BMW Turbo Charged Diesel. That thing was so much fun to drive. I got fabulous fuel economy and I had torque to the point where I was going to get arrested. It is so fast. I mean I was convinced I was going to end up in jail.  Chris Arnold NPR News. 