 Spain will take on the Netherlands and here for a preview is NPR's Mike Pesca. Hey Mike.  Hello.  So neither of these are teams you might have put your money on at the beginning of the tournament. What are they each bringing to the game?  And what they do is they hold the ball for 60 percent sometimes 65 percent of the game. And the other team the Germans who just lost to them said even when we caught up to them and we got the ball we were so exhausted from chasing them we could not do anything. They have an excellent goalie and their striker David Villa he is been perhaps the most dangerous offensive player this World Cup.  OK so that is Spain. The Netherlands obviously also fielding a great team. Who is the favorite going in?  So let us not discount them. That being said Spain's a two-to-one favorite and they really have been the best team over the last couple of years in the whole world and it would be a huge disappointment for the Spanish and a big upset if they were to lose to the Netherlands.  Give us a player or two on each team that we should keep our eyes peeled for during the action.  Well I talked about David Villa and he is the Spanish striker. Coming into the tournament his teammate Fernando Torres he was supposed to be the man of the moment but Torres has not scored at all during the World Cup. In their game against Germany when Spain was up one-nothing the player Pedro had a chance a breakaway two-on-one breakaway where all he had to do was slip the ball to Torres and that really would have gotten Torres off the schneid. Pedro did not make the pass and it could be that Torres will not be starting. He did not start against Germany.  Robin Van Persie Arjen Robben and Sneijder is the other one. They have a really good offense. They are very skilled with the ball. Their challenge will be to keep the Spanish from scoring. And we know that if the Spanish only score once they very well could win. That is how they have been doing it.  So that is the preview for Sunday. It has already been a long tournament. And Mike I know you were in South Africa for a fair bit of it. Is it too early to give a report card on how the South Africans have done hosting the World Cup?  I do not know too many economists who would say that hosting a sports tournament is a way to economic riches or recovery. I mean you build ten stadiums and eight of them usually lie fallow afterwards. But in terms of national pride and national mood the tournament could not have been more successful in South Africa. I would talk to people after the South African national team was eliminated and they would always say it does not matter we are blessed by God to have this tournament.  OK. Thanks Mike.  You are welcome.  That is NPR sports correspondent Mike Pesca. 