 Governors are trying to make sense of an urgent message they got over the weekend. Elon Musk the billionaire scientist behind Tesla Motors and SpaceX swung by a gathering of state leaders and warned them artificial intelligence is an existential threat to human civilization. Colorado's Governor John Hickenlooper who was there described that moment to NPR.  You could have heard a pin drop. A couple times he paused and it was totally silent. I think a lot of us felt like we were in the presence of you know Alexander Graham Bell or Thomas Alva Edison. It was remarkable.  But it was also remarkably vague. NPR's Aarti Shahani covers technology. And Aarti you can help us understand what Elon Musk meant here right?  I can try.  I mean he said that AI artificial intelligence is out of control. I mean is he right?  Well you know out of control it is a funny term because that is actually the goal of it right? Like take machine learning which is a way to make computers smarter. You feed data into the computers. They digest the data I mean lots of it. And then they come up with solutions that humans did not dictate in advance OK? Like for example your Netflix movie suggestions or better Chinese-English language translation right?  Right.  Now that said plenty of people in Silicon Valley are getting really annoyed with Musk and kind of rolling their eyes at him for exaggerating yet again. And you know we are far away from something like The Terminator - right? - AI that could start a war.  That is reassuring.   The head of artificial intelligence at Facebook he actually - he got a little spicy about it. He told me the desire to dominate socially is not correlated with intelligence. It is correlated with testosterone...  Oh.  ...Which AI systems will not have. His words not mine.  OK. That is reassuring maybe. So some disagreement here. I mean does that mean that political leaders regulators do not need to worry about artificial intelligence taking over the world?  No no. It does not mean that. I mean the thing they have to pay attention to at this moment is data big data OK? Who is stockpiling it? What are they doing with it whether they are doing AI or something else? You know there are only a handful of companies really that collect tons of data on us. And that gives them a huge competitive advantage - OK? - an edge that you can use to shut out others. We are already seeing this very clearly in the world of Internet advertising - right? - where face and Google basically have a duopoly. The European Union just issued a huge fine against Google for exploiting its data advantage in Europe to block competitors. And you know when big data defines more and more industries be it cars real estate health care you could get that same kind of consolidation. And then we as consumers lose out.  Well what about that other question about labor like as in computers and automation killing off you know manufacturing jobs and other jobs?  Right. I mean automation is definitely scary and dramatic. But again that is going to take a while. So what the public sector probably has to think a lot more about when it comes to labor right now are old-world problems like discrimination and how they play out in a context where private companies are hoarding and hiding the data OK? Let us take an example like Uber drivers OK? They keep or they lose their jobs based on a rating system. How many stars do you get from a passenger right? Now let us say theoretically black and brown drivers get lower ratings. Maybe they have got accents that annoy passengers. And so the Uber algorithm you know could kick off these drivers with more low ratings on average which is a form of racial discrimination. We do not have a regulatory model in place where companies have to test to certify their systems to check for factors like that.  OK. Well at least Elon Musk has given us a moment to have a conversation about this and think about it. NPR's Aarti Shahani covers technology. Aarti thanks as always.  Thank you. 