 And it is time for StoryCorps the project that travels the country collecting the stories of everyday people. Today we will hear from a paramedic and the boy now a grown man whose life he saved. It happened in Brooklyn 22 years ago this summer. Bryan Lindsay was riding his bike when he was hit by a van and almost killed. He was seven years old. Rowan Allen was the paramedic on the scene .  When the call came in it was just before my shift ended that day. The first instinct was oh man right before we get off. And then the dispatcher comes back on the air and he says child struck. That just changes everything. And luckily we were just a couple blocks away. You had a massive dent on your forehead. And I remember your mother asking me in the ambulance is he going to be all right? And I played it down. And I said to her oh just a little bump on the head. But to this day when I start thinking about the details I get choked up. My partners and I would come to the hospital every chance we got and check in on you. Even after you came out of the hospital and you were getting better we used to come by the house. We would drive by.  Yeah. I know it was second grade and it was hard to adjust. The kids would call me helmet head because I would have a helmet on my head. And I remember crying to the doctor saying I do not want to go to school. And he said oh do not worry you know all the ladies gonna love your helmet. But it was the complete opposite. It was torture for those years.  I had no contact with you guys for a very long time. But one day we brought a patient into the hospital and I heard this lady's voice. I did not see her. I just heard the voice and it stopped me dead in my tracks. And so I backed up and I looked in the room and there was this little short nurse it was your mother. And she saw me. We were hugging up real tight. And she is crying and I am bawling. And she said Bryan's going to be graduating and I want you to come as a surprise. And when I showed up that day when I rang the bell did she tell you to open the door?  Yeah she told me to open the door yeah.  She set you up.   She set me up good. You know just to be here with you is more than I could ever ask. And it is a privilege to be around you. I really sincerely thank you.  I appreciate that Bryan. I mean to develop this kind of a relationship and this kind of bond I cannot put it into words. But this is what makes me do what I do. I feel so good.  That is paramedic Rowan Allen with Bryan Lindsey in New York. Lindsey now runs his own business and Allen still works with the New York City Fire Department. This and all StoryCorps interviews are archived at the Library of Congress and you can subscribe to the StoryCorps podcast at NPR.org. 