 We are following developments this morning out of Dallas where five police officers are dead. Six other police and one protester are wounded after a peaceful demonstration turned chaotic and violent. The demonstrations came in response to the deaths of two African-American men killed in altercations with police this week. Three suspects are in custody and the area is still an ongoing crime scene. With us now is Dallas Morning News reporter Charlie Scudder. He is in downtown Dallas. Charlie where are you exactly and what is happening?  Well actually at this moment I am in Deep Ellum which is a neighborhood just east of downtown. The highway that divides it I can see it in my rearview mirror. And I am at an all-night diner where I have been talking to folks who are still in - kind of in shock about what is been going on.  What are you hearing? I mean were any of the people you are talking to - were any of them at the protest?  Yeah some. Actually earlier this evening I was at a Greyhound bus station which is directly across the street from the parking garage where one of the suspects was holed up. And there were many people there who fled into the station to seek shelter. And they had a lot of mixed emotions. Obviously this thing started with concern about police brutality issues but now it is taken a turn this violent turn. People are wondering what is going to happen next? And they are worried that it might light a powder keg.  We know 3 of the 6 wounded officers are in good condition right now but what do we know if anything about the remaining three?  I do not know anything at this point unfortunately. I have been out talking to folks and I have not been on that side of things recently.  So what are you hearing Charlie? I mean when you sit down and you talk with people about how they are internalizing all of this? What...  Yeah...  ...Are they telling you?  Well you know I think it starts with shock and it is - it starts with a lot of confusion you know especially early on. This thing's obviously still developing. And it is been late so not a lot of people have been out to react. But people I have talked to love their city love the cops here but they have issues - wider issues - and are worried that like I said that this will be a step in the wrong direction.  Charlie Scudder he is out talking with people who were at that protest in Dallas last night. He is with The Dallas Morning News. Charlie thanks so much for sharing your reporting with us.  Thank you. 