 Now while the president traveled his chief of staffs spent hours in meetings at the Capitol. Senate leaders say they will not vote on a health care plan before their summer recess as the president had asked. Like yesterday Rahm Emanuel returned to his corner office in the White House and said that congressional committees at least should finish their work. Mr.  Okay you are basically three-fifths of the way there in the sense of committee work in getting this done.  It sounds like the House is not likely to pass legislation either -the full House - before the recess. Mr.  Well I can tell you what I know which is the speaker today announced to the caucus that their intention is to go next week. And she is working towards that goal.  Now this former Congressman has to make sure the bill does not lose momentum in August as lawmakers return to their districts. What danger is there that you go away for the summer or Congress does and you have a small number of vulnerable Democrats in relatively conservative districts who hear the concerns of their constituents or of lobbying groups and they come back in September Mr.  Yes.  and they are not going to be voting with you anymore? Mr.  Well first of all there is - there is always a lot of danger but let me say one thing - you said two different things.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  And I want to draw a distinction. Having been a Congressman representing the Northwest side of Chicago and suburban area what I heard from people they could not afford health care. They had a daughter or a son who had a pre-existing condition and therefore were dropped. Or when they left jobs they could not get covered under that insurance policy. So hearing from constituents will not be the same as hearing from the special interests which is what you also said. So let me address what the second thing you said  Mm-hmm. Mr.  Because the public wants health care reform that fundamentally does not put the insurance companies in control of the process which is where they are. That by any constituent level will tell you people are not happy with the present system.  Well there is two different things there as well because surveys would suggest the public is with you in describing the problem. Surveys would suggest the public is a little bit less with you as far as the specific solution. They are concerned about the direction this bill is going Mr.  No.  might some lawmakers come back from this recess and they have been pushed out of where they cannot really support you anymore. Mr.  And somebody come back even stronger committed to getting it done. I do not think it defaults to the one option.  How difficult is it to make sure that all the different interests corporations groups of lawmakers individuals who are with you now or maybe with you now stay onboard as you tweak this bill. Any little change might cause somebody to lose money or lose interest in your bill. Mr.  No. The doctors in the past were against Medicare. Now they are the biggest advocates. When I worked for President Clinton and we were trying to create the children's health insurance program private insurers were against it. Now they are for it. So one of the things that I think important is keeping the advocates who have been in the past the biggest stumbling blocks to reform on the side of getting reform done - not at all costs but helping them push this along. That has been a key part to this. We are down to the final details. Those details matter. But we will I think are making progress.  Well let me ask you about one of those details. There are a number as you know very well moderate or conservative Blue Dog Democrats who are concerned about the cost of this looking for cost savings. Just in the last few days House leaders came up with some savings that looked like they might come out of the pockets of doctors and hospitals. And suddenly doctors and hospitals who had been supporting you have put out statements saying we are not sure we can support this bill anymore. Mr.  Well I met with members of the AMA.  American Medical Association. Mr.  Who are - American Medical - who are still supportive - the lead organization for doctors. But if you want to control costs one of the things that the president talked about is to have a group of health experts insure that in fact the changes that are necessarily so the system is more efficient more cost effective are done.  Is it going to cost you votes in order to gain the votes that you got from these conservative Democrats? That is what I am wondering in the end. Mr.  Well I do not want to fast forward the movie. You are just going to have to watch the movie all the way through. But the key thing that you got to understand of this in my view is we now are debating how to control costs. This has not happened before. You are not just running it up on the credit card which is how they did the prescription drug bill. They charged it which was a 900 billion charge and nobody it will be paid for.  How long can you hold together the supporters you have while you work to get the last few supporters you need? Mr.  I think people are - I have seen legislation Steve you know this is just my guess - you know it is a guess. I have seen places where people are trying to find a way to be a no and I have seen places where people are truly earnestly trying to find a yes and I think we are in the process of people trying to find out how to get to a yes.  Meaning you think you have time? Mr.  No I mean that I think we are going to get to a yes and we are working on it and I think we will have a bill by the end of the year for the president to sign on health care reform that controls cost expands coverage and provides choice.  I would like to ask about the Republican's fear. One Republican Senator Jim DeMint Mr.  Yeah.  said a few days ago that this could be President Obama's Waterloo. If he is defeated on health care this could break him. I would like to turn that question around and ask you if you think that this battle could be Republicans' Waterloo in your view? Mr.  Well I - you know let me reject the premise because I really want to stress this and I do not - I mean I am okay with politics as you well know - on that you know Senator Inhofe I do not have the exact quote but basically the thrust of the quote was the political importance of defeating this because of what it would do to President Obama they are seeing it in political terms and they have decided that if they can beat the president on health care reform they have scored a big political victory. But what they have also guaranteed in policy terms is that you have the status quo. I actually appreciate what Senator DeMint said and Senator Inhofe. I am different than everybody. I am not going to criticize them. I compliment them. They are honest. Now  Are you telling Democrats there is actually some truth to that? If you guys do not stick with us on this it could be a disaster? Mr.  No no. You asked me about what they said.  Sure. Mr.  No no. But they are being honest about  the stakes.  But looking at Mr.  And what I find interesting is that I have not heard a lot of people in their party criticize them.  Are you enjoying this fight? Mr.  I am enjoying this interview. No am I enjoying this? You know here's the deal. My dad's a doctor. My mother was a nurse. You know and I have never in my life either as a son of a doctor and a nurse or somebody who is been in public life never really had to be scared about their health care. Not having insurance I do not have that fear. And I think that this is a fight worth having.  Rahm Emanuel thanks very much. Mr.  Thank you.   Rahm Emanuel is President Obama's chief of staff. 