  That is music from Amahl and the Night Visitors the Christmas classic that by some accounts is the most frequently produced opera in the world. It was written by Gian Carlo Menotti who was born a hundred years ago today. MORNING EDITION's music commentator Miles Hoffman is here to talk with us about Menotti's music and his legacy. Good morning Miles.  Good morning Renee.  So where does Gian Carlo Menotti stand? Okay he wrote at least one incredibly popular opera as we have just said. But should we be placing him in the category of Great 20th century composers people like Aaron Copland Dmitri Shostakovich or Leonard Bernstein?  Renee I think the short answer is yes.   Okay.  How is that?  How about a short question Why?  There're many reasons. First of all the man was a pioneer. He was born in Italy but he came to this country as a teenager studied at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia as a matter of fact. And he had the courage to write operas and operas in English starting in the 1930s and 1940s when no other American composer really did. Certainly no other American composer was able to do it so successfully.  Unidentified Man    He was also a media pioneer Renee. Amahl and the Night Visitors which is from 1951 was the first opera ever written specifically for television. And even before that back in 1939 Menotti wrote the first opera ever for radio. This was for NBC Radio. In 1939 he wrote The Old Maid and the Thief.  Unidentified Woman   Steal me. Oh steal me sweet thief for time's flight is stealing my youth. And the...  That is from the beautiful aria Steal Me Sweet Thief Renee from The Old Maid and the Thief by Menotti. When you ask the question about this category of great composers I think you have to ask Who wrote music that will last music that people will be listening to a hundred years from now 200 from now? And I believe one of the answers is Gian Carlo Menotti.  Let us play an example. You suggest something of exactly what you are talking about.  I think if we listen to the aria to To This We have Come which is also known as the Papers Aria from Menotti's opera The Consul I think you will hear what I mean. This is astonishingly dramatic music incredibly effective and beautifully sung by the way by the person who created this role and who sang this aria first is Patricia Neway.  Ms.     Miles it has that sweet up to these heights.  Exactly. Musical heights and emotional heights and that is what makes it so wonderful so successful. And interestingly Renee this opera The Consul opened at the Ethel Barrymore Theater on Broadway. It was a Broadway hit and it won the Pulitzer Prize too.  Now why on Broadway and not say the Met - the Metropolitan Opera?  Well a number of reasons for that including the fact that Menotti actually had an early failure at the Met. And big opera houses at the time were not necessarily terribly interested in American operas. It was not considered something that was going to be successful. But I think more important Menotti felt it was very very important - it was crucial to bring opera a large popular audiences. And he once wrote - I love this. He said If I insist on bringing my operas to Broadway it is simply because of the letters I receive which begin Dear Mr. Menotti I had never seen an opera until tonight. And Menotti's operas The Medium and The Telephone and also an opera called Maria Golovin were also produced on Broadway.  So back for a moment to the opera we just heard an excerpt from a moment ago from The Consul. Seemed like pretty spectacular writing for the voice.  And Renee that is another reason and another very good reason that Menotti's music will last. He knew how to write for the voice. And he makes -his music makes singers sound good. Here's another example Renee. It is just absolutely lovely and again one of Menotti's strengths. He was able to write lovely music beautiful music.  Unidentified Woman     You are right. It is very very pretty. It is silky.  Exactly Renee. There will never be a shortage of sopranos wanting to sing that aria. That is Monica Monica Dance the Waltz from The Medium by Menotti. And as long as sopranos have any say in the matter people will be producing Menotti's operas.  And Miles Gian Carlo Menotti died in 2007. He was - what - 95 years old  so there must be many people who knew him and worked with him still alive. And I am guessing you have to at least know someone who knew him.   Yes I know a number of people who knew him. I never knew him personally I am sorry to say. But you know Renee some people are a little bit of everything. According to everybody I have spoken to Gian Carlo Menotti was a lot of everything. He was charming. He was brilliant. He was funny. He was also difficult. He could be infuriating. Apparently he fired everybody he ever hired.   But he was also absolutely irresistible by all accounts. And which was one of the things that made him - we are talking about his legacy - that is one of the things that made him a great impresario. He founded the Spoleto Festival in Italy in 1958 and then in 1977 Spoleto USA in Charleston - very important festivals. And he did this all through personal magnetism and connections and just because people wanted to do what Gian Carlo Menotti wanted them to do.  And Miles on this his what would have been his hundredth birthday what would you have us go out on?  Well it is just a lovely barcarolle from Sebastian which was a ballet that Menotti wrote. Not an opera a ballet and I think it perfectly illustrates the charm of Gian Carlo Menotti and his music.  Pleasure as always talking to you Miles.  Thank you Renee.  Miles Hoffman is the violist of the American Chamber Players and author of The NPR Classical Music Companion.   And you can watch an excerpt from Menotti's opera The Consul on our classical music blog Deceptive Cadence at NPRMusic.org. This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Renee Montagne. 