 An old saying goes that if you want a friend in Washington get a dog. Sometimes that saying is attributed to Harry Truman. And though he may never have actually said it he probably should have. Yesterday some friendly dogs appeared in the United States Capitol. NPR's David Welna has this report.   A chocolate Labrador named Cila who is been on close to 100 missions in Iraq sits panting in a crowded congressional hearing room. She is one of five war dog veterans attending this event entitled Military Dogs Take the Hill. It is being put on by the American Humane Association. Robin Ganzert is the group's president.  It is a dog day of summer that is for sure. For us it is a hero dog day of summer. It is a different way that we like to celebrate.  Many people think that this Hill has gone to the dogs but apparently the dogs have gone to the Hill.  That is exactly right. And they are going to take it over today and make sure their voice is heard.  Through advocates such as Ganzert of course. She is glad Congress passed a law last year saying the military may bring back its working dogs to the U.S. to be reunited with their handlers. But that law does not say they must be brought back.  We are suggesting today that an easy solution - so very easy - is just to mandate that the dogs are returned to U.S. soil before they are retired. And then of course these wonderful groups that we work with can work with the military to make sure the dogs are reunited.  Several House members are on hand to show their support. Nevada Democrat Dina Titus recalls the key role dogs played when she served as a state legislator.  We always had a rule if you wanted to get your bill passed just show up with a dog. That always won people's hearts over. So I think we are in pretty good shape here.  Where are you going? Where are you going? You want to lay down? Are you tired?  That is Ruby Ridpath with her dog Carlos. He is a yellow Lab who specialized in sniffing out explosives during five years in Iraq and Afghanistan. Three years ago Ridpath learned from an Air Force captain in Kabul that Carlos was being retired.  And I said bring him home. Three words that is all it took. Bring him home.  Ridpath considers Carlos a vet not a pet. She thinks he deserves more help from the government he served.  I would like to see that there be some medical assistance because for Carlos I have spent almost 10000 in medical costs for him. He is been worth every penny but it is quite excessive at times.  Others want to see more of an effort made to reunite war dogs with their handlers. Kristin Maurer heads Mission Canine Rescue a group that helps such handlers when they come back without their dogs.  They all ask me the same thing. They say can you help me get my dog? The words are not what strikes me. It is their tone of voice almost a desperation.  One such handler is a Marine vet named Deano Miller who was in Afghanistan four years ago with a yellow Lab named Thor.  He would never leave my side. He was never on leash. He was never in a kennel. He was always just - I did not have to worry about that. He did not leave me.  But Miller had to leave Thor behind at the end of his tour.  So I had to wait three and a half years for him but I would wait more if I had to. I even told them - I was like if he is 10 years old and has one leg I will still take him. And they used to think I was joking but I was serious.  In May the two were reunited.  Everything's a lot better now at home. And it would not be possible if I did not have him.  Miller says his shadow has come back. David Welna. NPR News the Capitol. 