  This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning I am Mary Louise Kelly in for Steve Inskeep.  It is a confusing tale full of twists and turns. It begins with an Iranian nuclear researcher who went on a pilgrimage to Mecca in Saudi Arabia last year. On that trip he disappeared.  Now depending on who you believe he was either kidnapped or defected. He eventually emerged in the United States and was studying for a doctorate in Arizona. Monday evening he turned up in Washington at the Pakistani embassy which handles Iranian interest in the U.S. and he said he wanted to go back to Iran  Good morning.  Good morning.  And Jackie tell us all you know at this point of this young scientist.  The first one shows Amiri and he is looking nervous and he is speaking in Farsi which is his mother tongue and let us listen to a little of that tape.    So in this tape Amiri backs what the Iranian government was saying that he was abducted and that he was drugged and he ends up here in the U.S. where he claims he was tortured and that is something the U.S. disputes.  Okay that is the first tape. Now there was a second tape that appeared shortly afterwards.  Yes. That is right and it came out very quickly after this first one and it is a completely different Amiri. He is dressed smartly and it is a highly produced tape. And in this second one he says that he is safe that he is free to travel and in fact he is trying to get his PhD at a university in Tucson Arizona.  So what is known about what happened between those two very different tapes?  So the first tape it is believed was a way to appease the Iranian government so they would go easy on his family but it is very hard to say way he made the second video.  Jackie how important a source of information would he have been about the Iranian nuclear program?  Well Renee people I spoke with said that the Iranian nuclear program is highly compartmentalized so most people who work on the program have a fairly narrow focus. And Amiri was a junior scientist at one facility so it is unlikely he would have had access to top security secrets about Iran's nuclear program. You know still he would have been able to provide some information and that is why he was debriefed by the U.S. officials.  And then this last Monday he suddenly showed up at the Pakistani embassy.  Amiri made his way to the embassy and he said he wanted to go home. And the U.S. said look he was free to come here and he is free to return to Iran. And in fact the U.S. government helped to facilitate his return.  Fascinating. Jackie thanks very much.  Thank you.  NPR foreign affairs correspondent Jackie Northam. 