 On to some lighter fare it is been fun but this is it the end of Pie Week here on MORNING EDITION.  Aw. Go on go on go on.  Along with a lot of cravings the series has evoked thoughtful memories from listeners around the country.  Harry Chamberlain sent a tweet from Fort Stewart Georgia. He wrote After grandma died grandpa took over making and selling apple pies at Farmer's Market. He is 81. We called Harry in Georgia and also reached his grandfather Hal in Cambridge Ohio.  So 1962 we bought an apple orchard. My dear sweet Lizzie started baking pies at that time. She baked them right up until five years before she passed away.  Obviously it was very difficult for my grandfather but one of the ways that he found to cope was to teach himself how to bake the pies that my grandmother had always made.  Well what I did when she passed away I just followed the directions on her recipes. And I have got to admit they are excellent.  A few listeners tweeted about a woman named Karen Amarotico. She is from Ashland Oregon and last year she came up with a unique idea for charitable giving.  Two in the morning I sat up and thought I could make a pie every day and give it away.  Amarotico began by giving away pies to friends. Then through this project she wound up learning about strangers in need.  Once a neighbor told about a little girl nearby who had cancer. Amarotico was nervous about showing up...  But I went ahead and I made her a pie and as I drove to her house I sat in front of the house for a while thinking okay God. I know you will tell me what to say because I did not want to say the wrong thing.  The young girl opened the door and said I will go get my mom.  And I said actually Sarah the pie is for you. And she said It is?  Karen Amarotico says that after all that worrying it turned out she did not have to say anything.  I mean the pie was a tiny part of it but just showing up was really important.  Although then again it does not hurt show up with pie. Now Pie Week has been a feast for the senses. We have covered touch taste sight and smell and next we have a treat for the ears.   That of course is American Pie by Don McLean perhaps the most famous pie song even though it is not about pie. But it is certainly not then only pie song.   The Four Tops' I Cannot Help Myself was a Motown hit in 1965.  A few years later the Beatles did Honey Pie and Bob Dylan sang Country Pie. But you go back for the really wonderful stuff. Dinah Shore sang Shoo Fly Pie and Apple Pan Dowdy in 1946 and Fats Waller sang Sweetie Pie more than a decade before that.    And since you cannot have enough types of pie here's a treat.   That is Pie from Brady Rymer and the Little Band That Could.   Okay. We know we have left out many pie songs so tell us your favorite on Twitter and be sure to include the hashtag pieweek.   This is NPR National Pie Radio. 