 The House of Representatives did what a lot of people expected it to do last night. Four Republicans and one independent joined every Democrat in the House in voting to condemn President Trump's racist tweets from the past weekend. In those tweets President Trump told four U.S. congresswomen to go back to where they came from. Three were born in the U.S. and all of them are citizens. Joining us on the phone now is a senior member of the House. U.S. Representative Tom Cole is a Republican from Oklahoma. Good morning sir.  Hey good morning to you.  So you were one of the few Republicans who openly criticized the president's comments. Do you think they were racist?  No I do not. I think they were inappropriate and offensive. But again I do not think they were racist.  Why do not you think they were racist?  Because I simply do not. I do not think...  OK.  I do not think the president is a racist. I think that was one of the reasons why the I think very ill-advised resolution broke down essentially along party lines. It overreached. And frankly you know it was a partisan setup as opposed to being a serious and thoughtful discussion about a problem.  When you critiqued the president's comments what were you critiquing them for in that event?  Well first of all I do not think you ever tell anybody to go back where they are from in America. Almost all of Americans are from someplace else. It is not an appropriate thing. And second I just thought you do not - you also do not question any - once you are an American citizen you are an American whether you were born someplace else or not. So I think that implication bothered me a great deal. And I just thought it was an appropriate way to talk to any American let alone four Americans who had been elected by their fellow Americans to represent them in Congress.  You just do not think it was racist.  No I do not.  OK.  And frankly I also think that if you - you have to remember here too there is - we have had colleagues that are routinely called down by presiding officers for using inappropriate language toward the president. We have had people that have said federal workers are running concentration camps. We have had people that have said if you support Israel you do it for the money. We have had people that have referred to the president with vulgar epithets and said they are going to impeach him. None of those people were subject to resolution. So the double standard here in terms of accepting comments on your own side of the aisle and criticizing essentially - what you know others might think are a similar thing to another is just - you know it is breathtakingly inappropriate.  But is not it fair to say those people are not the president of the United States...  They are members of Congress...  ...Given the standing of his office?  ...And they are subject to the same rules of decorum. So this idea that it is OK for everybody but the president to say something I do not go with that. Look I think the rules of behavior and of appropriate language apply equally to everybody.  Congressman the president will likely hit some type of nerve along these lines again possibly soon. Are you comfortable with the Republican Party having to come to either defend or decry the president's words again and again?  I think people have to make their own individual decisions about that. I do not see this as a - the Republican Party doing something. I see it as individual members and elected officials reacting. So would I change the language of the president? I would. But would I change the language of my Democratic colleagues who again are routinely called down by the presiding officer on the floor - on the floor which is actually a place that has a much higher standard of what is acceptable as the speaker found out yesterday. You know again if you are going to do this you have to be willing to do it to everybody. And I do not spend a lot of time quite frankly commenting on what other people say because if you do that you are not going to be saying anything. You are just going to be commenting on other people's comments. So it is better to keep your head down and do your work.  All right. But when the president makes these remarks they do not do much to add to his base in a country this diverse. We know that. Is this a losing strategy that he is pursuing when he talks like this?  Well we will find out. You know a lot of people thought he was pursuing a losing strategy in 2016 and he prevailed. So we will find out about that. But if you are asking me would I prefer the language be more traditional and more presidential? I would. And do I think that would be helpful to him politically? I do because I think sometimes this gets in the way of a very good economy a very good record on deregulation a very good effort to rebuild the American military. He has a lot that I think he could point to that sometimes this sort of rhetoric distracts from. And I - you know as an old political guy I regret that. I would rather focus on the substance because I think it is a winner for the president.  We talked to former Republican Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen a couple months ago as she left office. She was the first Latina elected to Congress. And she told us if the Republican Party fails to attract more diverse people it is just going to lose a whole generation. Let me play you what she said.   We need to pay attention to the changing demographics of our country. And we have not been attuned to that. We have been appealing to one certain section of America.  Is she right Congressman?  I think she makes a very good. And certainly the point about appealing to diverse groups is absolutely critical in America. Frankly it always has been but it is even more so today. And you know again I do not think that was certainly proved with  President Bush or many of our members. So - but the point is is an important point for Republicans to think about. And unfortunately  there are conservatives in every racial or ethnic group in America but you have got to welcome them and you have got to bring them in. And you have got to you know show them that their values are your values. So when you fail to do that yeah you pay a political price for it and appropriately so.  Representative Tom Cole Republican from Oklahoma thanks so much. Tim Mak covers Congress for NPR. He is in studio with me. Tim what stood out to you from that conversation?  What the congressman seemed to suggest that Democrats on a routine basis make equally offensive comments as the president did over the weekend. I think Democrats would say that that misses the whole point of what was so uniquely offensive about what the president said. Democrats do not typically - I am not aware of any Democrats having told the president to go back to where he came from. And that is because people with the president's racial background do not get told things like that. That is the very nature of why this these comments were racist over the weekend. And I think that is what Democrats would say.  Are leaders in both parties comfortable with the outcome of last night's vote? Is this going to move anywhere?  Yeah. Republican leaders in the house were very quick to say that they did not think that the president was racist or that his comments were racist. And they were as you could tell by the results of the vote yesterday unified against the Democratic resolution.  NPR's Tim Mak covers Capitol Hill. Tim thanks so much.  Thanks a lot. 