 So possibly years of appeals for Bradley Manning and for more on the verdict we are joined by NPR's Arun Rath who is covered the proceedings at Fort Meade for PBS's Frontline since the case began almost two years ago. Welcome Arun.  Thanks.  Let us talk about the charge that has gotten the most attention aiding the enemy obviously partly because it could have sent Manning to prison for life without possibility of parole. But why else did it matter so much?  Well this is the one that a lot of news organizations were worried about. Because it would have been an unprecedented application of aiding the enemy at least an application that would not have been used since the Civil War. And obviously there were not websites at that time so it is not really used in the same way. Basically the logic they were using - and it was considered a stretch by a lot of people - was that Bradley Manning leaked the documents to WikiLeaks WikiLeaks can be read by anyone and anyone in this case happened to be al-Qaida. It was used by them. It gave aid and comfort in that way to the enemy and therefore Bradley Manning was aiding the enemy. In the end however the prosecution did not connect those dots for the judge and she was not convinced on that so I think the press is probably investigative journalism in particular are breathing a sigh of relief as of yesterday.  Right exactly. Although one thing we just heard in Carrie's story was that Julian Assange referred to the administration's what he called war against investigative journalism. But this was a military trial Arun. Manning was in uniform. How much does it apply to what happens in civilian life?  Well exactly. You know leaving beside the question of whether or not the Obama administration is cracking down on whistleblowers this is a military prosecution so it is a little bit farfetched I think to imagine that a military prosecutor would be taking marching orders from the administration. There might be consultation with the Department of Justice but it would actually be improper for that to be taking place in that way. It is sort of in a separate universe in that way.  What about Manning? He is beat the one charge but he is been found guilty of several other very serious charges including espionage.  Yeah. And I think that were it not for all the attention about the ramifications for the press on the aiding the enemy charge and not for the prosecutors reaching on that we would not be talking about a victory for Manning today. As was mentioned in the piece he faces maybe 136 years in prison. Now that is the maximum. I think it is unlikely that he would serve that because a lot of these are parallel charges sort of next to each other. It would be - possibly he could run them concurrently. The judge also has absolute latitude in sentencing. There are no minimums so she could even say give him a dishonorable discharge and give him time served and let him go. That is also unlikely but I think it is you know the maximum is also pretty unlikely.  Well tell us more about this weeks-long sentencing phase. We are talking about witnesses. What kind of witnesses are going to appear?  The battle is going to be about how I think mainly how much damage was caused by the leaks. Up until this point they have not had to prove there was actual damage caused only the potential for damage. Now we will hear these assessments. What is going to be interesting though Rene is that - I say we will hear them but we are probably not going to hear a lot of it because these assessments of the damage that were caused by Wikileaks these internal audits done by the government various agencies they are classified. And even some of these witnesses are classified I think 13 of the witnesses. Even those who are not they will be closed sessions and will not be open to the media. So we may not know for a long time what the damages were and what is going to go into the judge making her decision.  Well just one last thing and very briefly why did the defense choose a trial by judge rather than a military jury?  Well it is interesting. I think that - it was never a question of did he do it or did not he. He admitted very early on Bradley Manning that he would leaked these documents so there was sort of a philosophical argument that the defense was making that he was justified for moral reasons and ultimately legal reasons. And I think that would probably get more traction possibly from an educated military judge than a jury of 10 rank and file active duty soldiers.  NPR's Arun Rath who will be taking over by the way as the new host of WEEKEND ALL THINGS CONSIDERED based here at NPR West. That will be in late September. And Arun we are really looking forward to having you with us out here.  I am incredibly excited. Thanks Rene. 