 There is a logic behind a newly revealed use of data by federal immigration authorities. Many states welcome people who are in the U.S. without legal status to obtain a driver's license. Now researchers have found that Immigration and Customs Enforcement along with the FBI have been running databases filled with driver's license photos through facial recognition software looking for immigrants of interest. Jake Laperruque is here to talk about this. He is senior counsel at the Project on Government Oversight an independent group that focuses on corruption and abuse of power. Welcome to the program.  Hi. Thanks so much for having me.  How did these things come to light?  Well this most recent revelation came from FOIA requests through the Georgetown Center on Privacy and Technology. Facial recognition and the government's use of it is something that we have been steadily uncovering over the past several years and what we have been learning is this is not some distant sci-fi tech it is happening now. It is something that affects hundreds of millions of Americans. Over half of all American adults are enrolled in some law enforcement facial recognition database already.  FOIA request - Freedom of Information Act - so this is government documentation. There is no doubt this is happening. Is it legal that the FBI and that ICE would be doing this with presumably millions of driver's license photos?  By current law it is legal. Unfortunately right now it really is a Wild West in terms of facial recognition. There are only a couple of states that have any sort of limits on law enforcement or another agency enforcement use of this technology and there are really no limits at the federal or state level on the process for using this information for conducting facial recognition searches or limits on how you can do it. So we have a very powerful technology a technology that is very prone to error but there really are no rules. It is a bit of a free-for-all on what the government can do.  You just said an important thing - very prone to error. Do you mean that someone might be identified as in the U.S. illegally and maybe their status is fine - it is a totally different person?  Yes that is exactly right. Facial recognition - there is a high degree of misidentification that can occur. This goes up based on the settings and a lot of law enforcement entities do not receive proper training on what limits they should put on this the specific narrow  scenarios they should be using it. There is also a number of studies that found that facial recognition is much more likely to misidentify women and people of color people of darker skin especially. So when you are conducting these searches you know even if you are a law-abiding citizen even if you have no reason the government should be looking at you for anything there is a chance that as long as you are in these databases you are going to be coming up and become the target of an investigation because of a glitchy computer system.  Now let us grant that what you said is factual. There have been studies of this. It is been documented that facial recognition software does not always work. But let us look at the case where it works where someone is properly identified. If Immigration and Customs Enforcement goes through a database and they locate someone and they find out they are living in upstate New York or wherever and they are able to identify them as someone who is in the U.S. illegally and needs to be deported what is wrong with that? They did violate the law.  Well there is a few things. I mean I think first of all there is always that risk of misidentification. While you might get it right sometimes I think we have to ask is the cost of this being wrong so often worth those occasional correct hits? I would say no. And then additionally I mean there are many instances throughout society where we say that getting some results is just not worth the cost to privacy and also the chilling effects that we see.  Is this moving us toward a China-like system where they have this social credit system and they are keeping track of all kinds of data points about citizens?  Unfortunately yeah. Absolutely. This - if we look at sort of what is probably the closest model to the United States in terms of facial recognition the answer is probably China. Obviously they do not have a lot of civil rights and civil liberties general protections that we do that hopefully will kick in at some point but China has no rules or restrictions on this just like the U.S. and they have a dragnet system - that seems to be where we are headed if we do not put in rules.  Mr. Laperruque thanks so much.  Thank you.  Jake Laperruque senior counsel at the Project on Government Oversight. 