 Supporters of Prop 8 say they are only trying to preserve the traditional definition of marriage. But the two couples say it is an infringement of their civil rights. Closing arguments were presented in a federal trial yesterday. NPR's Richard Gonzales reports.  Federal Judge Vaughn Walker allowed lawyers for and against same sex marriage five hours for closing arguments - this on top of 12 days of testimony in January.  Opponents of Prop 8 were represented by a prominent conservative former Solicitor General Ted Olson. He said that supporters of Prop 8 were trying to deny gays and lesbians the fundamental right to marriage already recognized by the Supreme Court. Here's how he put it in a news conference after closing arguments.  The Supreme Court said it is inherent in the right to privacy in liberty in association in a spirituality and to be able to identify ourselves. That is the quintessential right of Americans and its being taken away.  Olson compared this suit to another landmark case about marriage Loving vs. Virginia. That is the 1967 case in which the Supreme Court ruled that interracial couples have the right to marry.  The proposition does not want people to have the full choice. You can marry anyone you want unless it is a person of the same sex. And it is based upon a sexual orientation discrimination which the Supreme Court said intimate private sexual behavior is protected by the Constitution.  Cooper said that the people of California had the right to preserve this traditional definition of marriage.  The central and overriding question is whether the issue before the court which was before the people of California should be decided in his courtroom by him or whether it should - an issue like this should be decided by the people themselves.  Austin Nimocks of the Alliance Defense Fund a group opposing gay marriage said his side remained confident that they made their case.  Defending Prop 8 is playing defense. It is the burden of proof which Judge Walker made abundantly clear that belongs to the plaintiffs to have to prove that Proposition 8 is unconstitutional.  Prior to closing arguments Judge Walker gave both sides a list of 39 questions on all aspects of their cases. Marc Spindelman is a law professor at Ohio State University.  It looks from the questions like he is thinking through all of the possible consequences of the different avenues of decision even to the smallest detail.  Richard Gonzales NPR News San Francisco. 