 Let us go outside the court right now to a same-sex couple from Tennessee. Their case was actually at the heart of the decision that was given by the court today. It is Tom Kostura and Ijpe DeKoe. Do I have you on the line? And I hope I am pronouncing your names right.  You do you have actually just got myself. This is Ijpe DeKoe.  OK.  Tom is on the other phone with friends and family right now. As you can well imagine both our telephones pretty much blew up like Christmas.  I can imagine .  It is been a very intense - how many minutes has it been even? But yes we are here.  Remind me about your relationship how the two of you met and sort of where your efforts you know pushing for legal marriage you know how we got here.  Well Tom and I have known each other for a very long time. We first met as teenagers. We worked at a camp together as counselors remained friends for over a decade and then shortly before the deployment that I went on in 2011 we started up our relationship again. And we are making plans to move in and with the pending deployment I actually - we mutually proposed to one another and were married in New York legally about 11 days after New York had struck down its marriage ban. And then we were stationed in Memphis Tenn. where our marriage was not recognized. So we had that weird hey you are married and then it never happened.  Wow and you are an Army reservist. You were actually on a base I mean with federal law. And was your marriage recognized on the base but sort of not elsewhere in the state of Tennessee? How did that work?  Yeah exactly. I am active duty reserve so I am full time in the reserve. And as long as I was on the base we were married. And when we stepped off the base into Tennessee the state law applies and we were not married which was very unfair. And it does not - and that goes for any occupation. You should not have to base your decision of where you are going to live and work on am I going to be recognized today or not? That is fundamentally unfair.  Ijpe can I just ask you - this is such a day to celebrate for you and Tom. There're people in this country who you know are sort of still I do not know figuring out how they feel about this issue. What do you tell people who are not comfortable with the idea of same-sex marriage?  I - one thing we have realized as we have gone through this first the Tennesseans and Memphians have been very welcoming of us it is really just a state law. It is also very hard for people to dislike and distrust what they come to know. So a lot of it comes from folks who do not know us or do not know couples like us. And then as they have gotten to know us as they have gotten to hear our story and become our friends they have accepted us. So I have actually had quite a few friends in and out of the military - and Tom as well - who had a position and have come to change that position based on moving from that unknown to the known.  Well I want to let you and Tom get back to talking to your friends and family. I know Tom is on the other line. I know this is a very meaningful day for you. Thanks so much for talking to us we really appreciate it.  Oh thank you for having us. We really appreciate it also.  That is Ijpe DeKoe. He and his husband Tom Kostura were legally married in the state of New York but their marriage has not been recognized in the state of Tennessee until today. Their case was at the heart of a landmark Supreme Court decision. The court decided in a 5-4 ruling that same-sex marriage is now legal across the United States of America. We will be covering this decision reaction from all sides throughout the day on air and online at npr.org. A big day at the court. The court decided that same-sex marriage is legal across this country. You will hear more about it on MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 