 Amazon introduced its first smartphone yesterday. It is called the Fire Phone and the online retailer is eager to sell you one. But as NPR's Martin Kaste reports Amazon's larger aim is to use the phone to sell you more of everything else.  It is been a rough few weeks for Amazon. Some authors have accused the company of using its dominance in e-books to bludgeon publishers into accepting less money. It is even attracted the ire of Stephen Colbert.   I am not just mad at Amazon. I am mad-prime...   ...Because I just found out that they are deterring customers from buying books by Stephen Colbert.   But yesterday the CEO Jeff Bezos ignored all that. Where the critics see a potential monopoly Bezos celebrated the loyalty of Amazon customers. And he prefaced the launch of his new phone with an extended metaphor about buckets.   You can fill a bucket with an eyedropper if the bucket does not leak. And you can fill a bucket with a fire hose but if the bucket leaks it is still going to be empty tomorrow.  In other words Amazon is eager to hold onto those loyal customers. And that is where this new smartphone comes in. The most eye-catching feature on the Fire Phone is a screen that simulates 3-D.   We call this Dynamic Perspective.   The phone has cameras that track where you are looking changing the perspective and the image as you move your head. It is especially appealing in games.   Look around on this image. So I am tilting the phone to look everywhere at this level.  But from a business point of view the phone's killer app may turn out to be Firefly. That is the one-button feature that lets you scan things in the physical world - books food products toilet paper - and then the phone will identify that thing for you. If you are interested you can buy that thing on the phone. Use this function enough and Amazon is going to know a lot about you.  The questions I would ask are what sort of information is going to be collected?  Jeremy Gillula is a staff technologist with the Electronic Frontier Foundation.  Is it going to be browsing information location information call history? I mean what private information is going to be sort of reported back?  That kind of detailed information has been nearly impossible to come by for the company's earlier devices such as the Kindle e-book. Cameron Janes is a director of product development at Amazon.  We really respect e-customers' privacy. And so we have lots of - if you do not want your data shared you can turn data off for instance.  But not shared but can I keep it from going back to Amazon?  You can choose not to use certain features if you do not want to. We think those features are great and add a lot of value to the customer experience but of course you always have the option not to do that.  Of course that does not leave many options for people who would like to use those features if they could know which data are being sent to Amazon as part of the deal. And it is not just Amazon. Tech companies are usually reluctant to disclose the details about the information they collect. It is their secret sauce but Jeremy Gillula says when a smartphone is made by a retailer those questions become more pressing.  I mean it basically comes down to Amazon is trying to sell things. And it is very similar to the way Google is trying to sell ads. I mean Amazon is just sort of one step closer to that because they are selling it to you directly.  So if you end up buying the Fire Phone for its cool 3-D screen Jeff Bezos hopes you will also end up feeling comfortable inside of Amazon's bucket. Martin Kaste NPR News Seattle.  This is NPR News. 