 Some of the debate about President Trump now turns on what the meaning of the word hope is. Former FBI Director James Comey testified that the president said he hoped Comey would let go of a probe of former national security adviser Michael Flynn.   I took it as a direction. I mean this is the president of the United States with me alone saying I hope this. I took it as this is what he wants me to do. Now I did not obey that but that is the way I took it.  Some Republicans emphasize it was not an order literally speaking and that Comey did not protest at the time. Here to talk about the hearing is Democratic Senator Ben Cardin of Maryland. He is on Skype. Senator welcome back to the program.  Oh Steve it is good to be with you. Thank you.  So much testimony. Was this in your view obstruction of justice by the president of the United States?  Well we are going to let Mr. Mueller make those types of judgments...  Oh Robert Mueller the special counsel.  Yeah he is the special counsel. He should be the one who makes that type of judgment. It is clear that Mr. Comey interpreted it as the president asking him to resolve the Flynn investigation quickly. So it was clear that he was trying to influence the investigation.  Now one reason we know about this is because James Comey leaked it. Well before his testimony he arranged - he now says in his testimony he arranged for a memo of this conversation with the president to be leaked to the media. That actually prompted the appointment of the special counsel Robert Mueller which is exactly what Comey wanted. Was Comey right to leak this information?  Well we will have to judge that and I am sure that is one of the things that Mr. Mueller will take a look at. But these are his own personal notes. These are not anything that is classified or confidential. These are his own notes of conversations he had with the president. So I do not think we are talking about classified information. What we are talking about are personal notes. And his - the way that he handled this is a matter I am sure Mr. Mueller will also look at.  What conclusions are you feeling you are able to draw after watching all that testimony yesterday?  Well the former Director Comey clearly said that what the president said was not accurate was not true. He clearly indicated that the president wanted him to stop the investigation of Mr. Flynn. And he clearly felt that it was inappropriate the way that the president asked to meet with him alone and the conversation that they had so much so he decided to make contemporary notes. This is extremely troubling.  Is it inappropriate what the president did?  Oh yes I think it is inappropriate. You do not meet one-on-one with a person doing an investigation of people in your campaign. That - to me it was totally inappropriate.  One other thing though. Comey did not bring forth evidence necessarily of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia which is of course what is being investigated here. Is it possible - is it on your mind senator that what we have here is a lot of disturbing conduct to cover up not really very much in the end?  Well clearly Russia had a design to influence our election and they were using every tool they could. We need to know exactly what they did and what impact - what influence Americans had in that result. We need to do that to see if any American was involved - and that would be a criminal matter - but secondly to protect us from these types of attacks in the future. So the Mueller investigation's very important from a criminal aspect but it is also important from the point of view of protecting us from future attacks from Russia.  Do you feel Congress is properly focused on that future threat?  I - not yet. I think the investigation that is being done by the intelligence committee is extremely important but I think Congress should be setting up a special commission like we did after the attack on 911 to make sure that we have a comprehensive independent nonpartisan investigation as to Russia's intentions to influence our country.  Senator thanks very much.  Good to be with you. Thanks Steve.  Senator Ben Cardin Democrat of Maryland. 