 In Egypt an ugly attack is overshadowing the inauguration earlier this week of the country's new president. As people gathered in Cairo's Tahrir Square to celebrate a group of men stripped beat and sexually assaulted a woman apparently in front of her daughter. This attack was captured in a graphic video that has been posted on social media.   Seven men have now been arrested in this attack. Human rights activists say nine women were assaulted in the square last week. NPR's Leila Fadel joins us from Cairo to talk about this. Leila good morning.  Good morning.  All right Leila the tape we just heard that is not the only attack into the Tahrir Square last week. I mean tell us what happened here.  Well basically when there are huge crowds of revelers or protesters in Tahrir Square we have seen that women are being assaulted. This video shows a woman in the center of dozens of men a policeman trying to get through to her. But by the time he gets to her she is bruised. She is bloodied. And she is naked. And this is something that is been going on now for years with very little response from the government and very little accountability for the men that are doing this.  So if this type of behavior is common in Egypt this not just an isolated incident an isolated day what is driving this?  Well we have seen sexual violence against women in the square since 2011. And women who have spoken up about it have been somewhat shamed publicly blamed as the victim. There is a problem with endemic sexual harassment throughout Egypt as if women who are walking around in public in some ways deserve to be harassed or assaulted. And this is pre-2011 as well - plainclothes police and thugs actually stripped and beat and assaulted women in 2005. It is known I think as Black Wednesday. But now after this video it is being talked about.  Well and Leila you say there have been complaints about the government not doing enough here. We should say last week the government in Egypt made sexual harassment a crime for the first time. Do women's rights groups and other groups say this is a good sign?  Well it is a step in the right direction they say. You know rape has already been a crime here for a long time. You know the issue is is there is a lack of accountability and a tendency to blame the victim. The president this week said that the Ministry of Interior should do everything in its power to bring these men to justice. But he is also the same president that defended forced virginity tests under military rule in 2012. It is also become very politicized issue. Where supporters of the ousted Muslim Brotherhood are saying it is the moral degradation under CC's rule. And supporters of this new administration saying it is because of the way that the Muslim Brotherhood treated women under their rule. When in fact it is been a problem for years now. Where instead of dealing with the issue at hand violence against women in public places and an acceptance of it in some ways a blaming of the victim has already become a political issue.  I mean Leila I have to ask what kind of chilling effect might there be here? I mean women you know just feeling like they cannot go to public rallies cannot go in public if this might happen.  Of course it has a huge effect on women when they have seen others being assaulted bruised and bloodied in crowds of men where it is difficult to get anybody in there to help you get out. So of course fewer women want to end up at these rallies. But it is not stopping everyone. And there is an anti-rape rally planned for Saturday to say this is enough. We are not going to take this in the streets.  OK we have been speaking to NPR's Leila Fadel about acts of sexual assault in Cairo's Tahrir Square and throughout Egypt. Leila thank you.  Thank you. 