 LA has tens of thousands of street vendors. But there is no system for them to operate legally. Now there is a movement to change that. As Parker Yesko reports one thing helping is local resistance to President Trump's immigration policies.  You can buy almost anything on a sidewalk in Los Angeles. In the city's pinata district southeast of downtown tabletop shops offer baby clothes cell phone accessories even lunch. Estela Peralta chops brazed carnitas and serves it up with a variety of homemade salsas.  .  Her husband Enrique is known for his crispy pork skins. When he left Mexico for the U.S. his dad gave him one piece of advice.   You should always dedicate yourself to what you know making chicharron and making carnitas. A pig always has feet and a head. There you will have no problem.  The Peraltas do have one problem though. Their little street food operation is illegal. Selling on LA sidewalks is not allowed even though 50000 vendors do it openly. For years they have had their wares confiscated been ticketed even charged with misdemeanor crimes. Peralta thinks the penalties are unfair.   I do not know who decided it is a crime - selling drugs in the streets yes. But street vending is not a crime.  Many of LA's street vendors are immigrants like the Peraltas. And for the ones that are in the U.S. unlawfully contact with law enforcement can have especially serious consequences like deportation. City Councilman Jose Huizar represents the district where the Peraltas and many other vendors sell. He proposed legalization in 2014 but says he could not get political buy-in. Now...  Once Trump was elected and his anti-immigration anti-Latino rhetoric was at the forefront of his campaign council members around the City Council decided to move forward.  Just weeks after Inauguration Day the council voted unanimously to decriminalize street funding. Huizar says the city is now drafting a legal permitting plan.  We did not want to take a chance in further assisting with the division of families should some of these individuals get caught up in the court system because of a small infraction.  Even neighborhood organizations and business coalitions that have long feared the spread of vending supported decriminalization. But not everyone's happy about permitting the vendors.  You know they make it look cheap. They make it look bad.  Restaurant owner Michael Zarabian says the vendors undercut his business.  You cannot afford to sell same sandwich for 4 with a drink. You have got to sell it for 10 to just survive.  Zarabian feels like brick-and-mortars are held to higher standards and they are stuck with higher overhead.  With the food costs of 35 percent utility bill rent phone cable TV fax employment tax...  If we onboard street vendors into a formal economy they will be paying taxes. They will be buying their business permits. And they are procuring their products from other suppliers.  Clare Fox is executive director of the LA Food Policy Council which provided recommendations for the new vending ordinance. She says legalization is a win for all sides.  Street vendors want this. They are the ones at the forefront of this campaign saying hey we are in. We want to get a permit and play ball.  That ability to play ball is exactly what Enrique Peralta wants for his family and business.  .  Everyone's equal he says. And the injustice upsets him.   It is like if somebody cut your wings. What would you do without wings? What would you do? Nothing.  Peralta says he makes an honest living. And now he wants to make a legal one. For NPR News I am Parker Yesko in Los Angeles. 