 It is PR News. I am Deborah Amos.  We attended a movie screening here in the nation's capital last night. It was a classic Washington political audience conservative clothes dark suits very precisely parted hair. Then California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger stepped into the theater.  What an exciting crowd. Look at that. Man things are happening here.  Unidentified Man Gerrymandering is America's best-kept secret.   After the movie we pulled the governor aside to talk in the theater manager's office. Schwarzenegger says the new system could produce more candidates like him.  So this is the problem. People that are in the center usually get punished for being in the center and coming to a compromise and you get rewarded with the system that is in place now by getting stuck in the ideological corners. And this way you cannot get anything done.  People if they have followed California's news at all know you have had a catastrophic budget situation for years. You have had catastrophic conflicts over issue after issue. Is partisanship really the heart of the problem do you think?  It is a huge problem. If you have always partisan bickering the whole system becomes dysfunctional and you cannot really go and fix the problems that arise.  When you ran you said you would try to fix some of the very problems that you are still dealing with today - for example the long-standing budget problems in California. Did the system beat you in the end?  No. As a matter of fact the budget problem is a different story because the budget problem that we have is because of the economic slowdown worldwide. So you have a budget problem just about in every country in the world...  But you have had a structural budget problem...  ...and every state. But...  ...in California.  ...we would have only half of the problem right now if we would have had budget reform as I intended for the last six years. But that is - you know my term is not over yet. So there is a great opportunity this summer during the budget negotiations to have budget reform which means to have a rainy day fund set aside. And I think we have a good shot this year in the budget negotiations together.  Is part of the problem unrealistic expectations on the part of the voters and unrealistic promises by candidates? People seem to want a wide range of government services but do not want to pay any higher taxes to fund them.  It is a big problem that legislatures in general promise things to people that they cannot keep and especially when it comes to state employees unions. You know they can promise the better pensions and better health care and all of this. And then all of a sudden you are stuck with 500 billion of pension debt for our employees. And all of this is really irresponsible. So that is why we have to also reform our public pension system because we cannot afford it.  Did you promise too much? You campaigned for example on tax cuts to win election in California.  So I mean there is great things that have happened including - for decades California did not put any money aside for infrastructure and we put 42 billion for infrastructure in 2006 an additional 8 billion for infrastructure to rebuild our prisons 10 billion which is committed two years ago for the high-speed rail. So we are really on the - we are going in the direction of rebuilding California which was one of those things that I promised.  That is sort of what I am asking. You just gave a long list of things that sound valid that you support and that you wanted to fund. And at the same time you wanted to reduce people's taxes. Were you promising too much?  Not at all. No. Because we have to go and give tax incentives to businesses to bring businesses back to California. To me the most important thing is to look creatively at how we can create the extra revenues rather than just to go and scream more taxes. And by the way we raised taxes last year even though - that is the only promise that I did not keep because I said to the people I will not raise taxes even though I said I would not sign the pledge not to raise taxes because there could be an emergency. Last year that emergency came. We had a 60 billion deficit. We were hit very heavy because California relies very much on construction and on housing and so we lost a lot of - people did - lost their jobs.  One other thing governor We have just sat through a screening of a movie in which you appear and you have come here to support. It is a movie about a cause about an important issue gerrymandering across the country. It makes me wonder if perhaps Al Gore might end up being a model for you grabbing an issue making a film about it publicizing it.  You know I have too many different kind of job offers. I am in a very unique situation because of my background in athletics that no one else has in show business in business and in politics and in nonprofit. So my resume is so interesting so that is why I will not spend one single second on what should I do after I am finished.   I learned from sports that you keep your eye on the ball. I have a lot of things that are on the table that I need to accomplish before I am finished with this job and so I concentrate just on that doing the people's work.  Governor thanks very much.  Absolutely. My pleasure.  That is California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger who spoke last night here in Washington. 