 And also this week a 99 game console went on sale and quickly sold out at Target and Amazon. The Ouya console got its initial funding from a wildly successful multimillion-dollar Kickstarter campaign. NPR's Laura Sydell takes a look at what is behind all this buzz.  You are probably wondering where Ouya got its funny name.  The O in Ouya stands for openness.  That is Ouya founder Julie Uhrman.  U is for universal and the ya just completed it. Ouya. Sounds good to say.  When Uhrman is talking about openness and universality she is talking about the way people buy and sell games. On a console like the Xbox or PlayStation people have to spend 60 bucks to buy a game they have not played. The Ouya let us gamers try it for free and game developers can decide on a price. The developers have total freedom on how they want to monetize that content. So it could be a free demo and then you can unlock the full version of the game for 19. The Ouya is a box the size of a Rubik's Cube made of aluminum and plastic.  It comes with one game controller and you can buy more for 50 bucks each. Uhrman got inspired to build the Ouya because big console games like Call of Duty or Madden Football costs tens of millions of dollars to make.  Very few developers can do that in fact and you can see that because you do not see a lot of new content. You do not see a lot of new developers entering the television.  So instead of making games for consoles and TV's a lot of developers were limiting themselves to mobile phones and tablets. The Ouya launched with over 135 games. Ouya's game store works like Apple's App Store - Ouya gets a 30 percent cut and the game maker gets 70 percent. But its graphics do not hold a candle to the existing Xbox 360 or the PlayStation 3 - and this fall Sony and Microsoft will be releasing new consoles that look even better. Consumers will pay a big price for those sexy graphics - 400 bucks for the PlayStation 4 and 500 for the Xbox One. For a lot of gamers the 99 price point for the Ouya may be just enough to scratch the gaming itch. Laura Sydell NPR News. 