 The U.S. Constitution guarantees everyone accused of a crime the right to an attorney even if they cannot afford it sometimes though that does not happen. The ACLU has sued 15 states over inadequate public defense. Oregon could face a lawsuit next Conrad Wilson of Oregon Public Broadcasting reports.  Multnomah County Circuit Court Judge Kathleen Dailey is taking the bench in her seventh-floor courtroom in downtown Portland.  All right thank you. So good morning everyone.  This is treatment court - a program for nonviolent offenders with drug-related arrests. Many defendants are meeting their attorneys for the first time.  Just make sure you talk with your lawyer. There is only a couple of lawyers helping all of you so they can only do one case at a time. So this process does take patience.  Several dozen defendants who are out of custody sit in rows of benches along the back waiting their turn.  ...In the courtroom again...  Sheriff's deputies bring in a half-dozen men. They are chained together wearing blue jail scrubs.  He is going to be residing in Albany your honor.  Kacy Jones is an attorney for Metropolitan Public Defenders. The nonprofit provides legal services in the Portland metro area. She has 200 clients.  The people I am representing are typically deep in their addiction usually houseless.  Jones says she spends most of her week calling people without much success to make sure they show up to court.  As it is my main goal is quickly assessing the cases so I know loosely what we are working with and then trying to contact people.  That leaves little time for legal work. Earlier this year a report from the nonpartisan Sixth Amendment Center outlined major issues with Oregon's public defense system showing in essence the state was violating the U.S. Constitution. Oregon like other states has underfunded and overworked public defenders. David Carroll is the executive director of the Sixth Amendment Center.  When we got looking at how these contracts actually function we really found some big problems.  Among the problems Carroll says is that the state pays a flat fee per case no matter how complex which essentially puts the financial interests of public defenders in conflict with the legal interests of their clients. In February the state accepted that critique from the Sixth Amendment Center. Starting next year Oregon will do away with flat-fee contracting. A bill working its way through the legislature would go even further codifying the changes in law. Over the course of several years the state would essentially hire more than 900 public defenders and support staff.  We have had this system over 30 years where we have built in intentional opaqueness. We do not know what is out there.  Lane Borg runs the state's Office of Public Defense Services. He says anybody who really examines the system would have concerns.  They would not be comfortable with the compromises people have had to make in order to make an unsustainable system sustainable.  Borg's asking Oregon lawmakers for 50 million for the next two years. That money would only begin to fix the problem and given all the pressure on the budget lawmakers say they may not be willing to even fund that.  And I am concerned.  Carl Macpherson is the executive director of Metropolitan Public Defenders. He points out his clients are among society's most depressed and marginalized and that the state has record revenues.  We truly do not have equal access to justice in this country. We have two justice systems - one for the wealthy and the privileged and one for those who are not.  The ACLU says they are watching the Oregon Legislature closely and have not ruled out the possibility of a lawsuit if it believes the state is not putting enough money behind the plan. For NPR News I am Conrad Wilson in Portland.  