 We have some very sad news to report this morning. Anthony Bourdain has died at the age of 61 years old. CNN is confirming that this morning. Anthony Bourdain of course was a chef a writer a storyteller for the Cable News Network - Emmy-winning host of the program Parts Unknown. CNN confirmed Bourdain's death today. The network is reporting that the cause of death was suicide and I just want to read a statement from the network. They said it is with extraordinary sadness we can confirm the death of our friend and colleague Anthony Bourdain. His love of great adventure new friends fine food and drink and the remarkable stories of the world made him a unique storyteller. His talents never ceased to amaze us and we will miss him very much. Our thoughts and prayers are with his daughter and family at this incredibly difficult time. That statement coming from CNN. Now Anthony Bourdain spoke on our air with Terry Gross on WHYY's Fresh Air in October of 2017. He was remembering one of his first jobs in the kitchen as a dishwasher.   It was very hard work. You had to be there on time. There were certain absolute rules. And for whatever reason I responded to that. It was a mix of chaos but also considerable order that I guess I needed at the time.  Now Bourdain was honored for many - with many media industry awards. That included the Peabody. The judges of the Peabody honored him and also Parts Unknown for expanding our palates and horizons in equal measure. The judges said he is irreverent honest curious never condescending never obsequious. People open up to him and in doing so often reveal more about their hometowns or homelands than a traditional reporter could hope to document. The judges there for the Peabody talking about Anthony Bourdain. And I have to say just on a personal level - so many of us who love and value traveling and going to places and meeting people and listening to their stories found a lot of inspiration from Anthony Bourdain. Again Anthony Bourdain - celebrity chef storyteller - has died at the age of 61 years old.   