 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am Linda Wertheimer. The problems of New York Congressman Anthony Weiner have not let up since his mea culpa. He is facing calls for an ethics probe possibly even his resignation. Weiner confessed this week to texting women lewd photos of himself and lying about it. For many the reaction to this sexting scandal has been simple disgust and bewilderment. But as NPR's Jennifer Ludden reports this kind of thing is more common than you may think.  Even the AARP has reported on the phenomenon. A recent headline Sexting Not Just for Kids. Ms.  Absolutely. A lot of my clients.  Suzanne Blake is a relationship coach in Massachusetts. She says even married couples do this with each other. Ms.  People are working different shifts. They are traveling. They are stressed. They do not get to see each other a lot. So it is a playful way of keeping connected.  But of course just about every good thing about the Internet seems to have a downside. Eli Karam is a marriage therapist at the University of Louisville. Dr.  What the Internet does what texting does is allows you to get this immediate validation or fix. You send a picture you get immediate response and you do not have to deal with any face to face interaction.  Thus the ease and attraction of sexting with complete strangers. At his press conference Weiner stressed that he would had no physical relationship outside his marriage. So is this cheating? Dr.  And I say a relationship is a relationship whether you touch that person or not.  In fact Karam says research shows this kind of virtual or emotional infidelity can be just as harmful as a physical fling. Though Suzanne Blake says it is true sexting may not feel as wrong as meeting someone in a hotel. Ms.  One of my female clients it is happened several times where she is been on a business trip she is met somebody and then they have exchanged sexting afterwards and she is married. I had to actually say to her do you realize this is cheating?  Even when it is committed couples zinging photos back and forth Blake has words of caution. One client - a 55-year-old woman - was sexting happily with a boyfriend who traveled a lot sending photos with messages like Missing seeing you. Then the woman had a problem with her cell phone and took it to a store for help. Ms.  When she tried to show the technician what was happening this body part showed up on her screen. So it was very embarrassing to her.  Blake's advice - for ordinary sexters and high-profile politicians alike delete delete delete. Jennifer ws. 