 In South Korea the U.S. military is investigating claims by veterans that they buried barrels of a toxic defoliant at an American base there three decades ago. Agent Orange was used during the Vietnam War. It is been blamed for a variety of ailments including cancer and nerve disorders. Reporter Doualy Xaykaothao reports that Koreans living outside Camp Carroll are alarmed at what they are hearing.  In rural Chilgok county the pace of life is slow and the sounds are of a few moving bicycle riders construction and some traffic but there is a lot of talk about what is going on at the U.S. Army base Camp Carroll. Office worker EunJung Park. Ms.   Although the U.S. has helped Korea very much it still makes me angry that it would bury remnants from the Vietnam War another country's war in my country Korea.  That is a question that Americans and South Korean officials are still trying to answer yet the rumors off base persists. Young-mi Park owns a supermarket nearby. She claims her sister has cancer. Ms.   I was born near the base but moved away to get married. And well I was very much shocked at the recent reports of possible poison in the water and soil.  Park says her younger sister lived next to the base and wonders if the drinking water caused her cancer. Park said she was shocked to learn of allegations made last month by former U.S. soldiers. At least three veterans claimed to have buried Agent Orange there in the late 1970s. Colonel  So far no evidence of Agent Orange has been discovered on Camp Carroll or in the surrounding community.  That is Colonel Joseph Birchmeier of the United States Forces Korea. He is involved in a joint investigation looking into this matter with South Korea. To date he says investigators have interviewed at least 26 people. Col.  Each interview we have found leads to additional names of people who may or may not know - have information that is pertinent to us. So there is been a continuous tracking of personnel.  But Chilgok native Lee Sang Churl doubts there were toxins buried on the U.S. base. Mr.   I am a local born here in 1958 that means I am over 50. I drank the water and I am 6'2. I do not understand why people are all upset about this.  Even Sung Wook-kim agrees. He is with an organization that claims each of their members has been exposed to or contaminated with Agent Orange from their tour of duty either in Vietnam or fighting the North Koreans at the Demilitarized zone. Mr.   Many of us doubt if the U.S. military buried the toxic materials on base. It is still an ongoing investigation to find out the truth.  U.S. military officials say water samples taken last month show no health risks even if traces of dioxin are found in some tests. Past environmental studies from 1992 and 2004 show chemicals were buried at Camp Carroll but later removed. Those chemicals do not include Agent Orange according to the U.S. military. The situation in South Korea is a far different story from Vietnam where dioxin related birth defects have been reported and at least three communities have been badly contaminated with Agent Orange. Last week the U.S. and Vietnam began to remove ordnance in what was described as a key first step to begin clean up the legacy of Agent Orange. For NPR News I am Doualy Xaykaothao in Chilgok South Korea.   This is NPR News. 