 One of the most beloved picture books in the world is turning 50...    In the light of the moon a little egg lay on a leaf.  ...The Very Hungry Caterpillar read there by author Eric Carle. Since the book's publication in 1969 it has sold almost 50 million copies been translated into over 60 languages adapted to television stage and song.    I am a caterpillar. I am a caterpillar. I am very hungry...  NPR's Neda Ulaby has more.  The caterpillar in Eric Carle's illustrations is a fuzzy squiggle with emerald eyes and an oval vermillion head. He nearly started as a very hungry worm but a very clever editor made the author change it. Today Eric Carle is almost 90 too frail for an interview but there is a 2012 online video of Carle reading the book.    On Saturday he ate through one piece of chocolate cake one ice-cream cone one pickle one slice of Swiss cheese one slice of salami one lollipop one...  The lollipop the salami and the caterpillar shine on the page. They are collages of layered and painted tissue paper. Michelle Martin is a professor at the University of Washington who studies children's literature. She says the author's simple resonant language helps kids grasp concepts like numbers and the days of the week and unfamiliar words. Martin recently read the book with her 4-year-old niece.  And when she got to salami it stopped her because you know she knew about sausage she knew about hot dogs but she did not know what salami was.  That is literacy-building. Eric Carle wanted his book to evoke the joy he remembered as a child making art with big paint brushes and bright colors and walking through nature with his dad. But Carle's immigrant family moved from the U.S. back home to Germany in the 1930s because his mother was homesick. His childhood was defined by the violence of World War II and physical punishment by teachers. As a young man Carle returned to the U.S. and worked in advertising before switching to picture books. He wanted he said to make childhood sweeter.    On Wednesday he ate three plums. But he was still hungry.  Three plums.  Childhood is sweeter for a 3-year-old named Liam Cichowicz  thanks to The Very Hungry Caterpillar and his very patient dad.  He ate through how many strawberries?  Four strawberries.  But he was still hungry.  Little kids can stick their fingers through holes in the book's pages as if a caterpillar tunneled through the story. It makes the book a bridge between a book and a toy. Eric Carle wanted The Very Hungry Caterpillar to be a literary cocoon for a child getting ready for kindergarten with a happy ending.    He was a beautiful butterfly.  As in this recent video version The Very Hungry Caterpillar tells little kids they can fly. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 