 NPR's David Schaper reports on the economic impact of an unusually harsh spring of tornados floods and drought.  In the days after a powerful tornado leveled a quarter of the city of Joplin Missouri it was difficult to tell what once was there.  This was my dad's dental office here that we are looking at.  Sifting through the piles of rubble Matthew Shelby tries to explain what this dental office used to look like.  There was a second floor here. We had three exam rooms.  There is little left now except a foundation and debris and Selby says his father is not sure yet whether he will continue his practice.  You can imagine when you have been building something for 41 years and just have it gone in one afternoon the kind of emotional toll that probably takes on you. But he is promised to get back working either somewhere else renting something or rebuilding.  In addition widespread flooding along the Mississippi River and its tributaries idled barges delaying shipments of grains oil and other commodities. Riverboat casinos were shut down laying off workers and biting into the tax revenue sent to local and state government. And millions of acres of farmland were or still are under water.  From about Missouri south - Missouri Illinois south along the river - we thought we had about three and a half 3.6 million acres of crop land that were affected.  Bob Young is chief economist for the American Farm Bureau Federation.  But probably a greater extent of crop loss would be the drought going on in Texas and Oklahoma in terms of overall crop loss.  But Young says crop insurance will cover most losses and good weather this summer could still turn things around for many growers so he says it is too early to tell if what he calls a weird year weather-wise will have a significant impact on the agricultural economy.  I think for the overall scheme of things we will feel it we will know it happened but I think we will be able to go on from there.  And economists say that tends to be what happens after natural disasters. David Mitchell of Missouri State University says even in a terrible weather year such as this there may be little lasting negative effect.  In the very very short run it can have a very localized impact on the economy but it is not very likely to have a large impact on t he national economy.  Back in Joplin work is already underway to get people back to work. Spokeswoman Kirstie Smith says the Joplin Chamber of Commerce is helping business owners find phones computers or even office space for that dentist whose building was leveled. Smith says the loss of life and property in Joplin is still overwhelming but...  At the risk of sounding insensitive this tragedy really is an opportunity for Joplin.  David Schaper NPR News. 