 Now we are going to hear some music from a performer better known for her looks. For more than a decade Karen Elson has appeared on magazine covers and runways as a top fashion model. But these days it is her voice that is attracting attention.    Got me hanging on a string honey. Got me hanging for dear life.  Elson's debut album was produced by her husband the rock musician Jack White. They married in 2005 and when she describes her home life it is easy to imagine how she got into the act.  Jack built an amazing studio in our back garden. So you know on any given day there is always a collection of rascals and musicians sort of traipsing in and out of our house.    All to you you take my breath my last request...  In fact Elson's been cultivating her music for years. Modeling carried her from a gritty English factory town to New York where she started performing. She sang cabaret and performed backup vocals for the likes of Robert Plant. And she started writing songs but she kept them private - even after marrying White.   I do not know. I felt really anxious about sharing them with anybody - not just Jack because I felt a lot of insecurity about maybe me being a model also me being Jack's wife. But Jack overhead me quite a few times singing my songs and eventually he accosted me and said let us go into the studio and record them. Stop being so self-conscious.  So the couple headed to the back garden and started recording. The result a roots-rock album with a bit of a dark side.   We recorded I think The Ghost Who Walks first of all. And it is a story about a woman who is madly in love with a young man and ultimately he takes her for a drive to the lake. And under the moonlight he kills her which...   ...obviously is not about my life. But I love a good Gothic tale.    She looked at him with pleading eyes. He softly spoke my dear the love has died.  Elson says she knows her music career is bound to raise eyebrows but she plans to tour and continue recording and keep modeling too.  I think there is room for both. I really do.   Karen Elson's album is called The Ghost Who Walks.    The ghost who walks she is on the prowl wanders in the moonlight she is crying to herself 'ecause his eyes never once looked cruel but the moon in the blade it shimmered like a jewel. She looked at...  This is NPR News. 