 In the NBA finals the Dallas Mavericks pulled off a stunning come from behind victory 95-93 that evens the best of seven series with the Miami Heat at one game each. NPR's Mike Pesca reports that the improbably fourth quarter comeback dramatically changes the tenor of the series.  Unidentified Man Takes it inside two handed jam Wade.  Unidentified Man Right side opens up right down the gut with a right hand jam LeBron.  Unidentified Man We have seen James. We have seen Wade. And now Bosch with a thunderous follow.  With a little over seven minutes left Wade scored his 34th through 36th points with a flick of the wrist from 23 feet from the basket. But Wade also happened to be two feet from the Mavericks bench and a few of those players Tyson Chandler among them did not like watching Wade and James celebrating that shot so cheerfully with so much time left.  It is just frustrating when you are out there and you are fighting and not only are they kicking your butt but you know they are celebrating in front of you. So you know we did not want to end the night like that.  Chandler's teammates Dirk Nowitzki and Jason Kidd said they took no notice of any celebration. But Jason Terry did.  We come out of that time out and if we do not score then we are pretty much dead. We looked at each guy in the huddle to a man me specifically looked at Dirk and said there is no way we are going out like this.  Afterwards LeBron James asserted and then reasserted quote It was no celebration at all. So it was put to James and Wade once more. There was indeed chest thumping and a kind of a dance and the Mavericks players took note. What did they have to say? Wade answered.  A celebration is confetti. A celebration is champagne bottles. There was no celebration. It was a shot made going into a timeout. Every team does something. That is the game. So if it pumped them up - they won the game. So obviously it did something.  In any case the Mavericks grabbed either that .4 or .02 percent life line and pulled. They went on a 20 to 2 run culminating in a Dirk Nowitzki three- pointer. Then after the Heat finally put some points on the board to tie the score with seconds left the Mavericks took over which means Nowitzki took over...   Mike Pesca NPR News Miami.   This is NPR News. 