 It was midnight at a movie theater in Aurora Colo. three years ago. Batman was playing. Shots were fired 12 people were killed and now James Holmes is on trial. He pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity in that mass shooting. And right now his public defenders have begun presenting their case by calling up a psychiatric expert. From Colorado Public Radio Ben Markus reports.  The prosecution has controlled the narrative in this case for the last two months calling more than 200 witnesses including psychiatric experts who testified that Holmes was sane at the time of the shooting. But now it is the defense's turn. Judge Carlos Samour turned the case over to them yesterday.   Are you folks ready for the jury? Yes?  Yes.  OK. Let us bring the jury in please.  The defense called Dr. Jonathan Woodcock a psychiatrist and neurologist at the University of Colorado. And he told the jury that at the time of the attack Holmes met the legal definition for insanity.   That he was severely mentally ill and that he had a psychotic mental illness. That is he had an illness which caused considerable disruption in his ability to understand reality.  Woodcock is a critical witness because he examined Holmes just days after the attack. He testified that Holmes was delusional at the time of the shooting that he thought the only way to avoid suicide was to kill other people and that he seemed to lack any emotion following the murders.   The most odd thing was this tremendous emotional flatness this lack of normal human emotional response to his situation.  Woodcock also said that Holmes has one of the strongest family histories for a psychotic disorder he is ever seen. If Holmes is found not guilty by reason of insanity he will avoid the death penalty so district attorney George Brauchler did his best to damage the psychiatrist's credibility. In this exchange Brauchler asked why a member of Holmes's defense team monitored the psychiatric evaluation against standard procedure.   You said I deviated from it 'ecause I thought it would be helpful to the team - I presume you mean the defense team - to have another person in there watch me do this.  This was a very limited scope evaluation. It was a preliminary evaluation and I did not feel that the guideline applied to this situation. I used that judgment.  Brauchler also questioned his credentials and his sometimes confusing notes. Craig Silverman is a former chief deputy DA in Denver who is following the case.  They will try to attack those experts in a variety of ways but it will come down to the personal credibility and likability of the experts in the eyes of the jury.  He says the defense only needs to convince one juror that Holmes was insane to trigger a mistrial which would keep their client off death row at least a little longer. The defense is not expected to take long - just a couple of weeks - and they will likely call at least one more psychiatric expert. For NPR News I am Ben Markus in Denver. 