 The May jobs report comes out tomorrow and surveys suggest it may be disappointing. For today's Business Bottom Line NPR's John Ydstie reports on whether the Affordable Care Act - or Obamacare - might be influencing hiring decisions for small businesses.  Small companies face the most direct effects of the Affordable Care Act. Those with 50 or more full-time-equivalent employees will be required to offer health insurance for their workers or face a financial penalty beginning January 1st. That is got Jess Whitsitt's attention. She and a partner founded a sweet and savory pie business in Seattle about two-and-a-half years ago. They have now got two storefronts one next to the space needle and 28 employees.  We are actually getting ready to launch a food truck a pie truck. So we are pretty excited about that.  Right now Whitsitt does not offer health insurance to her employees though she says it is a goal. And she believes it will happen because she expects to hit the 50-employee threshold in the next couple of years.  We keep seeming to need to hire more people. So that is a good thing I think.  Given the narrow profit margins in the food business Whitsitt is not quite sure how the company will afford it. But for now she is discovered that one provision of the Affordable Care Act is a boon for her young business and many of its young employees.  The bulk of our employees are 26 or under and most of them are insured still by their parents now. And that did not happen before. You know that could not happen before.  But every small business' situation is different. Jerry Heinrich has provided health insurance at his company Deccofelt for eight years.  Even though his employee head count is just 24 he is worried the 50-worker threshold will come down and burden him with added regulations.  You know 50 is what they are starting out with. Are they going to stay with 50? Nobody knows at this point.  Heinrich says he could use more workers at his manufacturing company based in Glendora California but...  This legislation has made it significantly riskier here. So you know I am a lot more hesitant to bringing on new employees.  But Colin Weightman just hired two new workers. His firm manufactures miniature precision sandblasters in Burbank California and he says the changes in healthcare do not drive his decisions.  I do not look at Obamacare as this is a reason to hire or let go of people. I look at what is the market demand in terms of what we can sell. And if I can make more money hiring another person and broaden our market I am going to do that.  Eighteen years ago Rick Snide and a partner founded Revolution Group and IT consulting firm in Westerville Ohio just outside Columbus. From the beginning they provided health insurance for their employees but recently premium costs have been rising 20 to 30 percent a year.  They are telling us this year we should expect at least 50 percent increase.  Snide says when the Affordable Care Act was first contemplated he was optimistic. Now not so much.  I do not see the affordable part in the Affordable Care Act yet.  Snide believes the insurance companies won the battle in Congress and he worries premium costs will remain out of control. But his concerns are not keeping him from hiring. Even though his firm has 41 employees just under the 50-person threshold for regulation he is looking to add seven workers right now. Todd Allison at the small manufacturer Progressive Products in Pittsburg Kansas hopes that the Affordable Care Act will help contain costs by expanding his choices in the insurance marketplaces required in each state.  I would like to see the exchanges go online and I would like to see them work. And I honestly believe that free market economy and capitalism will drive the cost of health insurance down if you give it a chance.  Allison who already provides a healthcare plan for his 30-some employees says implementation of the ACA has not slowed his hiring either. John Ydstie NPR News Washington. 