 Time now for our music project Heavy Rotation. Every month NPR Music asks our colleagues at public radio stations around the country to pick a favorite track playing on their station. And then we feature one of those songs on MORNING EDITION. Today it is Saint Paul where reporter Andrea Swensson keeps tabs on local music for The Current on Minnesota Public Radio.  I kind of act as a liaison between the community and the station and help them find new stuff and write about the music that we are adding to rotation.  Swensson likes a new song from a musician Minnesotans know well. His name is Sean Tillman. He is from Owatanna. His fans know him as Har Mar Superstar.    Lady you shot me on top of all the tears you brought me. You broke my one rule. You treated me cruel.  This is definitely more of that vintage soul sound than he is ever explored before and kind of trying to channel you know the Otis Reddings and the Sam Cookes of the world.    What else can I do if you are untrue? I will get back in line behind the other guy if there is a chance you will let me...  In channeling Sam Cooke Swensson says in this song Har Mar Superstar refers to the singer's death.  Lady you shot me is actually the final words that Sam Cooke ever said. He was actually shot to death in a motel in 1964. And when he was shot by the motel worker he said Lady you shot me!    Lady you shot me! All the tears you brought me...  Har Mar Superstar is known around the world but he has not forgotten his Minnesota roots.  People here love seeing Har Mar and love - you know he likes to play little bars in town like the Triple Rock and he will jump up on the bar and people just really get into it.    Now I lay bleeding. All the tears you brought me...  Lady You Shot Me by Har Mar Superstar. That is what is in Heavy Rotation this month on The Current at Minnesota Public Radio.    Lady you shot me. On top of all the tears you brought me...  You can listen to more songs from the series at NPRmusic.org. It is PR News. I am Linda Wertheimer.  And I am Renee Montagne.    ...All your love I needed. What else can I do now? You were untrue... 