 All right so when President Trump meets with North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un tonight in Singapore there is going to be a language barrier. A lot is going to be riding on the skills of interpreters. Now typically they are invisible - unless that is they slip up. There was that time in 1990. Former President George H.W. Bush was deep in nuclear negotiations with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. All of a sudden the White House Cabinet Room froze. The Soviet interpreter Igor Korchilov remembers the sinking feeling he had.  They were astounded that Gorbachev had changed his position a hundred and eighty degrees overnight.  Except he had not. Korchilov the interpreter had simply said the wrong word. They corrected the mistake pretty quickly. But Korchilov did wonder for a moment - had he just accidentally changed the course of history? He approached President Bush afterwards to offer his apology.  He made a stern look you know put his arms in his pockets and said relax the good news is that you did not start World War III.  NPR's Danny Hajek talked with some of the interpreters whose words carry the weight of the world.   October 2000 - Secretary of State Madeleine Albright lands in Pyongyang to meet former North Korean dictator Kim Jong Il. And right there between them is U.S. interpreter Tong Kim.   What did they say?  .  Then the doors close and the talks begin.  That was the most important meeting I have ever interpreted for.  The delegations sat either side of a glossy mahogany table that spanned the length of the room - Kim Jong Il and Madeleine Albright face to face interpreters by their sides. Each leader brings their own. To prepare U.S. interpreter Tong Kim reviewed top-secret documents. He read a dozen books on nuclear bombs.  I kept reading and reading and reading.  He learned a North Korean accent.  I picked up their language their intonation their dialect. And that gives them some trust.  See the best interpreters are part linguists part diplomats. They have to know the politics behind each word.  It can be scary but you get yourself into a kind of a zone.  Stephanie Van Reigersberg spent 18 years as head of the interpreting division at the U.S. State Department and she has stories.  I had one experience with President Bush Sr. when he was vice president during the...  All right so this is December 1983 - a secret mission into El Salvador. They flew in on Black Hawk helicopters through the Salvadoran mountains to a presidential villa. And Bush was there to deliver a warning to armed military commanders about their government's brutal death squads.  I do not want to use the word vulgar about Bush because that was far from the way he is but basically he cussed them out. Having a woman interpreter using that kind of language really got their attention. And after the meeting Bush said well I almost got us both killed did not I? .   The president of the United States and Mrs. Reagan.  Years of negotiations led to this other moment more than 30 years ago when President Ronald Reagan welcomed his Cold War rival Mikhail Gorbachev to Washington.   Today marks a visit that is perhaps more momentous than many which have preceded it because it represents a coming together not of allies but of adversaries.   We were just agonizing over this word adversaries.  Dimitry Zarechnak was interpreting the speech that day. Here he is on NPR in 2001.   ...Because in Russian the actual word for adversary is protivnik which sounds very much like protivniy which means disgusting and it has that kind of a flavor.  It could have thrown off the whole summit. So to save the moment Zarechnak made a change. Instead of adversaries he went with the Russian word for competitors.   .  And it seemed to work - a nod from Gorbachev and the summit was underway.   .  So when it comes to interpreting it does not get much more high-stakes than this - President Trump and Kim Jong Un. And just weeks ago it was fiery rhetoric and the talks were canceled. But for interpreters who hold onto every word the challenge in this meeting room will be keeping up with a president who is known to go off script. Again Stephanie Van Reigersberg.  You hear the message that comes to you and you deliver it as best you can and that is all you can do.  Danny Hajek NPR News.  