 The U.S. Olympic trials in track and field begin tomorrow in Eugene Oregon. Among the dozens of athletes hoping to leap throw or run their way to London is Shannon Leinert who will compete in the 800-meter dash. Leinert's been dreaming of the Olympics since she was a 10-year-old winning races in St. Louis. But that is not the only difficult goal she is currently pursuing. St. Louis Public Radio's Rachel Lippmann has this profile.  It is a hot windy spring day on the campus of the University of Missouri-Columbia but that does not keep Shannon Leinert from her training. Leinert 24 is beating the heat in pink shorts and a black sports bra. Her long brown hair whips her face as she sprints around a red cinder track neon blue and green spikes pounding.  Shannon.  It was on this track that Leinert revived her college career which allowed her to think seriously about the Olympics. But it was at this school that she fell in love with special-needs students and decided to try to earn a Ph.D. in special education. She then chose to tackle training and studying at the same time.  At the beginning yes it was such an easy decision because I felt like school and running is a great complement for each other.  Her boyfriend and sometime training partner Dan Quigley was not alone in thinking that probably was not the best idea.  I have continually challenged her to lighten her load a little bit in terms of school so that she can be more competitive just because I see this as you know a kind of maybe once or twice in a lifetime opportunity. And she continues to challenge herself really hard both in school and on the track. You know she never backs down from anything.  Leinert appears to be the ultimate multi-tasker but admits it took time to adjust to the demands placed on her by the high level of both academics and athletics.  I think my running suffered a lot. And then this year I would say I have been a little more selfish with my running. And I will close my laptop around like 30 and just go to bed.  Fred Binggeli coached the 1988 Olympic champion in the men's 800 race and has worked with Leinert for the past two years. He says once everything started clicking for her the difference was night and day.  You saw a happy person. You saw a positive person. She only had about one two-week period during the whole year that she seemed like she was not going to be able to handle everything. And she was able to fight through that and really just get better and better and better.  That ability does not surprise Leinert's college coach Rebecca Wilmes.  There is a lot of soul-searching I think an athlete in that situation does. And yeah she had to go through it and get to the other side still rolling and loving it. Things come together for her. It is a pattern.  And Leinert's definitely rolling. When the outdoor track season started in March she was completing the two laps of an 800 in two minutes seven seconds. Earlier this month her time was down to a hair over two minutes. She will need to be even faster though to get to London.  One fifty-eight to 159.  Do you think you can do it?  Yeah I do. And especially after my workout the other day I would not be surprised this time if I actually went under two.  Fred Binggeli is just as confident. And he says it is nice to see Shannon end on a high note after struggling.  If nothing else she is going to come out with a personal best time-wise. And she is still young enough if she does not make this Olympic team you need to look four more years down the road.  The 2016 games in Rio are already on Shannon Leinert's mind. On her agenda before that defending her dissertation next year. For NPR News I am Rachel Lippmann in St. Louis. 