 Friday means it is time for StoryCorps.  My name is Sean Fitzpatrick. I am 28 years old.  Twelve years ago Sean Fitzpatrick was a high school junior in Spokane Wash. He developed paranoid schizophrenia and was hearing voices though he did not tell anyone. One morning Sean went to school with a gun. He planned to barricade himself in a classroom pretend he had hostages and force police to kill him. Sean was not killed though. At the end of the standoff he was shot in the face and still has difficulty speaking. John Gately was the Spokane police officer assigned to negotiate with Sean back in 2003 and they recently sat down at StoryCorps to remember that day.  I remember getting to the school someone telling me your name was Sean and calling your name Sean.  I remember seeing you and thinking do not trust anything he says. I believe you asked me at one point why do you have the gun here?  Every time you played with that gun - holding the gun upside down twirling the gun - it made me very nervous.  Yeah.  And then a little bit later you threw a paper airplane out at us. And for me when you did that it brought back that I was actually talking to a 16-year-old kid. So what can I do to try to bring you back from the edge? And I remember that I told you listen I will send everybody else away and you and I can just sit here and b.  That really resonated with me. It was so real.  And when you and I were talking you heard the officers changing positions. And the intensity went up telling you we are just going to sit here and talk. Everything is perfectly fine. And you pulled the gun out and pointed it and that is when the officers fired.  Three bullets hit me - once in the arm once in the stomach and once in the face.  I jumped over to get to you to tell you do not give up. You can survive what has happened. And I was doing that as the officer was reaching down pulling your teeth and clearing your airway and then two of the other officers pulled me out of there.  When I was being wheeled to the hospital what was your feeling about the whole situation?  Anger - anger that I was not able to pull you back from the ledge 'ecause that is my job - to make sure everybody goes home safe.  I am sorry that it fell on your shoulders.  Well thank you for that. I did not take it personal as you doing it to me. How are you doing sitting here talking to me about it?  I guess it will always be a little bit hard for me. I do not think that will ever change.  But it is getting better.  It is. Who I was back then and who I am now are two different people entirely.  I am glad you are alive and that is why I reached out to you to see where you are at.   That is officer John Gately with Sean Fitzpatrick. Sean now works to educate law enforcement on handling encounters with people who are in the midst of a mental health crisis. Their conversation will be archived at the Library of Congress. And you can hear the StoryCorps podcast at iTunes and at npr.org. 