 NPR's Quil Lawrence has just returned from Helmand and says many Afghans are happy to see their own police and soldiers taking the lead. They are also worried about what will happen when the Americans leave.  In Bolan sector of Lashkar Gah the capital of Helmand province Ahmadullah who commands a small police checkpoint shows off his trusty Kalashnikov.   Men like him will soon take control of Lashkar Gah though it is impressive enough they are even here on the west side of the Helmand River which was full of Taliban until last year's American troop surge. More impressive is that Lashkar Gah will be transferred to Afghan control says Andrew Erickson the senior U.S. diplomat in Helmand.  It was a surprise that Lashkar Gah was one of the first places chosen. But it was a good surprise and in fact it turned out to be validated just weeks afterwards when we had the complex IED attack on the government center right in the center of Lashkar Gah. No foreign forces needed to be called in and the governor was thrilled.  In April suicide bombers attacked the courthouse recently built with U.S. funding. Erickson says the Afghan police stopped the bombers and thwarted the attack all on their own. No one is saying the threat of violence here will stop. Helmand Governor Gulab Mangal survived an assassination attempt just last month. But he says his men are up to the task.    Unidentified Man    Unidentified    Do not leave us alone as you did before said one councilman. Eikenberry promised American support even after troops leave Afghanistan in 2014.  We have worked too hard over the last almost 10 years now. We have sacrificed together. We have sacrificed too much. We are not going to let these gains these extraordinary gains that we have made that I see here today in Helmand province we are not going to see those gains lost.    Down by the Helmand River men and boys are trying to escape the heat about 120 degrees even with the sun setting. Their baggy Afghan trousers balloon up like life rafts as they jump into the water.   One man by the river is fully dressed with a turban and a thick beard. Abdul Qayoum is from the still-violent district of Sangin. When asked about the Taliban he answers in the first person.    Unidentified Man    Quil Lawrence NPR News.  Yesterday outgoing U.S. Ambassador Eikenberry offered an unusually heartfelt response before a group of Afghan college students. He spoke of the Americans who would given their lives there and said when Afghan leaders quote call us occupiers he cannot look mourning families in the eye and give them a comforting reply. 