 The subject of our next segment comes under the heading only in America. Only in the celebrity-obsessed U.S. of A. could a woman get her own television show dedicated to well sort of being a celebrity. That woman is comedian Kathy Griffin and the show is called My Life on the D-List. Griffin built her comedy career making fun of celebrities and now she is rubbing elbows with some of them. Recently Griffin stopped by our studios to chat about her neverending pursuit of that elusive A-List and how in this season of her show that pursuit takes her poolside with Paris Hilton. Ms.  I thought it was going to be funny you know me and my ridiculous  Paris hanging out? Ms.  body next to Paris six feet tall skinny model. And then it turns out that she got served Griffin-style and that I had a much much hotter bikini bod than she does.  And people noticed that. Ms.  Everyone. It is - look we can act like there is other stories happening globally something about a health care plan blah blah blah. Really most people are talking about my bikini bod.  Can I ask you about this D-List thing? Ms.  Yeah.  I mean it is just a stick right? Ms.  No.  I mean you - we had to get you a Diet Coke you came here with a car service I mean it is Ms.  Okay excuse me. You are complaining about getting me a Diet Coke and driving me here?  No no no no. Ms.  Okay. Do you think Mariah Carey is going to sit here sweetheart? No. Mariah Carey would be sitting here with her entourage.  We are NPR. I mean I guess we are natural for a D-List celebrity to come visit us. Ms.  Yeah this is pretty D-List let us face it. You should be giving me a mani-pedi right now. No I think it is fun for me to be in your world which by the way is what the D-List is honestly. It is every week I am in an A-Lister's world. Not at the moment of course I could not be farther.  Why do you think NPR is a D-List world? Ms.  Let me tell you something. NPR listeners I know who you are I know you guys read books which I find tedious. You guys might want to try a book called Us Weekly. Okay? It is a really good book. It has a lot of pictures.  I will pick one up. Can I play some tape of you? Ms.  Yeah.  Because I want to hear you targeting celebrities and getting very angry and crass because that is how you have built your career. Ms.  Funny and adorable.  Yeah so let us play a few of these clips. Ms.  Okay.  Mr.  I cannot stand that  Ryan Seacrest and here's why. No I know Lindsey has lost a lot of weight recently and it is because of diet and Pilates and crack. How great is it that Oprah has totally put the pounds back on? I love it.  Why are they such good targets for you? Ms.  Because they are the gift that keeps on giving. I mean these celebrities are out of control they think they are above the law they are being filmed all the time anyway and  Are not you when you go after them really mocking us kind of average Americans who watch this stuff? Ms.  Yes.  I mean are not you like for actually getting a kick out of it? Ms.  Oh no I am not the solution. I am part of the problem. I am happy to admit that I am feeding into it. And let me tell you something that South Carolina Governor Sanford you know I mean - like I said  Talk about a gift that keeps on giving. Ms.  It is a fantastic gift and I would like to thank him. I am going to send him a muffin basket later or have my assistant do it. I mean it is such just a great circus that we all see. We all know what is going on.  Can I ask you about the whole circus because have not we reached a point Ms.  And if you mean the Britney Spears tour I am happy to segue into that.  We will move to that in just a second. Ms.  Okay.  You made me forget what I was going to say. I really Ms.  My Life on the D-List is on Bravo.  Yeah yes Your Life Ms.  Mondays at 00.  Your life - enough filler. Ms.  All right.  The world that we are in right now cannot anyone be a celebrity with like you know a great sexy YouTube video or something? Ms.  Absolutely and look that is the story of my life. When I was on an NBC show Suddenly Susan with Brooke Shields you know overnight the landscape changed and then all the sudden Survivor became appointment television and then it was Osbournes and Newlyweds. I had no desire to fight it. I am gonna join it.  And you said you are part of the problem Ms.  I am part of the problem not the solution.  What is the problem? I mean is this just a sad state in society right now? Ms.  Yeah it is the dumbing down of America.  And you enjoy contributing to that? Ms.  Yes but I also - that is - yes.  Okay so I know you do not mind talking about your reality show. You are meeting these new stars now in each episode as you quote-unquote train for the A-List. Ms.  Yeah. By the way you have to be impressed with the guest list this year because it is literally everyone from Paris Hilton who I know you and your highfalutin friends do not give a  about  We did our research. We are very impressed. Ms.  Alright first of all we do a big Prop 8 episode. So we talked to Melissa Etheridge and we go to rallies. It is great. Then we do another episode about the role of race in standup comedy. Is comedy color blind? So I go do  Is it? Ms.  I think it is.  This is an interesting question. Ms.  Yeah.  Because there was a time when comics were sort of holding back on going after President Obama the first few months. Ms.  Yeah.  And race was sort of a question. I mean was that tough? Ms.  Yes it is. Well I do not really actually go for Obama. He is just not that funny. I mean when you had Bush I mean Bush is like - he is like a celebrity in that he is the gift that keeps on giving. I mean did you see the shots of him jumping out of the plane?  That was Bush's father. Ms.  Oh I thought that was W jumped out.  No no no no no. That was Bush's father who was also president if -and he jumped with Robin Meade. Ms.  Morning Express with Robin Meade?  You got it. Ms.  Jumped out of plane with H?  When I heard about this I thought they were actually going to be together jumping  Ms.  Why did not you get that gig? Who knew Robin Meade had the in?  We will start that Ms.  It is that express woo-woo. Now do you have a cute name for this show?  This is MORNING EDITION. Ms.  Okay. Yawn. Yeah you have got to retool this whole thing.  We should spice it up a little bit? Ms.  It is look - you have got Morning Express State of the Union.  Okay. Ms.  The O'Reilly Factor.  Give us three ideas for the show and we will consider it. Ms.  Okay. First of all it is got to be Greene Scene Greene Time  I am just filling as host. Ms.  Who is the real host?  Steve Inskeep and Renee Montagne are the two hosts. Ms.  I did not even have the real host today? I got the new guy filling in? Oh this is so typical.  That is going to be cut out of the interview. Ms.  Oh Kathy you are not on the D-List anymore.  We can start recording now because that was all just kind of getting ready to start this. Ms.  I cannot believe the real guy is not here today or girl or whatever.  Bear with me for just a few more minutes. I am sorry you were stuck with me. Ms.  Well you have got to rename the show. It is too boring.  I had some more clips to play you but I have just lost them now. Ms.  For My Life on the D-List Mondays on Bravo at 00?  Yeah. Let us say you make it off the D-List at some point. Ms.  Yeah.  I mean in theory that is what this show is about right now. Let us say you are on the C-List. What happens to sort of your schtick and what made you famous? Ms.  Well my stick I think will always go on because I have had moments where I really felt like I was having a borderline A-List moment. And there is always at that moment something to smack me down. When I was at the Emmy's last year where I won I was sitting back stage with my Emmy and I was in a great little group. It was me Sarah Silverman Jenna Fischer from The Office. And then there was a girl named Julianne Hough who is on Dancing With the Stars but she is not even one of the stars she is one of the dancers and she went up to Sarah Silverman who I have known forever and she said oh you are so great and gushed and gushed. And I was standing there smiling. And then she literally turned to me and said I do not know who you are but nice to meet you and walked away. And those moments continue to happen. So I know that I will never be on the A-List. I also do not have a desire to be on the A-List. I feel more people can relate to the D-List than the A-List.  Well if you truly are a D-List celebrity then I think you belong in an interview at NPR. Ms.  Yeah I think so too.  And we really appreciate that. Ms.  Thank you. It is really really bland here. Thank you very much for having me.  We will try to dress it up for next time. Kathy Griffin thank you very much for being here. Ms.  That is it?  Say thank you. Ms.  Oh sorry. Thank you David Greene.  There you go much better. Whatever list she is on that is comedian Kathy Griffin. She is currently touring the country with her stand-up routine. And this is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am David Greene.  And I am Renee Montagne.  