 The Southern Baptist Convention is the largest evangelical group in the U.S. and one of the most politically influential. Starting Sunday the convention meets to elect a new president. It is been a tumultuous time. The SBC has faced accusations of sexual abuse gender inequality and racism. Dwight McKissic is pastor of the Cornerstone Baptist Church in Arlington Texas. He says he is troubled by the move within the SBC to ban the teaching of critical race theory at its seminaries.  You have a majority of white men telling Black preachers what we can and cannot say and what is compatible or incompatible with the Baptist faith and the message based on their opinion. That is hugely problematic and a throwback to slavery times where the white slave master had to approve of sermons by the Black preacher.  On the gender equality front the SBC forbids women from being pastors although some congregations have ordained them. Beth Allison Barr is a history professor at Baylor University.  My optimism is very low that the SBC is going to move on the issue of women preaching teaching or leading.  Outgoing president J.D. Greear has been accused by some Southern Baptists of being too liberal on some issues. And the denomination's chief ethicist recently resigned. Wheaton College professor Ed Stetzer spoke with Rachel Martin about what is at stake.  I do not think it is too strong to say it is a crossroads. Southern Baptists are the largest Protestant denomination in America. Over 15 perhaps close to 20000 messengers will descend on Nashville. And they will vote on a series of issues including a president that I believe will set the future course of the denomination in ways that could be very positive or very negative. But it is certainly a watershed moment.  So let us talk about what that crossroads looks like. There have long been issues with how the SBC deals with sexual abuse claims. This is one kind of fault line right now. And this was what provoked the resignation of Russell Moore - right? - the chief ethicist at the SBC. Can you tell us what happened?  Yeah. I think there were some accusations of mishandling of abuse claims. I am one of those calling for an independent third-party investigation of the handling of these claims both by the executive committee and by the credentialing committee to ask the hard questions about what went wrong what was handled well. There have been some accusations and some counteraccusations made. And I think at this point the only way to get to clarity is an independent third-party investigation.  Moore himself wrote scathing letters to the SBC leadership. What did he say? And what was the response?  Yeah. I think some of the response is still in play. There is been you know people who have said no this is absolutely not true. There are others who have corroborated this as well. And you got a case where again we need that investigation. I think the other part of the conversation is the issue in and around race - racial reconciliation critical race theory racial tensions and more. And I think that'ill be a key part of both the resolutions which are sort of statements of the convention at a given meeting and the presidential election as well.  So let us talk about race. I mean this is also something that Russell Moore addressed in his letters to the leadership. He wrote specifically accusing some on the executive committee of quote raw racist sentiment behind closed doors. That is damning Ed. Is he right?  Yes. I think there are places where behind closed doors there are raw racist sentiment expressed. And I think also too probably the bigger challenge is the question of - where are Southern Baptists going to be and where are Southern Baptists going to go in and around conversations of racial justice? I think now as this has become a major issue in our culture - again we have states banning the teaching of critical race theory or the 1619 Project - I think this is reflected in Southern Baptists who are more conservative than the population as a whole. However most pastors and leaders that I know particularly Anglo pastors and leaders have listened to the lived experience of African American sisters and brothers and say it is different than mine. And how do we account for that? So I think Southern Baptists have to find a way to account for the reality that systemic racism does continue to exist and simultaneously probably to distance themselves from some ideas like some parts of critical race theory that Southern Baptists other evangelicals and conservatives in general are rejecting right now. But I imagine that is going to be a big topic of discussion.  So figuring out how to deal in a more honest way with sexual abuse claims addressing race and figuring out what to do about equity for women in church leadership - is not that also a factor here?  Yeah. Oh absolutely. So with the departure of my friend Beth Moore publicly so from the convention - and we do know that men and women both can be - and boys and girls both can be targets of abuse. But this also disproportionately impacts women. These are the women's voices that were silenced in some of these conversations so absolutely. Now the challenge is I do not think that Southern Baptists like Catholics like Mormons like lots of other religions are going to change beliefs and practices regarding men and women in ordained leadership in pastoral roles. But there has to be an acknowledgment that there have been ramifications and implications of that that have to be addressed. And you cannot just say let us not worry about these things let us focus on evangelism when there are predators in your midst who are preying on people sexually.  And I imagine the SBC wants to grow right? And so they have to figure out answers to these questions in order to meet the demographic changes of this country...  Yeah.  ...To attract younger people who see these issues in very different ways oftentimes than the older leadership. And that is I imagine what is at stake with this meeting and this next election.  Yeah. And Southern Baptists are perpetually at war with themselves. Every year there is a controversy. And that has alienated a lot of people. Southern Baptists are remarkably declining numerically. And so I do think as one who is an evangelical Christian that the message of Christ crucified and resurrected changes everything. But it cannot just be OK that is the only thing we talk about when there are significant issues of race - that relates to our understanding of the Scriptures - significant issues of abuse - that relates to understanding of Scriptures. And if we are going to be people of the Bible which is what Southern Baptist and evangelicals in general would say then we have to deal with all of the parts of the Bible including the parts of the Bible that right now are speaking prophetically to this movement about issues of race about issues of abuse and really about issues of focus. And my hope is that Southern Baptists will at this watershed moment make the right decisions.  Ed Stetzer we appreciate your time as always. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  