 Here's a different security problem closer to home. Many states can no longer afford to keep so many inmates behind bars. NPR's Laura Sullivan reports on a problem that is been growing since the '80s.  Unidentified Man Bush and Dukakis on crime...   The 1988 Willie Horton campaign ad.   Bush supports the death penalty for first degree murderers. Dukakis not only opposes the death penalty he allowed first degree murderers to have weekend passes from prison. One was Willie Horton.  Unidentified Man Weekend prison passes. Dukakis on crime.   Michael Dukakis's presidential campaign never recovered. Nor did those of any other candidates dubbed soft on criminals. The country was consumed by a national crime wave fueled by the crack epidemic and gang warfare. Politicians and voters pushed for harsher penalties and longer sentences. Now 20 years later the result.  I have seen prisoners asleep in hallways because all the beds were filled and then all the floor space was filled and you literally had to open up a door and allow inmates to sleep out into a hallway with officers.  Scott Colvin is the deputy jailer at the Kenton County Jail in Kentucky.  Fifteen years ago when you heard lock 'em up and throw away the keys not three strikes you are out two strikes you are out not two strikes you are out a strike and a half and you are out - we have hit the wall.  Other states are facing more drastic measures. California South Carolina and Utah are considering letting thousands of inmates out early.  This is a big bill that is coming due from a lot of overheated rhetoric in the '80s and '90s.  Adam Gelb studies prison costs for the non-profit Pew Center on the States. He says prisons now house too many non-violent property and drug offenders.  As we cast the correctional net wider and wider we caught smaller and smaller fish.  There are not people sitting in prison who do not belong there.  Tom Sneddon executive director of the National Association of District Attorneys says states are wrong to up-end laws that he says have reduced crime.  To balance a budget on law enforcement and public safety's expense is not a wise policy decision to be made.  Kansas came face to face with that decision last year when officials realized that the prison system was about to be short half a billion dollars. In Kansas as in many states the problem is not just longer sentences it is the number of inmates who return to prison for small violations to their probation or parole. Kansas funded an extensive re-entry program and their population is already dropping. Hawaii for its part was having a similar problem with its offenders on probation. In 2004 one of the state's toughest judges Steven Alm was sentencing inmates to ten years because they missed appointments with their probation officers.  It just rubbed me the wrong the way and I thought there has to be a better way to change offender behavior.  In the past it could take a year before a violation sent someone to prison. Now Judge Alm sends them to jail that afternoon but only for a few days. A four-year independent study of the inmates in the program found 80 percent fewer violations and more importantly the number of new crimes committed has been cut in half.  My understanding of human nature over the you know 25 years I have been in this business is that people can do time when they have to but they do not want to do it today.  Laura Sullivan NPR News Washington. 