 This week we have been talking about flexible workplaces. A lot of the focus is on an elite cubical culture people who could work from Starbucks on laptops and Blackberries. But what about low-wage and hourly workers who actually have to be at the store or the factory or nursing home? They often face the most rigid schedules and many of them are workers who really need flexibility. A high number of them are single moms. NPR's Jennifer Ludden concludes our series.  On August 10th 2005 Vickie Underwood was nearing the end of her shift overseeing the production run at a printing plant near Atlanta. Ms.  At the time I had been working at the plant for over 22 years with an unblemished work record had never had an infraction.  When she got off at 00 that afternoon Underwood needed to hurry home to register her kids at two different schools and sign up the youngest for aftercare. The county was holding a one-time all-day registration 00 a.m. to 00 p.m. to accommodate working parents  which is ironic considering what happened at 00 with an hour to go in Underwood's shift. Ms.  I was asked to work three hours mandatory overtime. And I would mentioned to them that I had to register my kids for school and they told me that I could not leave.  Now Underwood had worked last-minute overtime dozens of times before but on this day she said no. Since school registration is mandatory she did not really think she would get in trouble. In fact her bosses skipped right over any disciplinary measure. They fired her. Ms.  My family was like Huh? I mean what happened? How could something like this happen? And it was almost like no they had to fire her for something else other than her kid.  Underwood fought a year without pay before finally getting her job back and she was lucky. She had a union to back her up. Experts say cases like this happen a lot. Consider what so many low-wage and hourly workers face schedules posted just days in advance rotating schedules unexpected overtime some days while other days they can show up only to be told it is slow go home  with no pay. Ms.  I always say there is a lot of flexibility in those jobs but it is called quitting.  Joan Williams heads the Center for WorkLife Law at the University of California. She says it all adds up to being on call almost at will. Ms.  And we are certainly familiar with this at the top of the income heap with executives investment bankers and lawyers. But a recent study showed that even for minimum-wage jobs employers put a premium on someone who says oh I am always available.  So in today's 247 economy how can a low-wage workplace be family-friendly? To answer that work life Expert Ellen Kossek went to a chain of Michigan grocery stores.  Professor  How are you today? Unidentified Woman Good how are you?  Kossek is a professor at Michigan State University. She is helping conduct a National Institutes of Health study that is taking on the hardest cases when it comes to flex work. Prof.  Every job even an hourly job can have some flexibility.  Kossek says it starts with making sure managers understand what their employees are up against. She had managers in half the grocery stores sit through a computer training program on flexibility. Then she asked them to be emotionally available. That is easier than it sounds. Prof.  You would not believe this but managers often do not even say hello to their workers.  And that makes a difference if they say hello? Prof.  Oh yes just saying hi in the morning. How are you doing? Another behavior is role modeling. Think about it if you work for a workaholic or someone who acts like they do not have a family you feel reluctant to talk about your own personal needs.  So the managers in this study would talk about how say they were leaving early one day to see their kids' game. And they would solicit family talk from their staff. Tina Stachowicz is a customer service manager who took part. Ms.  We would have one question like you know if you are asking about you know their family or their sporting events with the younger ones school how is school going that type of thing.  Every time Stachowicz and the other managers did this or whenever they helped someone resolve a conflict maybe by switching around the schedule they would note it on a piece of paper. The NIH wanted to know whether this kind of flexibility at work can improve employee health. Kossek says the Michigan experiment suggests it can. Prof.  You had better physical health reports you had better sleep quality you had higher job satisfaction.  And yes you felt less stress over work-life conflicts. The NIH researchers are expanding their study to a group of nursing homes hoping to convince companies it is in their best interest to be accommodating and that it is just not that hard. Kossek says it could mean posting schedules farther in advance and making it easier for workers to trade shifts or cross-training more people for the same job  or simply easing rules on cell-phone use. Prof.  So could a cashier could she have a five minute break where she could call a kid even if it was not when her official break was but when she knew the bus got home? Ms.  All done? Unidentified Man Have a good day. It is all locked up back here. Ms.  All right. Thanks a lot. Unidentified Man Thank you.  At this Family Fare grocery south of Grand Rapids Tina Burgess worked part time for 13 years. Shortly after the flexibility study a full-time front office job opened up. Burgess wanted the benefits that came with that but there was a problem the job started at 00 a.m. Her husband left for work at 30 so Burgess needed to be home to see her two boys off to school. Her manager worked it out.   Burgess still comes in at 00 but her sons keep their cell phones on their pillows and every morning at 00 she calls to wake them. Mr.  Hey Mom. Ms.  Hey Jordan. Mr.  How are you? Ms.  I am good. Hey Aaron's not answering his phone so you want to get up? Mr.  Yep. Ms.  Okay. Do not go back to sleep.  At 15 after she is readied the cash registers and brewed the free coffee Burgess uses what would otherwise be her lunch break to slip out and make the short drive home. Ms.  Hello Aaron. Mr.  Hey.  While the sleepy boys gather their things in the living room Burgess packs lunches. Ms.  Would you like a Swiss cake roll or an oatmeal cream pie?  Then with a quick I love you she is back out the door. Burgess used to drive the boys to school but her oldest now has his license. She supposes they could manage without her. Still she is their mom. Ms.  Sometimes in the morning like that I can kind of get a feel if it is going to be a bad day or something. You know maybe they want to say something before they go to school. Now if I was not there they would not be able to say that - and I do not know. It is just very important to me to be able to do that.  Half an hour after leaving her job Burgess is back at the store for the rest of her shift. Jennifer Ludden NPR News.  You can find out more about that study on how flexible work can improve well-being and explore more of Jennifer's series at our Web site npr.org. Many of you have commented on the series via Twitter. Share your thoughts at MORNING EDITION. 