 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am David Greene. It is hard to understate the intensity of conversations sparked across this country by a shooting case in Florida. A Neighborhood Watch volunteer shot Trayvon Martin an unarmed black teenager and said he was acting in self-defense.  Attention to this case has grown for weeks prompting calls for the shooter to be arrested and for the local police chief to resign. It has also prompted edgy discussions of the peril that young black men feel they face on American streets.  One intense conversation took place at a black church in Sanford Florida and NPR's Kathy Lohr was there.  The facts of the case are well known now. A neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman confronted 17-year-old Trayvon Martin on a rainy night in February. Trayvon was walking home form a convenience store. Zimmerman who is Latino said he considered the teen suspicious. He ultimately shot Trayvon to death claiming self-defense. And late last night anger over the way police have handled the case filled the Allen Chapel AME Church in Sanford a small city north of Orlando.  Trayvon Martin cannot speak here today but that is why we are gathered here.   Allie Braswell is head of the Urban League of Central Florida. He says civil rights groups talk about economic justice for African-Americans but they must also address something more basic - discrimination that has threatened lives.  We are talking about how to we bring people to this region. We are talking about how do we create jobs. But we are afraid to talk about the elephant in the room.   No charges have been filed in the case. In Sanford and across the country many are calling for the arrest of George Zimmerman and for the resignation of the local police chief. Benjamin Jealous is the national president of the NAACP. He told the crowd this case raises larger issues.   But I come to you tonight as a son a father as an uncle as a man who is tired of being scared for our boys.   Jealous says the local police department failed to do its job of protecting the entire community. Instead he says it fostered a system of discrimination and abuse.  Our young men deserve after 400 years in this country...   ...deserve to be treated like human beings.   Although city leaders had been expected to attend this forum they were in Washington D.C. yesterday meeting with federal officials. The Justice Department and FBI are reviewing the case. Sanford Mayor Jeff Triplett talked to reporters after the meeting.  This is being played out in the press and in the court of public opinion. It is my job to try to make sure than our community is safe and our citizens are safe and people that visit our community are safe. If we have made an error I want someone to tell me.  One of the biggest concerns here is the state's Stand Your Ground Law. It allows people to use deadly force to defend themselves and does not require them to retreat. Some say the law passed in 2005 should be repealed. Talking with reporters yesterday Florida Governor Rick Scott said it is possible the state could revisit the law.  And once we finish this investigation if there is something that you know we need to adjust I am hopeful that you know the legislature would be interested in taking that up.  Last night outside the church in Sanford Carolyn Walker who is lived here all her life says the situation has been  frustrating.  It is too much. It is just not enough justice. It is not right. I know somebody should have been arrested for that baby's killing.  A couple miles down the road at a discount shopping center many white residents of Sanford echoed the same sentiments.  None of it makes any sense to me. I mean it is just bad.  Abe Dykes says he is as angry as those who attended the town meeting.  Kid's dead and it is terrible. And the guy should not have a gun permit. Therefore he should be in jail period.  Diane Newton who is lived here for 30 years has three sons. She gets emotional as she talks about the shooting.  You think when you have a 17-year-old little man that he should be able to go to the store an come home - and then he does not. I guess as a mother it is awful. It is awful.  More town meetings and protests are planned this week. A grand jury is set to meet next month to consider charges. People here say they welcome the federal and state investigations and hope they will result in prosecutions. Kathy Lohr NPR News Sanford Florida. 