 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Oakland California holds a vigil this evening to remember three fallen police officers. A fourth policeman has been declared brain-dead. All fell in a shootout that followed a routine traffic stop. NPR's Richard Gonzales reports from a city torn by crime.  The killings happened here in a high-crime area of East Oakland on Saturday afternoon. Two officers Sergeant Mark Dunakin and Officer John Hege stopped a car driven by Lovelle Mixon of Oakland. He was wanted on a no-bail warrant for a parole violation. Police say Mixon opened fire almost immediately killing Dunakin and gravely wounding Hege. Two hours later a SWAT team tracked Mixon down in a nearby apartment building. That is where the suspect armed with an AK-47 killed Sergeants Ervin Romans and Daniel Sakai. Other SWAT team officers returned fire and killed Mixon. An incredulous Mayor Ron Dellums spoke a few hours later. Mayor  Our hearts go out to the families that at this very moment are experiencing a level of tragedy and loss beyond our ability to comprehend nor to express in words.  Oakland is one of the most violent cities in the country but the police shooting has rocked this town. Mourning residents have been paying their respects at City Hall and signing condolence books for the fallen officers. Ms.  I just want to cry. I am just so sad that this has happened.  Paulette Zezulak has lived in Oakland for 30 years. Ms.  What the hardest part is after so many years why do we still have the same problems? Why are there still people who are killing each other on our streets? Why? Why? Why destroy people's lives?  According to Mixon's family the ex-con was frustrated because he was unable to find work and was angry with his parole officer. Tim Denahy who came to City Hall to sign the condolence books is a former Santa Clara County jail guard. He says he is met a lot of people like Lovelle Mixon. Mr.  People come in they are broken they come from broken families. They go through life. They have no hope. Something'ill happen to spark them to make them angry at anybody that wears any kind of uniform that makes them want to walk down a certain path. And if you happen to get in their way at the wrong time it is going to be a tragedy.  Another mourner Bobby Carver a retired food-services worker had a few choice words to describe his feelings. Mr.  Disgust. Sadness. They should start pulling the plug on these creeps. No business running around with loaded guns in his car a parolee.  The law just needs to get tougher on these creeps.  Oakland police are reviewing the incident to see what mistakes if any led to the tragic loss of four of its officers. Meanwhile city officials are asking residents to attend a candlelight vigil in East Oakland tonight. Richard Gonzales NPR News Oakland. 