 As daily life here in the U.S. changes to try to minimize the spread of the coronavirus it is helpful to look for lessons learned from other countries and how they have responded to the pandemic. To do that we are joined by three of NPR's international correspondents who really have been on the front lines of all this - NPR's Sylvia Poggioli in Rome Anthony Kuhn in Seoul and Emily Feng in Beijing. Good morning to all three of you.  Good morning.  Hey Rachel.  Good morning.  Emily I am going to start with you because you are in China. You were covering the crisis in Wuhan from the beginning. Can you just give us a sense now about what - what was the trajectory of the Chinese response to this?  Well for the first month after the initial cases of the coronavirus appeared there was not a response. There was this local cover-up and a delay. And during that time about 5 million people left the virus epicenter and likely spread it to the rest of China. But then the country mobilized and it did so very quickly. It imposed very stringent self-isolation and quarantine measures. And by self-isolation I mean people started avoiding densely populated areas. They canceled all public events. They shut down factories and offices. And by quarantine measures I meant they sealed off cities and villages completely. And the earliest city to be sealed off that is still under lockdown is the Chinese city of Wuhan where the virus began.  Anthony South Korea - I mean how does what Emily just say - said compare to what is been happening in South Korea?  Well South Korea got hit right after China. And because of South Korea's experience with previous epidemics they decided that rapid mass testing for the virus was going to be the key to their strategy. And so they have been testing around 15000 people a day - 3600 people per million of population compared to five people per million in the U.S. They have also focused on transparency - putting out daily statistics and press briefings. They were hit in Daegu which was the epicenter of the outbreak and so they also had to shift to helping them because their health system was overwhelmed.  So the focus there really on early testing. Sylvia in Italy - I mean now Italy is - has replaced South Korea as the No. 2 in the world after China when it comes to the scope of this pandemic. There are more than 12000 cases almost a thousand deaths. What has been the Italian response?  Drastic curbs on freedom of movement and there is been overwhelming compliance. Only food shops pharmacies and newsstands are open. People can go out. But if stopped by police they must show a kind of affidavit that states their purpose either work grocery shopping health or an emergency. Police are carrying out random checks. As of yesterday more than 2000 people have been booked. They face either three months in jail or a fine of 230. The purpose is social distancing - keep people apart. Italy's falling - following China's lead the Wuhan model.  So Emily the Wuhan model - has it worked? I mean transmission has decreased there has it not?  Yeah. And experts pretty much unanimously agree that is because of social distancing. It will destroy your economy as it temporarily has in China but it quickly slows the virus's spread. Another thing China did was it built these makeshift centers where they sent sick people instead of sending them home. And researchers in both the U.S. and China have now said this week that that was critical to slowing down the outbreak but this could be a measure that Western democracies may be unwilling to take. As for quarantine measures though - sealing off villages and cities - the jury's still out on the efficacy of that because quarantines made it harder from medical resources to reach the hardest-hit areas. And that is probably why fatality rates in the epicenter in China are nearly four times higher than the rest of the country.  So Sylvia how have the measures worked in Italy? What is the situation right now? Is there any slowing?  Well nationwide it is too early to say. It has not hit the peak yet. The quarantine that was put in place a few weeks ago in the contagion epicenter in Lombardy - 11 towns 50000 people - local authorities say it is working. The contagion rate has dropped. And that is why the quarantine was extended to all of Italy - to try to prevent a spread to the south which has much weaker health systems than those in the north which are among the best in Europe. But they are severely strained by this crisis now.  Anthony South Korea chose not to take measures like we have seen in Italy or in China with these dramatic quarantines or lockdowns. And yet it seems like they have still been able to keep the crisis at bay right?  Mmm hmm yeah. Well case numbers have been declining for two weeks in a row and fatalities have been at less than 1 compared to about 4 for China and 6 for Italy. And you know doing this without having to lock huge regions down is also a kind of effectiveness a kind of accuracy. You only isolate the people who are at risk of infecting others and you leave the others alone. But there are areas of debate such as the role of a religious group which was at the center of the thing and also the ban on travel to and from China and also concerns about data involving patients.  Was there something specifically about South Korea that made it possible for them to avoid large-scale quarantines?  Well it is - you know testing capacity is not just about kits. It is about investment in basic health care infrastructure - lab technicians chemicals machines logistics. And if any one of those areas has a bottleneck it is going to mess things up and people are going to lose lives. And it is just - you know at the end of the day it is investment in a health care system - hospital beds you know national health insurance. And this shows up in survivability for all diseases including COVID-19.  And lastly Emily and Sylvia I would love for you to talk some about how the different political systems in China and Italy have affected the coronavirus response. Emily you alluded to this earlier. But really how much of China's success in mitigating the spread has to do with the fact that this is a country frankly with a long history of human rights abuses it is an authoritarian state?  Transparency certainly has been an issue and we have seen transparency is critical for a fast response. That was not present in China. But because China's a very centralized government - one might say authoritarian - it was able to mobilize quarantine measures and social distancing very very quickly. The problem is the quarantines may have cost more lives than we know. But we will never know the secondary costs of people who were not able to get timely medical care and suffered from it because they were sealed into their villages or cities.  Right. And Sylvia obviously Italy is a democracy. What has been just the people's response to these kinds of drastic measures?  The crisis has totally turned the world upside down. Italians notorious for cutting into line not very obedient to rules - are become the most compliant people I have ever seen in my life. And they are really - Italy is telling its partners watch us do what we are doing - so you can avoid what is happened to us. Yesterday French correspondents based here sent a petition to French President Emmanuel Macron telling him France underestimates the gravity of the epidemic and failed to prepare French public opinion. They say look at Italy it is our duty to tell you there is no time to lose.  Wow. NPR's Sylvia Poggioli in Rome. We also heard from Anthony Kuhn in Seoul and Emily Feng reporting from Beijing. We appreciate all three of you and the reporting you have been doing on this. Thank you.  Thanks Rachel.  Thank you.  Thank you. 