 More tense moments in Washington this week over what to do with an iPhone. That phone belonged to one of the attackers in San Bernardino Calif. The government wants Apple to create software to decrypt it. Apple has defied a judge's order to do that. This week Darrell Issa a California congressman known for grilling government officials took FBI director James Comey to task over this. He said the government is demanding something from Apple that could jeopardize the privacy of anyone with an iPhone.   You are expecting somebody to obey an order to do something they do not want to do. And you have not even figured out whether you could do it yourself. You have just told us well we cannot do it. But you did not ask for the source code. And you did not ask the questions I asked here today and I am just - I am just a guy that did...  Issa is a guy who knows about technology. The Republican Congressman made his fortune in electronic security creating car alarms. His congressional office is actually decorated with patents he has won for his electronic inventions. I asked him why he was so tough on the FBI director.  I would not say I was tough. What I would say is that the FBI director came unprepared.  Unprepared because in Issa's mind the FBI could not answer a simple question - why they did not consider other ways to break into this iPhone short of forcing Apple to write new software that could in Issa's mind be used by hackers maybe even other countries to break into other phones. Now Issa thinks there were other options like working with Apple to copy the data on the phone belonging to the attacker. This Issa says would have allowed government investigators to try hundreds and hundreds of passwords likely eventually being able to break in.  If you make 2000 copies you essentially get 2000 tries to find the combination.  And this is really important Issa says because it would have still involved unlocking a single phone and not forcing Apple to create software that could unlock all phones. Issa thinks the FBI could have asked Apple for help with this.  Certainly Apple could have been asked to help them make copies. And I am not sure that Apple would have objected to it. Apple was objecting not to the things that it in the ordinary courts could do. They were objecting to developing a clandestine backdoor for their product.  And why is that such a red flag for you because Director Comey described the request as akin to asking Apple to take away the vicious guard dog and let us pick the lock.  But that is just not true. That is not true. Your listeners need to understand one of your rights is your right to privacy. Now if Apple creates a backdoor it is not removing a guard dog from a criminal's front door. It is giving an automated process of unlocking every door in America and unlocking it potentially without your knowing it. That is really what they are asking for.  And that sounds very dramatic. I mean the government has said this is one phone and...  Look the government lies. Understand - this may be NPR - but the government lies to you. I have spent 10 years representing the people of California. And I have seen governments both Republican and Democratic lie. If you want to promote the fact that your listeners can have all of their data remotely taken by their government at any time if they happen to get a FISA judge in secrecy to give them an authorization to do it go ahead.  I do want to assure you I mean we are not promoting any cause here. I mean it is our role to be journalists. And I guess I just want to hear from you - if you do not believe the government is simply trying to keep Americans safe and to solve a terrorism case why do you think they are asking for more than they need to as you put it?  David you are being an advocate. So let us understand this - you keep returning to things that are said by the FBI that have already been shown to be not true. What the director is saying that you are paraphrasing simply is not true. He does not want this one. They have 12 more that they have. They have asked for unlock in other jurisdictions other cases. And one of our witnesses of course has 175 that they want to unlock. So it is not about one terrorist. It is not about terrorism at all. The issue is that the FBI asked for more than they needed. And if they were given it it would set a bad precedent for all of America's liberties.  Congressman Issa nice talking to you. Thanks so much for the time.  Thank you. 