 Singer Margo Price knows hard times. Her music practically aches with them.    When I rolled out of town on the unpaved road I was 57 from being broke.  In this song we are listening to she yearns to turn back the cruel hands of time and you are about to understand why. While Margo Price's music has been kicking around Nashville for a while now she is out with her first solo album. And it is getting a lot of attention in country music. It is called Midwest Farmer's Daughter and that is an identity she tries to hold onto years after her family lost the farm in Buffalo Prairie Ill. Her entire family - grandparents uncles - had to find jobs in town. And that included Margo Price's dad who took a job as a prison guard.    Took a job at the prison working second shift. And that is the last time I let them take what should be his. It was never his plan that he would grow up and work in a prison. But he just you know - life moves so quickly and you just have to put food on the table. And they did everything they could to make sure that we were never without. It was a hard loss for the family you know. It took a lot of the ornery out of him. Things were never the same.  There is one line in Hands Of Time that goes by very quickly but I know how significant it is. And it is where you sing that your firstborn died and you cried out to God.    Is there anybody out there looking down on me at all?  And I just cannot even imagine. Can you tell me what happened?  Yes. I had twins and my firstborn he had a heart condition. It was hypoplastic left heart syndrome which essentially means that he was born with half a heart. The whole pregnancy was very difficult knowing that - that he had this condition. And so you know the surgery just did not work. And we lost him after a couple weeks. And you know it is - nobody should ever lose a child. I would never wish that upon my greatest enemy. But we - we made it somehow.  I am so sorry.  Yeah it was dark days for a while. And it is very hard on a marriage you know? People cope very differently when you lose a child. And my husband's been very supportive and he is stuck through with me to help us get through it.  It sounds like from some of the songs on here that one way you were coping was turning to the bottle a good bit.  Yes. It is something that I think everybody has to watch you know? Depression sneaks up on people and after a couple drinks it does not feel so bad sometimes.  The song Weekender is - I wonder if that was a low point for you?  That was definitely the turning point. Everything just kind of snowballed. I was feeling so depressed and honestly thinking about checking myself into like a you know a mental institution or something. And that was kind of God's answer I think. He was like alright you want to be in a loony bin? Here you go now you are in jail.    He took me down to cell block B after stripping off my clothes put me in a monkey suit and threw me in the throes. Like a rat in a maze a cow in the herd or sparrow with a broken wing now I know the reason why the caged bird has to sing.  So what exactly happened Margo Price?  Well you know I try to be as vague about it as possible to not hurt my grandmother's feelings 'ecause I am sure they are probably listening out there. But you know I was staying out too late. I was running around with the wrong folks and I wound up making some really bad decisions that I am not proud of and going to jail for the weekend. And you know after I got out and you know I just told myself I am never going back there again. I am never going to ever put myself in that kind of a situation where I would hurt myself or other people. And I went and I sought therapy for the first time which I probably should have done immediately after I lost my son Ezra. But sometimes we have to take the long way around.  A song like Weekender - it is referring to what sounds like such a difficult difficult time. But it really has kind of an upbeat tempo to it.  Yeah. It is in a major key too. I am just tricking people into listening to really sad things. I am putting happy compositions behind them.    'ecause I am just a weekender in the Davidson County Jail. And my old man he as not got the cash to even go my bail.  What is it about country music that tragedy can lead to such powerful songs? I feel like that has been a truth about country music I mean since its beginnings.  It is true. It is - you know it is the songs of the working man in real-life situations that make it honest and you know make it something different than maybe pop music. I think a lot of the tragedy and the lonesomeness - there is something uplifting in there as well. It is like when you hear George and Tammy sing a song about divorce or...  George Jones and Tammy Wynette you are talking about?  Yeah or just the lost dreams and - you somehow hear their voices trying to conquer over it.  Was there some kind of connection between putting your life in order and getting your music career to where you have this debut album?  You know I have been trying to figure all this out - how it happened - 'ecause I thought I was going to be cursed forever. And I did not think there was much of a chance. But a lot of it is about taking the bad things and really growing from them and learning from them. And it is kind of like the phoenix rising from the ashes you know. You cannot let every bad thing that happens to you in your life overtake you.    How the mighty have fallen.  Margo Price it is been a real pleasure and best of luck with the album.  Thank you so much. It is been wonderful to talk with you.    How the mighty have fallen right back into my arms.  That was musician Margo Price. Her new album is called Midwest Farmer's Daughter. 