 Myanmar over the weekend saw its most violent day since the coup on February 1. That is the day when the military which is always powerful deposed the country's civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The United Nations says that at least 18 people were killed throughout the country on Sunday. Police opened fire on protesters who have taken to the streets multiple times since the coup. Hundreds of people were also detained over the weekend. Reporter Michael Sullivan has been following events in Myanmar and he is now on the line from nearby Thailand. Hey there Michael.  Hi Steve.  What kind of news is coming out of Myanmar today?  Today things seem to be a lot more quiet than they were yesterday. The protesters are back but they are back in smaller numbers though the police are still out in force. So far there have been no reports of serious violence unlike yesterday which was really grim. I mean we saw videos coming out pretty early in the morning of the police and in some cases soldiers coming after the protesters hard not just in Yangon but in the second city Mandalay and many other cities and towns all over the country. And the message was clear. We have been restrained up until now but that is over.  And just of course we are working on fragmentary evidence here. It is what you see in a video rather than being an eyewitness account necessarily. But based on those videos what do these protests look like? Are these large crowds of people? Were they confronted by overwhelming numbers of police? What did it look like on the streets based on those videos?  There are huge numbers of people on the streets but the protesters really are not very well-prepared to meet a very well-armed and well-protected riot police right? And that is basically what happens. You see a sea of protesters. Then you see the police wade into that sea with tear gas with rubber bullets and with live ammunition.  Well what can the - what if anything could restrain the military at this point which has now held power once again for about a month?  Honestly I would say very little. In the absence of any concerted coordinated effort by the international community the military will probably do what it is done before when confronted with widespread civil unrest in 1988 and 2007. And that is kill people until the problem goes away. The Biden administration has imposed targeted sanctions on the military leaders. And after yesterday's violence National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said there would be additional actions to impose further costs on those responsible for yesterday's violence and the coup. But unless the U.S. can get its regional allies on board - and Japan and Singapore are two that come to mind some of the biggest investors in Myanmar yeah? - that complicates things. Until that happens or unless that happens Myanmar's military is not going anywhere. It has not been afraid of sanctions in the past. I think it is highly unlikely they will be now.  Do the protesters seem in any way intimidated by the show of force yesterday?  They might have been a little shocked by the show of force yesterday but I think they are not going to let up. And that is part of the problem - yeah? - in terms of a peaceful resolution because there does not seem to be any room for compromise. The military is not going to suddenly cave in and say right our bad. Here's your government back. And the protesters say they will accept nothing less. There is a foreign ministers meeting tomorrow of the Association of Southeast Asian Countries  or cuss it. Maybe they can come up with something. But I think that is a big ask.  Very briefly where is Aung San Suu Kyi?  She was seen in court in a video link today. She was brought up on a third charge. The first two came last week and the week before. So it is clear that the military is trying to figure out ways it can convict her of something Steve so she cannot run again for public office if and when this thing gets sorted.  Reporter Michael Sullivan thanks for the update.  You are welcome Steve.  