 Another change due to the coronavirus - Japan's prime minister says the Tokyo Olympics which were supposed to start on July 24 will be postponed until next summer at the latest. Now the Olympics have been cancelled three times before because of world wars. They have never been rescheduled though. NPR's Anthony Kuhn is covering this from Seoul South Korea. Hi Anthony.  Hi Noel.  What did Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe say about the cancellation?  Well he came out and spoke to reporters after a phone call with International Olympic Committee chief President Thomas Bach and he said that he had requested the postponement because of the current situation and in order to have the optimum conditions for athletes and a safe environment for spectators. And he said Thomas Bach and the IOC support him 100 on his suggestion.  The really interesting thing here is that even like yesterday the IOC and Japanese officials were insistent that the Olympic Games would not be postponed or canceled. Why were they so adamant at that time?  Well for weeks they just would not budge. They said that cancellation or postponement was unthinkable. They said hey it is four months out it is too early to decide this sort of thing. And increasingly they were being criticized for being in denial and not prioritizing the health of the athletes. You know I think it may have also been just such a nightmarish scenario to them to postpone the games that they just would not admit it if they absolutely did not have to and that is the way it started to get. At this point almost half of the athletes have had - not had their qualifying trials. And yeah so - and also training camps have been canceled or postponed. So it is not clear how this would happen if the games were to go ahead. At the same time you have got corporate sponsors in Japan who are sinking hundreds of million dollars into advertising and sponsorship deals and they were getting antsy. They wanted clarification. So finally on Sunday the IOC said all right we have to consider some Plan B's including postponement. Yesterday Shinzo Abe said well under the current conditions we cannot hold the games. But he did insist that the games would go on later that you know at worst they would be postponed but not cancelled.  And here we have him saying that they will be postponed and I wonder what is involved in that? I would imagine first there is a lot of money on the line here right?  That is right by some estimates 28 billion in spending on infrastructure investment broadcasting rights corporate sponsorship advertising - all this stuff is now up in the air. Remember that you know they need sports venues for these things and some of those things are already booked with other events for 2021. So they have now got to redo that schedule. You know travel - so many logistical things need to be rethought out. It really is a nightmare for them. One interesting thing is they said it is still going to be called the 2020 Olympics even though it is going to be in the summer of 2021 so maybe they will save a little money on not having to reprint T-shirts.  Oh that is so interesting. It is like when the Super Bowl - when they print T-shirts for the side that wins but also the side that loses in advance. That is kind of fascinating. So let me ask you about the spread of the virus in Japan. We have not heard much about that recently. Is the virus spreading there quickly and is that a contributing factor with respect to the cancellation?  It is not spreading as quickly as some people had feared. And their 1800 cases there which includes passengers on a cruise ship is a lot lower than their neighbors in China and in South Korea. But experts have been warning that there could be a second wave of cases and they have warned local governments and hospitals to prepare to be flooded with these people. They point out that you know they have really been testing very few people relative to their capacity. And Tokyo's governor warned yesterday that if - warned today that if cases spike they might have to lock down Tokyo.  Just really quickly - are we certain that the games will be held in the summer of 2021?  It is certainly too early to tell now. But you know cancellation would be their absolute worst-case scenario and it would cost them even more than they would lose from postponement.  NPR's Anthony Kuhn in Seoul. Anthony thanks so much.  Thank you. 