 For people who are deaf the world can be split in two. They live in a world where other people take sound for granted and a world with its own rich culture of deaf history and sign language. The poet Raymond Antrobus has always had to navigate between those two worlds and he examines that experience in his debut book of poems out next week called The Perseverance. NPR's Jeevika Verma spoke with him.  Raymond Antrobus was born in East London to a Jamaican father and British mother. Neither knew that he was deaf at birth.  It took them about seven years to work it out. At first it was assumed that I would had learning difficulties maybe dyslexia until a day when my mum bought a new telephone for the house and it was quite a loud telephone. And when it was going off I was the only person that never responded to it. So it was the telephone that kind of diagnosed my deafness.  After school Antrobus went straight into the workforce and had a lot of jobs.  But I was losing a lot of my jobs because I left school pretending I was a hearing person so I would not wear my hearing aids.  It was around then that he realized that maybe he could turn to poetry.  Since I was a kid I have always been writing. My grandfather was a poet. He was a preacher. And that kind of I think was part of grounding me. So I think that for me poetry always had a place where I could go to listen or to be heard or to belong.  The medium became a place of solace for Antrobus somewhere he did not have to pretend anymore. Back in school...  I had a teacher who knew I was writing poetry and was really encouraging of it. I used to carry around what she would call the big red book. She was like Raymond where is your big red book? And she never corrected it you know so it always had this kind of space where I could just be.  And when his father died five years ago he started working on the debut while thinking about his childhood. In one Antrobus says his dad would never call him deaf just limited.  I would go to Jamaica as a kid with him and I remember him saying to me you know you are lucky we are not in Jamaica because - there is a poem based on it loosely in the book. But he had a friend whose ears were stabbed with pencils. His eardrums were bursting and he said he just disappeared just never saw him again.  His father's understanding of deafness was rooted in a different time and a different place. And as a kid Antrobus was glad that he was in the U.K. where he had access to hearing aids and schools.  The funny thing is though since writing the book I have gone to Jamaica and worked with deaf Jamaicans. I have learned a little bit of Jamaican sign language and I have seen the kind of deaf schools that they have got in Jamaica and they are great. There are some really great ones.  Knowing this now has eased some of the fears that the poet had been holding onto because when he was growing up he was not taught about deaf culture or about how rich sign language can be. He explores this upbringing in his poem Dear Hearing World. Here he is reading an excerpt.   I was pronouncing what I heard but your judgment made all my syllables disappear. Your magic master trick hearing world drowning out the quiet bursting all speech bubbles in my graphic childhood. You are glad to benefit from audio supremacy.  Fellow deaf poet Ilya Kaminsky who did not get hearing aids until he moved to the United States from the USSR at 16 relates to this experience of deafness being ostracized so he appreciates how Antrobus meditates on language.  He is meditating both in English with all the colonial history of English language and also on sign language which is very much part of its own unique and distinct culture and history.  And Kaminsky is personally moved by how Antrobus' poems speak to the senses.  The poems are alive on the page but also in the palms. The poems are alive on the hands but also in the ears.  It is this duality that Antrobus now celebrates.  It was never really a thing that I sat down and thought oh I am a deaf poet now I am going to write about how I experience sound. Poetry was a way for me to write just what my truth was. I think there was a kind of listening that I had to do to myself and to my own history and to give that to the page.  Raymond Antrobus' debut book of poems is called The Perseverance. Jeevika Verma NPR News. 