 If there was any doubt before Donald Trump settled it on Tuesday. He is the clear front-runner for the Republican nomination. Trump notched up wins in Florida North Carolina and Illinois. And while the results are still too close to call in Missouri he holds a very narrow lead there too. This despite the fact that many Americans might be hard-pressed to explain his policies.  Take foreign policy. The Trump campaign has yet to release the name of a single foreign policy adviser. Asked on MSNBC's Morning Joe who he talked with about foreign policy Donald Trump had this to say yesterday.   I am speaking with myself number one because I have a very good brain and I have said a lot of things.  Donald Trump has thrown out the occasional name though. Here he is with Mika Brzezinski on Morning Joe a couple of weeks ago.   Who do you respect on foreign policy? Who do you turn to? Who do you think is a great name?  Well I respect Richard Haass who is on your show a lot. And I like him a lot.  Well Richard Haass is on the line with us now. He is president of the Council on Foreign Relations. Good morning.  Good morning.  I have to start by asking you did you know you were on the Trump foreign policy team?  Well I am not on the Trump foreign policy team. What I do or at least offer to do is brief all the candidates - Democratic and Republican alike. It is consistent with our mission as being a nonpartisan resource here at the Council on Foreign Relations. And this time around I have probably briefed a half-dozen or so of the candidates from Hillary Clinton to Jeb Bush to John Kasich to Chris Christie and others. And one of the people I briefed - I think it was about six months ago - was Donald Trump.  Right back in August. Where did you two meet?  We met in his office on Fifth Avenue.  And what areas was he interested in?  I am not real comfortable going into the details of briefings. There is a part of the deal with all of the people is that it is private and off the record. But what I try to do in each one of these is give them my sense of some of the basic trends in the world what is going on and obviously what I think will be the hotspots that any future president or commander in chief will have to cope with. And they have all got questions. And in my experience - and I have been doing this off and on now for something like 30 years - you never have a chance to get through the entire script. You may not be as bad as somebody arguing a case before the Supreme Court. But you know candidates have ideas. They have questions. They know the issues that matter most to them. So you get interrupted constantly which is the purpose of it with their questions.  He clearly walked away from this meeting with deep respect for you. Was it mutual?  Well again I do not think it is - you know that is for American voters to describe. I have spent an hour with him there. I have seen him a few times on and off golf courses so I simply do not know him well enough to give you that kind of a judgment.  Fair enough. I am sure you have been tracking though the statements that he has made since that meeting this past summer. And I wonder if any of the comments that he has made specifically on foreign policy raise concern for you. I mean I am thinking of the wall he has said he wants to build between the U.S. and Mexico or of the ban that he is called for on Muslims entering the United States.  Well again we obviously have areas of you know some disagreement to say the least on policy. It is pretty well-known for example that I am - I have long been committed to free trade. And even though while it does cost you know specific jobs for individual workers on balance I think it is been a net-plus for the United States. It is created a lot of jobs. It is given consumers a lot more choice. It is driven down inflation. And strategically it has been a major force for peace in the world 'ecause it creates economic interdependence. While I would argue we have to do something particularly in the area of education and training for those workers who have lost jobs on balance I think that free trade has been in the national interest of the United States. And I think for example if we were not to go ahead with the TPP or Trans-Pacific Partnership deal that has recently been signed it would raise real questions around the world again as to American reliability and predictability. And I think of all countries China would be the principle beneficiary if the United States were not to be fully engaged with our Asian economic partners.  Richard Haass we just have a few seconds left but I wonder do you anticipate that Mr. Trump if elected would bring in a substantial team of foreign policy advisers and listen to them?  Well he is going to have no choice but to bring in a large team. Each president appoints something like 4000 or so people. Hundreds are in the national security area.  OK.  And when you look at the inbox that is going to await the new president he is going to have to bring in a large capable team.  Thank you so much for joining us.  Thank you.  That is Richard Haass. He is president of the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of many books on foreign policy including the forthcoming A World In Disarray. 