 There was a big movie premier last night - big in the political world anyway. The largest role went to President Obama because this movie is actually an ad of sorts designed in hopes that it will go viral and help Mr. Obama's re-election prospects. NPR's Ari Shapiro reports.   This is Nora the piano-playing cat. On YouTube people have viewed her video 23.6 million times.  WILL.I. Yes we can. Yes we can. Yes we can.  This is the singer Will.i.am. People have viewed his video 23.7 million times. One of those videos helped President Obama get elected?  WILL.I.AM.  Yes we can.  One of them did not.   Those two wildly popular and wildly different videos show just how difficult it can be to calculate the exact formula of a viral video. But the Obama re-election campaign has tried to master the recipe with its new 17-minute film The Road We have Traveled.   Not since the days of Franklin Roosevelt had so much fallen on the shoulders of one president.  Hollywood star power? Check. Tom Hanks narrates. Suspense and drama? Check.   There was a screen set up for slides but we might as well have been showing a horror movie.  This biographical film is directly related to the kinds of movies that campaigns used to make for a party's nominating convention. But the digital era makes it a new beast altogether. Becki Donatelli is a Republican social media strategist.  YouTube is the third-most-visited website in the world with users of YouTube spending roughly 15 20 minutes a day watching videos so when we want to reach people with a visual story like that we are going online.  And it is not just a static viewing experience. The Obama team is doing everything in its power to give this video tentacles. The campaign says there were more than 300 viewing parties across the country last night. For weeks the re-election website has encouraged people to quote sign up to be the first to see the full film. That sign-up information goes into the campaign's database and the website makes it easy for you to tweet the film post it on your Facebook page or give money. Kombiz Lavasany is a Democratic digital strategy consultant.  So you create this cascading effect of you know fans of the president watching it via an email and then you have friends of those fans who see it and then re-share it. And that is sort of what we talk about when we talk about a video going viral. It is authentic enough and it speaks to its audience and people feel compelled to re-share it.  The goal is to ultimately reach beyond the echo chamber of enthusiastic Obama supporters to the undecided independent voters who will determine the outcome of this election. On the campaign trail Mitt Romney has mocked the video.  The president's people have put together a 17-minute infomercial. They are calling it a documentary. I do not think so. It is an infomercial.  He dismisses the production as propaganda that ignores President Obama's failings.  I have some suggestions for the president and for the producer. First of all talk to the 24 million Americans that are out of work or underemployed in this country.  But at the White House yesterday spokesman Jay Carney predicted it will have staying power.  I look forward to seeing it many times in my spare time of which I do not have enough.  He said he does not know whether the president has seen it yet and he is not aware of any plans for a White House viewing party. Ari Shapiro NPR News the White House. 