 Get ready we are going to talk about tardigrades. Tardigrades you say? Well these are microscopic animals that are found almost everywhere on earth. They are the ultimate survivors. They can withstand freezing temperatures starvation even the vacuum of outer space. Scientists now think they know how they do it. NPR's Madeline Sofia reports.  Tardigrades looks like chubby little caterpillars. They have got eight legs and claws for feet. Some people call them water bears and the internet loves them.   The tardi-what? Looks like a Hoover bag - or the offspring of Jabba the Hutt. Anyway...  That is one of many YouTube admirers. Thomas Boothby is a postdoc at the University of North Carolina and he loves them too - but not because they are adorable.  I do not use them because like I think they are cute or - I mean I do think they are cute. But  that is not why I study them.  These tiny critters have survived mass extinction events. They have been around for over 500 million years. They are mostly made of water but they can be completely dried out for a decade and still come back to life. Now tardigrades are not the only ones that can do that. Bacteria and yeast can survive superdry conditions using a special sugar. But Boothby thinks tardigrades are up to something different.  Tardigrades probably lack the gene that is required to make the sugar in the first place.  Now Boothby thinks he is figured out how tardigrades can survive. When the little tardigrades start to feel stressed they produced funny-looking proteins. Unlike normal proteins these do not have a defined structure.  They act like these wiggly like spaghetti springs where they are just constantly changing shape.  As the animal dries out its cells start to fill up with spaghetti proteins. The proteins freeze everything in place and the cells turn to glass. That protects DNA and other stuff. And when the tardigrade returns to a wet environment the animal springs back to life. Boothby's research is published in the journal Molecular Cell. Because these proteins are really good at locking things up and stabilizing them Boothby thinks it might be possible to use them to preserve sensitive drugs like vaccines. In the future that could help us send lifesaving drugs to hard-to-reach places. Madeline Sofia NPR News.  