 Here's a stunning fact we came across as the anniversary of Japan's tsunami and nuclear disaster approaches. Of Japan's nuclear plants only two of 54 reactors are currently active one year after the disaster. To talk about the implications of this we have called Kenneth Cukier. He is Tokyo correspondent for The Economist magazine. He is on the line. Welcome to the program.  Hi there.  Did not Japan get something like one-third of its energy from nuclear power its electricity from nuclear power before the disaster?  That is absolutely right. It did.  And so how do you go about running one of the most advanced economies in the world without almost all of those reactors?  Well the reactors closed over time. They did not happen all at once. Of course there is Fukushima. It went into a shutdown and then it went into a meltdown. But for the other reactors what happens is they go through scheduled maintenance far quicker than in other countries. It is every 13 months here. So as a result as over time new reactors were going through their scheduled maintenance and were being shut down for that maintenance they need to get the approval of the local governors in order to restart and the local governors would not give it that approval. Local people are deeply uneasy with the state of the regulation and the surveillance of the nuclear industry have expressed that and the local governors have not signed on.  So what is business industry government doing to get electricity then?  Well business - it wants the energy to restart and the government wants the energy to restart but the people do not  not because they do not have trust and faith in the nuclear power they do not have trust and faith in the government. Business in response has basically said we need reliable energy and we need inexpensive energy and if we do not get that we are going to go abroad. Now Japan's industry has been going abroad for years - that is part of globalization. They are accelerating that in part because of a lack of energy  reliable inexpensive energy. Companies had to change what they are doing. For example last summer many businesses worked Saturdays and Sundays but took Tuesdays and Wednesdays off. They could balance the energy load that way.  Although still I mean one-third of the country's electricity is going away? Are they finding replacements for some of that?  They have found replacements that are non-nuclear. So Japan of course is teaming with coal and LNG liquid natural gas and oil power plants some of them which were not at capacity others which were actually decommissioned but not dismantled. They have got it back into working condition and it started pumping out more energy.  What are the downsides of burning more coal and natural gas?  The biggest downside psychologically is that the country that names  the Kyoto Accords now has to not meet its commitment by pumping lots of fossil fuel.  Is not some of the natural gas coming from Russia which has some political implications geopolitical implications?  Massive. Prior to March 11 Japan had been trying to retreat a little bit from Russia because it is an unpredictable country and you want to be self-sufficient. But since March 11 and because the nuclear power has gone away pretty much they have had to increase their imports of liquid natural gas and the result is that they are getting closer to a country that they would rather have at arm's length.  Well given that Japan has fought in the last century or a little more a couple of different wars against Russia for dominance in that part of the world are there Japanese who are beginning to say you know this is really not good maybe we ought to let some nuclear plants reopen?  It is an argument that is being made but the Japanese authorities have done nothing to ensure that people should have confidence in the nuclear system. But what is essential and what is happening right now is for the first time in modern Japanese history you can really see one movement that is broadly supported throughout the country which is close the nukes until we have confidence - not in nuclear power but in the government that they are going to make it safe.  Kenneth Cukier is Japan correspondent for The Economist. Thanks very much.  Yeah thank you. 