 Well they do not call it March Madness for nothing. It is time. The selection committee has made their selections. We have the brackets. We have the 64 teams - or maybe more than 64 as we will hear in a minute. It is NCAA tournament time. And NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman is on the line. Tom good morning.  Good morning David.  So we should point out that the tournament unofficially starts later this week. But it sort of officially starts tomorrow right?  Oh very officially yeah as it has every year since 2011. It started on the Tuesday of the first week. It is the First Four in Dayton Ohio. And I am going to be there. How cool is that?  That is very cool.  It is really the bookend to the Final Four. Of course in three weeks' time you have got the four best teams left. The teams playing in Dayton they are the last teams picked to get into the tournament - kind of the kids on the playground looking at the ground kicking the dirt you know. The winners of the first four games in Dayton they will go on to the first round which starts on Thursday.  Then we will have the 64 teams set for later this week. And we have the top seeds one from each region. We have got Villanova North Carolina Gonzaga and Kansas. Any controversy over those picks?  You know not too much squawking as there often is - if there is any it is North Carolina getting that one seed and Duke getting a two seed. Duke beat North Carolina 2 out of 3 times this season including in last week's ACC tournament when Duke was just red hot and they beat two other highly ranked teams Louisville and Notre Dame. But the selection committee says North Carolina had the better regular season. The Tar Heels finished first in the ACC. That is the best conference in the country. Those two could meet for the championship. And if they do it would be epic.  It would be epic. So can you tell me...  .  ...Which upsets to pick so I can win my bracket competition with all my friends here?  Yeah I can tell you exactly which ones to pick.  Awesome.  I will probably go with a couple of 12 seeds over fives that is the pretty well-known and reliable upset pick. But you know in general we are supposed to have a really good tournament with a lot of close games. Mark Hollis the chairman of the selection committee says this is the most competitive bracket he is seen in his five years on the committee. Obviously you know a couple of games to talk about - Northwestern is the automatic darling of this tournament since it is in for the first time ever. Northwestern plays Vanderbilt in the first round - and then another one that should be fun Florida State versus Florida Gulf Coast in Orlando Fla. That is a lot of Florida David.  That is a lot Florida.  Florida Gulf Coast was a tournament darling in 2013 when they came out of nowhere and they beat too high seeds. And people loved their high-flying style. They nicknamed them Dunk City which they are still nicknamed.  Nice.  They are a 14 seed this time. Florida State is a three. But there is talk that Florida Gulf Coast could win this game and maybe the one after.  I appreciate the help with the bracket.  Sure.  You mentioned Northwestern being at the tournament for the first time. A lot of their fans are acting like they have already won the tournament. It is crazy.  .  So any players we should be watching?  Oh my God. We do not have time to talk about all of them. But you know what I really love are the guys we do not know who are going to emerge who are going to explode. And you know if they were musical acts they would be one-hit wonders. They dazzle and then you never hear from them again...  I like that.  ... The Baha Men of March Madness players like Ali Farokhmanesh in the 2010 tournament when he played for Northern Iowa shooting down a number one seed Kansas - guys like that. That'ill be fun to watch.  OK and we should say it is selection Monday for the women. We are going to find out that bracket today. And I mean the only question to ask is how many points will UConn the University of Connecticut win by in the title game?  It is a valid question since they have won 107 straight games. But you know you have got South Carolina Baylor Notre Dame Maryland those - that is the principal competition. And it would be nice to see if UConn gets pushed see how they respond.  OK NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman talking to us about March Madness. Thanks Tom.  You are welcome. 