 I am Rachael Myrow of KQED. The Ferry Building on San Francisco's Embarcadero is normally packed but not now. Those that do show up wear face masks gloves and a wary expression. Grocery shopping is allowed and most of us are a little stir-crazy from spending a week indoors.  I vacillate between like we can totally do this we have got this to like this is a total disaster. This is impossible.  Piper LaGrelius  is the mother of four children ages 10 7 and 3-year-old twins.  I make them get dressed every day which they are not impressed by. And I still make them take showers.  We reached her via Zoom where she is now a full-time camp director as in Camp Shelter in Place. LaGrelius does get some help from the kids' teachers.  Our PE teacher is amazing and she sent a Wednesday workout.  You are going to step out to the side squat down and come back up to the middle.  The ballet teachers have sent videoed lessons of an entire class.  We are going to take two plies - one and two and three.  I do not know. Just take it every few minutes at a time you know? Just do what you can.  Life at home is a little more sedate for Kent Jue and his husband who have been spending a lot of quality time with their two Chihuahuas Dexter and Mercedes.  She is actually the prima donna. Say hi.  Jue's also stockpiled his favorite local ice cream brand Humphry Slocombe hoping to help keep them in business. He has 10 pints on hand.  Probably nine pints now.  Sweet treats aside Jue is actually under a great deal of stress these days. He runs the Ragazzi Boys Chorus the largest in the Bay Area - or what is left of it now that the coronavirus pandemic has vaporized much of the work they do. Even after the crisis ends it is not clear how many parents will be able to afford to come back.  A shutdown is not good for anyone especially for people who are not in the position to have a monthly paycheck or you know dependent on part-time work.  California's unemployment claims have spiked. For all the good humor and clever life hacks there is a strong sense the worst is yet to come. For NPR News I am Rachael Myrow in San Francisco.  