 When people get older where to age becomes an issue. Many factors can come into play for those fortunate enough to have a choice like proximity to relatives or the climate. But here's something different. NPR special correspondent Susan Stamberg found a retirement community in suburban Los Angeles where the movie and TV industry has been taking care of its own for decades.  You do not expect a bunch of 80-pluses to be running like crazy. But at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Gym they are - sitting down in exercise class.  OK squeeze you are tush. And squeeze. Tushies tushies tushies - squeeze your buns.  Fit or not a golf cart's helpful to cover the campus 48 acres with gardens fountains sculptures various buildings cottages and apartments for the independent residence plus assisted-living skilled nursing and dementia care. The cart gets us over to Connie Sawyer who is lived here since 2004.  Hello. Susan I am a little deaf.  OK. So if I raise my voice how is this?  That is great.  All right. How old are you?  One-hundred and three.  Connie got into show business when she was 8. She is had quite a career.  I worked in vaudeville in nightclubs. I played every saloon in the business.  San Francisco New York a Broadway show called Hole In The Head.  Sinatra's manager saw it. And she said you have got to buy that property. It will make a wonderful movie. He said buy it bring the author.  The author said she would not go without Connie. Connie had created her character a tipsy gal funny got lots of laughs. She had to go to. The manager went to the phone.  And she called Sinatra. He said bring the drunk .  And she is still working - did a Super Bowl ad for Dodge last year. Here's the secret of her longevity.  Move. Do not sit on the couch. All my life I played golf. I swam. And even here I go to the exercise class.  And takes special swim classes for her arthritis.  You get my age you have got to have arthritis.  Jody Foster paid for this pool. Water therapy helped her mother. The actress wanted to help others. Twenty splashing and joking seniors are lapping it up as it were.  Welcome to the Great Quill Society. Here we are.  It is a weekly writing workshop.  It is our 115th meeting.  Somebody's Labrador snoozes while screenwriter Peter Dunne a volunteer runs the show.  Joel are you still writing poetry?  Yes once in a while I gird my loins.  Fourteen residents sit around the long table with manuscripts they are working on - memoirs poems even promos they may record at the home's 247 closed circuit TV station.  Action.  If you have worked on a picture give us a call here at Channel 22. You will enjoy it.  Burt Bluestein and other residents make short films and record talks with affectionate help from media director Jennifer Clymer.  Smile.  . Thank you.  And cut... Great.  There is plenty of history on this Motion Picture and TV Fund campus MPTF for short. Two-hundred-plus residents whose careers have been in entertainment - on screen behind cameras in production rooms in secretarial pools industry people in an extremely fickle industry. MPTF president Bob Beitcher says most where freelancers.  They might be working on a TV series that starts off and is supposed to be 13 episodes. Six weeks into it it gets canceled. They are out of work. They work on a feature film. Feature films end. And then they are out of work. So it really is an industry where you never know what lies in your future.  The founders of MPTF some of movie's greatest early stars decided to create some stability. In 1921 they formed a fund where workers gave back to those without work.  And that was the vision of Mary Pickford Douglas Fairbanks Charlie Chaplin DW Griffith. And they say that if you worked on a Mary Pickford picture she had a little galvanized bucket on the set with a little flag on it. And if you were lucky enough to be working that day she expected you to drop something in the bucket to reflect your gratitude for getting paid for the work.  So many years later the industry still pitches in. Fund chairman Jeffrey Katzenberg - he is head of DreamWorks Animation - has raised about half a billion dollars. The money supports thousands of industry people in need including residents here who cannot afford the three to 8000 monthly fee. It also pays for health centers around LA that care for industry people. Fund CEO Ken Scherer says many facilities on campus are named for the film giants who endowed them Kirk Douglas for instance.  He would tour the Alzheimer's unit that he helped build. And then he would come and have dinner. And inevitably a resident would walk up and say to Kirk Douglas you were in my last picture. Now that person could have been a grip. But in his head Kirk Douglas worked on his picture.  It takes a village to make a movie. It takes movie and TV people to make this village for its retired sometimes ailing residents. Silver screen legends Norma Shearer and Mary Astor lived here. Hattie McDaniel died here. Comedian Bud Abbott came in for physical therapy. More recently a meeting here was almost movie-like. So are you in one of these first places?  No we are right up at the top of the hill.  TV writer Tony Lawrence age 87 came here 11 years ago with his wife Nancy who had Alzheimer's. They would been married 50 years when she died.  And that is why it was so astonishing and such a miracle to find. I could not believe that I had gotten this lucky to have somebody like Madi in my life.  Madeline Smith 75 an administrative assistant at NBC moved here in 2014. A year later she and Tony got married in the rose garden. On the couch in their small cottage the newlyweds sit so close together you could not fit a piece of paper between them. This is what in show business you call a happy ending especially since neither wanted to move here.  No I did not want to come. I thought oh no. This is a bunch of old people. I do not want to live here.  Of course everybody says that before they come here.  Yeah.  I do not want to live with a lot of old people.  And then what happens? You get here. What happens?  You find out you are one of the old people.  Yeah exactly exactly.  And if you are lucky in your old age you get to live at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Home in Woodland Hills Calif. I am Susan Stamberg NPR News. 