 It is PR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Renee Montagne. It will be a year ago this Sunday that a powerful earthquake shook Japan and sent a devastating tsunami crashing onto its northeast coast. Today farmers in the region still face an uncertain future. Radiation continues to leak from the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant. That plant suffered multiple meltdowns immediately after last year's natural disaster. Scientists say the amount of radioactive material being released now is not a significant threat but as Doualy Xaykaothao reports farmers are hurting.   That is the sound of decontamination in Fukushima prefecture. Chiharu Kubota is using a high-pressure water gun to hose down a building in the mountain village of Kawauchi which lies partly inside the area deemed unsafe because of high levels of radiation. Kubota has washed about 138 homes and is starting to see people return to Kawauchi.    About 200 people are already back in the village he says but it is different of course. Right now only the elderly are here. No children have returned. Yoshiko Watanabe and her husband are farmers. They used to grow vegetables and sell them locally but that ended after the earthquake. For nine months they lived in an evacuation center. Now they are home but they cannot farm because the soil is still contaminated. They are trying to get by on government hand-outs and some compensation from Tepco the owner of the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant.   Nothing is better but I am here right now so I feel happier. Compared to other people I am alive.  Some 20 miles northwest in Nihonmatsu the streets are also empty of children and activity but along a city center walkway one store is still open.     But not many customers are responding to the traditional sweet potato song and 75-year-old Hisae Kanno is not doing much business.   This area with the shops of course farmers and sight-seeing and tourism they are business is all going down. So everything is bad because of the radiation.     Minoru Nemoto is the man in charge of radiation decontamination at Nihonmatsu City Hall. This is where farmers and worried consumers can bring vegetables and other food to get it tested for radioactivity.   Radiation is the biggest issue to be solved. Otherwise people will not feel safe or comfortable living in Fukushima again. People have doubts about everything and they are skeptical about anything they hear.  Nemoto says there are a lot of problems with the decontamination process such as where to dispose of contaminated soil. He wants the government to come up with a more efficient approach so the land in Fukushima will be clean within five years.   There is no sign of decontamination at Yoshi-ichi Takeda's small dairy farm.    He says the government still will not let him feed grass to his cows because of possible contamination. But he has no idea when someone will come around to help clean up. Takeda has been promised some financial help but he says it is like everything that he is been told by the government It is just a promise. It is been a year since the disasters. He is received nothing yet. His neighbor rice grower Aiko Saito says it is difficult for all the farmers around here.   Most of the people around this area lost a lot of money because of the radiation. Her kids do not eat what she grows and people will not buy the vegetables and rice either.  Saito says she has not had officials check her produce for radiation recently but her grandkids found low readings on their Geiger counters. So she is hoping life in Fukushima is starting to improve. For NPR News I am Doualy Xaykaothao in Nihonmatsu northeast Japan. 