 Twelve dollars and 25 cents an hour - that is now the minimum wage in Oakland Calif. For the moment it is the highest citywide minimum wage in the country. Savannah Robinson from Youth Radio tells us what this means for young people in Oakland and also how businesses are trying to make this work.  Alicia Donaldson is 18 and works at McDonald's. Her job is more complicated than you might think.  When you do the grill and the chicken by yourself it is not easy. You have to put down the meat on the grill and then put chicken in the grease. People get burned a lot.  That was a lot of pain for 9 an hour and it is still hard work but now Alicia is making 12.25 instead.  When I worked 56 hours my check was about 480.  Today if she works those same hours Alicia estimates she would make about 170 more every two weeks. That could mean a few more new toys.  I bought iPhone 6. I could not buy that before.  But for 20-year-old Alex Oshiro who works as a busser at Yoshi's Jazz Club in Oakland the raise means he can start to save. Taking a minute before he goes to work Alex sporting spiky hair and carrying his uniform in a backpack is in a good mood. He has big plans for the extra cash.  Honestly the first thing I thought of was like oh I can probably move out now.  Rent is expensive in the Bay Area so Alex lives at home with his mom grandma and brother. But now he hopes he can finally afford to leave the nest.  Yeah living is going to be a lot better I feel like for me. I am going to be able to just start living as an adult now.  For some business owners the cost of that freedom for their workers means higher prices for their customers.   In Farley's 26 years we have never faced as dramatic an increase in cost or operations as the 36 percent minimum wage hike in Oakland.  That Farley's Coffee Shop owner Chris Hillyard at a press conference announcing the new minimum wage. Even though the owner supported the raise he acknowledges the hardships the new law brings.   To raise wages we need to generate more income. To make this happen overnight we must raise our prices. We stand here today to ask for Oakland to come together and support all the cafes and restaurants that are in this unprecedented position.  Oakland's wage increase is the most dramatic in the country. Many cities in the Bay Area and nationwide have approved tiered raises over several years. Sylvia Allegretto is an economist at the Institute for Research on Labor and Employment at UC Berkeley and she is been tracking minimum-wage initiatives across the country.  We have states now such as you know North Dakota. And Kentucky's talking about a minimum wage - Louisville Ky. where there is never been minimum wages above the federal level.  President Obama proposed increasing the federal minimum wage from 7.25 to 10.10 during his State of the Union address. Opponents to the increase are concerned that it will slow job creation and that businesses will reduce hours. The Oakland's City Auditor's Report on the financial impact of the law notes that the increase could force the city to reduce its workforce training programs which would leave more youth unemployed. For Alicia Donaldson at McDonald's she is already seeing shorter shifts.  I do think it is because of the pay that they are cutting hours.  And that means she may have to save a little longer to get that iPhone 6. For NPR News in Oakland I am Savannah Robinson.  Savannah's story was produced by Youth Radio and you heard it right here on MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am David Greene. 