 And I am David Greene in Culver City Calif. Good morning. NPR has learned new information suggesting that the special counsel's Russia investigation is done. A key prosecutor Andrew Weissmann is leaving the office. He helped build the case against former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort. Manafort was sentenced yesterday to serve 7 12 years in prison. Now with us to walk through her exclusive reporting here is NPR national justice correspondent Carrie Johnson. Good morning Carrie.  Good morning David.  So let us start with what you have learned about Robert Mueller's legal team. This long process might be coming to an end here it sounds like.  Yeah nearly two years long - it is the strongest sign yet the special counsel is done investigating. It is that a prominent lawyer on the team Andrew Weissmann is leaving the special counsel unit and the Justice Department. Two sources are telling me Weissmann's leaving to go teach and do some scholarship at New York University. And they say he would not be leaving unless the Russia investigation was complete. I am hearing also to expect more signs of wrapping up in the next two weeks maximum. Remember David the lead FBI agent assigned to this probe started a new job in Virginia this month. And other lawyers have been moving off the team too. But Andrew Weissmann was in some ways aside from Robert Mueller the most well-known. He is been attacked by conservative talk radio hosts. And he was called a killer by Steve Bannon one of Trump's former advisers who also called him the LeBron James of money laundering investigations.  The thinking being that I mean once the important work is done you are going to let your investigators move on even if you are putting the finishing touches on the report or whatever is happening.  That is exactly right. And we are seeing more high-level departures by the day.  So the prosecutor you are talking about Andrew Weissmann I mean really played a central role in the case against Paul Manafort. And we are seeing a lot of news in that case over the past 24 hours with the sentencing. What exactly is happening?  Yeah David. Last week the judge in Virginia basically said Paul Manafort had led an otherwise blameless life aside from his financial crimes. Yesterday the judge in Washington D.C. Amy Berman Jackson had a lot more criticism for Paul Manafort. She sentenced him to serve almost four years in prison. Add that to the time Manafort got in Virginia last week it totals up to about 7 12 years in prison total. The D.C. judge Amy Jackson was not buying Paul Manafort's remorse. She basically said he used other people's money to support his own lifestyle - too many houses for one family to enjoy too many suits for one man to wear. She also said Manafort spent his whole life spinning. He treated the legal process the same way. She said courts are one place where facts still matter. And she said saying I am sorry I got caught is not an effective plea for leniency - very tough language from this D.C. judge.  Tough language indeed. I mean we should say the first federal prison term Manafort was given a lot of people criticized it for not being long enough. Different reaction to this one?  You know it is been mixed. Some former prosecutors say in all 7 12 years seems about right for Paul Manafort. Some Democrats on Capitol Hill were saying it was too lenient. And of course Paul Manafort's allies are continuing to say that he never should have been prosecuted in the first place for some of this and he would not have been prosecuted if not for his work with President Trump on the 2016 campaign.  What about the idea of a presidential pardon Carrie Johnson? I mean that seems to be looming over a case like this. Is not that possibility why prosecutors in New York have moved to bring their own charges against Manafort?  Indeed. Paul Manafort's lawyer Kevin Downing told people outside the courthouse yesterday there was no collusion which the judge had explicitly said was not one of her findings. The judge suggested that Paul Manafort's lawyer Downing was actually speaking to another audience. And President Trump shortly after the sentencing said he feels very badly for Paul Manafort. He said he has not given a pardon for Manafort any thought. But clearly state prosecutors - the Manhattan district attorney Cy Vance - has. And that is why he slapped Paul Manafort with 16 charges only an hour or so after this federal sentencing concluded. And the key point there David is that a president cannot pardon someone on state charges only federal charges.  And just coming back full circle - Carrie we might not know exactly if the special counsel's investigation is over. Will there be a clear end moment that we the public will know or maybe not?  At some point the attorney general of the United States Bill Barr is going to have to come out and make a statement about this.  OK. So we will learn something. Exclusive reporting this morning from NPR's Carrie Johnson - we appreciate it Carrie.  My pleasure. 