 Standardized tests a good or bad thing? Some argue the tests remain a useful tool in the college admissions process. Others contend tests do not predict future success or failure for college students. Elizabeth Kolbert recently took the test as a grownup and wrote about the experience for The New Yorker. Good Morning.  Good Morning.  So what did you learn?  Well one of the things I learned is that it is really quite a grueling test. You sit there for four hours and you have to have really really intense concentration. And in fact at one point I made what is known in the business as a bubbling error and began bubbling in answers for different section of the answer sheets. So I really have a lot more sympathy now for high school juniors across the country.   The test especially the math test is very different from the one that I took a thousand years ago. Also there was no such thing as an essay question when I took the test. I gather that they have updated it all along the way trying to make it a more serious test.  Yes I think the idea is that you know do you really want a kid's future I suppose - if you consider college admissions your future - to be based solely on multiple choice questions. So they have added as you say an essay although a complaint is that the essay has become extremely formulaic - that there is a formula for doing well as opposed to you know really using creativity. And they have also added open response math questions so that you are not just bubbling in an answer you have to give the answer.  So what do you mean when you write Whatever is at the center of the SAT - that is to say the A - aptitude assessment assiduousness or ambition the exam at this point represents an accident you write.  Accident in that case I thought it referred to the fact that the SAT was originally designed for very different purpose from the one that it is now being put to. It was designed to be used after kids got into college to help counsel them. This is way back in the '20s. And then it was adopted actually by the president of Harvard at the time in the '30s to hand out these scholarships to kids he thought traditionally would not go to Harvard - Midwestern boys. They were all boys at that point. Now it is become you know the standard college admissions here. And it is used in a very I think a lot of people would say in a way that it should not be because of the statistical differences between you know let us say 720 and 730 are really trivial. But they can be used in college admissions to make these fine distinctions that are really just impossible to make.  Well I think college admissions - deans and folks who do this work - would say that there are thousands of children in each cache of applications they get who would be fine.  Yes absolutely.  And they have to have some reason to take some and not others.  Yes I think though that the sort of tyranny of the test really has come now from colleges own rankings. They have a significant impact on your own schools rankings. So for example a couple of years ago there was a scandal when Claremont McKenna College was revealed to having overstating its SATs in attempt to sort of boost its rankings with the person who did that had to resign of course. So I think the colleges also feel like a little bit tyrannized by this test at this point.  Well after your own experience with this very important test where do you stand on whether or not this should be used to determine the future education of high school students?  I guess I came out on the side that it probably was not the best way to be measured college students. Certainly you know four hours out of your whole life is probably not the best measure. There is just a study that came out very recently comparing kids who did not submit SATs. Now some schools consider SATs optional and they compared a cohort of kids who had not submitted scores and a cohort of kids who had. And they found very very trivial differences between their performances.  We actually reported on that on this program not too long ago. It is a very interesting notion that it makes almost no difference in performance.  Yeah one of the interesting points that the authors of that study made was if you have a kid who actually did not do well on the SATs but had good grades and was clearly working very hard to overcome whatever you know may be deficits in their own high school education that that kid was quite possibly a better bet as a college student than a kid who had maybe potentially more advantages in high school.  Elizabeth Kolbert's article appears in this week's issue of The New Yorker. It is called Big Score When Mom Takes The SATs. Thank you very much.  Thanks for having me. 