 British Prime Minister Gordon Brown gives evidence tomorrow before a panel known as the Iraq Inquiry. This public session is trying to establish the way decisions were made in the run-up to Britain's participation in the war in Iraq. The Inquiry's expected to report its findings after a general election due later this year. We are going to talk about this with Michael White who reports for The Guardian. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Hello.  So Gordon Brown why would he be called to testify here? Mr.  Well he was the Chancellor of the Exchequer the finance minister here in Britain. So he was the money man in the war. He is not in the same position as Tony Blair. He is' being asked - why did you back George Bush to the hilt? Why was the occupation handled so badly? Brown's problem is much narrower. He is asked - why did you not provide enough money so that British troops could do the job without several hundred of them being killed and many many more injured? A similar story which you have at home except you frankly as all the British soldiers tell us had much better weaponry and much better kit.  I am glad you mentioned Tony Blair the former prime minister. He was called to account for his policies in this way. Gordon Brown as you mentioned has a little bit narrower question to answer but also has a bigger problem because heres this unpopular war and he has an election coming up doesnt he? Mr.  Yes I think its not as bad as you imply in your question for Brown. The great passion and anger against the Labor government for taking part in an unpopular war has subsided somewhat. So Brown is subject to embarrassment as a leader and questions of character. Did he support Blair fully? He rather plays the role of T.S. Eliots Macavity the cat who is never there when there is trouble. And was he mean with the money with the financial commitments to the ministry of defense and thereby putting voters lives and voters children and husbands and sons lives at risk? So its a motive in a different way.  And it sounds a little tricky for him as well. Because he can say I supported the war all I could which means that he was with the unpopular Tony Blair on this issue or he can say I didnt support the war that much which distances himself from the man who helped bring him to power. Mr.  Hell try and have it both ways. Everybody knows it was very much Tony Blairs - I was going to use the word crusade but we dont use that word anymore do we? Blair was up for this and Brown went along with it. But its irritating and from some people makes them angry that the idea that the treasury could have provided more money than they did. Now Brown will deny all this. He said the troops got all the Chinooks and all the heavily armored cars that they needed. The fact is we havent fought a war like this and we suffered just as your forces suffered but as in World War I and World War II you are better equipped and our boys notice it and their mothers hear about it. So its a bad one for Brown especially because he has never really been interested in what you might call hard power. He is a soft power man. He believes that building wells and roads international aid is the way to win these issues. In many cases it is. But he is never been interested in or sympathetic to the military and the military has made this very clear during its own evidence to the Chilcot inquiry where Brown appears tomorrow.  Do you know Im sure Mr. White Iraq has faded very much from the headlines in the United States even Afghanistan doesnt get as much attention as you would imagine. Are people still thinking a lot about the Iraq war in Britain? Mr.  Well weve had four inquiries. Weve had a lot of new detail we didnt known about before. But the broad outlines of what happened and the mistakes were made and why they were made and by whom has been known now for several years. And the difficulty is that people who are quite intractably opposed to the war. basically wont be happy until they see Tony Blair and George Bush at the International Criminal Court in Hague - which is not going to happen in the case of either them - and held to account sent to jail convicted as war criminals. Im sure some of your listeners will recognize the language and know that Im not really exaggerating very much. There is a deep and intractable corps of people - I dont know how many but a significant minority - who really think this was the worst thing either of our governments have done for a very very long time and they want justice. And if the verdict is anything less than that they will throw their hands up and say whitewash.  Michael White of the British newspaper The Guardian. Thanks very much. Mr.  Not at all. 