 Jessye Norman will sing tonight at Carnegie Hall. She has performed there dozens of times but this time it is a little different. She is sharing the stage not only with the Orchestra of St. Luke's but with the hip hop artists The Roots. What brings them together is a poem by Langston Hughes called Ask Your Mama. The poem has been set to music before but not on this scale. Tonight's world premiere is part of a festival called Honor! showcasing the cultural legacy of African-American musicians. Jeff Lunden reports.  Composer Laura Karpman was going through a bookstore when she stumbled onto a little-known epic poem by Langston Hughes the poet laureate of the Harlem Renaissance. It was called Ask Your Mama 12 Moods for Jazz.  And of course what attracted me to the piece was not only was it by Langston Hughes - who I think is one of the most brilliant poets who ever lived - but in the right-hand margins of the poem Langston says exactly how the music should sound.   Unidentified Man     Can I get it now? Or must I hesitate?  Hughes wrote this sprawling poem late in his career in 1960 while he was attending the Newport Jazz Festival. He had music in his ears and dictated a kind of soundtrack in the margins of the poem that included everything from blues to German lieder to gospel and Latin music together says Singer Jessye Norman.  One of the poems is called The Gospel Cha-Cha where there is sort of African-American gospel music but also the music that one would have heard that was coming up from the Caribbean.    Cha cha-cha cha-cha-cha cha-cha-cha- cha. They cast the nets in the  cha-cha-cha...  That is Tammie Jenkins singing Jessye Norman's part in a demo recording. Annie Dorsen who directed Passing Strange on Broadway is overseeing the physical presentation of Ask Your Mama which will include video. She says Langston Hughes was paying homage to generations of African-American artists while experimenting with the form.  You know he is taking in - Charlie Parker is taking in you know bebop. He is taking in sort of innovations from more radical artists. And he is you know experimenting a little bit late in life wondering what it all means what his life as an artist has meant how he fits into the marketplace how he fits into black history how he fits into American history.    I moved out to Long Island even further than St. Albans which lately is going nowhere. I moved out even further further farther on the south way off the turnpike. I am the only colored here. Got here yes I made it made it in the papers every day. Got here yes I made it made it in the papers every day. Famous the hard way...  ...from nobody and nothing to where I am...  Laura Karpman has written something of a maximalist score for Ask Your Mama. She is using hip-hop. She is using a full classical orchestra. She is using jazz instruments. She even has two musicians sitting at keyboards triggering samples from laptops.  When Langston asks for old-time traditional 12-bar blues instead of making the orchestra do that - which always sounds not quite right to be kind - I actually trigger the sample of Cab Calloway doing St. James Infirmary Blues.   Unidentified Man  The quarter of the Negroes where the doorknobs left in leider more than German ever bore...  Langston Hughes is a presence throughout the piece.  We found an old recording of Langston reading the poem. I digitized that and then what I did is I sampled from that as well. He begins the poem and he speaks to us constantly throughout the poem. He also does a little bit of singing too.  Karpman demonstrates at the keyboard.  So Langston's singing...    de de de de de de delight delight delight delight delight delight delight delight delight delight delight delight delight delight delight delight.  Composer Laura Karpman says she felt delight creating the piece for Jessye Norman as well. They began working on it together two years ago.  And I went and sat next to her on her couch and she sat very close and she started singing spirituals to me. And well I thought I was just going to melt. But I would never heard her sing like this. I would never heard her sing that intimately. I do not think anybody had.   Ask Your Mama is really a microcosm of this festival. All of these names all of this music that Langston Hughes heard in Harlem at the time the newer immigrants from Latin America and people coming to this country from Africa that were making their music that he was hearing all of this is indicated in the margins of the poem. And all of this Laura has been able to bring to this piece.  For NPR News I am Jeff Lunden in New York.   You can hear more music from Ask Your Mama and hear more from its creators at nprmusic.org.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer.  And I am Steve Inskeep. 