 Four states are voting today on presidential candidates. They include the state of Mississippi where Republicans Ted Cruz and Donald Trump both campaigned yesterday. NPR's Debbie Elliott saw them both.  In a speech mindful of his Bible Belt audience Donald Trump spoke religion.   I am a good Christian. And I am leading with evangelicals.  Trump packed a high school gym in Madison Miss. a wealthy suburb of Jackson the state capital. Thousands overflowed into the football stadium outside to watch the speech played over a Jumbotron. Trump delivered his classic crowd-pleasers about winning making America great and building a border wall. He also hit themes that resonate with social conservatives a key constituency here which often feels left out of the national conversation.   So I told you they are chipping away at Christianity and they are chipping away at the Second Amendment. Every year - chip chip chip.  As for his rivals he referred to the Florida senator as little Marco Rubio and attacked the integrity of Ted Cruz who also has a strong appeal among evangelicals.   He holds up that Bible. And he is there with the Bible. And he puts it down and then he starts lying.  Trump's lack of Southern manners does not appear to be a problem for his supporters.  No.  No. P.  Not a bit. B.  Nope. P.  Not one bit.  Bill and Patricia Vinzant own an antique store in Bovina Miss. P.  We got a bunch of pansies up there right now. So it is time for something else.  Ted Cruz brought his campaign to a working-class suburb of Jackson where he climbed onto a tabletop at a catfish house to greet hundreds of supporters who squeezed into a banquet room.   God bless the great state of Mississippi.   He promised to get the boot of the federal government off of small business repeal Obamacare and abolish the Department of Education and the IRS.   You know...  Bring God back.  Cruz delivered a similar message as Trump about standing firm for conservative values.   I will not compromise away your religious liberty.   And I will not compromise away your Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms.  He hammered Trump for saying in the last GOP debate that he was flexible.   Flexible is Washington D.C. code word for we are about to stick it to you.  Retired schoolteacher Mary Jones of Brandon says she is fed up with compromise and flexibility.  Around and around. You pat me on my back and I will pat you on yours. It is all about money money money.  She is voting for Cruz.  His cohorts in Washington D.C. hate him. And whoever they hate that is who I am for because they have destroyed our country.  Jones says the Republican Party has betrayed voters like her and now they are ready to revolt. The lesson for the party?  When we are in power we have got to govern better.  Austin Barbour nephew of the former Governor Haley Barbour is a Republican political strategist in Mississippi. He ran the super PAC that supported Rick Perry's presidential campaign but is unaffiliated now.  I think this may be one of those every 50 to 100 year type of elections where the voters just sort of say you know damn the torpedoes. We are doing things different than we have done maybe in our lifetime.  And a powerful way to show frustration is at the polls. Debbie Elliott NPR News Jackson Miss. 