 Hypertension is a leading cause of disease in the United States. As a killer it is second only to tobacco. Lifestyle changes and medication will bring high blood pressure down. But as NPR's Brenda Wilson reports they are not used enough.  Sixty-five-year-old Lee Musick is checking his blood pressure using a portable home unit. Keep in mind that most doctors are happy if that top number is under 120. Consistently over 140 the patient has hypertension. Mr.  Well we got a very high rating.  Oh no.  Mr.  Let us do it again.  What was it? Mr.  One-sixty-three which is most unusual for me so let us try it again.  Usually he says his blood pressure is around 138 over 60 to 140 over 70 and even lower at times. Mr.  I am looking back in February at some 128 numbers another 128 127 for a couple of days 125.  It is not unusual that his pressure shot up during an interview. Musick's doctor cardiologist Thomas Lee of Harvard University says it is the average blood pressure that counts. Dr.  It is the average amount of wear and tear you are subjecting your body's arteries to. It is not like you have any one blood pressure. Your blood pressure jumps all around from minute to minute - five 10 15 points.  As we get older blood vessels stiffen he says. There is a resistance to blood flow so the heart has to pump harder. As blood surges those rigid blood vessels are weakened and may burst. That can lead to a stroke and heart failure. Most people seem to have diastolic blood pressure under control - that is the bottom number a measure of the heart at rest. It is the top number from the heart pumping systolic blood pressure that is the biggest problem. An Institute of Medicine report recently found that systolic blood pressure is undiagnosed and uncontrolled in 85 percent of people who see doctors regularly. Maybe because as recently as 2003 many doctors believed blood pressure had to reach 160 before the patient was thought to have hypertension. Research has shown that it takes years for doctors to follow new treatment guidelines. But the patient also has a part to play in putting off treatment. For 30 years Dr. Thomas Lee has been Lee Musick's doctor. About 15 years into that relationship hypertension crept in then diabetes and high cholesterol. Dr.  There is an interesting little dance that goes on where both the doctor and the patient are in a little bit of denial as blood pressure goes up to 140 150 160.  In Musick's case they made a deal. Dr. Lee would not put him on medication right away and Musick would change his lifestyle by exercising watching how much he ate cutting out the salt and boosting potassium levels by eating a lot of fruits and vegetables. Mr.  The weight has been a creeping problem for me over time. I have got it stabilized over the last few years. But I wish it would have stabilized about 20 to 30 pounds less. And the diet I definitely avoid salt but processed meat and snacks are very favored by me.  Musick does not like the idea of being on medication he will probably have to take every day for the rest of his life. He is like many patients Thomas Lee sees. Dr.  They want to give lifestyle a chance at lowering their blood pressure. And of course they should because often if they really give it a go they can drop their blood pressure.  The medication sometimes makes patients feel depressed causes dry mouth erectile dysfunction and insomnia. Dr. Lee says sometimes the dance with patients over medication can drag on too long. Dr.  Physicians want to be the heroes. They want to be nice guys. And they say okay we will give you another three months. But then some of them do not come back because they have strokes or heart attacks. We cannot tell which ones are going to be the ones who are unlucky but some of those strokes and heart attacks could have been prevented if we jumped right in and got their blood pressure under control.  Music and Lee really work together office visits email. Lee will say to cut a dose of medication or add a pill. Musick will walk an extra mile to balance out a Starbuck's frappe. So far so good. Brenda Wilson NPR News.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 