 Just how many Americans are out of work? The best estimates say the number is in the millions now. And unlike with past economic shocks that unfolded over many months this crisis arrived in weeks. Today we learn with more certainty just how severe the job cuts have been in recent days. NPR correspondent Jim Zarroli covers business and economics. Jim good morning.  Good morning Steve.  What are today's numbers that we are expecting?  Well we can expect a brutal picture I think. We are almost certain to see record numbers of people who filed for unemployment last week. We have seen...  Oh that is the number. It is going to be one week. And it was the week that much of America shut down. That is what we are talking about here.  Right the week ending March 21. The week before that we saw an increase of about 70000 which was you know strong but - which was a lot but not anything like what we are going to see this week. Economists so far are saying you know we will just see enormous losses last week. The Economic Policy Institute for instance it estimated that as many as 3.4 million people filed for claims last week. Just for comparison - even during the worst weeks of the Great Recession the number never topped 665000. And we had almost that many in California alone last week. So you know the number of jobs lost is just way more than we have ever seen before. And that is just last week. We are going to be continuing to lose jobs for a while.  Are some parts of the economy harder hit than others?  Well I mean in the kind of complex multilayered economy we have the losses are eventually going to affect every part of the economy. A few industries have been especially hard hit now - transportation especially airlines energy and hotels and restaurants. So we are seeing places like Florida and Nevada places that depend on tourism hit really hard because nobody's traveling right now.  Sure.  A hotel industry trade group has said the industry probably lost a million jobs since this crisis began. Also seeing a drop in energy prices so states like Texas and Oklahoma where oil and gas is really important have seen layoffs. But we are seeing people everywhere lose jobs.  Jim we have all lost track of time here I think. It seems like every day is very long and very full and that we have been in this crisis for a very long time. But was not the economy pretty good just a month ago?  It was. I mean remember just before this virus struck we were still in the middle of just a really strong job market. I mean we had a 3.5 unemployment rate in February. And now the St. Louis Fed has actually estimated that we could see unemployment go above 30 in the next month or so...  Wow.  ...Although it will probably fall down pretty quickly too the St. Louis Fed says. So a lot of people are just feeling whiplash. I talked to a guy named Adam Hill  from Worcester Mass. He worked until very recently as a graphic designer for a company that does trade shows. And he says you know as recently as a few weeks ago his company was having a really good year.  Then all of a sudden it is just this show canceled and then another one and another one. And it was - within two weeks I think 155 shows had canceled. I guess I was not too surprised when we got laid off.  So he says he is been told he will be rehired once the economy rebounds and the company can afford to bring him back. But of course he does not know when that will be none of us does.  Now we are talking on this morning after the U.S. Senate passed a 2 trillion economic rescue package. There is a lot in there for companies. There is a lot in there for workers. How important is that going to be for these millions getting laid off?  Yeah. They will definitely get some help. I mean most states for instance now offer 26 weeks of unemployment benefits. The bill adds another 13 weeks for that. For the first four months people will get an extra 400. It also covers people who work freelance part-time. So that is really important in the gig economy when you have a lot of people like Uber drivers who do not work regular jobs.  Yeah.  But the big question is will that be enough? And that depends on how long this downturn goes on. Most economists think we will see a sharp downturn but then when the epidemic is contained things will turn around pretty quickly.  NPR's Jim Zarroli. Thanks.  You are welcome. 