  And time now for StoryCorps. Today a story about reaching the end of life. It was recorded as part of StoryCorps' new legacy initiative an effort to collect interviews with people who have life-threatening conditions. In 2010 David Plant was diagnosed with skin cancer which has since metastasized in other parts of his body. David recently sat down with his stepson to talk about his death.  I am David Plant. I am almost 81 years old and I am about to speak to my son Frank.  My name's Frank Lilley difference in names is because David is my step-father but I certainly consider him my father. So you first met me when I was about nine or 10 years old when you married my mother and I am just wondering what your impressions were of me at the time.  You were a good-looking athletic guy but you were in the unhappy situation of a broken family.  I did not have a lot of people to look up to at that time - or a lot of friends really. And so you became one of those very rapidly. And that meant a lot to me. You know I was thinking the other day how much I have looked up to you and used you as an example. And I realized that is what I am doing right now again. I am watching all of this and I am trying to learn how are you handling all this.  Well I think in a year from now I will not be here. But I am not anxious about whether there is a heaven or whether there is music or clouds or whatever. I am more anxious about the end-of-life journey. I want it to be quiet contemplative and calm. For me dying - it is very enlightening and certainly rewarding. Look at the opportunity to talk for example. It is just incredible. We would coast around having a drink before dinner never get down to anything that was serious.  That is exactly right.  But I do not regard this as the terminal point of these conversations. Because I am confident we are going to talk again and again.  What would you like to see after you go? I mean what is your legacy?  I would just like people to believe that humility - listening to the other person and trying to understand the other person - and forgiving are important.  You know to be honest I do not feel like I have to forgive you for anything. I am really just very grateful. And I love you and I thank you.  Thank you.   David Plant with his stepson Frank Lilley in New London New Hampshire. They participated in StoryCorps' new legacy initiative. Their conversation will be archived at the Library of Congress. Learn how StoryCorps works with hospice and palliative care organizations to collect interviews like this one at npr.org.   This is NPR News. 