 Lady Lamb The Beekeeper is the whimsical stage name of a young musician Aly Spaltro. Spaltro's from the small town of Brunswick Maine. Her new record After is out today. And even though she is still using a stage name Spaltro is becoming comfortable sharing more of herself. Here's NPR's Maggie Penman.  Aly Spaltro was 18 when she first started recording her music in the basement of the video rental store where she worked. She had a deal with her boss. After she closed up shop at 11 p.m. she was free to say all night using the space as her recording studio.   I was given the freedom back then to be as loud as I wanted to be late at night starting from 11 p.m. until 5 in the morning.    When gravity's a palm pushing down on your head like the devil's got a paw dug in your shoulder. And the other one is rubbing your back.  Spaltro says she is naturally an introverted person. But this time she spent being loud ended up shaping the sound of her music.  That gave me the power to really express myself that I do not think I would have - my music would have turned out the same if I would been writing songs in a bedroom.  As she started to put some recordings together she wanted to share them. And there was this record store next door.  I really wanted to put these recordings for free on the counter but did not want them to be traced back to the girl at the video store next door.  And that is when she came up with the strange moniker - Lady Lamb The Beekeeper. She would been keeping a notebook by her bed to write down lyrics that came to her as she was falling asleep. And this phrase appeared almost literally in a dream.  Basically Lady Lamb The Beekeeper was written in really messy cursive in my notebook when I woke up.  It is not totally surprising to learn that Lady Lamb writes some of her lyrics while she is half-asleep. Her songs have this dreamy ethereal quality. She makes connections that seem sort of subconscious.   Realizing we are both afraid of the notion of having our brains be in the body of a whale in the ocean deep where the light do not reach.  But the surreal images on this new album are interspersed with something less opaque because it is not just that Lady Lamb is less worried about people knowing she is that girl from the video store. She is also getting more comfortable with telling them who that person is.  I really wanted to make a conscious effort in this record to be more open to make something that was more about myself and my life and my family and my fears and loves rather than my last work which was more about what I wanted from others you know that I could not have.    Funny how a good thing opens your eyes makes you feel the branches leads you to the pine.  If growing up is an exercise in setting yourself apart from the place where you came from Aly Spaltro seems to be starting to find her way back.    Funny still how infatuation shuts you all up as it makes you a deadbeat son-of-a-gun.  Maggie Penman NPR News.    Honey but I do know where I come from.  This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am David Greene.  And I am Renee Montagne.    And honey I know where I end up. I got a body for this . 