 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  We begin this part of the program with news on the earthquake in Chile. As of this morning the death toll has risen to over 700. Chilean Senator Evelyn Mathei says the destruction could have been much worse.  But still it was so violent that many things did break down. And so it is very difficult to get to the people to get them water and get them food and to get them medication. Many hospitals are you know on the ground. So it is ghastly.  Eben Harrell is a London based reporter for Time Magazine. He was in Chile's capital Santiago when the quake hit and he joined us on the line. Good morning.  Good morning.  Give us a brief description of what Santiago looks like after the earthquake. You walked around you saw some things what comes to mind this morning?  Santiago after the earthquake looks very similar to Santiago before the earthquake. There are pockets of devastation but they tend to be the historical buildings. Many of these old buildings have what I would describe as just sort of a ring of dandruff around their bases from crumbling facades. So it is interesting to move between kind of shiny untouched buildings to buildings that obviously were built before we had figured out how to handle these kind of powerful earthquakes.  I suppose though because we have just been through the horror in Haiti it is surprising to see how orderly things seem to have been in Chile generally speaking. Although you know Santiago was not so badly hit what do you know about the rest of the country?  Well I think it is surprising only to outsiders. The first thing that the U.S. Ambassador Paul Simons told me when we met after the incident - he said this is not a Haiti situation. There are pockets of extreme devastation but they have been acknowledged and the government has what seems to be a quick and methodical way - identified problems and identified what help it would need. This country was one of the first responders to the Haiti earthquake itself. In fact I have tried to get in touch with some of the leading experts on disaster preparedness and earthquake response and I am finding difficult to reach people not because the phones are difficult here but they are difficult in Haiti where they all are advising the Haitians on how to rebuild after the earthquake.  Now we are though hearing - there have been reports of looting in the second largest city and I think the hardest hit city Concepcion people taking at least things like food and water and the basics.  Yes I have not been there but I did see some footage of an electronic store I think as well. So there is always a minority. What I remember on the evening of the earthquake was everyone was calm and helpful and that sort of sense of camaraderie has continued at least here in the capital. Obviously things change when populations are put under increased strain and I think with water running low basic supplies running low in Concepcion I think they are starting to see some of the effects of that.  There has been much talk about this over the weekend. But just remind us briefly the hundreds of deaths - and it is growing there in Chile you know a terrible terrible toll - but why has it with an earthquake that big and much bigger than the one in Haiti? What are the elements that are different in those two countries that make it less devastating there?  I am staying in area with many high rises and it is amazing to watch how they sway almost like mechanical metronomes. They have obviously been designed to absorb these sort of forces because we have been having Richter scale six aftershocks regularly which are considerable earthquakes themselves and each time it rolls through I am astounded again by the feats of engineering that buildings can absorb that kind of energy.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Eben Harrell of Time Magazine speaking to us from Santiago Chile. And you can see his reporting at Time.com plus full coverage of the earthquakes in Chile and Haiti at npr.org. 