 You know it is almost impossible to see some of the earliest movies by African-American filmmakers. Many are lost or destroyed. Those that survived are often held by private collectors or stored away in old film archives. Now some of those movies are being restored. NPR's Hansi Lo Wang has been tracking them down. HANSI LO WANG  If you are trying to find a rare film a good place to start is in this underground vault in Culpeper Va. near the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains. This is where the Library of Congress stores more than 100000 reels of film shot before 1951. Casablanca Citizen Kane Mr. Smith Goes To Washington - they are all behind these locked doors. So are a few movies from a genre called race films. They were made by black filmmakers with mostly black casts for black audiences after World War I and through the 1940s. Many tried to uplift the image of African-Americans and contradict the racist stereotypes in D. W. Griffith's The Birth Of A Nation. That film is also stored in this vault just a few slots over from a 1939 race film that George Willeman the vault's manager pulls from the shelf.  This is a reel of Birthright - Oscar Micheaux film.   Birthright is about a young black man who graduates from Harvard and goes home to the South to build a school for African-American children. When he tries to buy some land he gets cheated by a white man in a fictional town called Hooker's Bend.    Why that cannot be legal.   Legal?  Legal hell - anything a white man wants to pull over on a Negro in Hooker's Bend is legal.  The first scenes of the movie have been lost for years. Archivists say that is lucky because many of the race films now only exist as fragments of decomposing filmstrips. That is why Kino Lorber an independent film distributor started a project called Pioneers of African-American Cinema to restore more than a dozen race films. Jacqueline Stewart a film professor at the University of Chicago is helping to curate them.  This race film material presents an extremely important chapter in the long history of African-American participation behind the camera.  There were more than 30 race film companies by the 1920s. One of the most prolific filmmakers that emerged Oscar Micheaux was the son of former slaves. He wrote directed and distributed almost 40 movies in three decades. This was indie filmmaking at its earliest stages - outside of Hollywood and with very low budgets.  Audience chuckled at the time. They would giggle because the acting was so bad the editing seemed so rough you know the quality of the film stock does not seem to be all that clear - crisp.  Still Stewart says they put issues relevant to the black community on screen.  The politics of skin color within the black community gender differences class differences regional differences - especially during this period of the Great Migration.    There is a long white robe in heaven I know.   There is a long white robe in heaven I know.  One of Stewart's favorites in the collection is a 1941 film that was rediscovered in a Texas warehouse in the 1980s The Blood Of Jesus.   .  A rifle falls to the floor goes off by accident and kills a young black woman in the South. Her spirit wavers between following an angel to heaven or an agent for Satan to Hell which looks like a jazz club in the city.   Oh God have mercy on my soul.  Stewart says the film's writer-director Spencer Williams touched on a debate within the black community about city versus country living.  We get this kind of allegory of black urban migration and the dangers that urban life presents and the need to hold onto a certain kind of spiritual center.   New scores have been commissioned for the silent movies like Oscar Micheaux's Within Our Gates from 1919. This latest restoration is more faithful to Micheaux's original vision according to Charles Musser. He is a co-curator for the collection and teaches film at Yale University. And he says one of the shots in a lynching scene was originally upside-down. But when previous film restorers worked on the film...  They turned it right-side up because they thought it was a quote mistake. But Oscar Micheaux's mistake are never mistakes. This is a moment when in fact the world is turned upside down. He shows that by turning the shot upside down. So that is like brilliant filmmaking.  Filmmaking that Paul Miller the collection's executive producer says should not stay sitting in film archives.  It is a shame that it is taken almost 100 years to get these films back out. They should be well-known and they should be part of the basic premise of early American cinema period.  Some of these films are returning to the big screen at New York City's Film Forum this Sunday and Monday. The entire Pioneers of African-American Cinema collection will be available for streaming online and as a five-disc set in July. Hansi Lo Wang NPR News. 