 Deming N.M. is a little desert city. It is less than 40 miles north of the Mexican border has about 14000 residents but it is getting crowded. It is one of the places where U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents have dropped off busloads of people who are seeking asylum. Chris Brice is the interim assistant manager of Luna County where Deming is located. He also manages the town's shelter. Good morning Mr. Brice.  Good morning.  How many people have been dropped off in your town since the buses first came through?  A little over 3000 now.  Little over 3000 in a town with a population of 14000 - where are you housing people?  We started originally in one of the big metal buildings that comprises our fair area. And then we moved to an old World War II hangar here at the local airport as a backup.  Wow.  So we are using both now.  Have federal officials said why they picked Deming?  I do not think they picked Deming necessarily. You know we just happen to be a big border patrol station as well as our neighboring county. They are dropping off here as well - the Hidalgo County drops here as well.  How are these people - the asylum-seekers being housed in an airport hangar - how are they handling things?  You would be surprised. I think they are - you know they are a little - you know I guess they are a little worried when they first show up. But then I think it is actually better than most places they have been and that is what they tell us. So they have more room and more freedom than most places they have been so they are actually really happy.  And how is the community of Deming handling this influx of new people?  On the whole that - it is been amazing. The volunteers the support has been amazing. Obviously there is a small percentage of people who are detractors and do not like the idea at all. But I think most of them are just kind of misinformed on what the status is of the asylum-seekers. And you know they want them all to go home and that is just not possible. But on the whole it is been really positive.  Well you mentioned that some residents of your community are curious about the status. I wonder has Customs and Border Protection told you not just what you are supposed to do with these people but how long you should plan on them being there?  Well first of all they are - they have a legal U.S. status so there is nothing that we are supposed to do with them.  OK.  They could walk away at any given time and go find their own transportation and their own food and the way to their sponsor here in the United States. So no I mean they do not really - they tell us that that is the case. We are really here just to help them transition to their sponsors here in the United States because 90 of them - probably more than that - are actually outside of New Mexico so...  And are people leaving? Are they getting situated and then moving on to their next destination?  They do not - well they do not leave of their own - they can of their own free will. But they wait until we contact their sponsor or try to set up travel arrangements. And then we typically get them to a bigger hub - a bigger transportation hub and then they are on their way.  So you are doing a lot of logistics as well. As I understand it Deming has declared a state of emergency. What does that do for you? What does that get you if anything?  Well the city - and remember I am the county that is the city.  Mmm hmm.  They did make an emergency declaration. That was just to free up some funding. And that was you know on the governor's word that we would be reimbursed in whole. And it was essentially just so we could spend money to help support these people until they are on to their next destination.  OK so your understanding is that the federal government is going to pick up the tab for this?  No. The governor of the state of New Mexico has assured us that we will be restored for the money that we are spending. She has gone to D.C. to fight for reimbursement for the state and for local entities that are helping with this effort.  She was here recently in fact. Before I let you go I wonder have you been told - you have got 3000 people come through so far - have you been told whether more are coming?  Every day - every day there is...  Every day.  ...More coming absolutely. We average about 220 to 250 a day. And they are saying that that is probably anywhere from six months to 18 to 24 months. We just do not know.  Extraordinary. Chris Brice the interim assistant manager of Luna County N.M. Thank you sir.  Thank you. 