 These days there are transgender stars on TV and transgender models one of whom gave a popular TED Talk about her life. Still most transgender people in America face lots of challenges and theirs can be a confusing and lonely path. One woman who has seen it all is Ruby Corado. Now she is trying to help others. NPR's Pam Fessler has her story part of our occasional series Doing More With Less about those who have little money making a big impact. And a warning this piece contains language that some might find offensive.  Here's one thing you should probably know about Ruby Corado. It is where Kiera Atkins thinks she would be without her.  Probably dead.  Probably dead Atkins says because when she came out as a woman last year she went from being a software engineer earning six figures to being homeless and suicidal.  First off I was fired from my job for being transgender. Then after that I was evicted and then it just kind of went downhill from that.  But today she says she is found hope at Casa Ruby a yellow brick row house in Washington D.C.   She say you have to do it now. I said no you just came here today.  The founder is Ruby Corado who with her deep rich laugh long red-tinted hair and manicured nails holds court out on the front porch. She is sitting in a purple plastic chair her throne.  She said - I said you are a little slow. She said you are my mama.  Corado is a 45-year-old transgender woman surrounded by other trans men and women here to get help with housing healthcare and jobs. She calls them her sons and daughters.  Most of the people who come to Casa Ruby do not have a family that accepts them or that loves them for the most part so we have a family here and it is the concept of a chosen family.  She says people here want to have a better life and not rely on drugs and prostitution to survive. That is what Corado did until a brutal attack left her hospitalized and destitute. She says what kept her going was knowing there were others like her who needed her help. So three years ago Corado took what little money she had and opened Casa Ruby. It is now a growing at nonprofit but more than anything it is a haven. Inside there are posters reminding people to get to get checked for HIV. Downstairs a drop-in center has purple walls and stuffed teddy bears on the windowsill. Kiera Atkins the software engineer now works here redesigning the group's website.  Kind of modernizing everything.  When she types I can see that her arms are covered in scars. Atkins says she used to cut herself. She was so unhappy as a man.  I always was jealous of my sister.  In here everyone understands.  Hi it is nice to see you.  KayLynn Jones says the great thing about Casa Ruby is you can just be yourself. Jones is tall statuesque in tight black pants high platform shoes and by her count three layers of false eyelashes. She recently came out as a woman full-time.  You know I was tired of going back and forth. I was tired of being Kevin in the daytime and being KayLynn at night. I was just tired of that. It is too frustrating.  But coming out also meant losing her mother's support and a place to live. Jones dropped out of college and became a prostitute. Then she heard about Ruby Corado - how she would become a well-respected activist in the city and how when Corado got married last year then-D.C. Mayor Vincent Gray walked her down the aisle.  That is the reason why I love being here because you know to see someone that is successful and is a trans woman you know I want to be around that.  Corado says people here are so battered by the time they get to Casa Ruby they need more than a few Band-Aids.  I think they need major surgery sometimes and I want to make sure that once they are all healed they have an opportunity to find jobs secure housing go to school.  The kind of help Corado says she did not get. She came to the U.S. from El Salvador as a teen and originally lived as a gay male but that did not seem quite right. She says when she became a woman she was finally happy with herself but also poor and ridiculed. She could no longer get work and in one of many insults she was pelted with eggs.  For the first time I endure real violence. Before people would just say oh faggot you know and did not try to attempt to hit me. People felt that they had the right to fix me.  She says such attitudes are changing but slowly.  So wash your hands first and then you can come help me with the chicken.  So Corado with city and foundation help has opened two more houses - one of for gay and transgender homeless youth another for homeless adults who on a recent night gathered at the house for dinner.  Where is your trashcan?  Right there.  Several people are in the kitchen preparing chicken and tacos and rice. Others are in the living room dancing. It is chaotic like a big family gathering. When the food's finally ready everyone gets in a circle and holds hands. Corado takes the floor.  I just want to say before we bless the food that I thank you for believing in me because there are people who have dreams to do work in their community and they cannot do it.  You can see from the expressions around the room that Corado is well loved. Still it is starting to get late.  Does anybody want to share something because this space is open?  We want to eat.  Does anybody want to eat?  Pam Fessler NPR News. 