 Back in October 1985 the maiden voyage of the Space Shuttle Atlantis was a military mission. So the launch time was secret its cargo was secret and the length of the mission was secret. Today Atlantis is scheduled to blast off on what is supposed to be its final flight before being retired. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports on its missions then and now.  Twenty-five years ago countdowns went pretty much like they do now.  Three two one ignition and lift off. Lift off with Atlantis. A new orbiter joins the shuttle fleet and it is...  But back then Ronald Reagan was president the Cold War was on and NPR was reporting on a classified shuttle mission that sounded ominous.  Some private experts say the ship is carrying two satellites capable of relaying orders for a nuclear attack.  Today Atlantis is sitting on the launch pad loaded with cargo that was built in Russia. It is a research lab that is part of NASA's collaboration with Russia and other countries to construct the International Space Station. This is supposed to be the last flight of Atlantis. NASA managers want to end the shuttle program so the agency can develop new space vehicles - although Congress and the Obama administration are debating exactly how NASA should go forward. Atlantis will be the first shuttle in the fleet to stop flying if all goes as planned. But Commander Ken Ham says his crew is not so sure.  The six of us are calling this the first last flight of Atlantis. And I think that is appropriate because we really do not know what she is going to do next.  After the astronauts return from their mission workers will make Atlantis ready to fly again. It will be on stand-by as a just-in-case rescue vehicle in the event that there is trouble during the very last shuttle flight ever. Right now the honor of that final mission has fallen to Endeavour which is scheduled to launch in November. Since Atlantis will be ready to go however some have suggested that this shuttle fly one more time after Endeavour has returned safely. NASA administrator Charlie Bolden testified at a Senate hearing this week that another flight could help supply the space station.  It is not an easy decision though because I will have no launch-on-need vehicle to back it up - and that is not trivial that decision to do that.  For now folks at NASA say they are staying focused on just getting ready for today's launch attempt. Angela Brewer is a manager at Kennedy Space Center in Florida who is worked with Atlantis for over a decade. She says there is no plans for cake or anything special to mark the occasion.  We really do not know at this time what the future holds. We will just keep doing our jobs. And when they tell us it is over we will celebrate then what we have done and what we have accomplished which is a lot.  She says this is very personal for the workers who spend hours with Atlantis and treat it almost like a member of the family.  And I think if you ask anybody out here they love what they do. It is a part of them. And we would fly shuttles until they told us you know - until they tell us we cannot we would love to keep flying.  The final planned flight of Atlantis is scheduled to lift off this afternoon at 20 p.m. Eastern. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News.   This is NPR News. 