 Afghanistan's president Hamid Karzai travels soon to Chicago. He will attend a summit of NATO the North Atlantic Alliance on whose troops Karzai's government depends. At that summit NATO countries will be asked to pledge billions of dollars to support Afghanistan's security forces after NATO combat troops withdraw in the year 2014. The U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan will also attend that summit. And as he prepared to leave Kabul he sat down with our own Renee Montagne.  When we talked Ambassador Ryan Crocker said one key argument that will be made in Chicago for supporting Afghanistan security forces is that it is far less expensive than keeping NATO troops in Afghanistan. These days the State Department is looking ahead to the 10 years after 2014 calling that time a transformational decade. Ambassador Crocker in particular has been focused on how America can support Afghanistan in the coming years. He is the one who negotiated the long-term partnership agreement signed this month by Presidents Karzai and Obama.  The most significant thing about the agreement in my view - and I think that is a view shared by an overwhelming majority of Afghans - is the agreement itself. As you know from being around here so many times there is a deep-rooted fear that 2014 means the West and the U.S. just vanish in a puff of smoke. This agreement says no we do not. And again there are commitments. On our side we are committed to seek funds on an annual basis to support Afghanistan's economic development and its security forces. Under our system that is the limit of what we can say. Congress passes the budget annually and that is Congress' prerogative. Reciprocally they have got some obligations too on free and fair elections on the further promotion of democracy human rights transparency and an all-out fight against corruption. These again are not insignificant commitments in a binding agreement.  Although it may be a binding agreement but within the agreement itself were these commitments not to be honored - let us say on the Afghan side - their pledge to increase efficiency in their government and to curb corruption were they to do nothing about that in the agreement there is no punishment if they do not succeed and even if they do not try.  You are right in the sense that there is no court you take an agreement like this to. But they realize they are bound by the commitments they have made. There is also a termination clause that could be invoked. I would certainly hate to see it come to that and I do not think it will. But that is a fairly powerful lever.  Clearly when you talk about this country being transformed from 2014 to 2024 you are talking about a country that will no longer be part of what is in fact a false economy. It is an economy where billions of dollars of aid money and military funding has poured into this country. How do you envision that economy?  Part of it will be investment. We brought a trade mission out here in February that is looking at 20-odd million dollars of potential investment.  Of what nature?  Some manufacturing. We have got a significant private investment mining and processing marble because some of the finest marble in the world comes out of Afghanistan. They have signed contracts with the Chinese and the Indians on copper and iron ore deposits respectively and they have a wealth of rare earths like lithium. They have also already taken steps to limit the amount of money that can be exported from the country to 20000 and have made a number of seizures out of Kabul Airport.  Suitcases filled with billions...  Oh yeah. Exactly.  ...of American dollars out of Kabul into parts unknown - Dubai other parts unknown.  Ironically you know the fact that vast sums of money have been expatriated may lessen the impact on the overall economy of the true drawdown because the money in many cases never made it into the Afghan economy. You know I am not saying that is a good thing but it may significantly lessen the blow when we get to the end of 2014.  Meaning of all the billions that poured into this country enough of it went to make some people rich and did not find its way into the economy so that the economy will not be as hurt as it might have been had the money been more honorably distributed.  Absolutely. You know in many cases arguably there was nothing illegitimate about a lot of it. I mean these were contractors. They made their profits. Capital will go anywhere where it is the best investment opportunity. That is where the capital will go and that is what happened in many of these cases.  Well then let me ask you There was talk - certainly before this long-term strategic partnership agreement - that this country could descend into its past history basically another civil war or an insurgency that is so powerful that it would keep out all capital. What is your thinking on that?  I do not see either as a possibility in terms of the civil war scenario. You know it is a case of been there done that. Nobody is talking about let us back off into our separate corners and repeat '92-'96.  The civil war 1992 to 1996.  Yeah. And one of the most I think important indications of that is how those who play a role in that war are now very much oriented to the center you know both vice presidents.  They were warlords at some point.  They sure were. They sure were.  Tough guys.  Very tough guys.  And willing to fight.  Right. And now you are talking to either both of them it is not about conflict. It is about you know a state that will increasingly be able to secure itself and develop its economy. So I just do not see the elements that could bring about another start to a civil war another '92. And you know how that happened. When the Soviets withdrew they left behind a number of advisors to the Afghan security forces of the day and continued to provide financial assistance. And the army did quite well until Soviet funding stopped and then it fell apart.  The army fell apart.  The army fell apart and the war started. In falling apart they you know everybody headed for their clan tribe ethnic group. So again why is Chicago important and why is sustaining over the long term a credible capable Afghan national security force why is it important? That is how you ensure we do not get on another road to 9-11.  Where does this country stand in terms of its insurgency?  Well Secretary Clinton said it pretty well when she said You know we can fight and talk at the same time. In other words you keep whacking them. You get reconciliation when your opponent no longer thinks he is winning or that he is going to win. So I think it is a combination of the pounding they have taken and again the partnership agreement which says if you cannot outlast us we are not going to win is probably going to change calculations.  Thank you very much ambassador.  Thank you Renee. It is great to talk to you again.  That is America's ambassador to Afghanistan Ryan Crocker speaking with me at the U.S. embassy here in Kabul.   And we are going to hear more of Renee's reporting from Afghanistan this week on PR News. 