 A little known 19th century French painter is having a big show at Washington D.C.'s National Gallery of Art right now. And the reason he is not well known is a sad one. NPR special correspondent Susan Stamberg brings us the story of artist Frederic Bazille.  This is sort of an outrageous thing to say to you but I want to. I am talking with Gerard Araud France's ambassador to the United States. I always have walked very quickly past Bazille paintings in order to get to the impressionists. I think that is not an uncommon activity.  No I do understand it.  The ambassador likes Bazille for the opposite reason. The impressionists are so well-known he says.  I have reached a point where I do not look at them anymore.  But they were all Bazille's pals.  He was very much part of that sort of charmed circle.  National Gallery curator Kimberly Jones.  Claude Monet Auguste Renoir Alfred Sisley - he was right at the heart of everything.  Young 20-somethings eager in the 1860s to make new marks. They were starting to paint outdoors - sharing studios philosophy gossip.  There were going you know to cafe dancing talking together.  Bazille and Monet were especially close. But curator Jones says as an artist Bazille was very different.  Monet I think had such a natural facility for painting. He just sort of was born and could paint right away. Bazille had to work at it. I mean he struggled with it.  Struggling or not all the artists in their circle were crafting what will ultimately become impressionism. Bazille's massive masterpiece The Family Gathering from 1867 shows he is on the way but not quite there yet. None of the quick airy brush strokes Renoir and the others would discover. But the sunshine is there the bright colors the group on a terrace. Bazille's family - mother father aunts cousins - on a hot summer afternoon.  They came together every year actually for Bazille's father's birthday.  Nobody looks very happy about it. The dad leans back in his chair - legs crossed grumpy mouth. The mother's hands clutch over a cobalt blue dress. Most of the 11 people stare at us in stiff poses as if sitting for a photographer. Only Camille the youngest cousin is at ease - elbow on her knee chin in hand - so improper.  Her mother's going to turn and say Camille. And she will sit up straight and put her hands in her lap and be very proper. But that moment has yet arrived.  Hunky and happier young men swim in another Bazille Summer Scene.  He puts them in these fabulous bathing trunks - this one man with beautiful sort of tiger-striped bathing trunks and blue and white striped and bold red. You cannot pretend this is some classical subject. This is modern with a capital M.  On May 1 1870 this one gets into the Paris Salon the place that painters wanted to be.     Two months later France declares war on Prussia.  A month later he joins the army and goes off for his training. And in November he was killed in his first campaign. So less than a year after painting this he is dead.     Frederic Bazille painted for only seven years. His friends went on to create some of the most beloved artworks in the world. Bazille never got to impressionism.  Imagine if all of them died in 1870 when they were of comparable age - 28 29. How many of them would we remember today? Would we really remember Paul Cezanne when looking at these very rough awkward uncomfortable paintings that he is doing? I mean no one would look at those today I think and say here's a genius. Would we really remember Sisley? Would we really remember Renoir? Maybe not.  Frederic Bazille And The Birth Of Impressionism is a show about potential what could have been. The National Gallery walls are filled with the ambition and ability of a young man on his way to greatness. In Washington I am Susan Stamberg NPR News.    