 This week and next MORNING EDITION is traveling along the Grand Trunk Road. It crosses India and Pakistan. It connects two countries often at the center of the news. We are talking here with a new generation growing up along this highway. India's median age is around 25 Pakistan's is under 21. Our colleague Philip Reeves is moving westward across India and he found some of those young people in one of Hinduism's oldest and holiest cities. It is called Varanasi.   A honey-colored dawn is breaking on the Ganges.   Hindu pilgrims head for the river to pray bathe and meditate.   There are gnarled half-naked holy men engulfed in saffron rags and huge tangled beards. There are young Indians too.   Kids play in the river. Young women up to their hips in water scrub their teeth with sticks. There are sharp-eyed boys in t-shirts and jeans and with mobile phones hawking coconuts and necklaces made from shells and cheap travel bags. This is where the old India meets the new. It is like this every morning. A multitude gathers along the ghats the stone steps by the Ganges or Gonga as Indians call the river. Hindus come here to cremate their dead and scatter the ashes in the waters. Last night Mukesh Chaudry helped cremate six people. Mr.   My job is chopping and collecting the firewood placing the body on the pyre and collecting all the bones and the ashes and giving it back to the family.  Dealing with the dead has drained the life out of Mukesh. Mr.   Yes it makes me quite sad. It is also very hot but it is desperation. It is my livelihood.  Mukesh shares this job with his three brothers. Between them they earn enough to feed a family of 16. The other day Mukesh applied for a position with the municipal authorities. The job was to hold the ladder for an electrician while the electrician climbs up and fixes wires. Mr.  Nothing came out of it. I am a poor person. There is a lot of corruption and a lot of - you have to pay a lot of money to get those jobs and I do not have that kind of money to give.  Mukesh is 28 uneducated and inhabits the bottom rung of India's social hierarchy. The world to which he belongs has not changed much for centuries. For Mukesh the door to the new India is closed.   There are others here who are pushing hard at that same door youngsters who see opportunities in the new India and want to grab them. Shifta Mishra is 15 spotlessly dressed and sporting the beginnings of a small mustache. He says he rises before dawn every day five hours before school and walks here to the river. Mr.   Coming here in the morning and breathing the fresh air is good for you and I get my blessings from the Mother Ganges.  Shifta's father is a lawyer but Shifta says the family is not at all wealthy. Shifta has no computer and no Internet access. Yet he is what Indians called a topper top of his class. If he continues to excel at school he believes he will realize his ambition which is to be an airline pilot. That is one reason he comes to the Ganges every day. Mr.   With a quiet mind I try and think about what I should do in the future.   We are back on the road - the new highway that was the old Grand Trunk Road - heading west to meet young Indians at the cutting edge of the modern age. The sun's high it is very hot. The men on the orange juice squeezing machines are busy. Students crowd around them. We are in the city of Kanpur inside the remarkably well-groomed campus of one of India's institutes of technology or IITs. These government-run institutes produce some of the best engineers and scientists in the world. Even toppers struggle to get in. Mr.  Yeah it was really difficult getting in here. I could not get through the first time then I went to some other place to get some coaching and all. And when I was aptly prepared for it then I got through.  Ashish Sham is 21. You would imagine he was thrilled when he finally won his place but no. Mr.  Actually I was expecting that I would be happy enough but I was expecting a rank much above. I got a 2400 rank. And so I was not really very happy. But now I am here I feel very satisfied.  By rank Ashish means his position in the entrance exam. Twenty-four hundred sounds bad until you look at the competition. Four hundred thousand young Indians took the latest entrance exam for India's IITs 8000 won places. To the alarm of India's government many of these students will graduate and head for top jobs in the U.S. or Europe. For now though they must study. Rashi Raj Singh is in his third year. He says for some student life can be tough. Mr.  When people here are failing a subject or two they feel the pressure that how I will be able to now convey this to my parents who have such I mean big expectation for me.   The old Grand Trunk Road and the Ganges run side by side in this part of North India. We return to the river as the sun slides towards the horizon.   A priest blows on a conch shell and wades into the water.   The Hindu temples along the banks begin their evening ceremonies. Watching all this on the water's edge are Chasfort Chukla who is 20 and his 19-year-old sister Somia. They look out of place modern city folk in a timeless landscape. Our conversation turns to those elite schools. Chasfort's studying for entrance exams for an Indian institute of management. I ask him how he motivates himself when he knows the competition is so immense. Mr.  You do not have to think about the competition 'ecause competition is not there. If you are going to see that it is only you you have to compete with yourself. You have to give it your best. If you give it your best you are going to compete. You deserve to reach over there. But if you do not give it your best if you get scared oh my God so many people around how am I going to clear you will not trust me.  His sister Somia says she is thinking of going into fashion design or maybe the media. These two seem set to seize the chances offered by the new India. Then I ask Somia about how free she feels. Could she as a single woman have a romance with a man for example? Ms.  No no no no. That is not the case. If my father comes to know my brothers comes to know that they are going to kill me.  Your brothers as well? Ms.  Yeah.  Ms.  So I am not having a free and that kind of relationship.  And are you cool with that? Is that all right with you? Ms.  No I am not cool with that. Even I wanted a freedom situation but I cannot.  Her brother Chasfort chips in. Mr.  You know it is in India and I like this thing that girls should be in their limits only. They should you know it should not exceed their limits. If you ask me now my sister dating a guy I am going to punch that guy you know I am going to just smack him away. Yes I have girlfriends but I do not like my sister to be any girlfriend to any other boy.  That is a bit unfair though is not it? Mr.  It is but still you know my sister she is my sister. She is my baby doll. Nobody can touch her.   Young Indians are living amid a fast-changing world. But as night settles on the ancient Grand Trunk Road it is clear the old and the new India may not be quite as far apart as we think. Philip Reeves NPR News.  You can follow our travels along the Grand Trunk Road and follow this highway's history by looking at maps at NPR.org. You can also follow our journey on Facebook and on Twitter. We are MorningEdition and NPRInskeep. This is NPR News. 