 In Pakistan last night the country's prime minster said his country played no role in hiding Osama bin Laden. Some have found that hard to believe since bin Laden was living in a garrison town filled with soldiers. And it is also led to charges that Pakistan is not up to hunting down terrorists or tending the country's nuclear weapons. From Islamabad NPR's Julie McCarthy has more on the public outcry in Pakistan.  Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani navigated the rocky shoals of public opinion over the U.S. raid and its perceived violation of sovereignty warning Washington not to try it again.  Let no one draw any wrong conclusions. Any attack against Pakistan's strategic assets whether overt or covert will find a matching response.  Former Foreign Secretary Najmuddin Shaikh says he is confident Pakistan's top leadership did not know of Osama bin Laden's presence in Pakistan. But he says the entire episode has so poisoned U.S.-Pakistan relations they may not fully recover. He says there is triumphalism in America.  Unidentified Man   From onion hawkers to used shoe vendors the humble working class in this bazaar in Islamabad's grittier twin city Rawalpindi was giving no quarter to the government or the military. Forty-nine-year-old Tariq Iqbal Mir sits in his CD shop contemplating the nation's embarrassment.   The military establishment has been ruling over us for 60 years. They should come forward and accept their incompetence and responsibility because protecting the borders is their duty - not the president's or the prime minister's. A huge portion of our budget is given to the military. The ISI chief should also share the blame. Bin Laden lived for five years under his nose. He should resign too.  Shaikh Mohammad Aslam says had the Pakistanis done the job and found bin Laden themselves the suspicions of the global community that Pakistan tolerates terrorists would have been put to rest.    The bearded CD vendor Tariq Iqbal Mir says the present security apparatus must be overhauled with the focus on catching whoever else may be here including al-Qaida number two Ayman al-Zawahiri.    Julie McCarthy NPR News Islamabad.   This is NPR News. 