 Earlier this week we spoke to Rick Tyler. He was Ted Cruz's communications director. He is now a commentator. He suggested Hillary Clinton could face trouble if white working-class voters now backing Bernie Sanders decide to vote for Donald Trump. Polls suggest some Sanders backers might do that - as many as 20 percent in one survey. This made us want to check back in with Jim Davis the Democratic Party chairman in Fayette County Pa. a once-thriving coal region south of Pittsburgh. Thanks for coming back on the program. We appreciate it.  Well I appreciate you having me.  So what do you make of the suggestion that there are a lot of Democrats who you know have been big fans of Bernie Sanders and are now contemplating who they vote for if Bernie Sanders is no longer in the race and they are giving a serious look at Donald Trump?  You know. I do not hear that here and I do not put much stock in that because ideologically I just cannot understand how someone could go from Bernie Sanders to Donald Trump. I just think it is just too far. The gap is too great. So at least here in our area I am not hearing that. Of Course I am sure there are some out there who are just you know so disgruntled they would go from one outsider as a characterized Bernie Sanders to another outsider who would be Donald Trump.  There is been this protest movement going on - you know these groups that have tried to disrupt Donald Trump rallies. And the response from Donald Trump and his supporters have been seen as very aggressive. Does that sort of thing I mean potentially turn off some Democrats who might be thinking about Trump?  You know what? I hate to say this but I think there are some very conservative Democrats that might find that you know attractive as some you know sign that he is a strong leader. He is more masculine and you know they kind of look at these people as people who have nothing to do. They are just disruptive and Donald Trump is not going to pay any attention to them. And I think they like that.  And we are talking about Democrats who you know you and I have talked about before. Many living in your county I mean you know - working-class people who you know have worked in coal mines steel plants - people like that.  Exactly that is exactly what we are talking - many of them due to the downturn in the coal industry are no longer in that industry. And I am sure they are upset that they no longer have those historical jobs that their fathers grandfathers and perhaps others in the family have had.  Jim Davis let me ask you. We sat down with you in your office a bit more than a month ago before the Pennsylvania primary. You said that you were already seeing a number of Democrats saying they would support Donald Trump. We have seen the polls between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton tightening. Are you seeing more and more Democrats sort of talk about Trump over Hillary Clinton?  Well at this point now that the primary is over I do not think we will see Democrats change their party registration. But yes we are still seeing Democrats that are at least talking positively about Donald Trump. And we are concerned. And I - you know I am hoping that we get some interest from Hillary's campaign down here and maybe have her pay a visit to try to stimulate the Democrats because of you look at the turnout the Republicans turned out almost double by percentages than the Democrats turned out in our county. I mean there was almost 60 percent of the registered Republicans voted in this past primary.  And Donald Trump won your county pretty handily on the Republican side?  Yes despite the fact that the organized Republican Party was supporting Ted Cruz.  Hillary Clinton won on the Democratic side?  She did but not by the numbers that many expected. It was much tighter here with her and Bernie Sanders than some thought it would be.  What is lacking in Hillary Clinton's message or in terms of her strategy that is just preventing her from winning over you know these voters in places like your county?  I do not know that I could point to one factor. It just seems like she is not comfortable politicking you know? Like just use Bill Clinton or Barack Obama for examples. They just seem so at ease when they are speaking to groups and rallies and things of that nature where she does not seem to - at least in my mind she has not achieved that comfort level. It is almost like they really like doing it where maybe she does not. I just do not think she is got people energized.  And is a connection like that - I mean seeing someone comfortable - something that might be particularly important to working-class families and many of the people in Fayette County Pa.?  Yes. They have to feel like you are sincere you care and you are there for them. Not to say she is not but maybe some are not getting that message.  Jim Davis thanks so much for talking to us. As always we appreciate it.  Oh thank you for having me and you have a good day.  He is Democratic Party chair in Fayette County Pa. 