 The death toll keeps rising after a dam collapsed in the East African country of Kenya. At least 44 people are now confirmed dead and dozens more are missing. Here's more from NPR's Eyder Peralta.  Residents of the small town of Solai in central Kenya heard a loud boom just as they were getting to bed on Wednesday. The governor Lee Kinyanjui told local media it was the sound of a collapsing dam - that the water rushed out at an incredible speed taking with it homes and people.  When this tragedy occurred the lights went off. The poles were washed away. And the whole town was rendered dark.  As rescue workers moved in they found devastation - cars and homes engulfed in mud mothers who had lost children children who had lost parents.  .  The cabinet secretary for the interior Fred Matiang'i says an investigation is underway. But the priority right now is to find bodies. FRED MATIANG' I think it is fair to prepare the country that the magnitude of the tragedy is huge. And sadly I am afraid we may have lost you know probably more lives.  Following one of the most severe droughts in recent memory this rainy season has been relentless. From Uganda to Somalia to Ethiopia refugees fleeing war have lost their homes again - this time to floods. In Rwanda 18 people were killed by a landslide this past weekend. Noellah Musundi of the Kenya Red Cross says the rains had already killed more than 100 in Kenya. And more than 260000 Kenyans have been displaced.  It is a tragedy to the entire country. You know looking at families being displaced you know children mothers the elderly being swept away by floods of course it is traumatizing.  This dam which collected rainwater was built by a commercial farmer growing flowers and coffee. The heavy rains filled it to the brim. And one of the walls gave in releasing millions of gallons of water that cut a valley through the landscape. The big questions now are was that dam licensed? And was it inspected? Kenya's Water Resources Management Authority did not respond to multiple calls for comment. Kenya's Meteorological Department is forecasting more heavy rains. Eyder Peralta NPR News Nairobi.  