 After days of deadly violence in the Gaza Strip and Israel it appears that the two sides may have reached a ceasefire.  This latest round of fighting began three days ago. It was the worst on Sunday with militant groups in Gaza launching at least 600 rockets and mortars at Israel. Israel then responded with airstrikes. Israeli military officials say they were targeting Hamas.   The IDF holds Hamas responsible for every act of violence against Israel and Israeli civilians. We are prepared and ready to continue to retaliate against Hamas and we are prepared for different contingencies.  At least four Israelis and 23 Palestinians were killed in this fighting and many more were wounded on both sides of the Israel-Gaza border.  We are joined now by Josef Federman. He is the Israel bureau chief for the Associated Press. And we have got him on the line in Jerusalem. Thank you so much for being with us Josef. Can you just tell us what started this round of violence?  Yeah. It is the same pattern that we have seen a number of times in recent years. There are these unofficial ceasefire truce deals that have been mediated by Egypt over the years. And usually it is the same pattern where one side - the Palestinian side Hamas - accuses Israel of violating these understandings. And to protest or to send a message they may allow a rocket to be fired a couple of rockets. And then Israel responds. And one thing leads to another and the next thing you know you have hundreds of rockets and hundreds of airstrikes.  But this is - I mean this is more intense than it is been in several years correct?  This was the most intense we have seen since a war in 2014. Now that was incredibly intense back then. That was a 50-day battle with thousands and thousands of rockets and so forth. So it was not at that level. But we have seen a number of these outbursts of fighting. And the most disturbing part is where after the war we had several years of quiet. Then you have a couple of days of battles and then you have a few months of quiet. And now it is becoming a few weeks of quiet. So we went through this same drill twice in March - not quite the same level of intensity but very similar just a few weeks ago.  So what does it mean? I mean what is your takeaway from it?  My takeaway is that they need to find a better solution. The current system these understandings between these two bitter enemies is not working. Each side has its sets of demands. Basically Israel has imposed this blockade on Gaza since Hamas took control of the territory in 2007. This blockade has had very devastating consequences to the economy. People cannot move in and out of the territory. Unemployment is now over 50 percent. Hamas wants that to be eased. In return Israel wants Hamas to keep things quiet. They do not want any more rocket fire. And you have probably noticed over the past year a little more than a year every Friday there are these mass protests right along the Israeli border that often turn violent with crowds trying to push through the border and people getting - on the Palestinian side people getting killed every week. So it is really an untenable situation and they have not found the magic formula to coexist.  So do you have any indication as to whether or not this particular ceasefire is going to hold and for how long?  No. It - the - from what we understand that - first of all there are never any formal announcements. They do not put out a press release announcing their understandings. But from what we hear from our sources all they have done is agree to go back to what they understood a month ago. So we will see if Israel carries out what it has promised and whether Hamas keeps its promises.  Josef Federman. He is the Israel bureau chief based in Jerusalem for the Associated Press. We appreciate it. Thanks so much for being with us this morning.  Thank you.   OK. Just before a new round of trade talks with China is supposed to kick off a new round of tweets from President Trump threatening new tariffs. The president has delayed his planned tariff increases twice already this year. Negotiations with the Chinese are supposed to resume Wednesday.  Right. Those negotiations are supposed to take place Wednesday in Washington and there are a lot of components to these trade disputes. But from the U.S. perspective this is all about curbing China's unfair trade practices as it seeks to cement itself as a technological superpower. The president has delayed his planned tariff increases twice this year. So how effective is this new threat going to be?  NPR's Scott Horsley is with us this morning. Hi Scott. Scott?  Good morning Rachel.  There you are. So how is the U.S. business community reacting to this - and China for that matter - these new threats about tariffs?  I think these tweets were greeted with surprise and a little bit of nervousness. They came out of the blue. Just a few minutes earlier the president had been tweeting about the Kentucky Derby. And after the last round of trade talks which took place in Beijing last week the White House has said they were productive and that they were moving towards substantial progress. Now keep in mind all of this may be just posturing by the president. Another round of talks as you mentioned is set to begin on Wednesday. And so Trump maybe just trying to ramp up the pressure as negotiators near what they hope will be the finish line. And that notion that this is posturing appears to be how the Chinese are taking this. While there was some threat that China would not participate in this new round of talks China's Foreign Ministry brushed off the president's threat saying they have heard this kind of economic saber-rattling from Trump before. They are planning to proceed with the next round of negotiations.  I mean they have heard it before. As we noted the president has threatened these tariffs twice before. Do they start to lose their effect their intended potency when they are threatened so often?  Well you know maybe a little bit. This is kind of a standard game plan for President Trump. He threatens to blow something up and then he claims credit when it does not happen. But Trump makes good on these kinds of threats just often enough that they cannot be discounted entirely. You know up until this weekend U.S. financial markets were anticipating that there would be some kind of deal with China. That is one reason the stock market has rallied since December when the trade tensions were a whole lot higher. So if this deal were to fall apart and higher tariffs were actually to take effect you know that would be a whole 'nother  story.  Can you take a big step back Scott and just remind us this is not - this is so not happening in isolation  right? The global implications of a trade dispute between the United States and China are huge.  Right. We are talking about the world's two biggest economies so an all-out trade war would be destructive on both sides. And the ripple effects would go global. Probably the effects be worse for China than for the U.S. but it would be painful here as well. Although Trump claimed in his tweet that China is bearing the cost of the existing tariffs most analysts say that is not true. Chinese companies may be absorbing some of the cost of these tariffs but the bulk is being passed on to U.S. businesses and consumers. And if the tariffs were in fact to go from 10 to 25 percent as he threatened in his tweets that price tag would only go up. We saw a warning about those effects yesterday from the National Retail Federation. They say it would cost jobs. It would cost consumers money. And the fallout would be even bigger if Trump followed through on a threat to expand the tariffs.  OK. NPR chief economics correspondent Scott Horsley for us this morning. Thanks Scott.  You are welcome.   Presidential politics now. Two Democratic presidential candidates whose base of support comes from white voters spent the weekend in South Carolina trying to pitch themselves to black Americans.  Right. Former Vice President Joe Biden and South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg have pitched their candidacies around winning back Midwestern states that Democrats lost in 2016. But to get that far they need to win the Democratic primary first.  And that primary runs right through the state of South Carolina where NPR political correspondent Scott Detrow spent the weekend. Hey Scott.  Good morning.  How is South Carolina treating you?  Oh it is pretty nice. Always good to be here.  So Biden has been there a lot. I mean he is a familiar face in South Carolina right?  He is. He has been here a lot as vice president as longtime candidate. And that familiarity goes a long way. But this is his first time here as a - running in 2020. You know he made this appeal to white working-class voters in Iowa and Pennsylvania the first week of his campaign. But South Carolina is important to Democrats because it is the first state where a majority of primary voters are black. So it is interesting to hear his message shift a little bit. Biden does have far and away the top poll numbers of candidates so far among non-white voters and a big reason for that appeal seems to be his time in the Obama administration. So it was notable to me that in Columbia Biden was repeatedly bringing up Barack Obama over and over again. He was telling the crowd how close the two men are.   I heard you are playing the tape of my buddy. My buddy - I should not be so casual. President of the United States Barack Obama.  Oh like he just slipped there. Oh I should not be so casual. Did I mention we are friends ?   He called him his buddy his friend about four or five times. It was a lot. He did also talk about voting rights health care. But just like in other places he is really framing himself already running against Trump trying to make it seem like he is the nominee.  Yeah. So what was it like to see Biden and South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg back to back? I mean what was the message coming out of the mayor of South Bend?  Yeah. Buttigieg has enjoyed a ton of attention lately. He seems to be on every single magazine cover you find. He is rising in the polls. To me the things that stuck out was this looked like the rally of a top-tier candidate. There were almost as many people there as were there for Biden. It was well-produced. It was well-organized. But one very striking thing - in a state where as we mentioned African-American voters are the majority of the primary vote there were hardly any black people at this rally. It was an - almost entirely a crowd of white voters. Buttigieg did acknowledge to reporters that this is a problem.   In order to win and in order to deserve to win my campaign needs to go above and beyond in reaching out to black voters. And that is going to continue to be a priority for us.  He said it is an outreach issue and also a trust issue. He is acknowledging that he is someone who just has not been on the national scene for a long time. Buttigieg did talk a lot about criminal justice reform about how the federal government needs to work with cities to improve policing and also voting rights. These are all things that many black voters are saying are critical issues for them.  Did they talk about President Trump?  A little bit. Both were asked questions of how do you beat President Trump. Buttigieg said engaging with Trump is like a Chinese finger trap that the harder you go after him the worse it gets for yourself. Biden interestingly had a mixed message. He said at one point he did not want to get into the mud. But then someone at a fundraiser said well do you have a nickname for him? And he said yeah I would call him a clown. So Biden seems to be figuring out his approach.  All right. NPR political correspondent Scott Detrow for us on the political campaign events happening in South Carolina over the weekend. Scott we appreciate it. Thanks.  Sure thing.  