 Congress was debating President Obama's request for emergency war funding yesterday - even as leaders of the two nations where much of that money would go showed up for lunch. Afghan President Hamid Karzai and Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari dined with a skeptical group of U.S. senators. It was mainly the Democrats who expressed misgivings. Still the president's requested war funding seems on its way to approval. NPR's David Welna has more.  During a closed-door lunch with members of the Senate Armed Services and Intelligence Committees Presidents Karzai and Zardari took part in what participants diplomatically called an unprecedented and frank discussion. The tension was evident at a post-lunch news conference. Special U.S. envoy to the region Richard Holbrooke who had been at the lunch expressed the wish that really seemed aimed at the two leaders standing alongside him. Mr.  I hope the American public sees that we are making progress in the quest for real cooperation between Afghanistan and Pakistan because without that cooperation success is not achievable.  The U.S. is pressing both nations to get tough with Taliban insurgents and crack down on corruption. But for Pakistani President Zardari this is not simply a regional problem. Pres.  It is a worldwide problem. It is not Afghan or Tora Bora or the mountains of . So I think the world is coming to that realization.  For his part Afghan President Karzai had strong words about the deaths of Afghan civilians he blames on recent U.S. airstrikes. Pres.  It causes pain to Afghans it is something that we want to have addressed very very much seriously and quicker and in a manner that will eventually rather sooner end casualties to the Afghan people - something that we have spoken about in very clear words.  There were some strong words of support for President Obama's decision to send another 21000 forces to Afghanistan. But praise for the president came mainly from Republicans such as Georgia Senator Saxby Chambliss. Senator  He is taking a political risk with his base but he is heard the same intel that the rest of us on armed services and intelligence have heard and it is not a pretty picture over there. And I think he is making the right decisions right now relative to Afghanistan. Senator  We have to think long and hard about committing 21000 additional troops to Afghanistan.  That is Wisconsin Democratic Senator Russ Feingold coming out of the lunch with Karzai and Zardari. Feingold said his impression was that the situation in Pakistan is getting much worse. Sen.  I am not at all clear on why the priority would be the funding that is required for the troops in Afghanistan when the situation in Pakistan is increasingly unclear.  Meanwhile on the other side of the Capitol another Wisconsin Democrat was expressing similar doubts to the House Appropriations committee. That panel's chairman David Obey endorsed 96 billion in emergency funding though he said he did so with grave reservations. Representative  Let me be very frank with the committee. I personally am extremely dubious about the viability of any policy in that region of the world.  So Obey added a requirement to the war funding that the Obama administration issue a report by February assessing the cooperation of both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Rep.  These are not conditions these are not timelines. It is simply a requirement or a hard-nosed and - I would hope - fish-or-cut-bait evaluation. But it is up to the administration. And it is up to the Congress to evaluate the administration's report at that time.  Obey further challenged the Obama funding request by requiring that counterinsurgency training for Pakistan be channeled through the State Department next year rather than through the Pentagon. That annoyed the panel's top Republican Jerry Lewis who called Pakistan the country's most urgent foreign crisis. Representative  We know that the Taliban is now increasingly emboldened and the situation on the ground in Pakistan is at best fragile.  In the end the House panel approved the war funding by voice vote. David Welna NPR News the Capitol.   It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 