 We have an odd update now to a story we have been reporting on all morning. The Russian journalist that Ukrainian authorities said was shot and killed at his Kiev apartment on Tuesday night is in fact alive and well. Arkady Babchenko appeared in person and was apparently unharmed. He was at a press conference this morning called by Ukraine's security service the SBU. They say the murder was staged in order to catch a man they claim was hired by Russian intelligence services to kill the journalist. NPR's Lucian Kim joins us from Moscow. Hi Lucian.  Good morning.  Cannot remember a story this bizarre that we have covered.   It is crazy.  What exactly are Ukrainian authorities saying here?  Well you know everybody went to this press conference expecting to get some new information about the investigation of the murder and then the authorities say well actually here's Arkady Babchenko himself. And he showed up wearing a sweatshirt. Authorities are calling this a special operation basically a sting to catch the real organizers of a plot red-handed. The Ukrainian authorities are saying that in fact Russian intelligence services were behind a real plot. Of course it will be interesting to see what kind of hard evidence the Ukrainians produce you know if there is really a smoking gun because if they do not it will certainly reduce their credibility in the future.  And a lot of suspicions might then be there about what they were trying to do and whether they were trying to make Russia look bad in some way I suppose. Well let me ask you this. Was the alleged would-be assassin actually captured do we know?  Well they are saying the organizer of this plot was detained and that the actual would-be assassin actually cooperated with the SBU with this Ukrainian security service. From what we are hearing something like 30000 were offered in exchange for this contract killing and there were supposed to be other killings in Ukraine as well. And of course Babchenko would not have been the first Russian critic of the Kremlin to be killed in Ukraine.  So he is a Russian critic a journalist. Tell us anything you can more about him and why he might have been a target here.  Well he became quite well-known as a journalist in Russia reporting on conflicts in Georgia and Ukraine and he also became quite a vocal critic of the Kremlin saying that President Putin was sort of using hatred as a way of consolidating the nation and starting new conflicts with Russia's neighbors.  So Lucian do I have this right? This journalist was part of the staging of this event. I mean not only fooling the world's media including us at NPR but even his friends and family thought he was killed right?  Yeah. It is really completely crazy. I mean Babchenko appeared at this press conference and he even apologized to his wife who was not aware that this was all staged. He really caught many people off guard. I mean I have been speaking to colleagues here in Moscow. There is been a real outpouring of emotion. On one hand it was sort of disbelief that this was happening but also I have to say sort of a feeling of familiarity.  Familiarity. Why do you say that?  A familiarity with critics of the Kremlin being killed.  All right. Let us just restate the news now. We have been reporting all morning that a Russian journalist had been killed in Ukraine. It turns out that he is alive and well and we are told was part of a staged event in order to try and catch a man who Ukrainian authorities say was hired by Russian intelligence to kill this journalist. Just a bizarre story. NPR's Lucian Kim in Moscow. Lucian thanks a lot.  Thank you. 