 Doctors who treat patients addicted to opioids say a new device could help. That device is an implant left in over six months that slowly releases a drug that eases cravings for opioids. The FDA is expected to decide whether to approve the device within a week. From member station WBUR Martha Bebinger reports.  The implant includes four rods each about the size of a matchstick.  My implants were placed in my left arm just above my elbow on the inside.  Dave is a paramedic in a small town outside Boston. He does not want his last name made public so that co-workers will not find out he is addicted to opioid pain pills. He is been in recovery for four years with the help of a drug called Buprenorphine. And last year he was part of a trial putting that same drug into an implant called Probuphine.  I felt completely normal all the time.  Dave is sold on the implant and not just because it provided a steady relief from his cravings. When he was taking the drug Buprenorphine as a daily pill he would have to hide the bottle to make sure his 2-year-old granddaughter could not find it. Then sometimes Dave would forget to take his medication.  And with the implant you did not have to worry about that. It was just there and you felt good all the time.  The device does not work for everyone. During the trial 12 percent of patients with implants relapsed. But the relapse rate for the pill was 28 percent. There is a second reason the manufacturer says its implant is better than a pill. Braeburn Pharmaceuticals CEO Behshad Sheldon says there is a lot of concern about how Buprenorphine gets sold on the street.  Buprenorphine is the third most confiscated opioid by the DEA. So there is certainly diversion going on.  But Sheldon says no one tried to remove their implant during the trial so they could sell the drug inside. An FDA advisory committee has recommended approval of the implant. A decision from the agency is expected May 27. Doctor Barbara Herbert president of the Massachusetts Society of Addiction Medicine is one of many providers waiting for the ruling.  Anything that helps people beat their opioid addiction is a good idea.  But Herbert has reservations. The main one is price. The company says the implant will be competitive with other treatments including a shot that costs a thousand dollars a month. Herbert says that price may force providers to turn patients away or cut back on other services.  High profits in the middle of this epidemic are really unconscionable.  Braeburn Pharmaceuticals CEO Sheldon says there will be rebates to make sure patients can get the implant. She says the device will mean fewer patients sharing needles and contracting infectious diseases which will save money for doctors and health insurers.  If they do not realize those savings we are happy to actually rebate them even further.  Even at close to a thousand dollars a month demand for the implants if approved is expected to be high. Dave the paramedic who is in recovery says he is thought about trying to wean himself off the treatment drugs altogether.  But then the more I think about it it scares the hell out of me. I really - 'ecause I am scared of going backwards. I just - you know? I honestly do not know what would happen.  It is a fear for many of the growing number of Americans who are treating addiction as a chronic disease one they may live with for many years.  That report from Martha Bebinger in Boston. And that story's part of a reporting with partnership with NPR WBUR and Kaiser Health News. 