 All right. After days of airstrikes Israel has called up more troops and launched its heaviest assault yet along the Gaza border.  Right. And it is doing this as it says Gaza militants have fired more than 1800 rockets into Israel. Seven people have been killed including a young child and a teenager. The losses though are much higher on the Palestinian side where officials there say at least 119 people have died 31 children among them.  NPR's Daniel Estrin has been following this story. Good morning Daniel.  Hi Noel.  I know this is a fluid situation. Just give us the latest if you would.  There have been some more waves of rockets into Israel. Two women running for bomb shelters fell and died from their fall. And Israel launched as you said its biggest assault yet on Gaza. The army says 160 aircraft plus artillery units pummeled an underground tunnel network it says Hamas uses to avoid being hit by Israel. This attack was in a crowded civilian area the city of Beit Hanoun. Israel also used artillery fire which can be less precise and can be harder to avoid casualties. And unlike other strikes where Israel has called residents in Gaza warned them to leave the Israeli army spokesman tells us there were no phone calls to civilians with this operation. Residents in that area said there were sounds of firing for a few hours before so many people did flee before this huge offensive began. They were just carrying blankets and food. I am not in Gaza. Israel has closed the border crossing. Reporters cannot enter Gaza. But I have been speaking with my Palestinian colleague there who spoke to a resident who was in that area last night. He said he was terrified. He said the sky turned bloody red the streets were ripped up ambulances could not enter many injuries and some dead.  OK. And now we know that Israeli reserve troops have been called up. Do you - do people there think this is preparation for a ground invasion?  Unclear if a ground invasion is in the works but since the beginning of fighting I can say that there are efforts at mediation. The U.N. intelligence Egyptian intelligence have been working to achieve a cease-fire Qatar and the U.S. involved. It appears the U.S. blocked a U.N. Security Council resolution on the fighting. It seems the U.S. wants to do quiet mediation. We do not know how long this could last. It may not last for weeks. I spoke to one Israeli researcher on military strategy estimating the fighting could just take another few days. It is been very intense so far more intense of an Israeli operation than the last one in 2014.  OK and lastly we have heard a lot about mob violence inside Israel. You have brought us some reporting on this...  Right.  ...Between Jewish and Palestinian citizens of Israel. Is that still happening? Is - are things under control?  I would not say things are under control. We are still seeing mobs on the streets arab citizens reportedly throwing stones on some roads reports of Arab and Jewish violence and vandalism to stores. The city of Lod's still under a state of emergency and a nighttime curfew which groups of Jewish citizens ignored last night. We have heard some settlers from the occupied West Bank have come to cities where there have been street violence. And I have spoken to Muslims who have not wanted to be identified taken down their Ramadan decorations from their homes afraid to leave their homes. It is just really painful to see this kind of violence between neighbors. We have not seen anything like that in a couple decades.  NPR's Daniel Estrin in Jerusalem. Thank you Daniel.  You are welcome.   For 119 million or so fully vaccinated Americans here's the guidance - no more masks mostly.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has decided that the COVID-19 vaccines used here in the U.S. are so effective people who are fully vaccinated do not need to worry about masks or social distancing even. President Biden hailed Thursday's announcements as a milestone in the return to normal.   If you are fully vaccinated and can take your mask off you have earned the right to do something that Americans are known for all around the world - greeting others with a smile  with a smile. So it is a good day for the country.  But the new guidelines raise a whole lot of questions.  NPR science correspondent Richard Harris is here to answer some of them. Good morning Richard.  Good morning.  This sounds like a momentous change in public policy. Is it?  Yes. Well CDC Director Rochelle Walensky started out her announcement yesterday painting it with a very broad brush. Here's what she said.   Anyone who is fully vaccinated can participate in indoor and outdoor activities large or small without wearing a mask or physical distancing.  But then came the caveats. It does not apply to people on public transit or airplanes and it does not apply in health care settings. She also said it will be up to local officials about how the guidelines are carried out in schools stores and other local settings. And you know that could be a formula for confusion.  Let me ask you about one scenario that is relevant to my interests and I imagine millions of other people's. Let us say that a grocery store says if you are fully vaccinated you can come on in you do not need to wear a mask. Is the store then going to ask me and others to prove that we have gotten the vaccine?  Well that is a concern for sure. The CDC's point is that vaccines are so effective at protecting the people who are fully vaccinated that they should not worry about the vaccination status of those around them. People who are not vaccinated are mostly a risk to themselves. But you know that is not always the case. Dr. Leana Wen at the George Washington University lays out this scenario.  I have two little kids who cannot yet be vaccinated. What do I do when I go to the grocery store and I see people around me who are not wearing masks? Are we actually - do we know that these individuals actually got vaccinated?  And some unions are also not happy about how this could play out and whether the policy could raise a risk for workers.  And vaccines we know are not 100 effective. So there would still be some risk.  That is true although the CDC says the risk is small. Occasionally a vaccinated person does get infected with the coronavirus but the risk of serious illness in that circumstance is extremely low. And the CDC says vaccinated people who get infected are really very unlikely to spread the disease.  OK. So this was huge news coming after so many months. I am wondering what are the kinds of reactions you are hearing?  Well there is certainly a range of views. Some scientists have said that the CDC made a mistake in not easing mask restrictions earlier for people who are vaccinated and worried that people would decide that there is no point in getting a shot if it means that they cannot take off their masks. On the other hand Ali Mokdad at the University of Washington says the public health message about vaccination should not be about whether or not you need to wear a mask but that vaccines can prevent a deadly disease.  People who are not wearing their mask are the same people who are refusing the vaccine. So this policy is not going to help us to increase the vaccination out there or addressing hesitancy.  And here he is looking through the lens of public health where the goal should be to stop the pandemic as quickly as possible. The new CDC guidance is really more about advice to individuals. Of course the CDC also continues to encourage everyone who is eligible for a shot to get one. But yesterday's announcement could also send an unintended signal that the pandemic is now essentially over. That is alas not quite true.  Alas it is not. NPR's Richard Harris. Thanks Richard.  Anytime.   The Kandahar Airfield used to be a major base for U.S. operations in Afghanistan.  And now the U.S. has handed that base over to Afghan security forces. American troops are packing up. They are leaving Afghanistan and they are expected to be entirely out by September at the latest. But what about the thousands of Afghans who worked for the U.S. over the years? Many of them face death threats from the Taliban for cooperating with foreign forces and they are trying desperately to get out of the country. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley says they will not be forgotten.   The intent within State Department and elite is to make sure that it is a really a moral imperative that we take care of those that have worked closely with us if their lives are in danger et cetera.  NPR Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman has been following this story. Good morning Tom.  Good morning Noel.  I want to ask you about numbers. How many Afghan people worked for the U.S. and are now hoping for visas to this country?  Well around 17000 or so are in the process and thousands more if you consider they would bring family members along. And Noel this is all part of a special visa program set up about a dozen years ago. And over the years about 18000 visas have been issued. And we are talking mostly interpreters who work for the U.S. military. Now it is supposed to take nine months for processing the visa but it is taken a lot longer as long as three years because you have to submit your packet has to get approved by the embassy. Then it goes to U.S. Customs and immigration. And then finally you have to get interviewed.  You would imagine though there would be some sense of urgency about this. If the promise was nine months but that is extended to three years or can be extended to three years what is behind that? Why does it take so long?  Well it is the increased volume the lack of staff to process these visa requests and that is led to delays. The State Department inspector general said that in a report last year. So the State Department has sent more staff to Kabul to process these requests and more staff in D.C. to help as well. Now members of Congress advocacy groups like No One Left Behind retired generals including David Petraeus are pressing for the Biden administration to do even more. And they tell stories of Afghans who already have been killed by the Taliban because they worked for the Americans. And officials this week told lawmakers they are working with the National Security Council at the White House on this issue and holding multiple meetings each week. And here's another thing Noel - may have to devote more money and increase the allotments of these visas to move all of this forward.  OK so nearly 17000 Afghans wanting visas and then we have to take into account their family members and the U.S. is withdrawing. Talk about the timeframe in which all of this might be processed.  Well it is uncertain. You know people I talk with in Kabul are really worried about the security situation and what happens if it deteriorates even further if more U.S. embassy staff leaves. Now General Milley said he would caution those who believe the security situation could quickly fall apart. And he said listen it is really too early to sound the alarm and just get people out right now. He pointed to the significant size of the Afghan military and police some 300000. He said listen it is still a cohesive organization. So he is not really all that worried right yet.  OK. NPR Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman. Thank you Tom.  You are welcome Noel. 