 It is PR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Renee Montagne. We have been hearing about how a scientist has been trying to help others after his own son was diagnosed with a rare cancer. Yesterday we introduced you to Bryan Shaw a chemist at Baylor University in Waco Texas. Even before their infant son was diagnosed Shaw and his wife were suspicious that something was wrong. It turned out that their son's baby pictures showed evidence of a cancer long before their doctors recognized it. Today as part of his series Joe's Big Idea NPR's Joe Palca tells how those baby pictures may lead to an invention that will help save thousands of other children.  Noah Shaw is now five years old.   Every six months Bryan and Elizabeth Shaw come to Boston to see their son's cancer doctor to find out if the tumors in his eye are under control or growing again.  Yeah I might get a little nauseous before his one oclock checkup because at that time we will find out if his cancer is still stable or of it is not.  Going up.  At the upcoming appointment Noah's going to need eye drops and Noah hates eye drops. So Bryan is doing a sales job on him.  When you are done getting drops what are you going to get?  Twix.  That is right.  Bryan and Elizabeth saw hints of their son's disease a rare eye cancer called retinoblastoma in flash pictures when Noah was just three months old - a strange white glow in some of the pictures. At first they thought it was a problem with the camera like red eye only white eye. A month later a doctor saw that same glow when she did an eye exam and told the young couple their baby boy had tumors at the back of both eyes. Bryan was devastated.  The day he was diagnosed that afternoon I could not talk. I called up a help network and I said Hi my son has - my son. And the lady on the phone was like take your time.  Finally he got the words out.  My son has cancer.  My son has cancer. At first all Bryan could think about was doing whatever it took to save his son's life. There were months of chemotherapy and radiation and ultimately surgery to remove Noah's right eye to keep the cancer from spreading to his brain. But at some point during all of this Bryan told me he started thinking more like the scientist he is. He wondered What if the camera had been programmed with software that could recognize the white eye?  If I would have had some software in telling me Hey go get this checked out that would have sped up my son's diagnosis and the tumors would have been just a little bit smaller when we got to them. There might have been fewer.  And maybe Noah's eye could have been saved. But there was no software. Now for most of us that would have been that. But Bryan the inorganic chemist figured I can become a software designer.  I was trained in this funny lab at Harvard called the Whitesides Lab where we scoffed at specialization. If you were just an inorganic chemist you were not cool.  To build the new software Bryan needed to find the earliest instance of that white reflection in baby Noah's eyes. That would tell him just how early you could catch a sign of the disease. Luckily his wife took a lot of pictures of their baby.  And I told my wife Give me all your pictures. Give me all the pictures. I need all the pictures.  So Bryan sat at his laptop...  I was in my office.  ...and started sifting through the photographs. Turns out there were thousands.  How many people take 9000 pictures of their family and then go back one day and look at every single one in chronological order?   Noah as a newborn Bryan and Noah curled up together on a couch Noah with a patch where his right eye used to be.  When I was looking at all the photos I cried. I do not mind crying when nobody's watching. Because I relived the whole - I just relived everything. What really hit me was my face looking at my face in some of the pictures holding my son and boy I looked miserable. It is funny because you do not feel so miserable. It is like - I have never been in combat but I think it would be like this. You are just so hopped up that you really never have time to sit down and be sad. But when you look back at pictures of yourself going through that you can see it on your face. You were pretty messed up.  After poring over these pictures for weeks Bryan found what he was looking for.  We had white-eye showing up in pictures at 12 days old.  Twelve days. Months before the doctors diagnosed his cancer these photos showed the tumors were there and growing when Noah was practically a newborn.  I mean he still had the nasty thing hanging from his belly button.  Bryan is convinced if he can build this software it will speed up diagnoses and save lives and sight.  I would like this application this software to be free and I would want it anywhere a picture of a kid is - your laptop computer your Flickr account your Facebook account your phone your camera. I do not care where.  When you hear Bryan speak this way you think There is a man on a mission. Get out of my way 'ecause here I come. So Bryan has rounded up some computer science colleagues at Baylor and they have come up with a prototype of the software. But it is a long way before it will be ready for the kind of distribution Bryan's hoping for because there are lots of problems to solve. Proving it works for one thing. He will need parents of kids with retinoblastoma to donate all their baby pictures so he can test his software on those and see how it does finding their cancers. And he will need pictures of healthy kids to prove software will not accidentally say they have cancer when they do not.  False positives - that is going to be the big problem is false positives.  You said it. Imagine thousands of terrified parents pounding on doctors' doors because their cameras told them their kid might have cancer. Bryan thinks he can make software that will keep this from happening. But Noah's illness has made Bryan see the world differently  I have lived through this you know. An ophthalmologist can say oh they will be too many false positives this will just annoy too many parents. Well OK. You might get annoyed. But if I can save let us see 4000 kids die a year from it 8000 get it and almost all of them whether you survive or die you are going to have compromised vision if this software can improve their life well maybe we can overlook the little bit that it might inconvenience some of the other families I do not know.  There is another reason Bryan so passionately wants this software project to succeed a reason that is more important really than all the rest.  Because I am a Christian and if I can make good come from this bad stuff that happened to my son and I can show him when he grows up what happened to you son is not as bad as it might seem.  Because your disease Noah led to an invention that saves other kids' lives.  I know it is going to strengthen his faith because it helped other people out. No money there.  I swing.  Yeah. You want to go sit in the chair?  Noah and his Mom and Dad have arrived at Dr. Shizuo Mukai's office at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary and now they are waiting for the doctor. It is been 20 minutes and counting.   Noah's gotten his eye drops gotten his Twix and now Noah is getting antsy.  I want to sing a song.  To help pass the time we offer to record Noah singing a song.  How about Bob Marley? What is your favorite Bob Marley song?  Three Little Birds.  Do not worry about a thing.  As they sing together Bryan's eyes well up.   Cause every little thing is going to be all right.  That is right buddy.  Finally Dr. Mukai arrives to do the exam that will tell whether Noah's cancer is back. DR.  Do you want to scoot up there?  He says Noah in a chair...  Can I take a little peak?  ...and peers into his eye.  Yeah. It looks great.  Really?  So yeah the back looks fine.  Oh great.  The tumors have regressed nicely.  It is a huge relief to hear that his cancer is still regressed and we are happy about that.  So Noah is in the clear. Now what happens if Bryan's early detection system for retinoblastoma never pans out? Well Bryan says he can handle that.  But you know what? It is such a good idea that I believe even if I do not do it if I just get the word out somebody else will do it. That is really all that matters.   Joe Palca NPR News.   You are listening to PR News. 