 Today is Bike to Work Day and we thought that was a fitting moment to check in with long-time cyclist and bike shop owner Grant Petersen to get some tips for everyday riders. He has written a book called Just Ride. Grant good morning.  Good morning David.  For people who either bike to work commute to work every day on bikes or thinking about getting a bike and doing that I mean what are a few pieces of advice that you would like to offer?  Wear the clothes that you are going to wear at work. Do not dress up like an American bike geek just to ride a bicycle to work. If your commute is reasonable say 10 miles or under dress the way you are going to dress for the weather or the day.  You are saying that if I wear a suit to work I am better off just biking in my suit? Why is that?  Bicycle riding does not make a lot of demands on your body. Your upper body is still when you are riding and just - your legs are just turning around in small little circles. I am not saying that every article in your clothing closet is going to be suitable for bicycle riding to work. The suits may be a little bit more of a challenge but they are not that much of a challenge. Or just take off the suit carry it in a basket or something.  And we should say that in the biking world you have a reputation for yourself as having views like this that some of the newer stuff is just not all that necessary. I mean is that still a debate raging in the biking world whether it is worth it to get this aerodynamic stuff?  There should not be any debate at all. Riding a bicycle should be just a natural part of your life. It is so easy. We are the only ones - as I guess an American - we are generally the only ones who commute to work in racing clothing. Where is the room for debate about how ridiculous that is?  You also make an argument in your book that expensive bikes are not always as necessary as one might think. I mean every time I have thought about you know do I want a bike I often worry that it is going to be way too expensive. How little could I spend on a bike and actually have something that I could ride each day to work?  Places that sell used bikes often have perfectly good ones for 100. But on a new bike three or 400 on a bicycle and get a perfectly good bicycle for commuting and riding around.  Well and Grant you make the point that too many people out there try to force themselves to be racers to get these bikes with all these speeds to get all the bells and whistles.  Yeah. Well racing is presented to us as the goal that we should all aspire to and I totally do not believe that. Racing is fringe. Racing ruins bicycle riding for a lot of people. They think that well I have been riding a bike for a few years. It is time for me to get a racing bike get the clothes get the click-in shoes and start not having fun on a bike. And it ends up being a big trap. And I was trapped in that for 20 22 years probably.  Well I want to take your little quiz here at the end of your book. You are asking people if they are a racer or not a racer. It is a truefalse quiz and it says My favorite bike can carry two pounds of broccoli and a big thick sweater. And I am going to go ahead and say that my favorite bike can carry that. Does that make me a racer?  If it can I would say no. You see racing bikes are just workout machines really. So you cannot put baskets you cannot put bags on them. You cannot carry weight on them. They are not designed to carry weight. So...  So if I have a basket that can carry broccoli I should not be ashamed of that. That is OK.  Absolutely be proud of it.   That is the voice of Grant Petersen. He is the founder of Rivendell Bicycle Works. Grant thanks so much for joining us.  Oh thank you David.  And we are gathering photos inspired by Bike to Work Day. To find out how to share your own snapshots you can go to npr.org. 