 Friday mornings we hear from StoryCorps where people across the country sit down with the most important people in their lives and share their stories. Today a conversation between best friends. In 2004 Peter Obetz was in the middle of a divorce when he was diagnosed with stage four esophageal cancer. That is when he called on Jeff Jarrett for help.  Food would get stuck down my throat and it got worse and worse so I met with my doctor. I had a tumor on my esophagus wall.  And he said well surgery has about a 10 percent death risk. And I remember telling the doc you mean to tell me like one guy on my softball team is not going to make it? You know there is 10 guys on a team. He said yeah that is pretty much it. And he said we can either do the surgery tomorrow or we can wait till Tuesday.  Do you remember you called me?  Yeah.  I said you need to do it as soon as you can. I spent the day with your parents. And the surgeon met with us just after the surgery was completed and drew a graph. He said well this is the  percentages of survival over time. It started out at 90 percent on the day of the surgery and fell to 15 percent after five years. That was my scariest moment that there was only a 15 percent chance that I was going to have my best friend with me five years from now. The next day you would caught your mother with that little graph that the doctor had drawn and she would not show it to you. And so I would come in and you said I want you to sit down and tell me everything. So I did.  I remember saying I am toast.  Your mom had said that to the surgeon. The surgeon said no. He is lightly brown. He is not toast.  You know to have gotten cancer it was a wake-up call maybe that I needed. I was in a job where I was miserable and it gave me the permission to leave. I went from making a lot of money to making very little and being happier. And I sold my big house moved to an apartment. And then a week later the unit downstairs opened up and you moved in. And the only time usually that you live right next door to your best friend is when you are a kid because often your next-door neighbor is by default your best friend.  Exactly.  Second-graders are not that picky.  And when I think of every aspect of my life My marriage has changed. My job has changed. Where I live has changed. Our friendship is really the only thing that is constant. That is probably the greatest gift that you could have given me.  You know when you were sick everybody wanted to say Peter I love you so much. I am so grateful for our friendship. But I feel so lucky that if anything would have happened to you there was never any ambiguity about how you feel about me or I feel about you. I love you very very much.  I love you too man.   Best friends Peter Obetz and Jeff Jarrett in Kansas City Missouri. Peter Obetz has been cancer-free since 2009. Their conversation will be archived at the American Folk Life Center at the Library of Congress. The StoryCorps podcast is at npr.org. 