 Now let us meet the man behind one of TV's most memorable shows ever.    You woke up this morning got yourself a gun. You mama always said you would be the chosen one...  David Chase created The Sopranos the HBO show about a neurotic New Jersey family man and mob boss. This morning he is our latest guest for Watch This conversations where we get recommendations for movie and TV DVDs. When David Chase spoke to MORNING EDITION's Steve Inskeep his first pick was the 1940 movie from comedians Laurel  Hardy called Saps at Sea.  When I was a kid I used to watch Laurel and Hardy with my cousins all the time. And I just thought they were the funny - I still think they are extremely funny and so surreal. The story of this is that Hardy has some kind of an allergy to horns blowing. And if he hears a horn blow he starts to go horns horns and he starts freaking out.    Horns. Horns...  They take a sea voyage to help him calm him down and unbeknownst to them is a gangster - an escaped gangster - and he takes command of the boat. And one of the great scenes is they figure what they will do is they will poison him. They will make him something. He says Make me something to eat. And they meatballs out of sponge and spaghetti out of a mob and they are going to feed that to him. And he will then of course you know be incapacitated.  Sure.  But he makes them eat it.     And you are going to like this because it is just like mother used to make.   Oh she never made any as good as this.   Well if it is that good you eat it.   Well I am not a bit hungry. Am I Ollie?   No. And I am on a diet.   You heard what I said - eat.  Just like mother used to make. Eh Dizzy?  This is like a really good comedy. But also the gangster is kind of scary and I kind of cribbed something from it for The Sopranos one time. The gangster when they have come upon him on board he says My name is Nick and this is Nick Junior and he pulls out his gun. And in The Sopranos at one point we had Uncle Junior was talking with his mistress and he said something about why do not you go check on Junior's junior. And she goes under...   ...underneath the covers.   The Laurel and Hardy reference did you receive any mail from anybody who caught that?  No.   Not a bit.  It is being revealed here for the first time by David Chase.  Yeah.  One of the things I love about this list that you have sent us of movies is that there are a number of very famous names on it but not necessarily their famous films. And the next one on your list here is from director Stanley Kubrick the movie is Barry Lyndon.  Well that is my - it is hard to pick it - but that is my favorite Kubrick film.  Director of 2001 director of Paths of Glory we could go - Dr. Strangelove. We could go on for quite some time. But you find Barry Lyndon to be your favorite Kubrick film. What is it about?  Yeah. Well probably his best known film for people nowadays is The Shining I guess.  Oh sure of course.  What is the film about?  Yeah.  Barry Lyndon is a Victorian novel about a young man's trip from - sort of from like the age of 18 through middle age and his ruin. He is played really wonderfully by Ryan O'Neal. The guy is a rapscallion and a rake and a kind of a scumbag - Barry Lyndon. And he wants to rise up in the world. In the first frames of the movie his father is shot in a duel. And dueling proves to be very important to the whole movie dueling and warfare. But what is great about it is that with all this violence there is this overlay of the most civilized conduct. You know with the handkerchiefs inside the sleeves and...  Oh sure.  ...everybody was called sir like when he is held up by some highwaymen. They say Good day to you sir and could we have - please give us your money now.  ARTHUR O'  And now I am afraid we must get on to the more regrettable stage of our brief acquaintance. Turn around and keep your hands high above your head please. RYAN O'  That is all the money my mother had in the world. Might not I be allowed to keep it? O'  Mr. Barry in my profession we hear many such stories. Yours is one of the most intriguing and touching I have heard in many weeks. Nevertheless I am afraid I cannot grant your request. Good day young sir.  You know when you talk about a movie that has this elaborate code of honor that is laid on top of a basically violent existence and you say that is your favorite Kubrick I wonder if it in some way informed your production of The Sopranos where you had people who at least pretended to have this great code of honor as they were doing violent things?  I never thought of it that way. But you know I am sure that is true because I remember when we were doing The Sopranos I used to love that about it which were that there were rules. There was a Mafia code that you had to go by. But of course the code is ridiculous. It is a code among sociopaths.  You also have on this list a movie called Bicycle Thieves also just called The Bicycle Thief 1948.  Yeah. Well that is a really - I mean that is a classic.  Vittorio De Sica am I saying his name correctly?  Vittorio De Sica yeah. But the thing about that movie - I mean it is a lot of Italian movies that I love. But the thing about that movie is it is so simple. And the reason I put it down there is because this is what I wish for myself. Not that my bicycle would get stolen but that I wish that I could write something so simple and clear and clean.  It is been years since I have seen it. Let us remind people what it is about. It is a poor guy in Italy.  Yes right after World War II and Italy is just over being occupied I guess by the Germans. It is extremely poor and the guy needs his bicycle to get to work and his bicycle gets stolen. And on a Sunday he and his son go looking for the bicycle.  And that is the whole plot.  That is it. And it is about the relationship between this boy and his father.    .  It is just the most pure beautiful simple thing.  I am trying to think of what makes it still work as a movie. And it sounds like it is that once you have a very simple story that people can follow you can hang some very profound issues on it and explore some very profound issues.  That is completely true. I think movies work best actually when they almost are at the fairytale level. You know I think storytelling is all about children. We human beings love to hear stories being told. And it first happens when you are a kid and you know and your father tells you a story at night or your mother or your uncle or whoever it is. And you sit there with your mouth open and your mind goes to all these places they are telling you about that you have never seen and you are really - you are agape. You just cannot believe that things can happen like that but it is just so direct.  Well David Chase it is really been a pleasure talking with you. Thank you very much.  Thank you.   With Steve Inskeep writer-director David Chase. Now out on DVD is his newest film Not Fade Away a coming of age story set in the 60s about a young man with big rock and roll dreams. You can find all of his Watch This recommendations at NPR.org. It is MORNING EDITION. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am David Greene. 