 Drive through cities along the Grand Trunk Road as we are doing this week and next on u will pass many religious shrines like the three onion-shaped domes that loom over this city block in Pakistan. You will also pass an endless procession of storefront schools grammar schools accounting schools English-language schools and more. These are all signs of people's drive for a better life especially young people. And we have taken this trip across South Asia because we want to talk to young people in India and Pakistan meet the new generation along an ancient highway. Consider the people NPR's Philip Reeves met along the Grand Trunk Road. He began his journey in Kolkata India. He is now moved west to Dhanbad India's coal mining capital. Mr.    Anuj Kumar is cramming for his exams. The classroom's not much bigger than a closet. There is a power cut so the room's unbearably hot. Anuj's day is just beginning. His days are usually long. Mr.  They are 10 hours I did.  Ten hours a day? Mr.  Yeah. At night also. At night also.  Is it difficult? It is hot. Mr.  Yeah it is difficult but we have to study for that.  This is a private coaching sector. It is down an alley squeezed inside the top floor of a narrow grimy building. The center calls itself the Oxford Institute. Anuj is 20. He is from a village a couple of hours from here. All over India young people toil away in private tuition centers like this one. Competition for jobs or a place in a good college is ferocious. Exam results matter. Anuj says he is driven by what he is seen in his village. Mr.  There are lots of person who is illiterate. That is why I wake up.  If he can get through his exams Anuj wants to be a tour guide and to travel. Mr.  America and London France. I have dreams.  Anuj also has another dream. Mr.  Actually I did well for Indian Idol.  Oh you did? Mr.  Yeah.  Success on Indian Idol could have changed his fortunes overnight. The judges rejected him. Mr.  But I did not mind because I have talent. I will go next time.   Anuj believes he will one day succeed. In India belief is everything. Mr.    People come here from all over the Buddhist world to worship and to meditate beside this tree. It is a very sacred place. And as you can hear there is an atmosphere of great reverence. And it is a pocket of stillness in the middle of this vibrant and noisy country. Along the Grand Trunk Road great religions have taken root. Here in north India we are in the Hindu heartland. But we have come to the spot where Buddhism began where Buddha's believed to have achieved spiritual enlightenment more than 2500 years ago. It is six hours west of Anuj's school and a few dozen miles north of the big modern highway that was once the Grand Trunk Road. Unidentified Woman    Beside the tree there is a temple. A woman sits within rocking back and forth as she prays. Unidentified Woman     Outside there are stores selling icons and CDs of religious music. Unidentified Woman    There are lots of people including a singing beggar and a small man sporting a big pair of sunglasses. His name is Sachin Kumar. He is 19. Mr.  I came here to visit the Buddha temple because it is very very pleasant to see and very peaceful.  Sachin works in a call center hundreds of miles down the road in India's capital New Delhi. He is a Hindu who like many of his faith takes a pluralist approach and worships at the shrines of others. We are beginning to notice the young people we are meeting on our journey are almost all religious including Sachin. Mr.  Here ever people believes in God so...  Do all your friends believe in God? Mr.  Yeah. Why not? Here you rarely find any people that do not believe in God. Everyone here believes in God.  A few yards away there is a wiry-looking boy selling handy crafts. He is Shiam Kumar and he is 15. Shiam says he has to work to pay for his schooling. He says he eventually wants to join the military or the police. This remark's startling. Government's not particularly popular around here. In fact the state we are in Bihar is part of a huge sweep of impoverished rural India where so-called Maoist guerrillas are waging a war against the state. The guerrillas are also often young people people excluded from the country's economic boom who are championing the cause of the dispossessed including tribal people driven from their lands by mineral companies and other government-backed industries. Many Indians sympathize with the Maoists though not usually with their violent methods. Those methods bother Shiam. Mr.   Me and my friends think that violence is not a good thing. As always there is killings and murderers. We cannot keep studying. We really do not like all this violence.  In this cheerful place the war between the Maoists and the government seems very remote.   Back on the highway an hour's drive along the road the war becomes real. All around us are little farms. Beyond the fields low hills. And in those hills Maoists rebels are a threat. A few weeks back they came out of those hills and they attacked the toll plaza behind me and killed two people and made off with the money. Beside the road there is a small thatched hut. Brijender Chaundhary is sitting inside. The recent Maoist attack worries him. Mr.   Of course I am scared. I am a farmer and a daily wage earner and we are the ones who are caught in the crossfire. So of course I am worried about what is going on right now.  Brijender's 25. So far the young people we have met on the Grand Trunk Road all believe they can transform their lives no matter how great the odds. Brijender's given up hope. He and his wife are illiterate. They barely survive by farming. Yet they do have a daughter. Brijender says the local government schools are useless but in rural India there are private schools charging a couple of dollars a month. Brijender says he spends every spare penny on tuition for his little girl. She is only three but every day Brijender prays that one day she will lead the family out of poverty. Mr.   Yes I would very much want her to be educated to get a job move into the city and find a much better life than the life that I lead out here.  Philip Reeves NPR News.   Phil is part of a team of NPR correspondents and producers here on the Grand Trunk Road. We are traveling across India and Pakistan talking with young people along a centuries-old highway. And elsewhere in today's program Phil is talking with Indians grabbing for new opportunities in an ancient land.   This is NPR News. 