 We got some breaking news now of the joyful variety. We are going to announce the winners of NPR's Student Podcast Challenge. The competition was fierce. There were more than 2600 entries. And we are going to announce the high school winner later today on All Things Considered. But here on  to announce the winner of the middle school prize. And here we go. It goes to a team of eighth graders from Sayre School in Lexington Ky. Here's one of the students Brennan Williams.   We talked with lots of people about our maintenance staff and what they do every day basically so we can do what we come here for.  Their podcast is a fun sound-rich celebration of the independent K-12 school's unsung maintenance crew who does everything from fixing the furnace or unclogging a toilet to figuring out why an entire building smells super disgusting. Here's NPR's Cory Turner.  The winning podcast won me over early on when Brennan and his classmate Braeden Collett sat down with Steve Guynn. He is the head of their school's small buildings and grounds crew.   Mr. Guynn shared with us a very long list of things the maintenance staff has to handle.  Repairs on the commode.  There are five guys who do the maintenance for this entire campus.  The lighting repairs the setups and the special functions.  He went on...  And on.  Biohazard cleaning.  And it was hearing this list that made the boys wonder do students here have any idea how many people it takes to keep our school running? So some of their classmates took an informal poll at lunch.   Probably 15.  Fifty.  Twenty.  Fifty.  I do not know 30.  I guess 10.  Forty.  Thirty.  Again the real answer is this school of 10 buildings and roughly 12 acres has a maintenance staff of five. And it is not just the amount of work that they do. Brennan and Braeden wanted to celebrate them for doing the kind of work that most of us do not want to do. Here's Robert Smith the school's assistant director of buildings and grounds with my favorite story from the podcast.   The occupants of that building walked in and there was this horrible horrible horrible smell.  Oh my God.  And we tried for...  It stinks in here.  ...At least a week...  .  ...To get rid of this smell.  They tried everything spraying deodorizers opening doors and windows.  Dryer sheets in the vents air fresheners - we did everything that we could possibly do.  Unfortunately there was only one more thing to try.  We actually had to go a little deeper and we dove up in the crawl space to look for...  You guessed it.  ...Dead animals.   When we visited the school in Lexington producer Sequoia Carrillo and I had to go a little deeper too to the basement to find Brennan and Braeden and their teacher Brad Becker.  I could not wait for them to arrive. And they enjoyed coming here. Sat around some class periods and got nothing done but just listened to podcasts. I mean that is just like the best class there could be.  The boys built their podcast as part of a special elective project with Becker in his basement classroom.  This is the space where we worked and...  Wow.  ...Did our thing.  It is a cramped studio packed with high-end audio and video gear computers microphones cameras even a green screen as well as a giant can of spinach - do not ask - and the most important equipment of all for budding podcasters - a basket of snacks.  So we got Ritz Bits peanut butter crackers onion chives granola bars Rice Krispies treats - whoops - salad dressing too .  Oh salad dressing for the Rice Krispie treats. Braeden what is your favorite down there?  Definitely the Rice Krispie treats but sometimes I like to add the salad dressing.   I mean it depends on how I am feeling.  Down in the basement fueled by snacks the boys spent hours searching for the perfect sound effects editing their interview tape and for Braeden trying to get used to the sound of his voice.  I remember I listened to my voice for a time. Like dang I sound like I am like five.   I sounded super young. Like it is like this is not how I sound. Like this is not how I sound to myself.  As for why Braeden and Brennan chose to make a podcast about their school's maintenance crew...  This is primarily where most of our tools and things are.  Just like Brennan and Braeden Mr. Smith and Mr. Guynn are also based in the basement tucked around the corner from the boys' studio all of them doing amazing things below just about everyone else's radar. Still Mr. Smith says he was baffled when the boys said we want to interview you.  Why?  why? - 'ecause to us this department is not exciting. But then after hearing the podcast well we realized that man we do do a lot of stuff that you know nobody even thinks about or we do not think about.  But when you get them talking about what they do it is clear that Mr. Smith and Mr. Guynn are heroes. At one point Guynn says of the students whom he lovingly calls the babies...  What I call the babies.  ...He says it is his job to make sure they are comfortable...  We want everybody to feel a comfort here.  ...So they can learn even when that means responding to a frantic phone call at midnight during a storm.  There was actually mud and water coming in the old lower-school basement. And we stayed all night long. And we scraped it cleaned it vacuumed it and actually was ready for school to happen the next morning.  Guynn and Smith say they were taken aback by the boys' interest and by their winning podcast a heartfelt thank you note for and by the heroes of the Sayre School basement.   We hope that our podcast will make you think about thanking somebody on your maintenance staff and you will come to appreciate all of the things that your buildings and grounds staff does behind the scenes and oftentimes unnoticed. Thank you for listening to the Sayre Middle School Podcast. Signing off is Brennan.  And I am Braeden.  And I am Cory Turner NPR News Lexington Ky.  