 Housing is but one crisis. We recently spoke to a man who plans to solve other crises. Larry Brilliant now heads Google.org. That is the company's charitable arm. He is an epidemiologist who is tackled some of the world's worst diseases and he will soon oversee a new philanthropy called the Skoll Urgent Threats Fund. Dr. Brilliant has 100 million to start with. His mission solving the world's five most pressing problems. Dr.  The five areas will be pandemics - unfortunately a little too timely - global warming the Middle East water and nuclear proliferation.  Where do you even start deciding where to put the money in any one of these areas? Dr.  Well I was fortunate enough to be part of the smallpox eradication program. We succeeded in eradicating smallpox. And when you work on a global program like that you really need to play all the keys on the keyboard policy grants changing public will and perception. I think that is probably the most important the advocacy part of this. And all five of these urgent threats have in common they have to be prevented. You cannot wait until there is a nuclear weapon exploded on American territory or some emerging communicable diseases that becomes pandemic. These have to be prevented. And that requires a conversation like the one that you and I are having now. This is our chance and our moment in history to tackle the most daunting problems. If we do not start now when will we start?  Well let us take an example the Middle East conflict - two immovable sides. Where do you start? Dr.  I will Just give you one example. The Skoll Foundation took the movie Gandhi and translated it into Arabic went to Gaza in the West Bank and they showed the movie Gandhi to Palestinians who could see and hear it in Arabic. And they had never known about a peaceful resistance nonviolent resistance nonviolent revolution before. And it is changed the way of thinking and it is changed the conversation. Because what Gandhi did in India was to create a movement that was long lasting that built peace and that created victory.  Now having had a hand in eliminating smallpox and polio is there anything you view as unsolvable? Dr.  Of course you are right. If you are a mountain climber and you climb Mount Everest you have a confidence that you can climb mountains. But having watched smallpox be eradicated it does embolden me. It does give me a feeling that all the great threats that we face are solvable and I do have a confidence that humanity is better than we have shown ourselves to be the last many years and requires a nationwide conversation about these urgent threats. So I think there is a lot of conversation yet to be had and a lot of new tools that can be employed to take that conversation up one more level.  Thank you very much for joining us. Dr.  Thank you very much for having me.  Larry Brilliant will soon leave his current job as vice president and chief philanthropic evangelist at google.org and will become president of the Skoll Urgent Threats Fund. 