 We have been talking with tow senators who want to send more aid to Pakistani civilians. Democrat John Kerry has a simple goal. Senator  Empowering the Pakistani government itself to build the relationship with its own people.  Kerry chairs the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and is working with Richard Lugar the leading Republican voice on foreign affairs. Senator  Our hopes I believe are that there will be money used for health and for education of many Pakistanis.  Both senators want to send Pakistan 7.5 billion and President Obama agrees though this week senators in both parties questioned that plan. One senator asked if corrupt Pakistani officials would divert the money to banks in Switzerland. Even Pakistan's president was once called Mr. 10 percent over claims that he took money. That is why we started our discussion with senators Kerry and Lugar. If I were going to invest money in a company specifically if I  going to buy stock I would want to know that on some basics level that I trust the CEO that the guy is not a crook that the management team knows what they are doing. Sen.  On that basis however perhaps you would not invest in Pakistan to begin with. There is a gamble. In a way it is an investment so that we will have somebody in Pakistan not only who likes the Unites States but is prepared to work with us whoever the leadership might be in the next five years.  The bill that has your names on it has a provision that says anybody who receives more than 250000 of funding from this bill the name should be disclosed in most cases. What is it you are trying to prevent there? Sen.  We want accountability very simply. We want a clarity as to where the money went and who is responsible for it. Can I put this in a perspective? Because I listened to some of the folks who are naysayers or reluctant to do this. What is the option? The option if you decide not to do anything is to just turn it over to the Taliban to abandon the government. It is just a unbelievably damaging message to huge parts of the world. So our struggle here is to help a fledgling democracy be able to try to develop. That is a messy business. It has never not been messy.  I want to ask about the new administration and get both your views on this. This administration has made it clear rhetorically they believe Pakistan is extremely important maybe the key to the whole situation. But are you confident once they have made that statement that they actually know what will work and what will succeed in Pakistan? Sen.  No I am not confident and I do not think they are either. This denotes - at least as far as I am concerned - a very good argument or discussion as the case may be in the administration as to how then to proceed.  Senator Kerry do you think the administration knows what will work in Pakistan? Sen.  To a certainty no. But I think they are hopeful that the new strategy is the best option available under some very difficult choices.  Let me ask about the connections between and Afghanistan and Pakistan which officials say are connected in so many ways. And this week one of your fellow senators Russell Feingold was questioning Richard Holbrook of the Obama administration. And he said if you send as you plan to thousands more troops into Afghanistan if they are actually effective are not they just going to drive the Taliban in greater numbers across the border into Pakistan and you end up with a worse situation in Pakistan which is really the more important country? And the answer came back well actually yes that could happen. Is that an argument for being extraordinarily careful about how you escalate the war in Afghanistan? Sen.  It is one of many arguments for why you have to be extraordinarily careful about how you do this. I am very much in favor of keeping as small a footprint as is militarily feasible and still accomplish your goal of being able to prosecute the counterterrorism efforts against al-Qaida. And the fact is that what we need to do our strategy I believe needs to make the border irrelevant not try to actually enforce it. When I say make it irrelevant it should be meaningless that they are moving back and forth. If they have a sufficient commitment to their local community and they feel as if their future is not with the Taliban and not in terror.  Another thing you would have to do I suppose is make sure that it is just as dangerous for a Taliban fighter no matter which side of the border. Sen.  On either sides.  Is it dangerous enough for the Taliban for the Pakistan side right now? Sen.  It is not dangerous at all - well I cannot say not at all. There are some dangerous obviously because there has been some effort through the Frontier Corps and some other efforts that have taken place that have kept the pressure on them. But it is not the kind of thing that is going to be sustainable over a long period of time in my judgment.  When you think about the American military activity such as it is on the Pakistan side - and the most public thing has been these drones flying around these predator drones firing missiles at specific targets. Is there right now significant American firepower on the Pakistan side to deal with whatever enemies are found there? Sen.  Probably not. I would suspect this is one reason why we are in a training exercise every day of the world with the Pakistanis and I think you know current reports show sharing some drone strategy with the Pakistanis. They are fully capable of comprehending that.  Would either of you want to increase the amount of American firepower that is available or that is used in Pakistan? Sen.  No. I speak for myself. I do not know if Dick would. But American forces American footprint on the ground is counterproductive. It is not the way to proceed. We have to empower the Pakistanis. They have a very good army. They have a strong army. Their army however is fundamentally trained to fight India. And too many of them are deployed on the Indian border and Kashmir border. You have to change that. Once the elections in India are over and completed I believe the dynamic will shift so that there can be some redeployment on both sides. And that will help the Pakistanis to begin to deal with this themselves. Sen.  I agree. And I think we are headed in the direction of reducing that footprint.  Senators Kerry and Lugar thanks very much. Sen.  Thank you sir. Sen.  Delighted to be with you.  They are the leading Democrat and Republican on the Senator Foreign Relations Committee. 