 The Republican candidates met onstage in Milwaukee last night. Unlike the last presidential debate hosted by CNBC there were few complaints this time about the moderator or their questions. NPR's Don Gonyea was in the spin room after last night's event which was sponsored by the Fox Business Network and The Wall Street Journal.  Before the debate Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus warmed up the crowd at the historic Milwaukee Theatre.   Are you ready to have a great debate tonight?  Then his very next words...   Are you ready to get the last debate behind us like I am?  There were the usual back-to-back debates last night an early one featuring low polling candidates and then the primetime event. After each candidates or their surrogates trekked to the spin room to meet the media. Mike DuHaime is a strategist for Chris Christie who made it clear the New Jersey Governor is always ready to debate and had no problem with the last one.   Listen if you cannot handle the moderators in these debates like you should not run for president. I mean you should not run for student council if you cannot handle the moderators. I mean all the complaints about everything - like enough's enough about the complaining. I mean...  But Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal did grumble about one question from last night. He was in the early debate where the GOP hopefuls were asked which Democrat they most admire.   I thought it was a silly question to ask us who our favorite Democrat was. That is why I said so. And I said that instead of wasting time with that why do not we talk about the issues that matter? Let us fire them all in D.C. I...  The second debate had no such questions. Afterward Jeb Bush's campaign manager Danny Diaz was on message. Bush did well he said and...   I think tonight's debate was a serious one where important issues were discussed. As we have said we appreciate the opportunity to engage in the discussion.  Ben Carson now at the top of the polls along with Donald Trump came to the spin room. He offered his review and a piece of technical advice to keep candidates from talking over one another.   I thought the questions were fair. The only thing I think that could improve the situation is if the moderators had a little button to turn people's microphones off .  But Carson was still complaining about what he sees as unfair treatment by the media questioning the accuracy of his life story. During the debate Carson was asked about his background but was not pressed. He then turned the question into an attack on the honesty of Hillary Clinton. Republican Party officials said this debate can serve as a model for future events while moderator Neil Cavuto of the Fox Business Network ended the evening with a note of self-congratulation for the panel of questioners.   By all means it was a very riveting debate. Business issues can be - can be riveting because it was not about us. It is about them.  And with that one final jab at the CNBC debate this one was in the books. Don Gonyea NPR News Milwaukee. 