 Time now for StoryCorps Marge Klindera spent decades teaching home economics to children in Illinois. Thirty years ago she retired and looking for another way to pass along her knowledge she joined a Thanksgiving call center. That call center gets thousands of calls every year from panicked home cooks looking for last minute guidance. At StoryCorps Marge who is 79 now sat down with her longtime coworker Carol Miller to remember some of the best advice they have given over the past three decades.  We like to say we kind of deal with turkey trauma.  It may be as simple as they left the giblets in the turkey. Oh my gosh I have ruined Thanksgiving.  I always remember the call from a young bride. She was kind of whispering on the phone and I asked her why are you whispering. And she said well I do not want my mother and mother-in-law to know I am calling you but they are having this argument about which was the right way to do things. Well she was very relieved when I told her it was her mother who had the right solution.   Yeah but she had to go tell her mother-in-law she was wrong.  She had to tell her mother-in-law .  I remember one time I talked to a guy who wanted to propose on Thanksgiving Day. He wanted to mix the diamond ring in the stuffing and then stuff it inside the turkey. So you know I convinced him that that was not a good idea for a number of reasons. We decided together that he should tie it on a drumstick get down with a platter on one knee and propose. Every year I think about him and it is my wish that someday maybe he might call and say hey we made it for 30 years.  Right. You know we do get people who are lonely and they are almost making up a scenario that they want to share and they need to talk to somebody. It really is heartwarming to hold their hands. We are kind of like their mom or their grandma.  I think that is one of the best parts about our job. They are so grateful that you are there. People say you mean you have given up Thanksgiving for all these years? And I never feel like I have ever given anything up.  Anything up.  Do we think we were going to do it for over 30 years?  Right.  No .  It makes them feel good and it certainly makes us feel good too.  That is Marge Klindera with her coworker Carol Miller in Chicago. Their interview will be archived at the Library of Congress. And now it is easier than ever to be part of history yourself. Record your story this Thanksgiving weekend. You can find the details at npr.org. Search the great listen. You can get the StoryCorps podcast on iTunes and at npr.org. 