 Two stories now about the Middle East and the limits of U.S. power to control events there. In Iraq over the weekend politicians announced they have agreed to form what they are calling a national partnership government. It would be led by a Shiite coalition but also include Kurds and Sunnis. In that Shiite coalition would be the current prime minister Nouri al-Maliki and his onetime arch rival the radical anti-American cleric Muqtada al-Sadr. NPR's Kelly McEvers reports on what this could mean for Iraq and its relations with United States.  The Southern port city of Basra at one time was all but controlled by the Mahdi army. Since the 2008 crackdown markets like this have thrived. The manager of one gold shop who only wanted to give his first name Aysun says a man recently walked into his shop and demanded about 800. He claimed he was a member of the Mahdi army - when I soon took this complaint to police they ignored it.  The security man they told me put it in water and drink this water.  Put it in the water and drink the water - meaning just get rid of it.   Even the Iraqi police is scared.  Major General Vincent Brooks commands U.S. troops in Basra and the surrounding provinces. He says Sadr's return to power is emboldening Sadr's men to try and thwart American projects and to threaten fellow Iraqis.  Sometimes it is in the form of attacks that begin score-settling. In other cases it is direct threats to Iraq Security Force leaders. And there are indications that this emboldenment has been ongoing for about 30 to 40 days.  That is about how long it is been since Sadr threw his support behind Maliki. Other analysts say it is better to have Sadr inside the political tent than hiding in the shadows. Hisham al Hashemi advises the Iraqi government on militant groups. He says the lavish life of politicians could temper the Sadrist's violent leanings.   Once they get involved in this civilian life in this luxurious life they will be paying attention more to the car they are going to ride whether it is Japanese made or German made. So once they experience this luxury they will stick to it and they will forget about the past.  Back in Baghdad Sadr's advisers acknowledge that recent political talks with Maliki's aids have led to the release of Mahdi army members who were detained back in 2008. But they insist these men are innocent of harming fellow Iraqis. Sadrist Hazem al Ariji says there is nothing wrong with a political party maintaining an armed wing.   The Mahdi army people and the Sadrists in general all believe in the wisdom of and also follow the orders of Moqtada al Sadr who have frozen - you know have suspended the activities of the Mahdi army. And they are committed to that order.  That order Ariji says does not apply to a small and secretive faction of the Mahdi army called the Promise Day Brigades. The group's sole aim is to target Americans. At this house back in 2008 three men were detained by American troops for fighting with the Mahdi army. Just this month they were released from jail.    This man says he is killed Americans. But he has not killed Iraqis. Now he says he is prepared to wage a political battle. But what if Sadr ordered him to take up arms again?   He said yes anytime. I would be ready.  Kelly McEvers NPR News Baghdad. 