 Zimbabwe seems to be in the middle of a strange political transition. The country's military has seized power from longtime President Robert Mugabe. It looks in a lot of ways like a coup but it has been pretty orderly.  Streets in the capital city Harare are quiet today. And Robert Mugabe has been meeting with military and religious leaders smiling in photos. He is even appearing in public today giving a speech at a university graduation ceremony.  And let us turn now to the capital Harare and journalist Jeffrey Barbee who is on the line on Skype. Hi there Jeffrey.  Hi David.  So strange moment - does this feel like this could be a historic transition in this country? - because it sounds like it is pretty quiet so far.  Well it is very quiet. But that has been the way things have been in Zimbabwe for a long time. But I think that what is important is the undercurrents here are very strong. And in fact I have been walking around a lot here in the capital speaking to people on the ground. And virtually everyone's in agreement that this is a good idea that they need some sort of change and they need it as soon as possible. In fact I met with a lot of people. Most of them did not want me to mention their last name and Evison  was one of them.  Since I was born we live  to see such a change. The current thing the current government we are not happy with it you know. We are not happy.  Wow that is so interesting. I mean so is he just desperate for some kind of change or is this specifically being very unhappy with Mugabe's long rule that is gone on for more than three decades?  Well I think it is probably a combination of both. I mean here on the ground things are pretty dire. The country does not have its own currency. It uses the U.S. dollar. It is struggled from sort of crisis to crisis since the collapse of the government the unified Government of National Unity in 2008 2009. And what we are looking at now is a bunch of people who are pretty ready for change.  Why are so many people like that man scared to give their last name?  Well I think that until Mugabe's gone and until they can see that there is a roadmap for peace ahead of them everybody's pretty sensitive. You know there is been a lot of reprisals against people in the past. And there is been a lot of strong-arm tactics that have been used against civil society and the civilian population.  Well that makes me wonder how peaceful this is going to remain. I mean so far it looks like the military is doing this respectfully. But if they put too much pressure on Mugabe I mean could we see some crackdowns?  Well we do not know. And right now we have gotten some new information that shows that the Zimbabwean Defense Force is calling people for mass action tomorrow. That is Saturday. And what they want to see is that people march for the overthrow of Mugabe in support of the ZDF. And that call has gone out on social media. And it is highly likely - and we have very good information to say that it is from the Defense Force. So they want people in the streets finally to march against Mugabe.  You said the ZDF. That is the defense forces who have taken over the country at this point for Mugabe?  Yes yes that is correct David. That is the Zimbabwean Defense Force. That is correct.  OK. So something to look for tomorrow. I mean it feels peaceful right now but if they are going to be demonstrations on the streets things could change.  Things could definitely change. And Mugabe does not want to go so we will see how it goes.  All right we have been talking to journalist Jeffrey Barbee who is on the ground in Harare the capital of Zimbabwe at a moment of uncertain political transition in that country. Jeffrey thanks very much.  Thank you very much. 