 And let us get some analysis now from NPR's Cokie Roberts who joins us most Monday mornings. Cokie good morning.  Hi Steve.  What is the political effect here in Washington of all these leaked cables?  You know after September 11th there was all kinds of criticism that various departments in the government did not share information with each other and so - that people could not quote-unquote connect the dots. Now they are sharing and apparently making it possible to download.  Um-hum.  And so I think that argument will start again. What is somewhat refreshing is that this does not appear at least at the moment to be a partisan argument - that you for once in Washington have Democrats and Republicans both on the same side - of course the side of denouncing the WikiLeaks.  Well Democrats and Republicans may not be on the same side but at least they will be in the same room when President Obama meets some of the Republican leaders in Congress this week.  It is hard to imagine because the conversation since the election has hardly been one where Republicans have been reaching out to the administration and to Democrats. Now the president has tried to keep his own rhetoric very mild- mannered and to talk about working across party lines but he is doing that in the face of a lot of opposition inside his own party. So this is just - it is hard to see that anything is going to come out of this other than some picture- taking.  Well why is it so hard for the leaders of the two parties to meet here? Because it seems if you go back in history these kinds of meetings happened all the time.  They did. In fact I was recently just going through some family photographs to try to get something together for an event...  Oh because your father was a leading member of Congress.  But you know so here we are with the opposite. And I just think it was a time when people were much more willing to work together particularly on the kinds of big issues that are facing the country today. I mean you have got foreign policy issues you have got huge economic issues. And people were just at a time when they thought that even though they wanted to defeat each other in the next election that they were willing to work together until that election.  We are in this strange period known as the lame duck session of Congress. The Congress has not changed but the election has happened. There is a lot of people who are spending their last days on Capitol Hill and everybody's going to be back this week with a lot of things that they are supposed to get done but do they ever really get much done?  Often they actually do in a lame duck session although it is quite weird as you say. You know there are people there who are going to be leaving. The halls are filled with boxes people are painting the offices to move in. But they have a tax that they want to deal with and Democrats are talking about compromise there to keep the Bush tax cuts in place for everybody who makes under a million dollars. And there is unemployment insurance Do not Ask Do not Tell the new START treaty - and the deficit commission will be reporting while all of this is going on. And I think that you will see at least some action in this lame duck. And it will be influenced mightily by what happened in the election.  Cokie thanks very much. Cokie Roberts joins us most Monday mornings with analysis. 