 After days with no power many households in Sandy's path are running low on food. FEMA and the National Guard are delivering food to the hardest hit areas. But as Allison Aubrey discovered in the coastal towns along New Jersey comfort food can mean as much as the basics.  Canned goods such as soups and beans can certainly get you through a storm. And a Coleman stove or a gas-powered range does a fine job heating them up. But in order to make life feel a little bit more like normal again what are the folks of Toms River New Jersey going for?   Pizza.  Gino's pick-up or delivery?  While much of the town remained in the dark this week the minute the lights flickered on at this pizzeria they fired up their ovens and third generation pizza maker Marissa Henderson says they were swamped.  We had lines out the door. We had people sitting in. We had people that were waiting in line down the road all of that.  Even though they ran out of bread so no subs and were low on flour they managed to serve up more than 500 pies the first day back in business. Tom's River resident John Germann and his kids were one of the first customers.  Yes we went to get a slice of pizza just for comfort yesterday. We still have plenty of food in the house but it was nice to have a sense of normalcy.  German has not ventured to the grocery store yet. He says as of yesterday morning some stores were still dark. But the local Stop-N-Shop has managed to re-open.  Hello meat room.  The butcher put me in touch with manager Mike Mezle.  We are open for business. We are not selling any perishable items though yet.  Mezle says it is been slow-going getting suppliers to deliver produce meats and cheeses.  We are expecting deliveries today. I do not know what time. I do not know what the situation is on the roads with traffic. Could be later on tonight. Could be early tomorrow morning. I do not know.  Down the road about 20 minutes or so in Ocean Grove New Jersey John German's parents who are retired are managing well in Sandy's wake.  We are eating well. Yes. I would not call it gluttony or anything like that. But we are surviving well.  With a generator to keep the fridge going they have not needed to venture out to grocery stores yet. Instead they have pooled the food they do have and are sharing it with neighbors.  The neighbor down a couple blocks away they are in their 80s. And we - the night of storm because they were much closer to the ocean we said come and stay with us. And they did. And they were very very appreciative.  And in exchange for that lodging George Germann says came a meal he will not forget prepared by his neighbor.  She is a very good cook. She had spaghetti sauce meatballs that she had prepared. And of course she was going to lose it. So she came and she brought that. And it is to die for. So we had dinner with her famous meatballs and spaghetti sauce.  Germann says eventually he knows he will have to venture out to the grocery store. And from chatting with his neighbors he is heard that the Wegmans down the road is fully stocked.  There can never be enough bottled water milk bread eggs batteries in a situation like this.  That is Jo Natale of Wegmans. She says throughout the storm thanks to all of their pad-mounted generators they were able to keep all 81 stores open. And she says each of them was affected by Hurricane Sandy to some degree.  Whether it was just rain and wind or you know severe weather conditions.  Like those experienced by the folks in coastal New Jersey. As for George Germann he says as the photos we have seen have shown the flooding and destruction are terrible. Since in his town the water basically crept all the way to his curb and stopped he considers himself very fortunate.  Other people were not so lucky. There is devastation all around us.  And he says when the lights do come back on he will certainly be relieved. He just hopes that after the clean-up and recovery come to an end that the neighborhood dinners and community spirit will carry on. Allison Aubrey NPR News. 