 This week Mark Thompson takes over as chief executive at the New York Times Company. The Times Company is struggling financially - and the hope is that Thompson will bring some of the organizational success he had in meeting the BBC. But recent scandals at Britain's public broadcaster are raising concerns as NPR's David Folkenflik reports.  The Oxford English dictionary recently announced a British word of the year - Omnishambles - basically an epic all-out screw-up involving a string of blunders. It seems an apt term for what is been playing out at that most quintessentially British of institutions - the BBC. Late last year - Mark Thompson was director general at the BBC - a blend of CEO and editor-in-chief - when a popular retired BBC DJ and children's program host named Jimmy Savile died. BBC News subsequently prepared an expose reporting that Savile raped children who appeared on his show. The investigation never made air but a show celebrating Savile did and Thompson is facing questions about his role in that sequence. Reporters confronted him anew Monday morning as he entered the New York Times building.  It will not in any way affect my job which I am starting right now as chief executive of the New York Times Company. Thank you.  There is no evidence Thompson had any knowledge of the allegations against Savile or involvement in killing the expose. But media analyst Ken Doctor of Outsell says it does not look good for Thompson or the Times Company.  Now Mark Thompson walks in the door - very good credentials - by most accounts a very good guy - and what happens on the day he enters is on page one of the newspaper the story about his former organization the BBC and how it is in chaos how it is in meltdown.  The man who followed Thompson as director general just resigned. The top news executive has been asked to step aside. That is because a BBC News investigation this month wrongly accused a retired politician of abusing a youth. The BBC had not even asked the politician for comment. The case for hiring Thompson had appeared fairly convincing to The Times.  He left the BBC in a very very strong position.  Richard Sambrook is a former global chief of news for the BBC. He says Thompson took over during an earlier - more intense crisis involving clashes with Prime Minister Tony Blair's government and that he launched key digital initiatives to reach new viewers.  He stabilized the organization he reorganized it and he took it through quite a difficult period where it was under sustained political and commercial attack.  Richard Sambrook says the BBC's recent untrue report is much more damaging than what took place last year under Thompson.  Now hindsight is a wonderful thing but if you go back to Jimmy Savile when he died in November last year he was still somebody who would dine with prime ministers mix with the royal family had been honored and was celebrated for having contributed a great deal to charity. We see him very differently today but back in November last year that is how he was seen when he died.  Thompson has said he did not know about the Savile expose until a stray remark at a cocktail party. He said he asked about the story but was told it was not nailed down. But executives and editors at The New York Times told me there is widespread concern that something more damaging could emerge and are bewildered that Thompson's arrival was not delayed by New York Times Chairman and publisher Arthur Sulzberger. That skepticism surfaced in a recent piece by Times columnist Joe Nocera - who contended that Thompson comes off as willfully ignorant of what was going on at the BBC under him. Analyst Ken Doctor says The Times has too many battles of its own to wage to take on another risk.  Some people are raising the question of how good an executive is he? It is just the hand The Times was dealt. It is the hand that Arthur Sulzberger was dealt. Life is not fair.  Among those aggressively covering the story in the U.S. The New York Times. Its front page reporting is a reflection of its journalistic instincts but an unwelcome reminder that Thompson's involvement in the story has not gone away. David Folkenflik NPR News New York. 