 The comedian Steve Martin loves a good comic strip. So he partnered with The New Yorker's cartoonist Harry Bliss.  When I was a kid comics you know like little pamphlets that we got in the mail they were my only communication with the outside world. And they were you know the only thing that arrived for me. In fact it was the only literature I read.   That is some deep stuff.  Yeah.  That is Bliss and Martin who have just created a new book of cartoons. It is called A Wealth Of Pigeons. They brainstormed ideas together over email. Steve Martin writes in the introduction that for him comics are the last frontier.  It is kind of an admiration that I had for people who could write cartoons because I would look at them in amazement. It was like how did they come up with this? How can you have a drawing of two people in a room and then get a funny line out of it? And it was not like - I do not think I needed to prove it to myself. It was just like gee I wonder if I could do that. And also it is so invigorating to start something completely new that is kind of in your wheelhouse but it is more the outhouse of your wheelhouse.   Harry do you want to take issue with that?  No because it is not under the same roof is what I mean. It is not under the same roof. It is - you know it is something for it. I should have said toolshed outside. Yeah.  Right. Yeah. Keep talking. Keep saying more.  It is out now buddy. Yeah keep going. You are doing fine. That is really funny actually.  Well let us get into some of these in more specifics. The Myth Of Sisyphus Fact-Checked is just brilliant just to absorb on its own. And it is radio so you cannot see this illustration. It is a beautiful illustration Harry. But Steve can you just explain this?  I have to correct you though.  Oh please.  I am sorry. I have to interject. It is not an illustration though. Just so you know.  Did I say illustration?  Yeah.  Oh I am sorry. What should I call it?  That is OK.  A drawing?  It is a drawing. It is a drawing.  I am so sorry. Tell me...  That is OK. No it is a...  Calm down Harry. Calm down. She is sorry. She is sorry. She apologized.   All right. OK. Carry on.  Well my wife used to be a fact-checker at The New Yorker among other things. And so I love the world of fact-checking. I just - I think it is so crucial to so many things. And I love it. And so back to The Myth Of Sisyphus. So one day it just occurred to me The Myth Of Sisyphus Fact-Checked and his - you know the jokes were like his real name was Manny. And the slope was not as high as they said. It was actually just a 10 grade and the rock was papier-mache. And you know...  He did not work weekends.  And he had to work - he does not work weekends and he had a work week of 40 hours.   Harry was it OK to tell Steve Martin that it just was not working like if he made a pitch that just was not - it was not funny?  That was - it was hard. It was difficult. And I will tell you you know in most cases drawing cartoons is something I know and I am pretty good at. So I have a certain amount of confidence there. But I am also open to this you know the idea that I am wrong and he is right. So I had to you know go back and say God you know maybe he is right. And then I would then draw them up which I normally would not do. So I had to - I was very aware that these ideas were coming from a really funny person and...  Well you know...  ...That certainly factored into it.  And I will interrupt it. Like not all my ideas are great. And often Harry will conceive of the idea first and then send it to me. But I have a little guilt that I have to confess because I know if I am lying awake at 4 a.m. and an idea pops into my head and I send it to Harry that I worked on it for five seconds and now he is got to work on it for three hours.   But when I - I answer myself by saying well sometimes I lie there for two hours and do not get anything and then something will pop into my head that you know...  It all evens out.  Yeah. And I am actually working on stuff sometimes for two hours just going - you know like the drawing in the book where I am going eggplants juggling balls you know things just passing through your mind.  Obviously in stand-up you know timing is everything right? And you are pacing and you are storytelling and you are waiting for it and you are sitting in pauses for a long uncomfortable moment. And I did not think timing would be an element to these kind of static cartoons. But actually I mean it is.  I completely agree that there is timing involved in this and it is strange. It is nanosecond timing.  Right.  You know it is just where everything sort of comes together in a pinpoint. I am being too grand because it is really a cartoon. But you know this is the way I look at it.   It is true in the case of many of these. But if you look at - I am going to have to go back and claim this one as maybe my favorite in the book. And it is - a lot of it has to do with timing. It is the baby being born. And...  I love that one.  Yeah. And Steve when he sent me that one again I - a lot of times when Steve sends me the cartoons emails them to me I see them in my mind as I am reading the caption. So he sets them up but I am also seeing them...  Let me just jump in for the listener because they have to visualize this cartoon. It is a baby just having been born in the hospital room. The doctors are there. And the little infant says to the doctor this is my best birthday ever.  Oh right.   And it just seems like - I laughed...  So go ahead Harry.  I just laughed so hard because of course it is the best birthday ever. It is like...   Oh and the getting the - I am sorry. There is a - well I can go on but...  There is another infant one I like. And it has these tricks of cartooning which I love. It is a - it is like a 3-year-old on a unicycle and he is riding around his living room he or she and he is juggling and riding a unicycle at the same time. And the parents say encourage or discourage. But what I like about it is the little - the tracks of the unicycle are indicated by little dots and he is done a circle. And you do not even think twice about it. You know those dots indicate his path.  And you know if you - yeah.  There is a - it is part of the comic language and a comic...  Right.  Yeah. And there is a lot of it in there.  I love the gestures how a dog wags his tail. I love the the gestures of motion these little vibes that come off an object when it is in motion.  It is super fun to do.  It has been such a pleasure to talk with both of you Harry Bliss and Steve Martin. The book is called A Wealth Of Pigeons A Cartoon Collection. Thanks to both of you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much Rachel. 