 The question of what went wrong is on the mind of Richard Wolffe. He wrote a book on Mr. Obama's 2008 campaign and has now published a book called Revival. The word revival in the title refers to the administration's narrow success in passing a health care law. Now Wolffe says the White House is seeking revival again.  Now as many people say these are people with considerable communication skills. There is no shortage of talent inside the White House and they have a huge communications staff. So the question is why? And that comes down to identity. Who are these people? What are they trying to do? That is an unresolved debate for them. And until you can resolve that you cannot communicate properly.  Is not it also kind of the easy answer to say well our policies are correct and Americans if they only knew would agree with our policies. We are just not advertising correctly here basically is what they are saying.  On health care which is supposed to have been the big conclusion coming out of this election opinions pretty much divided. There are grounds to feeling that there is a big communications problem there. And that gets you into this fault line between these two rival camps competing for attention for message for direction and that debate goes on in the president's head too.  When you say these two rival camps what are you talking about? Inside the White House here right?  Inside the White House. So you have two camps that I call the revivalists and the survivalists. The people who want a revival of the campaign's spirit to the campaign identity and they feel that they have lost that brand that vision that sense of reform that sense of being an outsider.  The word change the word hope that.  Exactly.  Um-hum.  And then you have the survivalists for want of a better word the Washington crowd who believe that you had to compromise you had to make deals the backroom deals you had to do whatever it took. And these two pieces of the White House have left the grand message the grand identity questions unresolved. And I think they are unresolved because the president has not resolved them. He has a foot in both camps.  I am thinking of a quote from an interview that was giving by President Obama and Peter Baker of the New York Times. It was published just before the election in which Obama said I feel that I have been painted as another quote tax and spend liberal. But when you look at the 800 billion plus stimulus plan I wonder if part of the reason he was painted that way and had trouble communicating is because he actually was I mean the practical effect of his policy's headed in that direction.  Except that a third of that 800 million was for tax cuts.  Right.  There are lots of people who got those tax cuts and they would have no idea where the money was coming from. They thought it came from their employers. So you know here's a situation where you try to be all things to all people and you end up being nothing much to anyone.  Meaning that you had this bill that had conservative ideas in it on some level and nobody knew it.  Just like health care. Just like health care where you start off basically with a Republican idea private sector based reforms to the market and yet he gets painted as this socialist government takeover of health care. Again it does come down to what are you trying to do here? And if you are trying to please everyone if you have not decided whether you are the insider or outsider yeah you are going to have communications problems. You are also going to have election problems.  So you have got the president with an identity problem you have got a staff that divides in different ways along these lines. Can you give me an example of two personalities and the way that they clashed on the revivalist side as you say and the survivalist side?  You know their idea here was here's a guy who understood Washington who would make these deals who would compromise and yet they did not figure out that he could not bend to the ways of the campaign did not understand it and in their view in the revivalist's view he sought to undermine what they would done in the campaign.  Rahm Emanuel?  Rahm Emanuel. And on the revivalist side you have got a number of people like David Plouffe who would never join the White House but who is likely to go back in.  Campaign strategist.  You have communications people like Anita Dunn who is director of communications Dan Pfeiffer and to some degree David Axelrod. There were real tensions for him. He felt that much like the president they had to shift from campaigning to governing. And what they woke up too late was the fact that the other side the Republicans never stopped campaigning.  I wonder if there is a useful contrast here with the previous president President Bush who was accused of oversimplifying the world but could get credit for saying that my goals are very straight forward. I stand for a handful of things. I am going to go absolutely all out for those handful of things and that is what I stand for. And by contrast you have President Obama who sounds like as you describe it trying to do too much.  If you asked people now if you asked Democrats What does this White House stand for? They are struggling. And I do think that comes back to this identity question of the revival of the campaign versus the people who wanted to just survive and get by.  You described the president as just about tearing up fighting back tears...  Yes.  ...when health care is finally signed.  And he tears up - it is strange that people did not kind of notice it - in all of the hullabaloo around the signing in the East Room he can barely keep it together. And that is very very rare - to see a president especially this president who is struggling fighting with himself to hold back the tears.  Now that he knows the price at least in this fall's election does he still think it is worth it?  The difference as you suggested earlier is that Bush had a simple clear message and he would repeat it until everyone was sick of it including himself. This president feels like everyone's heard it already - you know about this stuff right? You know what is in health care or the Recovery Act. Well it turns out people do not.  Richard Wolffe is the author of Revival. Thanks very much.  Thank you for having me.   This is NPR News. 