 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  NPR's Howard Berkes explains.  First a warning.  That stuff about the rural carriers and whatever it does not get more complex than that stuff. I mean if you really study this stuff you go blind.   That is Scott Cleland a consultant and analyst for telephone companies like ATT. But not to worry the story will not blind you or send you screaming from your radio - I promise. I hope. Let us start with a simple phone call.   This is something millions of people do every month using one of those free teleconferencing services. A lot of those calls like this one go to phone numbers in Iowa.  Welcome to the conference center. Please enter your conference ID followed by the pound key.  In Spencer Iowa for example one phone company with just 800 potential local customers handles 2.5 million calls a month.  We host and cater to many large conference-calling companies companies that vary from 24 channels to capacities of 7000 and 8000 channels on a single call.  Josh Nelson runs Spencer's Great Lakes Communication which does not actually serve any local customers. Long distance providers say they pay millions of dollars a month more when calls are routed through these small towns. It is all perfectly legal but critics say the practice also involved sex-oriented chat rooms and it games the system. This is where Google Voice comes in. the company's Rick Whitt says the scheme burdens Google's new and free computer-based phone service.  There were a very small number of exchanges primarily in rural areas where there were an inordinately high number of calls the volume was way off the charts and the costs were way off the charts.  So Google Voice began blocking those calls and Josh Nelson at Great Lakes Communication noticed.  They were blatantly blocking probably tens and tens of thousands of numbers.  Google Voice will not connect to that teleconferencing service I called earlier. It now blocks about 100 selected phone numbers to such services says Google's Rick Whitt.  We realized quickly that if we allowed this to continue the free nature of the service to consumers will be threatened because something like 26 percent of our costs overall were just going to these few exchanges in these areas.  Members of Congress with rural districts howled in protest as did ATT because blocking calls with high fees gives Google Voice a competitive advantage. In fact phone companies cannot block any calls. Google considers itself a computer company providing a phone application.  In a sense it piggybacks on top of your existing phone connections. And it is also - it is a Web-based application. It is all out there. It is software on the Web and so it is not using the traditional phone lines the traditional phone networks the way the legacy carriers do.  But Scott Cleland the consultant for phone companies looks at the service provided not the way it is provided.  Clearly Google Voice does things like a telecommunications provider does. It enters the game by creating an application. But on the back end it has to connect people much like a telecommunications company does. So which is it?  Howard Berkes NPR News. 