 We are going to hear now about a controversy that erupted earlier this year over who deserved credit for what many say is the most important astronomical discovery of the 20th century - the realization that the universe is expanding. NPR's Joe Palca has this story on a letter written long ago that clears up whether one scientist stole another's glory.  In 1929 American astronomer Edwin Hubble proposed that the more distant a galaxy is the faster it appears to be receding from us.  And that has become known as the Hubble law the fact that you know if you have a galaxy that is twice more distant it move twice faster recedes from us.  That is Mario Livio. He is an astronomer who is been working with the Hubble Space Telescope for more than 20 years.  So clearly anything Hubble is of interest to me.  So naturally Livio was interested when he heard rumbles about Hubble not deserving all the credit for Hubble's law. Now remember Hubble published his results in 1929. But as it turns out two years earlier a Belgian astronomer named George Lemaitre had written a largely theoretical paper reaching the same basic conclusion.  He published this in 1927 but this was published in French in a rather obscure Belgian journal and so very few people actually knew about it.  Here comes the controversy. In 1931 the editor of the Royal Astronomical Society's journal writes to Lemaitre. He tells the Belgian astronomer that more people should know about his paper and asks if he would be willing to have it published in English. Lemaitre agreed and the translated paper appeared in the Society's journal that year.  But mysteriously some paragraphs from that paper in particular the ones discussing what is now called Hubble's law that part is missing.  Nobody knew who translated the paper. But this year some scientists suggested the translator was an ally of Hubble's seeking to obscure Lemaitre's contribution.  There was even some speculation that maybe Hubble himself had some hand in this cosmic censorship if you like.  Livio decided he had to know the truth so he went to London and sorted through all the correspondence the Royal Astronomical Society's journal had for 1931. The second to last document he looked at was the prize.  I actually discovered a letter that Lemaitre wrote to the editor.  The letter revealed that Lemaitre had himself translated the paper.  And he himself omitted those paragraphs.  Why?  Because he thought that there was no point since Hubble's paper already appeared to repeat his somewhat more tentative conclusions that you know appeared before that.  Livio describes his sleuthing in the current edition of the journal Nature. So should Lemaitre get some of the credit for the expanding universe? Probably. Robert Smith is a historian of science at the University of Alberta.  The way that scientists often talk about discovery is just to identify one person and that is how it is done in scientific textbooks. But I think that can be somewhat misleading.  Smith says discovery is more frequently a process that takes place over time. But University of Rochester astrophysicist Adam Frank says getting credit for discoveries helps drive science.  You do not do science for money. I mean you know you may be able to make a decent living out of it but you are certainly not going to make a lot of money out of it. And so along with the noble inclination to know the universe in and of itself as social beings we also want some glory.  You could probably say that about journalists too. Joe Palca NPR News Washington.  