 Reporter Jeff Lunden went to find out.  Seventeen-year-old Samantha Henry had devoured the study guide and could not wait for the show to start.  Unidentified Chorus Hey hey hey hey look what we got for you. Come on gather around. Hey hey hey hey we will not be able to keep your toes from tippy-tapping over the ground.   Director Susan Stroman says the creators of the musical took their cue from lyricist Fred Ebb who died in 2004 before the show was completed.  Unidentified Man  Mr. Tambo are you ready to have a good time?   Unidentified Man  And all the men in front kiss the ladies behind.  Composer John Kander.  Doing a minstrel show today is such a racially- charged thing that it already brings its own comment with it. So the very form that we were working in commented on the story that we were telling.     Do not understand nothing. Never did learns nothing. Since I do not knows nothing this is a fine how do you do.  Susan Stroman says The Scottsboro Boys makes use of the kind of broad stylized characters typical in minstrel shows. But there is an added dimension - many of the actors play multiple roles.  In this form that we are using it is really the white stereotypes that our actors get to play. You know now our black company get to play a white sheriff and white guards and white lawyers and they get to play roles that they would never be allowed to play. And that makes it sort of an acting tour-de-force for them.    Above the law may be my  care in Alabama. But it is not the way we see things it is not the way we deal things it is not the way we do things in New York.  David Thompson who wrote the show is script says the role playing becomes more pointed as the show goes on.  The boys at the beginning are asked to perform a minstrel show and by the end of the evening they have more or less taken over the storytelling in all aspects whether it is the moving of the scenery the telling of the story the enacting of all the different characters. So by the end they own the story and they flip the minstrel show on its head.  Like in this moment towards the end of the musical when The Interlocutor - a master of ceremonies and the only white person onstage - asks the Scottsboro Boys to sing a Stephen Foster-like song called Southern Days.  Unidentified Chorus  Do not you miss the sigh of willows dripping on a balmy Southern day?   Unidentified Chorus  How the signs and sounds come back to me like my daddy hanging from a tree...  Unidentified Chorus  ...or the fire that made the crosses burn.   I do not remember that part of the song.  The 1930s Alabama of lynchings and cross-burnings made an impression on the Harlem teenagers like Jamal Baugh who found himself talking to some audience members after the show.  Me and Shannille was talking to two old ladies who was actually in that time - they was black also. So she was saying that can we relate to it? And I was like no I am kinda glad that we live right now.   And how they was saying that they were sad at seeing how this play was so emotional and how it was racism that time So they had it bad and while we had it good for right now.  Unidentified Chorus  Read the morning papers every day. Read what all the gossip columns say...   It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Renee Montagne.  Unidentified Chorus  Come see the merriment. Come on and make some noise. Hey hey hey hey good-bye to the Scottsboro Boys.   A happy ending just like I promised. Everyone's favorite the cakewalk. 