 OK all this week we are exploring fandom what makes people fall in love become fans of a show or a comic book series or a sports team like the Houston Astros whose super fans include Pete Van Vleet. He is a father who wonders how to share his passion with his kids. He and his family discussed this at a baseball game in Virginia.  We are here at The Diamond home for the Richmond Flying Squirrels. Who are you waving to Madeline?  The mascots.  What are they?  Flying squirrels with clothes on.  Madeline is our first child. She is 6 and she right now is my - and has been my baseball buddy.  I like just being with Daddy sometimes.  All right now that little ball in the dirt.  Why does he throw it in the dirt?  I think he is just trying to get him to swing at a bad pitch.  Yeah. The Tigers are my favorite team because they are my favorite animal.  A team a person roots for says a lot about that person themself. When I was growing up there was no team around us so it was up to me to pick my own team and the Astros had the coolest uniforms. They played in the Astrodome which was just fantastic. And they suffered and I will tell this quick story. I used to play baseball by myself in the backyard. I would pretend I was the Astros and the team would lose. Even in my own imagination the team would lose.   The score is two to nothing Houston.  This is something I will literally call up whenever I just need a pick-me-up. Some people go to certain songs. Some people go to cat videos. I go to clips of my Astros and this is the first one I go to of those.   Now the hitter is Will Clark.  Mike Scott's on the mound and he no-hits the San Francisco Giants and that is how we reach the playoffs for the first time in five or six years.   What a way to do it.  That was Neil Armstrong on the moon for me. That was everything.   National League champions of the West.  We are blessed with two children. Jack is our youngest. Soon after Jack was born I decided to write a letter to every team to ask them why should my son choose you to be a fan? Eighteen major league teams sent us back letters or emails or packages. I am holding in my hand now the letter we got in response from the Pittsburgh Pirates.  Dear Jack the pirate ship has plenty of room on it for a young man from Ashland Va. We would be honored if you would join our family and help us... I have read this letter dozens of time and I still get chills reading it. I just want him to pick the team that in his heart is going to - is going to grab his heart going to capture his imagination and just going to steal him away for life.   And the home of the brave.   I took Madeline to Baltimore to see the Tigers play and we went to two games.  I like watching the Tigers play because of Miguel Cabrera. He usually hits home runs. He usually never misses.  And the first game was a night game and around the fifth inning she just kind of crawled in my lap. And I just kind of - I had to tell myself just remember this now. Remember this feeling and this moment now because five years from now maybe less she is not going to do this. And I know that is part of growing up but at least we will have that together now.   What I think drives people to fandom I think there is some escapism to it. Whatever is going on in my life now or Madeline's life that all kind of lifts off from your shoulder when you enter this cathedral of a ballpark. And for maybe a couple hours on a summer night your problems are not as big your worries are not as burdensome. You can enjoy life for that little bit.   Houston Astros fan Pete Van Vleet and family.  