 This morning we are remembering one of the greatest sports stars of all time. Diego Maradona died on Wednesday at the age of 60. He reportedly had a heart attack. The Argentine was one of the greatest soccer players in history. At the 1986 World Cup he scored what is often called the goal of the century.   .  Genius genius genius that commentator is screaming as Maradona weaves his way through England's defense. Now minutes before that he scored arguably the most controversial goal in soccer history - using his hand. And that sort of summed him up - a magician a maverick always in the headlines. Filmmaker Richard Sanders knew the man personally. He was part of the production team that brought us Maradona Kicking The Habit a film that told his story. And he interviewed the soccer great on a number of occasions. And he is with us now. Richard thanks for being here.  Thank you for having me.  So what made Maradona so special on the soccer field?  He had a combination of everything. He had an extraordinary pace. He had extraordinary skill. He was also a wonderfully intelligent and instinctive football player. And he was a wonderful team player as well. You know none of his teammates had a single bad word to say against him. He was a wonderful team player.  But I mean he was known for - I mean for his activities off the field as much as his soccer playing. And his life was complicated if we can use that word. I mean can you talk to us about some of what he went through?  So the film I worked on 20 years ago we filmed in Cuba and in Buenos Aires. Now Maradona at that time was only just 39. He had not stopped playing that long before. But he was already having problems with his heart. He would had a stroke or a minor heart attack or whatever and he was in Cuba to rehabilitate to try and kick his cocaine habit. That was the fundamental problem Diego had. He was addicted to cocaine. And as he always said you know imagine how good a player I would have been if I had not been addicted to cocaine. And in a strange way the whole of Argentinian self-respect to a degree began to rest on Maradona. And I think Diego struggled with that.  But not everyone rooted for him. I mean he was beloved by so many people but also loathed by many. I mean what was the fascination? What was the draw to this man for so many people?  Well of course you are talking to an Englishman and I think if he is loathed anywhere it is in England because of the famous the infamous hand of God goal in 1986.  Yeah.  Even here though I think most people would recognize the beauty of the second goal outshines the problems with the first goal.  And for an Englishman to admit that is pretty significant.  I mean I talked to Diego about this. The key thing with Maradona is he took very ordinary teams to the heights. Now the game against England is the absolute cornerstone of the legend. The thing about that quarterfinal is of course it comes four years after the Falklands War between Britain and Argentina. Now all the talk before the game was of course this is nothing about the war. This is about sport. It is not about politics. But I remember talking to the Argentinian commentator you were quoting earlier who actually commented on that game and he said to me of course it was all about the war. How could it not be about the war? And to gain sort of national revenge against England through the combination of the greatest goal ever scored in the World Cup - and it certainly is - and cheating  was almost too perfect to be true for some Argentinians. Diego articulated this perfectly to me when I interviewed him 20 years ago. He said in Argentina we rather admire the pickpocket the street kid the street kid who gets away with it who picks your pocket and no one sees. And I said to him Diego we all saw. Everyone saw . It was just the referee and the linesman who did not see. And he just grinned at me. But that was Diego.   Richard thanks so much for talking to us. We appreciate it.  Thank you for having me.  We were speaking to Richard Sanders about soccer star Diego Maradona who has died. Richard's film was called Maradona Kicking The Habit. 