 There is something different about the music of Donald Glover. He is a comedian a TV writer and an actor in NBC's Community. He plays a community college student a former athlete who discovers his inner nerd.     Kingdom Anamalia phylum Chordata...  And at one point ends up rapping with a friend about the human species.     ...primate family Hominity the genus is full. But you know you are into me 'ecause I am in the species known a sapien. Dogs used to hate me but now they bring the paper in.   It is going to take a lot to get me away from you...  Now Donald Glover has put out an album with lyrics from the perspective of a kid who is dismissed as a nerd.    All right it is childish baby Mr. Talk-About-His- again nerdy black kid. Whatever man. I am sick of him. That well-spoken token who as not been heard the only white rapper who is allowed to say the N-word. I buy a bunch...  The album is called Camp. He put it out under the name Childish Gambino. And amid the jokes Donald Glover is seriously thinking of awkward kid he used to be.  I made this album for me when I was 13. Like the name of it I said in the album I wish I had known when I was younger.    Am I serious? I do not even know. Are you hearing this? It is laughable. I as not trying I am doing. These other rappers are foolish. I got fame my AR is a computer. Is there room in the game for a lame who rhymes? Who wears short-shorts and makes jokes sometimes?  If I think about other rap lyrics that I have heard I mean there are few kinds of standard characters who appear with standard messages. Which might be for example I am really great I am really tough I am a great rapper or life is very hard life on the streets is very tough and I am as tough as I need to be to deal with it. You however take the approach of a young man who is just constantly vulnerable. He is a loser.  Yeah I mean...   ...totally. I mean like - first of all thank you.   Second of all like yeah. Totally you know I never I never really felt like I was like cool or anything like that. And I - also on the album I say all those things that like you know quote-unquote like regular rappers do. Like you know I am great I am awesome I have sex all the time. I do - you know like that is there too. But it is all part of the id of just like you know everybody feels like they should have the best. But everybody also constantly feels like ugh I am the worst. Why am I doing this?   I do not like myself. Like - and if they do not then like you know that is me.    This rap stuff is magic. I used to get called Oreo. I used to get more laughs when I got laughed at. Oh you got a mixed tape? That is fantastic. But everybody thought it was jokes though they half right the joke is I got flow so do not act like... Childish Gambino I guess would be me like my failures and my triumphs ten-fold you know.  This is a theme you pursue in both your music and your comedy.  Yeah. Yeah. I feel like that is the only reason I am allowed to do rap and comedy is that they are kind of the same person. I have said this before - if I came out with like a rap thing and then it was like yeah man - I am going to shoot a baby. Like it is like people would be like that is not you at all. You know? And it may be right.  I want to play a clip from a Comedy Central program that you did where you are talking about black nerds. Let us listen.   The best part about Obama is that he is a black nerd. I love that junk.   'ecause I am a black nerd and that  was illegal until like 2003.   It is so awesome. 'ecause it is like there is black nerds everywhere. You know like it is awesome. It is just like they are everywhere now. But it was just hard for us growing up. Like you know I remember I was the only black kid at my school for a while. And white kids were excited. They were like oh we got a black kid this is awesome.   We got a black kid. They be like oh hey. Donald what kind of rap music you into? And what kind of sneakers you like? And I was like oh I do not really like rap music. I really enjoy the soulful stylings of the Cranberries.   We can talk about that. And they were like no man. You like sneakers and you like rap music. And you are going to tell us which one you like. I was like oh you are hurting me Steven. You know...   No that is my life. You know?  You are playing with stereotypes. And we think of stereotypes as being something that for example white people would apply negatively to African-Americans. But what you actually have happening there is white kids who are excited about the stereotypical black person they expected to meet and they are a little disappointed not to run into that kid.  Oh yeah. I mean it so happens today like probably 'ecause you know I am not intimidating. Like I am just talking about you know my own stuff.  You also talk about African-Americans who apply stereotypes to themselves for example the stereotype that a black kid is not likely to have a father around the house.  Yeah I mean black kids are told every day who they are. Like every day. The thing is like I talked to my dad about it. My dad did not like really like himself or figure out like how do I - like how am I balancing who I am until he was like a father of three already. Like he was just like that is crazy to me. And you know we put stereotypes on ourselves - like everybody does that. But I think it is just a little harder for black kids to just like you know be who they are because there are people on both sides are telling them who they are all the time. Television is telling you who you are. Like everybody is telling you who are and who you can be and what your limits are.    This one kid said something that was really bad. He said I was not really black 'ecause I had a dad. I think that is really sad mostly 'ecause a lot of black kids think they should agree with that. If you are a father you should stick around if you could. If you think you are bad at it you get Tiger Woods. MJ. We warriors we all need sensei's... It is hard I feel like as a black guy or a black kid to connect with everybody because the thing is it is just like the only thing that has really been given to us to connect is negative stuff.  Well I want to ask about one more lyric that you rap.  I always wanted to get picked on the cool team but alone is exactly how I should be. Listening to it I wondered as an adult now are you comfortable with who you are?  Ah I do not know. I mean like I like who I am. Like I feel like I am a good person. I work hard - I definitely feel like I do that. But I feel like you know I make mistakes all the time. And you know I think that line was just like hopefully making this thing will make it easier for little Donalds.  Well Donald Glover it is been a pleasure speaking with you. Thanks very much.  No thank you.  His album Camp under the name Childish Gambino is out today. You can hear in full until the end of today at NPRMusic.org. It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Renee Montagne. 