 We got to ask what is the future of political polling after the failures we saw in this election? Joe Biden won the presidential election but it was a lot closer than polls suggested. And there is evidence that political polling this year was even further off than it was in 2016. So let us talk this through with our own senior political editor and correspondent Domenico Montanaro. Good morning Domenico.  Morning David.  So it seemed pretty clear on election night that the polls were off in the presidential race. I mean now we have had a little more time to count votes. I mean what can we say about how far they were off?  Well they were off particularly in the Midwest where there are lots of white voters without college degrees and in many traditional Republican states. You know some of the biggest misses in swing states were in Wisconsin Ohio and Iowa where the polls were off by about seven points each. Republican states like Montana Indiana and Missouri they were also polling in single digits before the election and all wound up being blowouts. You know national polls were off too. They had Biden winning by eight. It is only three. It might get to about four or so when all the counting is done. But Biden's number you know was actually pretty close. It was Trump's support that was consistently underestimated. The NPRMarist poll by the way had Biden taking a double-digit lead over Trump in mid-October. That was a pretty long way off obviously from what actually happened.  So are there explanations for this stuff?  We do not have all the answers yet. But there are some theories that are starting to take shape. And pollsters are starting to look into them. Some pollsters I have talked to are pointing to the huge and unprecedented share of early votes. They said that when they are looking at their pre-election samples they are seeing that they had a higher share of people who were voting early than actually did. And we know that those voters leaned heavily toward Biden. They are also asking if the reporting on the huge early vote leads for Democrats actually wound up turning out more of Trump's supporters in the final days than might have shown up if that did not happen. You know there is some evidence for that because in Arizona for example where the gap closed considerably in Trump's favor were all votes that were dropped off the day before Election Day or on Election Day itself. And the other thing that they are looking at is simply whether Trump supporters just do not want to talk to pollsters.  Oh yeah. That theory has been out there the whole idea of the shy Trump voter. I mean is there actually evidence of that? Or is it just a theory?  Yeah. And it is not quite the shy Trump voter thing. You know there are shy Trump voters. I was talking to a Republican pollster who said shy Trump voters obviously do exist. They tend to be women. They are reluctant to say in social settings that they are supporting Trump. But I asked him does that mean that they are not telling pollsters that they support him? And he said no. It is more about them just not wanting to talk to pollsters at all. The Pew Research Center actually ran an experiment on this after the 2016 election. They had people talk to live questioners and take an online survey. The thinking was that maybe they would be more honest online since they did not have to say their preference out loud. But the experiment actually found no significant difference. Basically the results were the same. Trump is clearly though the big factor here. And pollsters you know they are scratching their heads. They are wondering if this was a black swan event that only applies when Trump is on the ballot or if there is something more systemic going on.  Do you still trust polls?   You know look I have said often I think polls are best used when broadly looking at attitudes and trends. I put a lot less stock in horse race polls this year than in 2016. And I will look even more skeptically at them in coming cycles. You know we have to remember that politics is a combination of art and science. Data has a place. Pollsters argue if we do not have an objective baseline all we would have is spin from campaigns. But talking to voters is still very important.  NPR's Domenico Montanaro. Thanks.  You got it. 