 Estimates of the economic cost of the storm damage caused by Hurricane Sandy along the East Coast are as high as 50 billion. A lot of that is physical damage.  Just under half of those losses though are from things people did not or could not do during the storm like eat in restaurants go to the theater or just work. Reporter Tracey Samuelson brings us this look at the blows Sandy has dealt a pair of small-business owners in New York City.  Anna Gordon owns The Good Batch a cookie wholesaler.  Late last week she visited the commercial kitchen in Brooklyn where she works. It was the first time since the storm so she huffed up six flights of stairs - because the building lost power Monday night and she made a B-line for the big walk-in freezer in the back.  So you can tell it is still pretty cold in here...  So she is hopeful as she reaches for a box of ice cream sandwiches.  Oh not so good. We are seeing the ice cream sandwiches - like right before they fall apart unfortunately.  Gordon shares the kitchen with about a dozen other companies. In the next room Matt Robicelli is trying to salvage one of the biggest orders his company's ever had. For three months he worked to land a contract with Madison Square Garden. This order for over 5000 brownies was supposed to help take his small baked-goods company called Robicelli's to the next level. All those brownies were baked and ready to be delivered on - you guessed it - Monday the day the storm hit. So now he is a big guy in a Three Stooges T-shirt who is not laughing.  We applied for funding from FEMA. We will see how long that takes. A small-business solution said that they will - they will look at loans. But I was like you know how long is that loan going to take you know? It is like it all comes down to having it now rather than having it later.  Of course brownies and ice cream sandwiches are far from the greatest casualties of this storm. Both Gordon and Robicelli know that. But this is their livelihood. And because they could not bake anything or deliver to any regulars last week they have bills to pay - and no money coming in. Robicelli spent 15000 up front to buy the ingredients for all those brownies hire extra staff to make them. And he invested in a machine to cut them - which now he cannot use without power. So he and an employee are doing it all by hand.  You learn how to get tougher through this kind of stuff. But hopefully this one's not bad enough where it just like bankrupts you.  Do you feel like that is a possibility?  We will see. I do not know. I am trying to keep a positive note on it but until we get power it is not looking very good.  Robicelli says he thinks he will lose 10 grand because of the storm. Gordon thinks her hit will be about the same. They both run their businesses with their spouses - which means two families will struggle to make rent this month. And neither of them can pay their employees for the time they are not working creating a whole other level of hardship for a new set of people. But just when it seems like Sandy's hit everyone hard on the way out - climbing back down those six flights of stairs - we pass Jose Torres who works for Brooklyn Battery Works. He is loading dozens of boxes into the back of a van.  Actually we have a delivery a big delivery to come up. People need their batteries.  Torres says with all of the work he is done during the storm he might even come out ahead. For NPR News I am Tracey Samuelson in New York.  