 Mississippi voters next week will decide whether to pass a constitutional amendment that redefines what a person is. Under the proposal fertilized human eggs would now be considered human beings. The measure would ban all abortions in the state. NPR's Kathy Lohr reports.  Mississippi's Personhood Amendment says human life begins at the moment of fertilization. Les Riley has worked on the initiative for years gathering signatures to get it on the ballot and now in northwest Mississippi he is assembling yard signs that urge the passage of Amendment 26.  We started out with no money four families in my living room. We ended up with over 2000 volunteers spread all the way across Mississippi.  Part of Riley's strategy is going door to door downtown in small towns like Senatobia.  There is going to be a pro-life amendment on the ballot this November. It is statewide to help stop abortion in our state defines a person and I would sure appreciate your support.  Absolutely. You can count on it. I do not like abortion.  Thank you madam.   OK.  There is support for Amendment 26 in this conservative state. Both candidates for governor are behind it. The Democratic attorney general running for reelection says he would enforce it. Many groups that traditionally oppose abortion are supporting the amendment including the American Family Association. Patrick Vaughn is the group's general counsel.  When the law looks at a woman carrying a child only the woman has legal rights and the baby does not have any rights. What this would do is say you are looking at two persons. The woman is a person. The baby is also a person.  The measure would ban abortion with no exceptions for rape or incest. But those who oppose it say it is about much more. They contend the language is so broad and vague it could ban some forms of birth control like IUDs and the morning-after pill. And they say it could affect how doctors treat ectopic pregnancies and throw into question fertility procedures. Atlee Breland formed her own group Parents Against 26.  What kind of tractor is that buddy?  A bulldozer.  A bulldozer. What about that one?  Breland lives in the Jackson suburbs and has a three-year-old son Andrew. She had twins Catherine and Claire with the help of fertility treatments.  There is a whole lot of question about what would and would not be allowed. And one of the frightening things to me is that nobody seems to really know for sure.  Breland says even many opposed to abortion think this amendment goes too far.  It opens the door for too much government intrusion into our health care. And legislatures and judges are good at a lot of things but when I want to decide what kind of - what I am going to do to build my family I am going to go to my doctor and ask him for help and my doctor and my husband and I are going to decide what is the right thing to do to have our children.  The Mississippi State Medical Association will not support the measure and others directly oppose it including Doctors Against 26. Randall Hines is an infertility specialist who says doctors could theoretically be charged with murder if an embryo or fetus dies. DR.  The question would be well is anybody actually going to prosecute you for murder. Well I would hope not but I think to leave it to a local prosecutor to decide who he is going to prosecute and which issue he is going to prosecute on does not make any sense.  If passed the amendment goes into effect 30 days after the election is certified. But it is not clear exactly what that would mean. Alexa Kolbi-Molinas is with the American Civil Liberties Union which opposes the amendment.  That is precisely the sort of ambiguity you do not want right? You do not want doctors practicing in a sort of unsure environment waiting for a lawsuit or waiting for the legislature to figure out what they can and cannot do. That is not safe for them and it is not safe for women's health.  But proponents of 26 say the state legislature would have to work out the details of what is banned - and they are running this ad.   A similar measure was on the ballot in Colorado twice but failed both times. At a recent high school football game in rural Mississippi Angela Krimm a teacher who opposes abortion is not sure about 26.  I do not know what the truth is. But I do know that people are fired up about this. There is a lot of heated arguments some people say this and some people say that and I think it is right now just conjecture.  Whatever voters in Mississippi decide advocates for personhood nationwide say they are trying to get the issue on the ballot in more than a dozen states. Groups are gathering signatures in Florida Montana and Oregon. Kathy Lohr NPR News.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 