 Was not too long ago that cosmetics were seen as the exclusive realm of women but the idea of who gets to wear makeup is shifting. NPR's Darius Rafieyan reports from his recent makeover.  I am a big fan of a hot pink eye shadow - always have been always will be.  David Razzano is beauty director at cosmetics retailer Sephora and a veteran makeup artist and he has agreed to help me put together a fierce makeup look.  We are going to have some fun. We are going to do a colorful smoky eye on you.  Amazing. Give me something that'ill cause a stir at the NPR New York office.  Oh we are going to cause a stir.   For me and for many American men makeup is kind of uncharted territory. But that may be changing. A survey conducted by market research firm Euromonitor International found that more than half of U.S. men now say they have tried some kind of facial cosmetic whether that is foundation concealer BB cream. And Razzano says he is seeing more and more men come in interested in makeup from Wall Street traders looking to cover a blemish before a big meeting to the more adventurous types searching for that perfect pink eye shadow.  There were these rules that are all being broken in the most brilliant and beautiful way because whatever - it is makeup.  And cosmetics companies are moving to capitalize on that growing market for men's beauty. Covergirl recently made headlines when it announced its first-ever cover boy Internet makeup guru James Charles. Around the same time Maybelline hired its first male spokesperson and underwent a rebranding ditching its iconic slogan.    Maybe she is born with it.   Maybe it is Maybelline.  From maybe she is born with it to the more inclusive make it happen.   Maybelline New York - make it happen.  Meanwhile Chanel launched its first line of makeup for men called a Boy De Chanel. Rihanna's Fenty Beauty now offers a gentlemen's Fenty Face five-piece box set. And just this past summer nail polish giant OPI launched the ManiUp campaign encouraging men to get their first manicures. It is all part of a larger attempt to appeal to a new generation of consumers who tend to have a much more fluid relationship to gender.   Hi everyone. I am Gabriel Zamora. Thank you so much for watching. So for today's video we are doing this colorful makeup look.  Gabriel Zamora is part of a growing community of professional beauty influencers. His YouTube channel where he does makeup tutorials has more than 800000 subscribers. And he is collaborated with brands like Mac Cosmetics on gender-neutral makeup lines. He thinks social media has opened up the conversation about beauty by giving a platform to people who might otherwise not be seen.  A lot of what we thought was supposed to be the norm was kind of fed to us by like the fashion industry by the beauty industry. And I think people were like we do not look like that.  Zamora who struggled as an openly gay teenager growing up in Houston experimenting with makeup says he is encouraged to see these rigid ideas about gender and sexuality breaking down.  Then I am like so excited to see the progress that our culture is having in having these like middle school boys wearing makeup to school when for me that was not even like a thought.  Back in the makeup chair at Sephora I waited with anticipation as David Razzano put the finishing touches on my smoky eye.  Ooh I am literally entranced by these colors on you.  After a little bit of concealer for the dark circles mascara to accentuate what I am told are my naturally long lashes and a bright pink eye shadow to bring out the brown in my eyes I have to admit I was kind of feeling myself.  How do you like it?  I love it.  It is good right?  Yes. Oh my God.  It is fun.  I feel so pretty.   Darius Rafieyan NPR News New York.  