 It is a Friday morning which means it is time for StoryCorps. This project is collecting interviews from all kinds of people across the country and today we hear from a mortician in Atlanta. Sam Reed has worked for the last ten years as caretaker for the city's historic Oakland Cemetery. He says he was born to do this job. Mr.  I remember one time in the first grade my teacher she was going around to everyone and she asked them what they wanted to be. So she got to me and she said Sammy Reed - they all called me Sammy instead of Samuel - what do you want to be when you grow up? And I said I want to be an undertaker. And everybody thought that was crazy. But I was always fascinated with the way a dead person looked when you went to see them. Coming up you would listen to the elders talk about a person was killed in a car wreck and they was messed up and everything. But when you got to the funeral you would hear them say wow Grandma looked great. She looked at peace - and I wanted to know how to do that. And whenever I had a pet die you know I always would bury the pet on the side of the creek bank. I would have my little sisters - they would pick flowers -and we would just stand around and have a little funeral you know. So I just knew this was what I was destined to do - to deal with the dead. And I always get this you do not look like an undertaker. And I say well what does an undertaker look like? They say they look dead and they look old and they drink a lot. I said well I am not dead I do not think I look old even for my age and I said I do not drink. You know a lot of people think because we are morticians and we are in the business of dealing with this on a day-to-day basis that we are cold. But we react the same way when we lose a loved one. I mean it is no different. And the best part is meeting the needs of the families. Their loads should be just a little bit lighter. That is what I strive to do everyday to make people feel better.   That is Sam Reed at StoryCorps in Atlanta. His interview and all the others will be archived at the Library of Congress. And you can sign up for the Podcast at NPR.org.   This is NPR News. 