 Amid this month's big immigration news the White House has also been focusing on another issue - campus sexual assault. A new public service announcement shows a drunk woman struggling to get away from a guy. A bystander jumps in to help.   This is not a PSA about a sexual assault. It is about being the guy who stops it.  Other prevention efforts have focused on educating would-be perpetrators making sure they understand the definition of consent. But as NPR's Tovia Smith reports campuses are struggling to connect with possible victims.  In some ways getting students to be active bystanders is the easy part.  Hey sign the pledge. T.  In a busy corridor at MIT student activists are working as part of a national campaign called It is On Us urging students to intervene if they see someone in trouble.  All you have to do is basically vow to be a good bystander. T.  But when it comes to telling students how to keep themselves out of trouble...  It is a tough line to tread because the blame should be still on the perpetrator but you also want to protect these people. T.  Sophomore Larkin Sayres says she struggles with it. Telling women to not get too drunk or wear too short a skirt she says feels wrong.  That is not a society I want to live in where I have to look out for what I wear. I think that is a basic human right. And we do not tell men to not get blackout drunk. T.  But Sayre says not telling women feels wrong too. Her mom warned her.  It is so hard. And honestly I have not figured out my full feelings about the whole idea. It is...  Yeah I was actually talking about this last night with my friends. T.  Grad student Brendan Smith who came to sign the bystander pledge says it is not an either-or question. Of course he says students should take precautions. As one law-enforcement official put it you would not park your Lexus with the windows open and leave jewelry on the front seat. That would be foolish. In the same way Smith says students need to use common sense. B.  People do not like to hear that. Like when I tell my friend like oh I think you are drinking too much like you should probably slow down I might get some crap for it. But I think it is a risk you have to take. I mean they could possibly be a victim of some kind of assault. T.  It is kind of what the campus police at the University of Wisconsin-Madison were thinking when they emailed out what they thought were helpful safety tips like quote if you present yourself as easy prey then expect to attract some wolves.  When I saw it I was like what the hell does that mean? It was very shocking. T.  Lachrista Greco is a survivor and activist who works on campus.  I was like this is super victim-blaming. People cannot prevent their own rapes. T.  Greco says putting the onus on victims will hurt more than help since victims will be less willing to go to police.  They might now feel like there is no way in hell I would report it because they are going to be made to feel it is their fault when it is not. T.  Recently Ramapo College in New Jersey also came under fire after students were warned that their body language and facial expressions could also invite assault. Officials say the comments were misinterpreted and that violence is always the perpetrator's fault but they are reviewing their program. Likewise at the University of Wisconsin police spokesman Mark Lovicott says officers will now choose their words more carefully.  Man it just seems like we live in such a politically correct society these days. And everybody's watching the words they use. And they should be I mean to a certain extent. But when it comes to crime prevention we are not going to stop. T.  We have an obligation Lovicott says to advise students how to stay safe.  And that is not victim-blaming because there are predators out there who are looking for individuals that may seem more of a target than others. But how do you say that in a way that you are not offending a victim who went through this horrible crime?  Yeah this is the third rail. It really is. T.  University of Virginia law professor Anne Coughlin says she too has learned to hold back on what she calls common sense advice.  Yes I have experienced the blowback and it is touchy. T.  But Coughlin says it is understandable. Going back to that analogy of leaving your Lexus open with jewelry on the seat police might call that a dumb move. But if your stuff was taken they would also still call it a crime and go after the thief. Rape cases Coughlin says have always been different.  Up until very very recently there was no crime. If the woman is drunk - oh she is intoxicated it must mean she is consenting. She was not raped. That is not victim-blaming that is saying you were not even a victim. T.  Indeed as the White House's point person on the issue senior adviser Valerie Jarrett put it no matter what happens leading up to the crime it is still a crime. Warning potential victims should be part of the solution she says but only part.  Yes certainly one has personal responsibility. But in so many of these instances women are doing everything right but yet they are still being sexually assaulted. T.  What is encouraging Jarrett says is that people are now talking about it more. Years ago she says she never warned her daughter about sexual assault. But she is glad moms today are. Tovia Smith NPR News Boston. 