 We begin this morning with the news that former Attorney General Janet Reno has died. She was 78. She had served for two terms of the Clinton administration becoming the longest-serving attorney general in 150 years. We will have more on her controversial tenure running the Justice Department elsewhere in this program.  We are remembering that attorney general on a moment in which the Department of Justice is very much in the news. The FBI director James Comey has sent another letter to Congress. This latest update says in effect never mind about the last update. Agents found nothing new in an added bunch of emails. So after a week of drama Comey stands by his decision last summer that Hillary Clinton was extremely careless in handling classified information. But no reasonable prosecutor would file charges. Jennifer Palmieri is Clinton's communications director.   We have seen Director Comey's latest letter to the Hill. We are glad to see that as we were - that he has found as we were confident that he would - that he has confirmed the conclusions that he really reached in July. And we are glad that this matter is resolved.  Campaigning last night in Sterling Hills Mich. Donald Trump declared nothing resolved at all.   Right now she is being protected by a rigged system. It is a totally rigged system. I have been saying it for a long time. You cannot review 650000 new emails in eight days. You cannot do it folks.  Just to drop in a little reporting here sources familiar with this probe are telling NPR these emails mostly contained personal email and copies of emails already seen. Let us talk about this with NPR commentator and columnist Cokie Roberts along with Tucker Carlson of The Daily Caller and Fox News. They are both in New York getting ready for election coverage. Good morning to you both.  Good morning.  Morning Steve.  I assume Cokie that the people who thought James Comey was awful now think better of him...  .  ...And the ones who thought better of him now think he is awful again.  Well he is been - they have been on all sides of views of James Comey depending on what he is saying what week. But it is extraordinary what has happened here. I mean it was extraordinary for him to come out last July and make this statement about no prosecutor would take the case and incredible for him to come out last week and say wait whoops we are reopening it or looking at it again - and then yesterday. It has had a tremendous impact. I mean before his letter last Friday after the third debate Hillary Clinton was riding high. There was a whole kind of momentum around that just went...  Talk of landslides and so forth yeah.  And yes all of that. And that just went completely away. And I think probably true that the Senate was lost to Democrats as a result of it because this past week would have been Hillary Clinton and the surrogates the president the first lady all of them out campaigning for senators and trying to get her numbers up.  Tucker Carlson has this changed the election?  I do not know. It is hard to know. I mean it is obviously - it is helpful to the Hillary Clinton campaign. I am not sure exactly what it means. Comey sent a three-paragraph - three-short-paragraph letter to the Congress. And he did not say the investigation was over. He did not really say much. You could not really understand - other than it does not appear that anything horrible was in these - in these emails. I think the macro picture is no one emerges from this with greater confidence in the American justice system...  Right.  ...And that you know one of the many casualties of this campaign. I do think this hangs over her. I think it makes it harder to govern if she is elected. You do not see a ton of winners in this I guess.  No.  Let me just ask a little bit about the early voting signs that we saw over the weekend. There are signs out of Nevada possibly out of Florida that there is been a huge Latino early vote that that could influence the election. That could plausibly clinch a couple of states for Hillary Clinton and close some doors for Donald Trump. Could Latinos be the ones who actually decide this election?  Sure. I mean if there is states like Nevada that were somewhat iffy that could certainly make a difference. And Florida's the big place. So that is the - if they - if Latinos bring Hillary Clinton over the top in Florida that is a very significant fact. You know it is another sort of reason for the electoral college because you would not be paying that much attention to Latinos nationwide. They are only about 12 percent of the vote. But in states like Florida Nevada Texas and Arizona it is a much higher percentage. And clearly there is been a tremendous organization to get them organized and voting. And that is a direct result of build the wall.  Tucker are Republicans headed for yet another reckoning with how they handle the Latino vote and issues that are of concern to Latinos?  The state to look at is Texas. I mean so without Texas being a Republican state - a solidly Republican state it is over. There are no more national elections. Republicans will probably hold the congressional seat in Provo for generations to come.  .  There you go.  But once Texas goes Democrat there is really no need for a presidential election anymore. The numbers are just too overwhelming electorally. And so if that vote is within 3 or 4 percent that is really ominous for Republicans. You can draw your own conclusions about how they ought to respond to that whether we ought to tighten immigration or they ought to win more Latino votes or whatever. But it definitely means everything is different if it gets that close.  Well immigration would not do it. You would have to do birth control to make it useful to Republicans.  I am not even going to touch that...  Well there have been massive demographic...   Hold on. We have just got a few seconds left. Let me ask you both in a few seconds here how divided is this country really?  Very. I mean you look at the numbers and they are really high. Between men and women we have never seen a gender gap this big as in the most recent polls between rural and urban between college-educated and not college-educated between white and non-white evangelicals - 97 points separate evangelicals from people who do not identify with a religion. So it is a very very divided country on all kinds of fronts.  Here's...  Tucker Carlson you get the last word here.  Here's the measure. Even as Americans are becoming much more open-minded about who they would be happy to see their children marry outside their race outside their religion they are becoming much more closed-minded about thinking about their kids marrying someone from another political party.  Wow. OK.  There you are.  Tucker Carlson of Fox News and The Daily Caller thanks for coming by. Really appreciate it.  Thanks a million.  Also commentator and columnist Cokie Roberts. Cokie always a pleasure to talk with you.  And you Steve.  Have a nice election night. 