 Some other news now. Biotech companies have been receiving patents on genes for decades. But the government suggested sharply limiting those patents in a court filing last week. The government's move has thrown open an old debate about where to draw the line in patenting parts of nature. NPR's Richard Harris reports.  But a judge in Manhattan sided with plaintiffs who said genes like this should not be patentable in the first place. The company appealed. And Myriad lawyer Richard Marsh says they asked the Justice Department to weigh in figuring the government would defend its long-held position. The government weighed in but largely against Myriad.  In that regard yes it was surprising to see that there is been this switch in thinking I guess by the current administration.  Marsh says even if the company loses the court case their tests are still protected by several other patents which are not being challenged.  As to Myriad this case is not going to have any material impact. What we are concerned about is you know we are part of the biotech industry and we believe as to the biotech industry that this will have a very very significant impact.  Gene patents are critical for companies like Myriad. He says if Myriad had not had patent protection it would never have invested 500 million to develop these tests in the first place. It would be too easy for other companies to swoop in and use that knowledge. But Bob Cook Deegan from Duke University says the issue is actually not as sweeping as all that.  Every jurisdiction in the world has decided yes you can patent genes when what they are doing is producing a valuable thing.  But the patents that are now under fire have their value simply because they describe the genetic sequence on the DNA. Diagnostic tests look for that sequence.  What is never really been contested in court until now is this new context of diagnostics.  And that is now a concern because soon there will be a whole new testing technology which will allow labs to look at thousands of genes all at the same time. Will a company ever be able to develop that test if many of those genes are patented by other companies?  We do not want 15 different companies or 100 different companies testing a hundred different genes. It just makes no sense. And this is the first time a judge has had to make a decision about that new context and looked at those patents in that new light.  But the example that Cook-Deegan raises does not trouble Scott Kieff at the George Washington University Law School. He says consider your laptop computer. There are thousands of patented inventions in there. The company that makes the laptop just needs to take the time and spend the money to license those technologies from the patent holders.  While it is conceivable that patents could clog the market could create a gridlock and could be anticompetitive our markets have shown over the last 30 years the opposite story.  Kieff argues that biotech took off in the United States but not in Europe or Japan precisely because the U.S. is more generous in allowing companies to gene patents. Overturning that policy he says would be bad for U.S. business. But what about consumers who might benefit from the next generation of genetic tests? Myriad does not have to let other companies use its patented genes. But Richard Marsh at the company says do not worry.  We clearly appreciate and agree that it would be very inappropriate to have a patent on a given technology and not let it be utilized in a fashion to benefit the public.  Richard Harris NPR News.   This is NPR News. 