 TV personality Julie Chen got people talking last year about her eyes. She revealed she would double eyelid surgery years ago at the urging of a talent agent.   He said I cannot represent you unless you get plastic surgery to make your eyes look bigger and I did it.  Her career then took off. But by getting this common procedure for Asian-American women she was accused of trying to look more white. That is the beginning of a story for a series The Changing Lives of Women NPR's Kat Chow reports.   Let us look at your eyelid and let me just have you close gently...  Plastic surgeon Laura Phan is checking out my eyes in her office in Northern California.  You have a nice crease probably about a six millimeter crease which is very nice for Asian eyes.  I was born with double eyelids - a crease above the lash line. So about half the people of Asian descent are like me and have them. The other half do not. And for those patients Dr. Phan will take a pen and draw in a crease where she will create a double eyelid.  But at the same time also preserve their Asian appearance.  The procedure usually costs a couple thousand dollars and it is the topic of huge debate.  Even when people say like I just want a little bit - again even that little snip is a move towards following a more Western standard of beauty.  Joanne Rondilla is Filipino and worked as a makeup artist for more than a decade. She is now a lecturer at Arizona State University where she researches race and self-image.  You are not trying to be white but you are trying to be aesthetically pleasing to a white standard of beauty.  You cannot create a standard without recognizing who is in power.  That is author An Na. She wrote the young adult novel The Fold about a Korean-American girl considering getting double eyelid surgery.  You can look across the board and you see within every racial group the ones who are considered more beautiful tend to look more white.  But what do people who are actually making this decision say about it? It was tough to find women who were willing to go on tape and admit that this was something they would done. Then I met Yekki Song.  It is Yegyong Song but I like going by Yekki.  She grew up in Houston and had the surgery when she was 17. She wanted her eyes to look like those of Korean pop stars. But Song does admit growing up her white and Latino classmates teased her.  I was made fun of a lot for my small eyes. I did not really like how I looked. And I always thought well if I did not have these small eyes then maybe I would like myself better.  Anne Kim felt similar pressures to get the surgery. But for Kim it was her mom and relatives in South Korea telling her to go under the knife.  It was just kind of like oh you should probably get it just to make yourself prettier - you know like have bigger eyes. Everyone wants bigger eyes if you are Asian.  She refused to get the surgery and says she is still happy with her single lids. So none of the women I spoke to who had the surgery or considered it said it had anything to do with wanting to look or become white. Here's Yekki Song.  You look at me and you know I am Asian. There is no changing that.  The plastic surgeon Laura Phan says like with any other cosmetic procedure choosing to have double eyelid surgery comes down to how you see yourself. And for many women that is complicated. Kat Chow NPR News. 