 Thanksgiving is less than a week away and while it is a little early to start cooking it is definitely time to finalize the guest list. We asked music commentator Miles Hoffman to come up with a musical guest list for the big dinner a list of composers that he would like to have at the table with him. Good morning Miles.  Good morning Renee.  So OK. You have been thinking about this. Who would you like to have at your Thanksgiving dinner?  Well there are so many possibilities and I decided that the best way to narrow it down would be to invite only composers who are dead.  Dead.  Dead yes.   And that narrows it down. And also nobody can turn me down so I can invite whoever I want.  OK well who is the first dead composer you would like to invite?  Here's a hint Renee   Aha Johann Sebastian Bach.  You got it Bach. Bach would be number one.  But Miles if he is the first person at your table I am curious because Bach looks like a stuffy old guy in a powdered wig.  That is absolutely right he does. But that is because there is only one authenticated portrait of Bach Renee. And that is a portrait of Bach in a powdered wig when he was an old guy and looking very stuffy and dower or dower. And actually he was quite handsome as a young man. There is another portrait that is probably real. It shows him very very good looking. He fathered 20 children. He got into a sword fight - very temperamental guy. And we know from letters that he drank a lot of beer. So I think that he was probably pretty jolly actually. I would just like to find out what he was really like.  Who would you put next to Mr. Bach?  Well I would - ideally I would put Felix Mendelssohn next to Bach. And the first thing is it would give Bach a chance to thank Mendelssohn who was born almost 60 years after Bach died because Mendelssohn was a big big Bach fan. And he was almost single-handedly responsible for the revival of interest in Bach's music especially Bach's great choral works. So I am sure Bach would be interested to hear some of Mendelssohn's music to. Why not?   Renee that is an excerpt from a piece a piano quartet that Mendelssohn wrote when he was 15 years old. He was without question the greatest child prodigy composer ever. He was also generally brilliant. He was extremely well read. And by all accounts just an incredibly nice guy. Plus he spoke English.  What about the superstars Mozart Beethoven? Would not you want to invite them as well?  You know sure. And if it is a matter of inviting the greatest of the greats it would be very hard to resist. And Mozart especially I think would be fun. The problem is we already know a lot about Mozart from his letters what he thought about music what he thought about other musicians his sense of humor which actually was I guess off-color would be the mildest way to put it. It was really pretty filthy. So there is not a lot of mystery to clear up with Mozart. And Beethoven I think he was a little bit - there was a little bit too much of a tendency to be rude and crabby.  But you are saying that you would go for it.  No I would invite them for lunch. Turkey sandwiches on the weekend after.   Well then who else then? Let us bring some more people to the table.  I have to invite Hector Berlioz.   That is the opening of the Orgy of the Brigands Renee from the last movement of Berlioz's Harold in Italy which is kind of a concerto for viola and orchestra. Berlioz was a great composer Renee A fascinating man in every possible way. He was clever. He was witty. He was a wonderful writer. And he was just filled with passion and personality. And to top it off he and Mendelssohn were very good friends. So I think this is good dinner planning to have Berlioz and Mendelssohn together.  Well there does seem to be room for more. So how about at least one more guest?  I think it would have to be Ernest Bloch.   Bloch was a wonderful Swiss-Jewish composer came to this country early in the 1900s. And after difficult times and a fair amount of uncertainty he decided to become an American citizen. And he was - oh goodness. He was the founding music director of the Cleveland Institute of music the first director of the San Francisco Conservatory. And he lived the last 18 years of his life overlooking Agate Beach Oregon Renee. He used to go down to the beach and polish agates. I would really like to meet him.   That is from the first piano quintet by Ernest Bloch. That is actually my group the American Chamber Players. That is when the Piano Quintet No. 1 by Ernest Bloch.  All right Miles. This is a lovely notion to contemplate these composers around the table. If our listeners are looking for one musical guest to accompany their Thanksgiving feast who would you suggest?  Well it depends. I mean I like the folks at it invited but it might be somebody who would like to play and have a good time and entertain people too. I think of a guy like say Leonard Bernstein. I think Bernstein would be a lot of fun too. You would probably take over the whole evening. Plus he would sit down at the piano and play endlessly. And if you have got Bernstein maybe you should have Gershwin too and the two of them could compete with who is going to sit down at the piano and play more of their own music. So that would be - I think that would be a pretty good suggestion - Bernstein and Gershwin.  That sounds wonderful.  I hope so Renee. And do not forget you are invited.   Miles Hoffman is the violist of the American Chamber Players and author of the NPR Classical Music Companion. And Miles you have a very happy Thanksgiving a little happy holiday in advance.  You too. Thanks Renee.  You can hear of full helping of music by Miles Thanksgiving dinner guests. Just go to our classical music blog Deceptive Cadence at NPRMusic.org.   From NPR News this is MORNING EDITION. I am Renee Montagne. 