 Secretary of State Rex Tillerson defended himself yesterday. He responded to critics who say Tillerson has been hollowing out the foreign service as many diplomats leave.   There is no hollowing out. These numbers that people are throwing around are just false. They are wrong.  Nicholas Burns has a view of this. He is a former U.S. diplomat who now teaches at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. Ambassador good morning.  Good morning Steve.  Bottom line - is this a hollowing out?  It sure is. Ambassador Ryan Crocker and I wrote a piece in The New York Times yesterday saying it is a dismantling of the Foreign Service. The Trump administration is proposing a 31 percent budget cut that would cripple the State Department. There is a hiring freeze. They are trying to reduce an already very small officer corps of about 8000 corps foreign service officers. They want to reduce it by 8 percent. And I think the biggest problem is that the great majority of leadership posts in Washington at the State Department and overseas are unfilled 11 months into the administration. So in the middle of the North Korea crisis there is no American ambassador to Seoul. There is no assistant secretary of state for East Asia.  What do you make though of Tillerson's argument that there are some career people who are taking care of that and meanwhile he is trying to reorganize the department in a new way?  There are very good career people standing in. There is no question about that. We believe in those people. They are our brethren. But those people are not being promoted into these top jobs. The Trump administration has not put Senior Foreign Service officers in the main into the most senior positions. They intend to fill those I guess with foreign service officers. But they also may leave a variety of these offices unfilled. We think that is a deliberate effort to deconstruct the State Department. You see the same phenomenon at EPA the Environmental Protection Agency and in Interior.  Is there a fundamental distrust by the administration of the kind of people who would go into the State Department?  Well there seems to be. And it is a shame because in our experience - and I think in the experience of all the previous secretaries of state - the foreign service like the career civil service throughout the government is nonpartisan. These are people who are patriotic. They come to Washington to serve the country. They do not identify openly as Republicans and Democrats. And they want to be useful but they are being sidelined by this administration. And morale has plummeted. Both Ryan Crocker and I think it is probably the worst we have ever seen. And we have both served in Washington for decades. So we are hoping Congress is going to act. And you are beginning to see Republicans as well as Democrats in Congress stand up to the administration and say no to the budget cuts. We hope they will block some of the unqualified nominees that will be put forward. And they have to insist that the State Department appoint assistant secretaries of state. These are our leaders - line leadership positions that manage our relations with 194 countries in the world.  Ambassador can I just mention whatever else you say about President Trump nobody would say that he is a very diplomatic guy. I am not sure that he would even say he is a diplomatic guy. He does not believe in diplomatic niceties. He does not believe in very carefully worded statements. He does not really believe in talking. He is a man who talks about force and strength and power and that sort of thing. Is it possible that this is just a guy who is got a very different view of the world than you do?  Well I think he is got a very different view of the world than nearly everybody in the American national security establishment - the State Department the Defense Department. He is also someone who has not shown a great deal of interest in supporting diplomacy. He tends to favor the military. And I think our strongest presidents Steve and our best presidents have integrated diplomacy with the military have understood that both are important. You cannot starve one - the State Department - and reward another. And I think the military will be the first to tell you how important our diplomats are overseas.  Ambassador always a pleasure talking with you. Thank you very much.  Thank you Steve.  Nicholas Burns former U.S. diplomat and ambassador to NATO - now at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. 