 And the CEOs of the largest internet companies - we are talking Amazon Microsoft Facebook - have congratulated President-elect Donald Trump or at least expressed openness to the new administration. But one member of the Silicon Valley elite broke rank in an unexpected and revealing outburst. NPR's Aarti Shahani has more.  Dave McClure is a celebrity investor in tech who is backed more than 1500 startups. He was in Lisbon Portugal on stage at a big conference after the election when he lost it.   What is wrong with you? What is  wrong with you if you are not pissed right now?  McClure was really upset about Trump winning. And in his expletive-filled rage he ended up calling on his base that is fellow tech entrepreneurs to take responsibility too.   Stand up and make a  difference.  This is eye-opening. During and after the presidential campaign there has been ongoing commentary about the failures of mainstream media to report meaningful news. In Silicon Valley they lodged these criticisms too but they do not typically look inward at their role as leaders in the new media. NPR spoke with McClure on Skype after that outburst to understand what he meant exactly.  Sometimes we nerds of technology sort of do not think that the rules necessarily apply to us in the same way but I think when you produce products that hundreds of millions of people if not billions of people are using we have the same responsibilities as any other person representing the Fourth Estate.  The Fourth Estate the press. This talk would be sacrilege at Facebook where the leadership maintains they are just a platform not responsible for what people post even though their algorithms control what you can and cannot see. McClure who tweets and shares a lot says in this election cycle the platforms failed to vet fake news. Facebook even promoted fake news into its trending category by accident. He says they failed to vet fake people bots and they failed to break echo chambers.  I do not know if we are doing the optimal things that we can to try and connect different people on the planet with different points of view and not be so angry at each other.  While McClure does not put all the blame on internet companies he says their failures do result in real life costs though he also says about his outburst...  I was upset. Maybe I am just a sore loser. Maybe that is the story.  It could be this member of the Silicon Valley elite is making a timely point. It could be regular people spoke using his camp's tools and he just does not like the outcome. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday the platform is inherently more diverse than the major news stations of 20 years back and the idea that fake news influenced the election is pretty crazy. Aarti Shahani NPR News San Francisco. 