 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Hurricane Sandy is gone but millions of Americans are still living through the aftermath. In New York and New Jersey long lines and plenty of frustration continue at gas stations due to the storm damage. And Martin Kaste will bring us that story in a moment.  First we go to Breezy Point in Queens New York. It used to be best known as a blue-collar beach town. Now it is known for something else - one of the worst residential fires in New York history.  More than 100 houses were destroyed as flames were whipped up by 80 mile an hour wind gusts. NPR's Dina Temple-Raston went to Breezy Point to spend the day with the New York City's Fire chief who has a very personal connection to that neighborhood.  Fire chief Joe Pfeifer arrived in Breezy Point on Monday to a harrowing scene.  So flames shooting 50 feet in the air. The radiant heat would heat up the next building and that building would explode in fire.  Pfeifer was the first fire chief to arrive. It was 30 P.M.  So very difficult very hot and very fast moving.  Have you ever seen something like it?  I have seen fire like that moving quickly on 911 but I never saw anything of this magnitude for residential buildings.  They think it might have been an electrical fire. Now the six square blocks where the houses once stood look like a snapshot from London after the Blitz.  You see an occasional chimney that is standing up and then everything else is flat.  Joe Pfeifer has been here nearly every day since the fire trying to help get Breezy Point back on its feet.   Residents pull small children's wagons behind them as they walk to where their houses once stood. The wagons roll out empty. There is nothing left to save. To understand how Hurricane Sandy has affected Joe Pfeifer you have to know a little bit about the chief's history. He fought fires in Breezy Point as a volunteer when he was just 18. Today Pfeifer has a weekend house here. So does his son. So do his parents. People here know Chief Joe Pfeifer. Someone calls out from the distance.  Is that you Joe?  Yeah.  Well I got flooded I got flooded. We did not lose our house like this.  Hi Joe. How are you?  Hi Dee.  Bill Radtke and his daughter Deidre walk up the path. She points to a long bandage on Pfeifer's face.  What happened?  I got burnt. A little ember flying around got me...  Yeah it got you. Oh gosh.  ...on Monday  It is actually a second degree burn but Pfeifer does not tell them that. He is one of the handful of firefighters who suffered injuries fighting this fire in hurricane-force winds. Miraculously no one - firefighter or resident - died in the fire. Pfeifer is still gaming out the blaze.  If I did not stop it on this corner...  Yeah you would have lost all them.  Would have lost your house. It would have gone this side and it would have gone down the other side. I would have lost your place.  Your son's place too.  Yeah.  Pfeifer looks over the field of ash as Bill and Dee walk away.  And now the question is how does the community recover?  One of the answers can be found in the shopping mall offices where the neighborhood cooperative is trying to organize the local relief effort. They are working with FEMA city offices and the fire department to get Breezy Point back on its feet.  We are looking at deliveries and...  That is Arty Lighthall the general manager of the Breezy Point Cooperative.  We got food drops going on additional generators. We have water drops. We...  This kind of community coordination according to Chief Pfeifer is what is supposed to happen after a disaster. City officials are now helping local leaders get to the next phase which is recovery. Firefighters for their part are no longer just dowsing fires. They are cutting downed trees and getting water out of flood zones and helping local communities learn how to fend for themselves.  There is a new way of thinking.  A new way of thinking Chief Joe Pfeifer says. Since 911 preparedness drills and city management teams have helped communities cope.  Because we have such a large location and many locations around the city that have to be done at the same time it is really giving it back to the community. And this is going to go on for quite a long time.  Theresa Flannagan used to run bake sales and exercise classes and Halloween parties in Breezy Point. She says people saw the storm coming but no one imagined it would do the damage that it did. Her house is still under five feet of water. And that dazed feeling is familiar.  Everybody's just walking around. It reminds me of right after 911 the way everybody looks the fear in their eyes and - scary.  Fire Chief Joe Pfeifer agrees. And he should know he was the first fire chief to arrive at the World Trade Center on 911. Dina Temple-Raston NPR News New York. 