 Emma Thompson is not just an Oscar-winning actress she is also won an Academy Award for her writing adapting Jane Austen's novel for the film Sense and Sensibility.  Now Emma Thompson has taken on another period piece reviving the classic children's book starring Peter Rabbit. It was the writer Beatrix Potter who first brought the mischievous bunny to life in 1902...  ...With tales of stealing lettuce and generally getting up to mischief in Mr. McGregor's garden. Thompson's new version takes Peter Rabbit to the Scottish countryside. Not surprisingly it opens with our furry little hero contemplating an adventure in which he is sure to break a lot of rules.   I have not seen many rabbits moping but when they do their ears droop. Peter Rabbit was in low spirits. It had been a rainy summer. His blue coat had been torn by briars and his shoes were hurting. What I need he said is a change of scene. Benjamin Bunny advised against it too many carts on the road he said too many owls and too many foxes.  Regardless of the warnings from his timid cousin Peter Rabbit soon finds himself bouncing around in a cart heading out in yet another misadventure. The Further Tale of Peter Rabbit is the bunny's first foray into the publishing world in a century. It is also the first authorized Peter Rabbit story to be written by someone other than Beatrix Potter. And the publishers took a novel approach when approaching Emma Thompson with a proposal to bring back the bunny.  It was not a formal letter as such. It was not a 'Dear Ms. Thompson would you consider blah' from the publishers. It was a little box with two half-eaten radishes in it and a letter from Peter Rabbit. And the child part of me I think actually believed it had come from Peter Rabbit himself. And that got past my defenses and my fear for long enough for me to say OK well I will have a go.  Now when you were a child your father narrated a children's show called The Magic Roundabout. And for people who might not know this you come from an acting family both your mother and father. And of course he would read you Peter Rabbit books when you were a child right?  Yes yes he would. I mean the Potter oeuvre consists of lots of different kinds of books. Some are very much for the younger child because they have only got about two or three words on each page. And then there are the much longer sort of novel versions. So Dad of course being essentially wanting to get back to the football or a beer would try to read just the very short ones. And we would beg for him to read The Tale of Mr. Tod you know which in bedtime story terms is only a little bit shorter than The Satanic Verses you know it is a lot to read at night. And I know that now because I read them to my own daughter and started to bowdlerize and cut like crazy until suddenly she stopped me. A little tiny voice said you left out the part about the bones. And I had. I had been cutting shamelessly because I wanted to get downstairs to my glass of chardonnay. I admit it I freely admit it. And from then on I had to read the whole thing.  So why do not you read us another passage from your book because I want to talk to you about the language of the book. And this illustrates it a little. It is where Peter finds a very very large radish.  Yes.  It must have measured three rabbits round. It also smelled delicious and Peter was very hungry. He thought no one would notice if he took a little nibble off the end. Accordingly he scratched his way under the willow fence and took a bite. And then another and another. By the time Peter had stopped eating he was inside the radish. Feeling cozy he fell asleep.  When he woke up the radish was joggling. Not again thought Peter.  Joggling. Now there are other words bog cotton skepes-wool.  Yes.  The words seem made up. I mean they are quite magical sounding. They sound like they are from another magical world.  And it is sort of also the combination of words is not it? Like inside wrapped in brown paper was some excellent sandwiches of cheese and pickle. It is not the kind of construction that you get anymore where now we say cheese and pickle sandwiches. But there is something about excellent sandwiches of cheese and pickle that is very Potter-esque. It is Victorian you know.  it is an old form and I find it draws me into the books still and so I wanted to hold on to that.  I am sorry to hit you with this but could you please turn to page 31. I just love this little page because it has different voices.  Very good. So Peter's arrived in Scotland and having had a good night's sleep - this is just preamble - he wakes up .  When he woke Mrs. McBurney had made potato scones for his breakfast. Hurry now dearie she said. Today's the big day. Fenley's defending his title. Oh good said Peter not wishing to appear ignorant even though he had no idea what defending his title meant.  Now I would want to hear that page at least 20 times before I fell asleep.  Do you by chance have any tips for parents you know aiming to make the most of reading The Further Tale of Peter Rabbit?  Yes. Take it slow much slower than you think. Give them plenty of time to look at the pictures and sort of extrapolate from the pictures. And with this book you can do things like there is a page where he comes up on a sign which reads Keep Out and I have written I imagine it will not surprise you to hear that Peter did not keep out. He ... And then you can pause and most children say went in. They just do because I have tried it I have tested it out on groups of children. He did not keep out what did he do? He went in because it is the opposite of keep out which is lovely for kids so they can guess what he did.  Also the picture. He has - you see his little rabbit tail and of course he is scrambling underneath the sign.  Underneath the sign which says Keep Out. It is his disrespect for authority you see. Peter's sort of anarchistic which I love.  Emma Thompson it is been a pleasure.  Yes thanks so much. How lovely to talk to you.  Emma Thompson actress and now author of The Further Tale of Peter Rabbit. 