 Seven hundred rural counties across the U.S. are about to lose billions of dollars in federally funded timber payments. Congress started paying the money a decade ago to make up for cutbacks in logging due to the endangered species act. Now that Congress has become more budget conscious the money has dried up. As Oregon Public Broadcasting's David Nogueras reports some rural counties are bracing for the loss of money by cutting government services.   Young children and their parents are waiting to see a clinician at a childhood immunization clinic in western Oregon's Douglas County. In recent years administrators here have had to cut back on staff and hours. County health administrator Peggy Madison says with the last timber payment scheduled to come in next month this year's cuts have been significantly worse.  We have had three ten percent cuts over three years in our budget and then a 35 percent cut this past year. So making those cuts means we are making cuts in services that people really depend on.  Besides cuts to hours at the clinic Madison's department has also been forced to slash hours at satellite offices in more isolated parts of the county - clinics that deal with everything from HIV to basic health services. The money came from something called the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act. In Oregon counties can use that money for broad purposes elsewhere it is limited to education and transportation spending.  What does it mean when the Secure Rural School Act ends? It means that support for county services to a large extent certainly in Douglas County also ends.  Doug Robertson is a Douglas County commissioner. He says in the past timber payments have accounted for close to 70 percent of his county's entire budget. Those payments began to dwindle in 2008 when the law was reauthorized with less money than before.  We cannot deficit spend so we have been cutting as the payments have been diminishing over the last three years. For instance Douglas County - we have cut slightly over 200 budgeted positions out of our budget.  Douglas County is preparing to go from receiving close to 20 million last year all the way to zero. The county's problems are by no means unique. Democrat Peter Defazio represents Oregon's Fourth District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He underscored the urgency of the situation during a House Natural Resources Subcommittee hearing last month.  I just had one county notify the governor of my state Curry County that if their initiative on the ballot to increase property taxes fails and the last one failed by a margin of three to one that essentially the county will have to dissolve.  The governor does not like us to use the term bankrupt.  That is Curry County commissioner George Rhodes.  The reality is in June of 2013 if we have the same general fund budget we would be short of making it by a little over 300000.  While Oregon received the largest share of the Secure Rural Schools money about 2 billion over the last ten years 40 other states are losing funding as well. There seems to be consensus among Republicans and Democrats in Congress that something should be done but what that something is is not yet clear. The U.S. Senate might consider a bill that would reauthorize payments to counties for five years and reduced levels. In the House legislators are crafting a plan that would raise money by allowing for more logging on national forest land. For NPR News I am David Nogueras in Bend Oregon. 