 President Trump's national security adviser John Bolton is in Moscow for a second day today. He is there to discuss President Trump's pledge to withdraw from an arms control treaty that bans certain kinds of missiles. This is one sign that world powers might be returning to an arms race mentality. Now we have another sign - efforts by the United States China and Russia to develop a new kind of missile a weapon that can fly faster and farther than almost anything in existence. NPR's Geoff Brumfiel has the latest.  These weapons are called hypersonic weapons. And they are fast - really fast. By definition they travel at least five times the speed of sound thousands of miles per hour. The Air Force is currently developing hypersonic weapons including at a place called Wind Tunnel 9 just outside of Washington D.C. Good morning.  Good morning. Hi Dan Marren.  The morning I showed up Dan Marren who is in charge said the tests they were running that day were classified. I was not going to get inside.  No not at this point.  But I was allowed in the lobby of the wind tunnel building.   There Marren showed me unclassified versions of the things they work on.  So if you look on this table here we have several of the shapes that we have tested in the wind tunnel.  Among the models is a sleek silver wedge with a spine down its center.  It is called a Waverider. And so it is a fancy way to say it rides on its own shock wave.  Here's how the Waverider works. The wedge-shaped warhead would be put on top of a rocket and fired at enormous speeds to the very edge of space. Then it would detach from the rocket and glide to its target. Now big countries like the U.S. China and Russia already have weapons that can do something like this. They are called intercontinental ballistic missiles and they can hit anywhere on the planet in minutes. But those missiles just go in a straight line from launch to target.  This vehicle would not only be able to come from space but be able to turn and bank and fly almost like a real airplane.  And that is the real appeal of hypersonics especially for China and Russia. They are afraid the U.S. can shoot down their ballistic missiles with missile defense. A hypersonic weapon can swerve or take a roundabout route to the target while still going incredibly fast. It is essentially unstoppable.   Back in August China tested a hypersonic prototype that flew for more than five minutes and reached speeds above 4000 miles per hour according to state media. Russia too has been testing. At a missile defense roundtable last month the Pentagon's head of research and development Mike Griffin said he was worried the U.S. was losing its edge.   We did the groundbreaking research. They have chosen to weaponize it. We need to respond.  And the Pentagon is stepping up its hypersonics research. Now there are still some big technical challenges to building these weapons. Pushing through the air at five or six times the speed of sound generates a lot of friction and friction means heat. At hypersonic speeds steel turns soft like butter. In fact the Air Force tried to build hypersonic airplanes in the 1960s but they kept melting.   The thermal protection failed permitting torch-like hypersonic air to incinerate parts of the ventral tail.  That is an archival Air Force video showing how one experimental aircraft the X-15 almost burned up during its flight. But James Acton with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says advanced materials and supercomputers are helping hypersonics.  We are seeing Russia the United States and China all conduct hypersonic tests. Many of those tests - certainly not all of them - are being successful.  Acton also says that hypersonic weapons pose a real threat to the U.S. military. But he says the solution is not necessarily to develop our own hypersonic weapons in response.  I do not think we should develop hypersonics just because somebody else is doing it. That is an arms race. I think we should develop hypersonics if it solves specific military problems or fills specific military needs.  For now the U.S. is stepping up testing. And back at Wind Tunnel 9 they are ready to start.  Game on.  All right game on. As I said I cannot see anything. But Marren has come up with a solution - I can stand out back behind the tunnel and record the rush of air as it moves through the system at Mach 10 - 10 times the speed of sound.   So is that what Mach 10 sounds like?  That is what Mach 10 sounds like.  It is kind of noisy.   It can be yes.  And with the test complete hypersonic weapons inch a little bit closer to reality. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News.  