 We begin this hour with the National Security Agency and fears of a second Snowden. That would be Edward Snowden the former contractor who revealed NSA secrets to the world. Now comes word that the FBI has arrested another contractor. He has been charged with stealing you guessed it NSA secrets. Our national security correspondent Mary Louise Kelly is in the studio with me. Mary Louise good morning.  Good morning David.  So what do we know about this guy?  We know his name it is Harold Thomas Martin III. We know he is 51 lives in Glen Burnie Md.  Not far from the nation's capital.  True and near Fort Meade the NSA headquarters. And we know that he was arrested in August. He is still in custody although these charges have only just been made public. He is one of - you know the NSA has these armies of private contractors who work there. Martin is one of them or was one of them until Booz Allen his employer fired him. We should note Booz Allen is also where Edward Snowden worked.  Oh yeah. What exactly is he charged with here?  So when they raided his house August 27 investigators found - they searched his car they searched his house they searched two storage sheds there. And they found loads of papers devices computers documents. The complaint that is been unsealed mentions that these documents were marked classified. This is not something he accidentally took home in his briefcase. And the complaint singles out six documents specifically. These are documents from 2014 that were produced with very sensitive sources and methods. So it says if these were to fall into the wrong hands it could cause exceptionally grave damage to national security.  So I mean I think in this day and age we think of things being digital. You said a shed with papers? It is possible that some of these I mean just literally pieces of paper that are classified documents? It is amazing.  Literally pieces of paper but also digital documents all sorts of things. There is a lot.  Any idea if indeed he stole this stuff from the NSA why he would have done it?  The motive is to me the most interesting question. And the short answer is we do not know. I mean you can tick through the possibilities anything from financial motivation - you steal something you could sell it - to...  Sure.  ...Some sort of ideological motive a la Edward Snowden. Maybe he just had a grudge against his boss if he did in fact do all of this. We just do not know. I will say that among the people I talked to such as Mike Hayden the general who ran the NSA they noted it is worth pointing out that he was not charged under the Espionage Act. That is what Edward Snowden was charged under. These are lesser charges that have been brought so stealing and possessing classified information. That is significant because if the Justice Department thought they could nail him for sharing secrets with China or Russia they would have tried to and they did not.  Now does that suggest if not being charged under the Espionage Act that these secrets might not be as damaging or revealing to national security as what Edward Snowden released or...  We do not know what is in them. Again all still classified. But not necessarily it just suggests that they do not have evidence that he tried to share them or that he did so with intent to harm the U.S.  OK so possession might - versus trying to share them with someone.  Right.  Tell me Mary Louise you reported over the summer on the NSA itself being hacked some of the code that the NSA uses. Someone got their hands on that it appeared. Is that somehow tied to this case?  Again fascinating question. Again we do not know. That was indeed what seems to be authentic NSA code that was turned up online in August and everyone immediately thought oh this was Russia hacking the NSA. I started hearing a few weeks ago maybe not. We did a story that maybe this was some sort of inside job. Now is that linked to Martin? Was he potentially involved in some way? We do not know. I am told that that is a major focus of the ongoing investigation.  No idea obviously how this case is going to pan out. But all this talk after Edward Snowden about the NSA tightening its security at the very least I mean is this an embarrassment for this agency after so much talk of making things more secure?  It is a huge embarrassment for the NSA for Booz Allen which as we noted provides many contractors there. As I talked to people yesterday the way one former National Security Agency official summed it up was look this is not a second Snowden.  OK.  But it is a second insider. And that means three years after Snowden they still do not have it right. And I think that the National Security Agency knows this. As I have dug around I keep trying to get my hands on this classified Pentagon inspector general report which is dated August 27 - the same day Martin was arrested. It was looking into changes the NSA has tried to make to internal security. And the headline - the title begins NSA should take additional steps.  Wow so we will see what those additional steps are and when they happen. Fascinating stuff. NPR national security correspondent Mary Louise Kelly thanks a lot.  You are welcome. 