 Here is a familiar voice that is not getting any quieter with time.    When you see those geese in the sky think of me.  Neil Young and Crazy Horse have been partners for half a century. And now seven years since their last album they are back.    And I can gallop across your open prairie while I dive below your deepest sea. Think of me.  We sat down with Neil Young at a studio in Santa Monica Calif. And you could just tell for all that history here's an artist who is busy living in the moment. He is archiving all of his recordings online. He is got a book coming out. And he is making movies. How is the film coming?  It is just about done now. We are just you know buttoning up a few things.  Yeah. How involved are you? Are you actually doing all the editing and...  Yeah. I am there all the time because you know it is what I do.  And yeah he means it. Neil Young is actually working on 14 films including one about the making of this new album Colorado. Neil Young and Crazy Horse recorded it in a studio there at 9000 feet.   No no - yeah.  This is one time when I want you guys to just go bang and we are doing it.  Do it right on Neil's vocal mic.  Check one two - louder.  Got to find myself a new television. You are going to see a bunch of old rockers playing music trying to make every song sound great but not perfect. We are thinking about making it sound real. Like you can feel that this is something that means something to the people playing it. We are not trying to impress anybody.  I feel like that is what you have always sought with them. Is that right? Like a space where it is not about perfection.  It is always been like - yeah. It is a more cosmic thing. There is a connection with them that makes me write different songs. I write songs about time travel about other things that are a little more out there maybe cinematic with Crazy Horse than I do with other people.    I went sailing in the Milky Way losing track of memories that were not that day right by your side.  Neil Young easily one of the most recognizable names in American music has played with a lot of people over the years. There was Buffalo Springfield of course Crosby Stills Nash and Young. But Crazy Horse has outlasted all of them. And every few years he is returned to this band that some critics have long said are just not worthy of Neil Young's talents. There were some people who almost made fun of the group and said they were not professional musicians. And they did not understand why you would repeatedly go back to them.  Those  people know  OK?  Mmm hmm.  You will have to cut a lot of that. I am sorry NPR.  That is OK.   Now that is no concern.  But what...  That does not matter. They do not know what we are doing. That is why they said well you cannot do this you you cannot do that because we do not play that well we are not technical. There is much more to it than technical.   So there is climate change all over this record.  There is climate change all over everything in the world OK? This is a big thing. People got to get on that. We waste so much time.  You think the world is not taking climate change seriously.   What do you think? I do not think so. No.    I saw white guys trying to kill Mother Nature. She showed me love. And I know she has a way with things.  I was listening to your song She Showed Me Love on the new album. I mean when it comes to a big issue of global importance like this I mean what is your role in a song like that?  Well I am the song. That is who I am. I am applying what I know how to do to things that I see.    We heard the warning calls - ignored them. We watched the weather change. We saw the fires and floods.  Mostly I would like a lot of people to see what is going on on the planet that is so obvious to me. I do not - I just do not know why people do not get it. Or if they do get it then why do not they get with it?    There is so much we did not do.  Some of the other projects that you are focused on - I mean you have a book about audio quality. And one thing that I have always wondered about was if you could square what you were talking about with Crazy Horse and loving the rawness and imperfection but when it comes to sound quality you want the quality to be as pure as it possibly can be.  Well they are two totally different things. The raw thing that we create is the soul of music and the stories and the feelings of being human. And the technical thing that happens is trying to capture that. And if you try to capture that and you use tools that are less precise then you get less of it. You know the feeling that you have when you hear something that is really great and it touches your soul? The chances of it really touching your soul are much better if you hear all of it.    There is a rainbow of colors in the old USA. No one's going to whitewash those colors away.  So the archives that you have there are some people who like look back at a career and want to pick the highlights. I mean you seem to want to have so much documented. I mean what...  Well everything is - relates to everything else. If you have the whole picture you can decide what is valuable and what is not. I do not know. I have recorded somewhere - 500 700 800 1000 songs whatever they are. They are in there and the different variations of them and the story of how we did them is all in there. You know it is just one of these things. I like to collect stuff. I like to keep track of things.  Are you looking forward more than back? Are you looking back more than forward? Or where are you today?  I am here. I think that I do the best when I am right here.  And what is being right here mean - just living in the moment?  Yeah I guess so - in the now as they would say. I mean I am still thinking about things I want to do but I am thinking about them right now. I am thinking about things that I would like to do to have fun you know have a good time create things.  Well it is a real pleasure talking to you.  Thank you. It is nice talking to you too.    Woke up this morning in a house of love. The birds were singing in the sky above.  Neil Young's new album with Crazy Horse is called Colorado. 