 OK. This next story involves millions of dollars illicit drugs and a would-be assassin as well as some trading on the Internet in a shadowy online marketplace Known as the Silk Road. This week federal authorities shut down that site and arrested the man they say is its mastermind. NPR's Elise Hu reports.  You have to be a sophisticated user to get there but there is an underground or hidden Internet called Tor that is only reachable when using anonymizing software. That is where you could find the Silk Road - what authorities call the largest online marketplace for illicit stuff. Users bought and sold everything from fake ID's to guns and drugs.  It is kind of earned the reputation as the eBay of drugs.  Brian Krebs is a cybersecurity researcher and former reporter for The Washington Post.  I think for a lot of people that is shocking that you could you know with a few clicks have heroin sent to your door. I do not think it is a good idea. But...   ...that is the reality of the Internet that we live with today.  On the Silk Road site users could rely on the online currency Bitcoin to make their purchases. But if you try to reach the Silk Road today you will get a message from the feds saying the hidden site's been seized.  It really was you know a marketplace and what the FBI has done is they have taken an invisible marketplace and they have made it visible.  Mary Gallighan is the former special agent in charge of cybercrime in the FBI's New York office.  Right now there are a lot of people around the world saying what did I do what did I do on the Tor server especially if I did illegal activity and who knows about it. So it is really a significant technical achievement by the U.S. government and the FBI.  FBI agents arrested 29 year old Ross Ulbricht who went by the alias Dread Pirate Roberts. Since being outed we have learned he is a University of Texas grad who lived in San Francisco and called himself an entrepreneur. The FBI says he ran Silk Road for more than two years. He is now in custody charged with money laundering computer hacking and drug trafficking. And court documents show he was involved in an even crazier plot.  One of the services that is available on the Silk Road is hitmen.  Wait a second Brian. Hitmen?  Hitmen. Yes. Hire somebody to take out a rival right?  Prosecutors say Ulbricht tried to do exactly that - hire an assassin for the Bitcoin equivalent of 150000.  People tend to think that the Internet is very different from real life. It really just reflects what is going on in real life. And in this case with the Silk Road at least you have a lot of overlap between the Silk Road and the Internet.  In this case there is no evidence an actual killing took place. But once this Silk Road mastermind's identity was revealed so were his social media tracks. It turns out Ulbricht even made a recording with NPR partner StoryCorps in which he talked about his immortality.  I think I might live forever in some form by that time. I mean technology's changing so fast.  Even if he does not live forever his notoriety could outlast him. Feds seized nearly 4 million worth of Bitcoin in shutting down the Silk Road site. They say it is the largest Bitcoin seizure to date. Elise Hu NPR News Washington. 