 And we begin with NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson.  Polls show him about 10 points behind his rival former state Attorney General Bob McDonnell who is been hammering Deeds for not ruling out a tax hike and for being too close to Washington. Here's McDonnell in Tuesday's debate in Roanoke.  I believe that a governor needs to stand up to Washington. I will be a governor that will stand up and say that is not good for Virginia. My opponent and his Washington allies that want to raise taxes will not do that.  At times Deeds has seemed uncertain about how closely to embrace the president and his party in Washington. He refuses to call himself an Obama Democrat and Deeds said this at a forum sponsored by Politico earlier this month.  Frankly a lot of what is going on in Washington has made it very tough because people were just uncomfortable with the spending. They were not comfortable with a lot of what was going - a lot of noise that was coming out of Washington D.C.  But Deeds has been on the attack as well. For weeks he ran ads about McDonnell's conservative social views focusing on a master's thesis McDonnell wrote 20 years ago while a grad student at Regent University the school founded by televangelist Pat Robertson. In the thesis McDonnell said among other things that government policy should favor married couples over quote cohabitators homosexuals or fornicators.   Bob McDonnell we know what you wrote about working women.  We have seen your ads and heard your excuses.  But your record troubles me 35 bills restricting a woman's choice.  And you oppose birth control for ...  At a Chamber of Commerce debate in September McDonnell said he changed his mind about some of those issues particularly working women.  Here's my wife and daughter. I have told you I support working women. I am frankly pretty insulted that you would say to my daughter that I supported and loved for 28 years - to go fight in Iraq that I do not support working women.  With less than two weeks to go the race is all about turnout. Former Virginia Republican congressman Tom Davis says his party has one big advantage George W. Bush is no longer in office and Barack Obama is not on the ballot. So Davis hopes Democrats will be less motivated to come out and vote.  With Bush gone at this point he was the energy source for Democrats in terms of donations turnout and voter motivation. He is gone they got rid of him they are complacent. Republicans now who were kind of embarrassed under Bush are now angry at what they see - possible higher taxes more regulation from Washington. So you are going to have a completely different electorate on November 3rd in Virginia than you had for president last year.  The latest Washington Post poll suggests Davis may be right. Only half of the Virginians who went for President Obama last year say they are certain to vote next month. But two-thirds of John McCain's Virginia voters said they will turn out. That means Creigh Deeds may have an enthusiasm problem. Richard Cranwell is the state Democratic Party chair.  You have identified the reason that we are working so hard to turn out our vote by the time Election Day is here that Obama folks are going to be as energized as the McCain folks were.  And Deeds' campaign manager Joe Abbey said they have targeted half a million Democratic surge voters the ones who put the state in the blue column for President Obama last year.  That is the key to this election of course is - how can we get them out and can we get them activated to vote on Tuesday November 3rd. And that is also why we have been calling them kind of our sleeping giants. I mean you know they are not showing up in the polls but if they show at the polls on Election Day then it will be game over.  The Deeds campaign is trying to activate the same voter lists and volunteer army that Mr. Obama used to win in the state. Deeds has also been getting some high-powered outside help.  This man deserves to be the next governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia - Creigh Deeds.  Former President Bill Clinton campaigned for Deeds on Tuesday. Next week to the great relief of the Deeds campaign the current occupant of the White House will finally come across the Potomac River and do the same.  This election is about bringing opportunity and prosperity and hope to every corner of the commonwealth. Now there is a certain president we have today who knows a little bit about hope...  Mara Liasson NPR News. 