 So in the final season of the hit Netflix series House Of Cards Francis Underwood is dead and the spotlight now turns to Claire Underwood the first woman president of the United States. She is played by Robin Wright.    My first 100 days as president have been difficult. I lost my husband.   Your husband and I had an agreement.   Francis is dead.   Promises were made.   Not by me. Here's the thing. Whatever Francis told you the last five years do not believe a word of it.  Now the death of her husband was a rewrite. The showrunners Frank Pugliese and Melissa James Gibson had to re-envision their Emmy Award-winning show after Kevin Spacey who played Francis Underwood was accused of sexual harassment and assault last year. They were determined to continue House Of Cards without him. Robin Wright Frank Pugliese and Melissa James Gibson all sat down together in our studios in New York City to talk with Rachel Martin.  Robin if I could ask you about the allegations who told you? Or did you find out in the press?  Yeah. Yeah we all found out through the press. And you know of course shock and surprise and then you are pulverized as a team. What is the moral and ethical thing to do? And they made an executive decision MRC and Netflix and all of us deciding to close out this beautifully operatic show. And what it also would have meant to shut down is that we would have been putting almost 2000 people out of a job in the state of Maryland where we shoot. And that was security that people were dependent on.  Did you essentially have to go back to square one? I mean how much had you already started to think about the upcoming season or even - I think I read you would started shooting it right? Melissa. I will put you on spot.  We had started shooting it. And we would thought it through really - boy just about the whole thing . But all of the DNA was there. You know Season 5 ended with Robin's character Claire turning to the camera and saying my turn. So that was indeed what we continued to serve and explore.  And I will say just because the character Francis Underwood is not on the screen does not mean his essence is not on the screen and it does not mean that it is not still being dealt with. And in his absence became a dramatic opportunity to see who would try to fill that space.  Right. We knew to deny the existence of Francis Underwood would be dishonest you know to the history of the show. There is no way that Claire is not in dialogue with her past with him as she is forging a future for herself.  And she may be comfortable in this position but others around her are not. And there is this scene early on when Greg Kinnear's character this D.C. powerbroker he has cajoled Claire President Underwood into signing a bill. And when she finally agrees he physically grabs her hand and covers it with his as she signs it. And I found this so disturbing to watch  maybe because of everything else that is around the show but like this idea that he feels he could manipulate her. What was that scene like for you Robin?  There was a lot of discussion around that remember where Robin - would she ever let him do it? And the decision behind saying yes let him do that was because in politics and what so much the backbone of this show is about is you always have to sacrifice something to get what you want.  I mean we always knew that we wanted this season to be an exploration of who owns the White House. So no matter what - and that was a physical manifestation of a theme we were working on.  And you know...  Melissa?  ...Is this country  you know within the world of the show ready for a female president?  If I could ask you Robin just about your relationship with Kevin Spacey. You have talked about it before as something that was a professional relationship. You did not really know him socially but you told Variety last month and I am quoting here that you feel sorry for anybody whose life is in the public arena that you hate that part of the industry. And you also said you believe in second chances. Do you still feel that way about Hollywood writ large and about Kevin Spacey?  Yes. I hate what the media does with our sentiments and our words. And I did not say just that sentence. This is the problem  with being extracted. You know that is one sentence out of a paragraph that I said. I said I believe when people do the work and they reform I think everybody has the ability to do that - do the work and reform. That is what I said. And in that instance then you should be given a second chance in life if there is true change that occurs. So I was not pinpointing any specific human being. I was talking about humankind and their abilities. So when I was paraphrased I have just decided to not comment anymore because I am so sick of being taken out of context and then that is being insensitive to victims out there that I am not insensitive to.  As you all move away from this project what have you learned from this show these characters?  Normally you are making a movie for six eight 10 weeks and then you say goodbye to those people. This was a six-year relationship that we had. We spent more time with each other than we did our own families. And people would come on set and they would walk off and they were like wow. It is palpable how close everyone is. You can feel how everyone has each other's back. They just want all of you to do the best work. I mean we would crack up after certain scenes the lines that you guys would write. And we were like we just actually said that ? That line came out of my mouth? I cannot believe it. It was fun.  The last day of shooting I imagine was full of a lot of emotions.  It was the jumping up and down and sobbing at the same time.  Yeah.  'ecause it is good to put characters to bed. I am sure it is the same for you guys as writers right?  Yeah but that night nobody wanted to go to bed.  Nobody did go to bed.   People did not want to leave the set. It was not till daybreak that people actually finally left 'ecause we just did not want to go.  Well it has been a pleasure talking with the three of you.  Thank you.  Thank you.    That was our co-host Rachel Martin speaking with Robin Wright who stars in the Netflix show House Of Cards. She was also joined by the showrunners Frank Pugliese and Melissa James Gibson. 