 Next we are going to take a look at gains and losses and the very different ways in which we think about them. Each week we discuss how psychological factors shape behavior with NPR's Shankar Vedantam. He is joined us again to talk about some new research that looks at how a common psychological bias even affects how the U.S. government makes policies. Shankar welcome back.  Good morning David.  So what is the bias we are talking about here?  Well it is called loss aversion and we have known about it for a long time David. Let me just explain it very simply. Let us say you go to a casino and you plunk down a bet and let us say you lose 50. Now the question is do you leave or do you try and dig yourself out of the hole by gambling a little further?  I and most people probably would stay and try to dig myself out of the hole.  Exactly. I spoke with Jeffrey Berejikian. He is a political scientist at the University of Georgia and here's how he put it.  You can do nothing and walk away and absorb that certain loss or you can gamble. And you know that the gamble is biased in the favor of the house. But there is some chance that you might win and get back to where you were before. When you frame choices in that way human beings exhibit real consistent risk acceptance.  So the interesting thing David is that people seem much more willing to place the second bet than to place the first bet. And that is because with the first bet you are hoping to win something. With the second bet what you are really trying to do is you are trying to head off the loss and loss aversion theory suggests that the desire to avoid losses is wired more strongly into the brain than the desire to achieve gains.  OK. So based on what we know about the brain the drive to make up for losses to get out of the hole...  Exactly.  ...is much stronger than when you just walked in the casino and got started and made the first bet.  Precisely.  We normally do not talk about policymaking when we talk to you Shankar but you are saying that this bias actually extends to countries.  That is right. So Berejikian and his colleagues they have just analyzed 100 trade disputes between the United States and other countries.  OK.  They divided these disputes into two groups. In one group the U.S. was trying to open up a new market that had been closed to U.S. companies so there was a potential gain here in terms of markets and jobs. In the other groups there was already trade between the United States and the other country where there was some kind of a dispute and the United States was arguing that the other country had clamped down in some way and that American companies were now losing market share and losing jobs as a result. So one set of disputes was framed as a potential gain whereas the other set of disputes was framed as a potential loss. Can you see the connection here with the casino?  I think so. I mean I do not think policymakers want to think of their jobs as playing the slot machine but yes.   I mean if you have lost jobs it is like you have lost money and you might want to try and make up for it.  Exactly. So what the theory of loss aversion will predict is that you will fight harder and longer when you are confronting a loss. And Berejikian and Early find this is exactly what happens at the national level. When a dispute is framed as jobs being lost exactly like the guy in the casino U.S. policymakers pull out all the stops and fight. Here's Berejikian again.  You should fight harder and longer in those areas where you expect to gain more and we do not see that. The United States was much more willing to engage in an unproductive stalemate when there were unmet expectations. And what is important is that this did not produce a better outcome.  An unproductive stalemate. So we are saying that he found that the United States was willing to keep fighting for lost jobs. Even when it did not seem like it was going to be productive they were actually going to make up and get those jobs back.  Inherently there is nothing wrong with trying to fight for a lost job. You know there is nothing wrong with that.  It is noble.  Yes exactly. But the problem is what if one of the disputes involves saving 100 jobs whereas the other dispute involves gaining 1000 jobs? The rational thing to do is to pay attention to the stakes and Berejikian and Early find that is not the case.  When we talk about policymakers though could not there also be politics at play? I mean if you are - even if there might be jobs gained elsewhere the loss of jobs could make you look weak both at home to voters abroad to other countries.  It totally could David. And I think part of the problem is that the voters are suffering from loss aversion too. So everyone is in the same psychological basket so to say. You know so the fundamental idea with loss aversion is that you are driving by looking in the rearview mirror. That is what loss aversion is. It is not a good idea when you are driving. It is not a good idea when you are gambling and it is certainly not a good idea when it comes to national policy.  Interesting as always Shankar. Thanks a lot.  Thanks David.  That is Shankar Vedantam who regularly joins us to talk about social science research. And you can follow him on Twitter at hiddenbrain and while you are there you can also follow this program nprgreene nprinskeep and morningedition.   It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News.  