 It is been one month since the Taliban reasserted control in Afghanistan. And they have gradually introduced rules and policies for how they intend to run the country this time around. NPR's John Ruwitch has been following events in Afghanistan from neighboring Pakistan. John when the Taliban took power one of the main things people wondered about was how they would treat women. What have we learned so far?  Well things started off well or at least it looked promising right? In mid-August when the Taliban took over a spokesman said that women and men had the same rights basically. But if you remember in the 1990s - '96 to 2001 - women were basically banned from public life. And so this seemed to be a kind of a recognition that those type of harsh policies were a bad look. But after a few weeks a different picture is really coming into focus. Women are in some areas not allowed to go to work. They cannot teach boys for example. Teenage girls have not been allowed back to school yet. Some women have seen their access to higher education restricted. Taliban officials have commented on what women should or should not be wearing. And of course in the new cabinet the government there are no women. One of our producers spoke with a woman in Mazar-e-Sharif. She only wanted her last name used. It is Saeedi. And she was not optimistic.  .  She says that the Taliban of 2021 are no different from the Taliban of 1996. Their promises have so far been hollow. You cannot trust them she says. And you know she used to work as a reporter and as a rights activist. She says now she just encounters difficulties leaving her home.  Wow. Taliban has what it has long really cherished - back in power - U.S. is gone. What has that mean for security on the ground in Afghanistan?  Well the war is over. That is the big thing. I mean if that is - if there is a silver lining that is it. Arguably security in some respects has improved. You know anecdotally we hear that crime and corruption are down. But you know in part that may well be because the Taliban have restored the harsh punishments which they were known for back in the '90s. We have seen videos and heard stories of alleged criminals who have been lashed to poles or whipped or killed and then had their bodies put on public display as a kind of graphic warning. You know for a lot of people it is a scarier time. I spoke to one man who did not want to be quoted by name. And he says whenever he goes out shopping or to visit people he just tries to stay off of the streets as much as possible - minimize his time out. It is just unpredictable. I guess finally in terms of security in and around the city of Jalalabad to the east there've been a bunch of attacks - a string of attacks on Taliban by ISIS-K the local Islamic State affiliate.  So that sounds almost like the Taliban is not quite in full control.  Yeah. I mean in that region it seems like they are certainly facing challenges. You know when it comes to control another intriguing thing that we are keeping an eye on is that there is - there are divisions within the Taliban right? We have heard that there may have - may be disagreements at some levels among senior leaders. The Taliban deny this. But you know there are moderates within the Taliban like the spokesman for instance. There are hard-liners. And the Taliban also do not appear to have complete control over their foot soldiers. I asked Madiha Afzal about this. She is at the Brookings Institution.  They are young. They are uneducated. And all they have learned how to do is fight. And now that the fight has suddenly ended perhaps unexpectedly early what happens next right? So they do not quite know how to transition into the next phase.  So it is a bit of a grim situation there right now.  All right. That is NPR's John Ruwitch in Islamabad Pakistan. John thanks.  Thank you. 