 The world watched a bizarre and tragic series of events in the small town of Zanesville Ohio this week. Forty-nine exotic animals were killed by authorities there. The menagerie included lions wolves bears and monkeys. Their owner freed the animals before committing suicide. For award-winning novelist Michael Koryta it is all strangely familiar because the story echoes the plot of his latest novel The Ridge. Koryta had been standing by to help with the situation in Ohio when we reached him in Bloomington Indiana.  We had hopes to have a more important role. I was contacted by Joe Taft who runs the Exotic Feline Rescue Center in Indiana which served as the basis for the cat sanctuary I wrote about. And at that point it appeared there would be a good number of cats in need of a home. And that is why Joe's facility exists. Unfortunately by the end of the day there were not many left alive.  For people not familiar with your book describe the really uncanny parallels between what you wrote and what happened.  Yeah it was uncomfortable really to follow the story. The book opens with a suicide and one of the climax scenes later in the novel is a situation in which someone is trying to intentionally free the cats. So when I read about it...  When you say cats you mean tigers large animals.  Tigers lions leopards yes. And it was an odd parallel certainly.  You would been involved with large cat sanctuaries before writing this book. Correct?  I would been involved with the rescue center in Indiana. I began going up there originally just as a visitor then I became so fascinated with the place that I thought about writing the novel set in that location. And when the book was published when it was done actually what I realized was I was having a hard time walking away from the center. And so I wanted to stay involved if at all possible to ask Joe if I could begin participating on the rescues and he graciously allowed me to do that.  So where do you place this recent incident with the wild animals in Zanesville in relation to the other animal rescues that you have been a part of and heard about?  Well obviously this is an entirely different scenario because they had been released and they were you know roaming at large. That is a very different scenario. I have always gone into areas where they are enclosed - some of the cages are more secure than other - but you have the opportunity then to tranquilize and state the animals with some level of protection. And it can be difficult to get to them but I have never seen anything obviously like what happened in Ohio. I cannot say I was overly surprised to hear...  Why do you say that?  The more I have been around the center the more aware I have become of just how poor many of these facilities are particularly the private ownership of these cats and the lack of oversight in how well these cats are being cared for. It just it does not surprise me that there was going to be some sort of a disaster at some point.  You know I think many people were surprised to learn that a person could obtain for example 18 Bengal tigers not to mention the lions and grizzly bears. What is the regulatory environment for these exotic animals?  In Ohio particularly the state does not regulate exotic ownership at all. The USDA regulates if you exhibit the animals to the public if you breed and if you sell. But in terms of private pet ownership it is really up to the state. And the auctions where people are able to obtain these animals the fact that there is no oversight has to be dealt with. I do not think there is any doubt about that.  Are these domestic auctions in the U.S. where animals like this are sold?  Yes. There are domestic auctions in the states where you can acquire these cats. What people realize once they have acquired the cats is that the care is very difficult. The fact that the care is so difficult and the acquisition so easy is a really alarming situation.  That is novelist Michael Koryta. His latest book is called The Ridge. Thanks for talking with us.  Thank you. 