 Former U.S. President Barack Obama is back on the stump. Last night he campaigned in Virginia for the Democratic nominee for governor there. The race is tight and it pits the state's Democratic lieutenant governor Ralph Northam against Ed Gillespie a former Republican National Committee chairman and adviser to the George W. Bush administration. NPR's Sarah McCammon has more from Richmond.  On paper Democrats have an edge in Virginia. Demographics are shifting their way Hillary Clinton won the state in 2016 and former President Barack Obama won it twice. But as Obama reminded Democrats last night off-year elections are not their party's strong suit.   And so as a consequence folks wake up and they are surprised - how come we cannot get things through Congress? How come we cannot get things through the statehouse? Because you slept through the election.  Virginia's voter turnout rate last year was above 70 percent. In 2015 an off year it was more than 40 points lower and Democrats tend to struggle the most with low turnout. In a crowded convention center Obama alluded to President Trump's rhetoric asking voters to reject what he described as a politics of division and distraction. He called on supporters to quote believe in a better kind of politics.   We need you to take this seriously because our democracy is at stake and it is at stake right here in Virginia.  In the wake of the 2016 election Democrats have talked about wooing rural white voters but Obama came to Richmond a city where blacks outnumber whites. His visit could help energize the younger more diverse voters who have consistently supported him and who make up much of the Democratic base. Bob Denton a political communications scholar at Virginia Tech says both parties have to focus on getting out the vote in this race where polls have been tight.   And this has become a base race. I mean if no one's at 50 percent right here it is not about converting right now it is not about persuading. So right now it is about activation and it is about getting out your base.  Virginia along with New Jersey is one of just two states holding gubernatorial elections this year. That means many eyes will be watching voters as they go to the polls in a couple of weeks. Sarah McCammon NPR News Richmond. 