 Even as Sebelius testified we brought two pollsters into our studios one Republican one Democrat. Both of these political pros spoke of Obamacare in intensely personal terms. Republican Whit Ayres spoke of someone unhappy at having to pay more for insurance. Democrat Anna Greenberg spoke of her brother getting insurance for the first time. She says the Obama administration has done a poor job selling the law for years.  However it does not concern me in the long run. Because at the end of the day I believe personal experience and the trickle-down from personal experience will actually change people's views of the law. So for instance when someone's family member gets health insurance who did not have it before and everyone is relieved that person has health insurance everybody in the family feels better about Obamacare. So I concede that the message battle was lost early on. And it is been difficult since then to reclaim ground around message. But I actually think experience is going to matter a lot more.  Is not the message battle still being lost because on the occasions when the president had a simple message it is turning out not to match the complex reality. The president for example said if you want to keep your existing health plan you can. That turned out to be an oversimplification to say the least.  I think in politics message means an overall framework for understanding why we are doing what we are doing and who we are trying to help. Details like you will lose your bad insurance so you can get better insurance which is basically what is happening with this conversation that is sort of been lost.  There are requirements yeah.  Right right. You are going to pay the same amount for much better insurance but...  Or pay a little more for better insurance.  For much better - well and in the end if for example you do not have huge debt from unpaid medical bills it actually ends up costing you less even if you are paying a little bit more. This is the sausage-making. But I actually think when you think about the overall framework and the overall value associated with the law that is far more important to get that right.  The message challenge for the White House has been and remains very significant. The president made a lot of promises about his healthcare plan that according to our polling most Americans never believed. They never believed that the plan would lower health insurance premiums for the average family by 2500 a year that the plan would not add one dime to the federal deficit. The one promise they did believe is that if you like your current plan you can keep it. And now they are finding out that not even that is true and they are feeling betrayed. I think the jury is still out about the individual impact on this law but I think it is going to be negative.  Whit Ayres I want to summarize the Republican position on this law as essentially repeal it. They said repeal and replace. Republicans have not at all been clear about what they would like to do otherwise about healthcare. Now that the law is a reality would you foresee any motivation for the Republican Party to take a different stance to say we actually have these concrete proposals that we want to make to change the healthcare industry that is in the state it is in now?  I think what you will see is the Republican Party going after the parts of the law that are particularly unpopular and dismantling those parts such as this requirement for comprehensive care that forces people to buy coverage they do not want they do not need and they cannot afford.  But could you see leading congressional candidates or eventually presidential candidates saying I actually think there are issues that we need to fix in the healthcare system and this is the way that I want to go about it?  They are not going to say it that way. They are going to say we need to dismantle the worst parts of this law now before they have an even more negative effect on the American people.  Anna Greenberg?  Look the challenge for Republicans is that first they have a faction within the House of Representatives that only wants repeal and because of the structure of our constitution and our government they are able to basically shut down meaningful conversations on the Republican side about an alternative. When you do not have a positive forward-looking vision about trying to improve people's lives it is very very difficult to win elections. And in the area of healthcare they do not have any ideas except for changing parts of the law to improve healthcare in this country.  Would you say as a pollster that Republicans would need a positive message to go along with the negative one?  Without question. Without question. People vote for things as well as vote against it and we have counseled all through this debate that Republicans need a positive vision for a better healthcare system.  Let me throw out a proposition to you and you tell me if you agree or disagree with it or want to modify it in some way. We have had a really lousy public policy debate about this that has actually not explained to people very well what the problems of the system were or what the problems with the law are. Would you agree or disagree with that?  I would agree with it. Part of the issue is that in the 2008 presidential campaign even in the primary there really was not a fulsome discussion of healthcare reform. It was not really a leading agenda item on the eve of the 2008 election. And so even going into the legislative debate and battle about it we had not had that discussion.  I am not sure it is possible to explain the complexity of the health insurance industry and the healthcare system. But I also see that people understand the fundamental disagreements about this law.  Whit Ayres and Anna Greenberg thanks to you both for coming by.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Republican and Democratic pollsters here on MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 