 In Pakistan there are also concerns about the stability of the government and speculation about how long it can stay in power. There is even some talk of a military takeover. But there are also signs that Pakistan's democracy has grown strong enough to weather a serious political crisis. NPR's Anthony Kuhn reports from Islamabad.  Especially since public anger erupted over the government's perceived slow response to this summer's disastrous floods media headlines and opposition politicians have been predicting that the current regime may be on its way out. Mr.  I see a slow-motion unraveling of this regime.  Mushahid Hussain Syed is secretary-general of the opposition Pakistan Muslim League the country's third largest party. Mr.  They are dying by a thousand cuts - the flood disaster allegations of corruption monumental incompetence the fighting with the Supreme Court the lack of confidence of the international community. So the chickens are coming home to roost.  The government insists it will serve out its five-year term. Syed says change before then is inevitable but it must be peaceful and democratic. Some people think this could happen next week when the Supreme Court will try to reopen old allegations that President Asif Ali Zardari laundered money in Switzerland. The showdown is a sign that the courts and media are now muscular enough to hold the government to account. Parliament has also passed important constitutional reforms this year to limit arbitrary executive powers. By comparison Syed says the executive branch appears anemic. Mr.  So you have a decaying state and a dynamic society hence what you are seeing. The failure is evident when the state cannot deliver on essential issues like law and order counterterrorism health education flood relief and rehabilitation and so forth.  Pakistan's military meanwhile has been losing patience with the government's graft and ineptitude. This summer Chief of Army Staff Ashfaq Pervez Kayani personally grilled the president and prime minister over their shortcomings. The government has tried to keep Kayani on their side by extending his term of office. Mohammed Ziauddin is executive editor of the Express Tribune newspaper. He says Pakistani's generals have previously seized power when their jobs are in danger. Ziauddin says Kayani has no need to seize power because he is already got it. Mr.  General Kayani has got three years extension and Afghan policy the Kashmir policy the American policy is in his hands. The civil government has been kept out of that and the civil government has agreed to do that.  Ziauddin says the military's disproportionate influence on policy-making has led to a host of problems including the insurgency along the Afghan border. He says Pakistan should have stopped supporting the Jihadis when the Soviet Union left Afghanistan. Mr.  The army had the choice to dismantle all those institutions and go ahead with the reconstruction of the country. They did not. They fed those Jihadi groups. They kept on arming them financing them.  Responding to speculation about a change in government the State Department recently reaffirmed its support for civilian rule in Pakistan. But many Pakistanis feel that America's huge influence over policy-making is not helpful to their own democracy. Retired Lieutenant General Hamid Gul is a tough critic of the U.S. with whom he once cooperated in resisting the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Mr.  Whenever they have wanted they have pressed us into service sometimes imposing dictators on us sometimes by truncated democracies democracies which are held captive to their dictate.  Gul says Pakistan has no business fighting America's war which he says it is now losing. Mr.  Will it be a victory for Pakistan or will it be a defeat for Pakistan? For the Pakistani nation which a very large majority hates America it would be a victory. But for the Pakistani government and the Pakistani policies it will be a defeat.  Gul may be dissatisfied with the current government but he too says there is no need for the military to intervene. He says all the military has to do is just back the judiciary which will then cleanse the government of corruption. Anthony Kuhn NPR News Islamabad. 