 Now the violent history we just discussed means that Kurds are spread much farther than just the Middle East. Generations of instability led many Kurds to leave the region entirely they have settle elsewhere. Long-ago thousands from Iraq's Kurdish region claimed asylum in Europe. Now that Iraqi Kurdistan is under attack some young Kurds are returning to their ancestral homeland. They are fighting against ISIS. NPR's Alice Fordham is about to introduce us to one Kurdish fighter and wait until you hear how different his life used to be.  The man of the the Betwata Tribe gather to drink tea every morning in this outdoor courtyard with curving pillars and climbing plants. Most wear a traditional baggy blue suit with a colored sash and black and white headdress and they all talk about the war.  .  One of them Sarhad Betwata is a general. The grizzled officer says commands about a thousand men and later this morning will head off from here in Irbil to the frontlines of the Islamic State. Close to the Syrian border. And sitting respectfully in a corner is his nephew Aza tall and handsome in uniform and holding a sniper rifle almost as tall as he is. He is that pictures of a Peshmerga fighter the soldiers Iraq's Kurds are so proud of but until a couple months ago Aza lead a very different life.  I was student social worker.  You were studying to be a social worker? A.  Yes.  What sort of social work did you want to do? A.  Like young people.  Aza's family moved to the Netherlands when he was a child. He grew up speaking Dutch loves traditional Dutch food like beef with red cabbage but when he and his brothers realized the Islamic State were attacking their homeland they decided to come back. Aza's student friends could not believe it. A.  They did not believe it till I take the plane and came back. Until the day they did not expect me to come back.  What do you think it was difficult for them to understand? A.  'ecause they never had seen something like that. Also for me it is difficult to leave everything my school my friends my family to came back and fight. You do not know if you will survivor or not but it is a duty. You have to do it.  He joined his uncle's battalion and very soon found himself on the frontline filled with pride. A.  I was proud. It felt good it felt like I was home. I had never seen a fight but when I was there I was with my family so my heart could rest and my mind.  Aza had just two days training. He reckons he would had plenty of practice shooting guns with his Kurdish cousins on summer vacations here. But when I ask him about the rifle he is holding it turns out it is the first time he is handled it. A.  It is a sniper rifle it belongs to my little brother. He will not come with us today so I picked the gun and got in front.  He has not even learned to strip and clean it yet. His younger brother Mirwan takes the opportunity to show him. Their uncle the general says they do not bother with lots of training. The boys's fathers and grandfathers were Peshmerga fighting in wars in the '80s and 90s. They grew up looking at their photographs hearing their stories. S.   I will give you just a small example. you know ducks when they come out of the egg they just go into the water they can swim. So it is inherited by family also. We know who is the good.   He reckons he has about 30 European returnees under his command. Mirwan finishes breaking the gun up and putting it back together.  It is simple it is not so difficult just like the ducks - little ducks.  Peshmerga officials welcome them. I meet Major General Hazhar Ismail who is in charge of international relations.  Actually we do not have a correct number but there are dozens of people volunteer - Kurdish people - they are coming from Europe and other countries want to fight with their brothers against ISIL to protect their families their relatives and to protect Kurdistan.  He is not quite sure on the numbers.  Of course more than a hundred.  Which he concedes is nothing compared with the thousands of Europeans who are fighting with the Islamic State. And honestly he says a lot of these European Kurds are not quite ready to fight. But they put them in the second line of fighting and he says they are good for morale. Meanwhile back at the Betwata family home the uncle - the commander - has changed to his uniform and is loading up two four-wheel drive vehicles. His brother the fighters' father is playing backgammon with the sheik the leader of the tribe and watching his son pack. And then suddenly they are gone and it seems awfully quiet. Only the old man and the children are left. They are going to the Mosul Dam their father says an area where the Islamic State was in control until recently. He turns back to the house. Hopefully they will come back safe he says. Alice Fordham NPR News Erbil. 