   Now here's a little story I got to tell about three bad brothers you know so well.  We know them as the Beastie Boys.    Way back in history with Adrock M.C.A and me Mike D.  All right. So their real names are Adam Horovitz Adam Yauch and Michael Diamond. Yauch died of cancer in 2012 and the two surviving members Horovitz and Diamond have now published a collective memoir simply called Beastie Boys Book. They spoke to Rachel Martin about it.  It is interesting to read about how the Beastie Boys came to know each other when they were teenagers and find their sound. But honestly what drew me to this book was the idea of these guys now men in their 50s reflecting back on their life. And I really had one main question. Had the Beastie Boys actually grown up? And as you will hear in the following exchange the answer is sort of. Here's Adam Horovitz reading an excerpt from the book about the lost art of mix tapes.   I am not trying to be all well back in my day we had to carry blocks of ice up a mountain made of shards of broken glass just to get a drink of a hatful of rain. But it is true that the physical relationship to music was different. There was more touching holding caressing and finessing.  Hmm.  Mike? Mike.  Well I never - up until that moment Adam...  I am still reading.  Oh my...  Like it is a very...  Wait. Where am I reading till?  That was a very sort of...  Wait. Am I still...  ...Sensual...  You are still reading.  ...Description of cassettes.  Mike shh. You are just going to have to trust me when I tell you that the two of them interrupted each other throughout our conversation with inside jokes. And by this point I had earned that shush. But that was their allure right? In the early 1980s the Beastie Boys were breaking all the rules. They were these punk teenagers running around Manhattan going to clubs they should not have been in making music that was not supposed to be for them.    Brass monkey. That funky monkey. Brass monkey junkie...  Rap was black music. It was underground music. It was not something like teenage white guys did. So why? What made you think that people would take you seriously?  Well people taking us seriously was not something that was really a consideration for us.  You did not care.  . The second we heard rap music it was not like anything else that we would heard before it. So that was like that is what we wanted to do. And probably like so many other teenagers at the time whatever rap 12-incher would have come out we would put on and just play over and over and over and memorize every single word. Then you just feel like I can rap now 'ecause I know every word to Jimmy Spicer's Super Rhyme.  .  And then I would actually have to give our environment and our parents props in the weird way of that was this New York City thing of you can do whatever you want to do. You did not have this thing of oh you cannot do that 'ecause you are this.  Right.  That was definitely the atmosphere.  FIGHT FOR YOUR RIGHT    Kick it.  Things take off in like a really big way. And all of a sudden you are touring with Madonna. You are all over the place. You have got your own shows. You have got girls in cages. You have got all kinds of things happening.  FIGHT FOR YOUR RIGHT    You have got to fight for your right to party.  When you look back at some of the videos or just the performances is there any bit of you that cringes?  It used to be all of the bit of me that cringed. And now there is definitely a bit of me that cringes. It is very cringey.    Girls. All I really want is girls.  Well I think a lot of what we did for a period of time was definitely cringe-worthy. First we started sort of making fun of something. Before you sort of know it you are like oh I am this guy who is enjoying doing this thing.    Girls to do the dishes. Girls to clean up my room. Girls to do the laundry and in the bathroom. Girls.  And time goes by and you are like wait I did not sign up to really be this person and now that is sort of my job to be that person. And how do I change that up now?  Right. 'ecause it also made you real famous.  Well it made us famous and also we were super super fortunate and grateful the fact that we got to sort of grow.    'ecause you cannot and you will not and you do not stop. 'ecause you cannot and you will not and you do not stop. Well you cannot and you will not and you do not stop. Mike D come and rock the sure shot. I have got the brand-new doo...  In '94 there was a song Sure Shot where Adam Yauch essentially apologizes to women.  Yeah.    I want to say a little something that is long overdue. The disrespect to women has got to be through. To all the mothers and the sisters and the wives and friends I want to offer my love and respect till the end.  Was that earnest or was that ironic or what was that about?  No. I think he is very earnest when he says disrespect to women has got to be through. And I actually think it is better than an apology because it is more like this is where we are at and this is what we are saying.  How much of it was about Adam Yauch?  I think a lot of it was about Yauch because he had this vision for things but it was really about - for all of us that we all felt this freedom that we are going to make what we want to make. You know everything gets so big and so chaotic and so beyond our control but out of all that we realized wait. It is just the three of us. We need to figure this out and not listen to anybody else. And that somehow served us incredibly well.    Now when it comes to envy you all is green. Jealous of the rhyme and the rhyme routine. Another dimension new galaxy. Intergalactic planetary.  Whether it was apologizing for disrespecting women or focusing on life outside the band Adam Yauch was the guy pushing the other two in new directions.  He just did the thing that you were not supposed to do. You know he was the Buddhist Free Tibet guy that you would see him at the after-after party for some fashion thing.  And be completely comfortable in his own skin. And everything made sense with him and everything in between the extremes made sense.  But he was also the - if you were like oh man the radiator broke in my apartment. He would be like I will fix it. And then he would just fix it.  Very good point. He actually has installed not one but two water filtration systems for me in my home.  .  So that is the truth.  Well Adam was a licensed installer.  Sounds like a joke but it is true. It is the truth.  Really?  Yeah.  Yeah.  And this is what our conversation is like. Between the constant ribbing and inside jokes there are sincere moments of reflection. They talk about their music their friendship and the guy who taught them to fix radiators to care about human rights to own up to mistakes to grow up.  My friend is somebody that I loved so much and was such a huge influence on me. I miss him dearly and daily. You know it is a nice thing. I have this little lens. Like OK what would Yauch say?    'ecause I am a specializer rhyme reviser. As not selling out to advertisers. What you get is what you see. Come on. And you will not see me in the advertising.  That is Michael Diamond and Adam Horovitz of the Beastie Boys. Their new book is called Beastie Boys Book.    If - if you - want to know - want to know - the real deal about the three well let me tell you we are triple trouble you all. We are going to bring you up to speed. 