 NPR's Philip Reeves's just visited Billingsgate and found it simmering with anger.  Chrissie A.H. Cox 20 sprats J. Bennett Jr. five.  Roger Barton has worked in Billingsgate for half a century. When he talks about the market he still sounds as excited as a school boy.  When you go on the floor you get parrot fish flying fish shad pike freshwater seawater sea trout fresh salmon out of Scotland. If it is in season you will get it in Billingsgate Fish Market.  Barton is behind his stall in a straw boater and a white coat.  Thank you very much and God bless you. How much? One fifty.  His fish are selling fast.  It is a hard living because you have no social life. I have lost two wives. Good women women that really that I should have stayed with but I was married to the business. You are married to the job and you are half-married to some of the guys.  There are other drawbacks.  If you wait in a bus queue or you are in a train where it is warm or in the bank people go...   ...can you smell fish? I say it is him. It is him over there.   A mountain of fish passes through Billingsgate every day often to be ruined says Barton in Britain's kitchens.  British people have never been a fish eating nation and they do not even know how to cook fish 'ecause they overcook it. You must not overcook fish. It is like squid - you only cook squid as long as you can hold your breath. The minute you let your breath out that is when you take the squid out the pan and it will not eat rubbery. It will eat lovely. It is got a lovely texture to it.  Roger Barton sounds like a happy man yet Billingsgate is not a happy place. One hundred and forty porters work here.   They move through the aisles weathered-looking men in white smocks pushing trolleys stacked with boxes full of fish packed in ice. Under a law from Victorian times each must hold a license. That is the problem says Billingsgate fish merchant Mohammed Ayub.  What we need is a modern market. The practices are outdated.  Ayub wants the licensing system scrapped. He says his stall's losing money because porters' wages are too high. He says it costs his business 60000 a year to hire one porter. The porters are all union members. Ayub says they will not permit him to use unlicensed porters or to deliver the fish himself.  They will come and stand in front of you and it impossible to move the trolley. I mean if you get a guy standing there and another behind you and all that and it will not be allowed.  Change is underway. City officials are preparing to get rid of the licensing system. They say it is obsolete and restricts freedom of employment. Billingsgate is crackling with tension.  I mean we got a porter walking past us right? And I mean they are all looking at us. You are interviewing me. And they do not know what is going on and its worrying them.  In a market cafe breakfast is served. Brian Holmes has been a Billingsgate fish porter for 23 years.  If you spend any time down here you you will find that well it is more a family which is being destroyed by what is taking place at this moment in time.  Holmes says fish porters work unsocial hours they know their clients and their needs and they are not in fact particularly well paid. He says they are also a precious part of history that should be preserved.  It is like doing away with the Beefeaters at the Tower of London. I mean to do away with the fish porter at Billingsgate is doing away with a whole heritage part of London.  Is it wrong for ordinary working people to aspire to something better?  Dave Turnbull is an official with Unite the trade union to which the porters belong. The union is fighting the changes. It says 20000 people have signed a petition supporting the porters. Turnbull believes London's history does not only belong to the rich and famous.  It is not just about kings and queens and generals and people who get statues made to them. It is about ordinary working people providing a service to the restaurants that make this a great city and expecting some reward and recognition for doing it.  The red mullet seven quid.  As he fields phone calls from his customers and boxes of fish fly off his shelves Roger Barton's well aware of the ill-feeling gripping the market he loves. No matter how this dispute resolves itself he thinks this ancient London market will pull through.  Yes it is going through a tough period. We will get over that. It will change and we will go on. And Billingsgate will go on and Billingsgate will be here when I am dead and gone.  Philip Reeves NPR News London. 