  Hundreds of thousands of protesters in London last week demanded what they called a people's vote on Brexit. Here's how London Mayor Sadiq Khan put it to The Associated Press.   What we are saying is that some of the promises made two years ago clearly have not materialized. Nobody was talking about a bad Brexit deal. Nobody was talking about no deal whatsoever.  The prime minister who is trying to complete Brexit is in some political danger. Members of Theresa May's own Conservative Party are said to be plotting against her forcing some in the opposition Labour Party to defend her. Here's Keir Starmer who is the shadow Brexit minister.   Some of the quotes and comments about the prime minister this weekend attributed to Conservative MPs ministers or former ministers are nothing short of disgraceful.  NPR's London correspondent Frank Langfitt is on the line. Frank good morning.  Hey. Good morning Steve.  Is Britain any closer to actually completing this deal to leave the EU?  Well it is interesting Steve. Prime Minister May was in the House of Commons yesterday. She says 95 percent of the deal is done. But that remaining 5 percent is huge. So we have talked - it is about how to avoid a border on the island of Ireland. Now you know by leaving the EU the U.K. creates a need for a border between Ireland...  Yeah.  ...Which is you know part of the part of the EU and Northern Ireland which is part of the U.K. But they cannot seem to work out an agreement on this and that is what is been holding everything up.  So with all of this pressure on Theresa May from within her own party for essentially not having a hard enough Brexit or not getting a deal done or just because Conservatives infight can she survive?  There was really tough language as you were hearing from Keir Starmer. There was a talk yesterday - I guess in the last few days - where even a member of her party said there is a meeting on Wednesday and she should bring her own noose. It is very hard language and it really actually kind of bothered people here in the United Kingdom. But the thing is what is been remarkable about Prime Minister May is she is been at this now for two years and she is still standing. A lot of people did not think she would be here. And even opponents I think have some grudging respect for her - her ability to sort of continue to take punches but continue to work on this. And the other thing is there is nobody obvious to replace her. And the Tory Party her party the Conservatives are very concerned about another election where they could lose to Labour.  Well I am trying to figure this out Frank. I am just going across the political spectrum.  Sure.  We have May sort of in the middle trying to get a deal done. There are people on her right who want it to be a harder deal that Britain...  Absolutely.  ...Would have more independence from the EU. But then there are these people on the left the hundreds of thousands that we mentioned who went out and protested for a people's vote on Brexit. What exactly would that be?  Well what they are talking about there is - here's what they basically said. They say you know 2016 when this vote was first put to the people they feel they were sold a bill of goods. The Brexiteers said everything's going to be great. We are going to cut a great deal with the EU. We are going to get a lot of money back to pay for health care. None of that is happened. And Brexit negotiations are what British call a shambles and pretty much everybody agrees on that. And so that is what they want but it is not likely that Theresa May is going to go for this because it is the last thing she wants to do. She has so much trouble politically in her party and beyond she certainly does not want to take this back to the people.  There is no going back is what you are saying.  No I really - it is very unlikely at this point Steve.  Frank thanks so much. Really appreciate it.  Happy to do it Steve.  That is NPR's Frank Langfitt speaking with us from London. 