 It is PR News. Good morning. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am David Greene. There are some sure signs that a presidential election is fast approaching Get out the vote rallies take on a new urgency and the really big names show up. That was all on display yesterday in Parma Ohio where Bill Clinton and Bruce Springsteen were the co-headliners. NPR's Don Gonyea was there.  The setting was a field house at a community college. The crowd of 3000 erupted when President Clinton appeared first beaming and saying he would had a lot of jobs in his day.   But this is the first time in my life I ever got to be the warm-up act for Bruce Springsteen.  This is northeast Ohio a Democratic stronghold a place where a big turnout is critical for Mr. Obama. The former president said Ohio is coming back. He highlighted the rescue of GM and Chrysler.   I love Ohio. It is an old-school place. We like our families. We like our communities. We value personal loyalty. When you were down you were out and your whole economy was threatened the president had your back. You have got to have his back now.  The warm-up act eventually yielded the stage.   The incomparable Bruce Springsteen. Let us hear it for him.  The two embraced. Springsteen laughed.   Yeah I get to speak after President Clinton. It is like I am going on after Elvis here.  Springsteen played solo with acoustic guitar and harmonica.    No retreat baby no surrender.  And he unveiled what he called a campaign song reject.    Kissed your sister then I kissed your momma.  Forward.   Usually this time of day I am in my pajamas.  Forward.   Let us vote for the man who got Osama.  Forward.   Forward and away we go. It is not so bad.  More seriously though Springsteen looked back at election night four years ago.   And I am here today because I have lived long enough to know that despite those galvanizing moment in history the future is rarely a tide rushing in. It is often a slow march inch by inch day after long day. And I believe we are in the midst of those long days right now. And I am here because I believe President Obama feels those days in his bones for all 100 percent of us.  And he said voting matters.    Well the dogs on Main Street howl because they understand if I can take one moment into my hands. Mister I as not a boy no I am a man. And I believe in a promised land. And I believe...  As the crowd filed out they were encouraged to sign up to volunteer. Marleis Gibson says she is a 54-year-old Democrat realtor and bus driver.  You know when I saw Clinton speak at the convention I went right to my local place and volunteered and went and got my sign and whatnot. So yeah. And I think it galvanizes you to you know drive people to - if they need help to get to vote on voting day.  She said this event makes her want to do more. Springsteen and Clinton split up after Parma. The former president headed to Wintersville Ohio Springsteen to Ames Iowa.    Oh oh come take my hand. We are riding down tonight to case the promised land. Oh oh Thunder Road oh Thunder Road Thunder Road.  Don Gonyea NPR News Parma Ohio. 