 We have heard a lot of debate about masks in schools from grown-ups. The debate has gotten pretty contentious and at times pretty ugly. But we have not really heard a lot from the actual students. Elementary school teacher Katie Wright  in Montana decided to ask her class of 6-to-9-year-olds how they felt. NPR producer Lauren Migaki has this postcard.  So class I would just like to know how do you feel about wearing masks? Do you know why we wear them?  COVID.  Do you know...  COVID.  ...How they work?  COVID.  Raise your hands so we can just have one person at a time.  It makes me feel cool because it makes me feel like I am in a different dimension with no breathing.  Basically it just feels like COVID's happening.  For me it feels sort of hard to breathe sometimes. But I know it is protecting us from delta ind of roll with it.  It suffocates me but I still wear it.  What I do not like about wearing masks is that I have a pair of glasses. They do get fogged up and so I can see the fog.  I do not really like masks because sometimes they can make you itch. Also if you do not have the right size it can make your ears hurt.  I know it protects you because it is supposed to so you do not get sick. I do not want to get my parents sick or any of my brothers.  Right now I do not get like wearing masks. My mom and my brother both had ust know that it is very bad for me to get. That is why I wear my masks. My mask feels good. But when I wear it COVID does not get in.  Masks kind of suck because they kind of do not let you breathe that much fresh air in. My dad does not believe in does not wear masks.  I do not like masks because they make it so you cannot see the faces when you smile at each other.  But going to school I think is - I would wear a mask the whole day if I got to go to school.  I wear a mask so much I just forget it is on after a while. But it does make your face kind of hot.  I have to say I am really impressed. I did not really know how much you guys did not like wearing them because you do not complain. You guys just wear them. So thank you for sharing how you feel about it and thank you for doing it even though you feel that way about it. I am impressed with your maturity about that.  That was teacher Katie Wright. For privacy purposes we are not using her students' names.  