 Like many people who came of age before the Internet Homer and Marge Simpson needed time to adapt.    Ever heard of a little thing called the Internet?   Internet aye?   Oh yeah everybody's making money off the Internet except us.  That was then. This is now.  Now the Simpsons are making money off the Internet with a new website and an app featuring every episode of The Simpsons ever made. You too can watch the episode where Homer says operator get me the number for 9-1-1.   The site is called Simpsons World. It is one of many sites transforming the TV rerun. Here's NPR TV critic Eric Deggans.  For fans of great TV comedy it is been a call to action for more than 25 years.   Even Homer Simpson had a tough time designing a great website.    Here it is everybody. The world's greatest website. You would think all the noises would be annoying but they are not.  Fortunately FX Networks did a bit better when they built a website and app designed to show off all 552 episodes of The Simpsons. Simpsons World allows viewers with a cable subscription to access every episode watch special playlists look up the popularity of each episode and more. Next year more features are coming including social media sharing and the ability to create your own playlist. Chuck Saftler is chief operating officer for FX. He says the company dreamed up Simpsons World as they were buying rights to the show for their new cable channel called FXX.  We realized that we were in a very changing time in terms of how television is consumed and in terms of how entertainment as a whole is consumed.  Saftler says FX wanted to satisfy two kinds of viewers old-fashioned TV fans watching the show on cable and people who watch shows on whatever device is available.  I do believe that there are going be a number of viewers that still want to have episodes you know served up live and have that leaned back decompressed experience. But I also believe that there are viewers that want to have that lean forward you know where they curate their own experience.  But now that viewers can curate their own TV playlists online why would not most people watch exactly what they want exactly when they want to watch it? Saftler says there is a simple answer.  Choice is good but too much choice is paralyzing. And if you go there not knowing what you are looking for it can be paralyzing. It can be too many choices. If you go there knowing exactly what you are looking for there is no better way to find content.  It is an interesting paradox. Even in today's on-demand media culture viewers still sometimes want the option of watching what someone else has chosen for them. And The Simpsons is not the only show giving viewers this kind of choice.    I am going down to South Park going to have myself a time.  Earlier this year the creators of South Park cut a deal with Hulu worth a reported 80 million. They sold streaming rights to all 240 plus episodes of the show for the Hulu Plus subscription site. Fans can also visit southparkstudios.com to see episodes read a wiki and blogs and create an avatar themselves in the South Park animation style. Hulu also recently announced plans to add episodes of Viacom-owned series like Ren  Stimpy and The Daily Show. These shows will help build an audience for Hulu that is independent from cable TV or broadcasters or even television sets. This is quite a long way from where TV reruns started.   Leave it to Beaver.  Years ago reruns of shows like Leave It To Beaver were almost appointment viewing on TV stations. Then cable channels began using reruns to build their identity.   TNT aired Law  Order reruns to brand itself as a home for TV drama long before developing its original shows. Now reruns provide the same service for online platforms like Netflix Hulu and Simpsons World. It is another interesting paradox as viewers' love for old shows and new technology come together to shape TV's future. I am Eric Deggans. 