 EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt wants to clean up Superfund sites faster. After a dozen of them flooded from Hurricane Harvey he toured one site and vowed a quote permanent solution soon. Across the country there are more than a thousand Superfund sites on a national priority list. Joe Wertz of StateImpact Oklahoma visits one of many where cleanup has dragged on for decades.  Enormous moon-colored dunes of mining waste line the horizon in the spot where Kansas Missouri and Oklahoma meet. This is where half of the lead and zinc the military used for bullets in World War I was produced. Production stopped by the 1970s but left behind 300 miles of caverns dangerous dust and toxic red water that now bubbles into a critical watershed.   You can see to our right a lot of source material that is been pushed up.  Craig Kreman is with the Quapaw Tribe which manages the cleanup effort. He points to a passing truck filled with the mining waste called chat.  We have get 10 trucks so let us say 180 truckloads a day. And we are averaging almost 3000 tons a day of chat to the repository.  Tar Creek became one of the first sites added to EPA's Superfund list in 1983. Blood tests later showed elevated levels of lead in local children. Hundreds of residents took buyouts leaving a ghost town with streets and driveways that lead to weeds. This is exactly the kind of place EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt says should be a priority.   When you look at the roughly 1330 Superfund sites across the country there are many that have been on that national priority list for decades.  But President Trump's budget would slash funding for the Superfund program by nearly one third. In testimony before a U.S. House subcommittee Pruitt was asked how the agency could clean up sites faster with less money.   It is more about decision-making leadership and management than about money presently.  To go out there and say I am going to clean up these sites and do a better job but oh I want to cut the program by 30 percent - it is hard to figure out how those things work together.  That is Kate Probst an independent consultant who has studied the Superfund program for 20 years. She says lack of money is already a problem. Superfund was initially paid for by taxes on crude oil chemicals and corporations. Those taxes expired in 1995. Most of the money now comes from taxpayers. But that congressional funding has declined for nearly two decades during Republican and Democratic administrations.  You know they do not have the money to clean up an average Superfund site in most states. You know they just do not have 25 million.  A new report from the EPA's inspector general suggests understaffing during the Obama administration slowed Superfund cleanups across the country. Probst says Superfund sites would benefit from clearing bureaucratic red tape. Senior EPA adviser Albert Kelly says that is a goal.  Really move to the sites quicker find out what the impediments that we have that have been over time kind of ingrained into the process - and then find ways to say let us get out there and let us get these cleanups done.  The EPA is also creating a top 10 list of Superfund sites that need aggressive help. Agency officials recently toured Tar Creek giving Craig Kremen hope.  You know if there is indeed a top 10 list Tar Creek should be there and you know prioritizing potential dollars and efforts towards getting this cleaned up.  Even with the extra help Kreman says this drawn-out expensive cleanup will likely take decades longer and cost hundreds of millions more. For NPR News I am Joe Wertz in Oklahoma City. 