 When author Stephen King was on the program he said he wants to grab you by the lapels and transfix you so you do not want to cook dinner - or do anything else but read. In time for Halloween there is a new movie version of King's novel Carrie about a shy misfit teenager. NPR's Elizabeth Blair says she could never take her attention off Carrie's mom.  Carrie scared the bejesus out of me when I was a teenager. But it was her mother Margaret White who made my heart stop.   It still gives me shivers. To understand Margaret White let us dissect this one scene. Carrie is getting ready to go to the prom. She is dressed in a low-cut gown. Her mother's reaction? Utter disgust.   What about dirty pillows?  Oh it is such a great line is not it?  Kimberly Peirce is the director of the new movie version of Carrie.  They are all gonna see your dirty pillows. Everyone will.  For Margaret White breasts are on the bodily path to what she says is the first sin.  She is terrified of sex and terrified of sin and yet she took great pleasure in having sex at some point.  And since her daughter is the result Carrie is condemned to eternal punishment.   This is why I never got confirmed. In the 1976 movie actor Piper Laurie played Margaret White. When she first read the script for Carrie she thought it was a send-up.  I laughed so much during the whole making of this movie - I cannot tell you - at how preposterous I was.  Yeah. Well it still scares me watching that lamb-like Carrie plead with her mother to let her go to the prom.   Piper Laurie says today she sees that original film as a lyrical black comedy. In the novel Carrie Stephen King describes Margaret White as wearing her hair pulled back in a bun. But Julianne Moore who plays her in the new movie wears her hair long as Piper Laurie did in the original. Kimberly Peirce.  Julianne called me up very early on and she said I just want to let you know I am gonna go gray. She thought that that was what Margaret would do. She did not want it to be over-sexual. She did not want it to be showy for the world but that that was what she would do with her hair because Julianne did not think she would spend any time on her hair.  No vanity.  No vanity.   Carrie's mother is a wild over-the-top fictional invention but director Kimberly Peirce still thinks there is a grain of truth to her.  I think all parents and all children - they are not going to fight to the death with knives. But I do think that there is the child being unrecognizable to the parent at times. I think the parent desperately wanting to protect the child and love the child and that struggle for the child to individuate and grow up - and I think that is what you know Carrie and Margaret struggle with.   And Margaret's right. That is the other thing - as I go through the movie over and over. Everything she says is right. She is like they are gonna laugh at you. She is right. She is like you should not go to prom. You have superpowers. She is right.  Spoiler alert It does not end well. Obviously Stephen King's Mommie Dearest - with a Bible and a butcher knife - is not right about everything. Elizabeth Blair NPR News. 