 I talked with Dr. Sanjay Gupta recently. He is CNN's chief medical correspondent and he is got a new book out about the pandemic. I asked him to characterize where we are at right now in this crisis and this is what he said.  If I were to think of the country as my own patient I think you know the patient is still in intensive care.  Gupta talked with the country's top public health experts for his book including White House adviser Dr. Anthony Fauci and former head of the CDC Robert Redfield. He came away from all his research convinced that it just did not have to be this bad.  In the beginning the idea that a pathogen would come and indiscriminately sort of affect the wealthiest countries in the world more so than other countries I do not think that really crossed anyone's mind. And it was a bit shocking in retrospect to sort of hear the thoughts on that. We will be OK was sort of I think the idea from a lot of people. It is the United States. And then there was this idea that we are going to swing for the home-run sort of hit or the knockout punch. And everything's going to be on the vaccine we do not really need to lean in as much to the basic public health measures. That is not something we need to do. So I think there was all these things.  Thus all the confusion about messaging on masks - do they really work and do we really need to social distance - that kind of stuff.  You know with masks for example I think when the evidence became really clear this was a virus that could spread robustly even if someone did not have any symptoms that was a real novel thing. I think a respiratory pathogen that spreads predominantly through people who do not have symptoms that was really really surprising and even shocking. But it also made masks mandatory.  The development ultimately of the vaccine was just a monumental achievement obviously. But I had not heard the anecdote you have in the book about Dr. Fauci finding out and how emotional it was for him. And that really did underscore how significant it was to turn this vaccine around so quickly.  Dr. Fauci - his life's work has really been HIVAIDS - 40 years. We do not have a vaccine for HIVAIDS. People look at this and they say well it is great. We got a vaccine within a year. You know that is just the way it is. Forty years he is been working on a vaccine for HIVAIDS. We still do not have one. So the idea that we would have one at all was not preordained for him. The idea that we would have one within a year - I think it boggled his mind.  Yet here we are.  Here we are.  The U.S. has the lowest vaccination rates of any of the G-7 countries. How does that change?  Vaccine hesitancy is not a new thing. I immersed myself in this so deeply. I went down all the rabbit holes. I started talking to people who had worked on vaccines for smallpox. I said you know what is historically - like what are we dealing with here? I think it is more common in wealthy countries. On one hand they want the vaccine because it is that home run hit. On the other hand they are very suspicious of it. There are some people who are just frightened of new things or some people who point to the really terrible history with regard to experimentation with medical therapeutics like Tuskegee. There is other people who just think look I am healthy. I do not really need this. So there is all these different reasons. And when you boil it all down about 15 to 20 of the population will fall into this category and they will die on this hill. And I do not mean die. I am not trying to be pejorative. I mean this is their issue.  Dr. Redfield told you this virus is with us probably for as long as this nation's a nation. So what does that mean for how we live our lives?  It is a tough way to look at things I realize. But ultimately what I have learned - having covered not just this outbreak but other outbreaks even pandemics and traveled to places around the world - is that it is the hospitalizations probably more than any other metric that make the biggest difference in how much attention we are paying to this. Hospitals are overwhelmed in many places around the country. That affects everybody. Sixty-six percent of our ICU patients are COVID patients. Ninety-five percent of those COVID patients are unvaccinated. So it feels very very preventable. But my point is that I think once the hospitalizations rates go down - and they are going down now. I mean we are starting to trend downward. That is why I am guardedly optimistic. Once they go down to a point where we are not feeling the impact on society as much I think we live with this. We dance with this. We will have outbreaks that occur from time to time. But through vaccinated immunity and through natural immunity it will have a lot less of an impact at some point.  But in the book you really drive home the point that as we try to negotiate what our lives look like living with COVID-19 in some iteration the odds are the same of another pandemic happening today as they were in the fall of 2019 before COVID. So we have to constantly be negotiating the current pandemic while preparing for the next one which is still as likely to happen even though we just went through one.  Absolutely. The two things that sort of struck me as I was interviewing people and they were leading me to this idea of just how likely is this to happen - we used to think of this in 50-year cycles right? 1918-1919. 1968-1969. That was 50 years later. Fifty years after that - oh wait 2019. Fifty-year cycles. But when you start to really look at what is happening with these emerging pathogens these viruses that are constantly jumping from animals to humans you realize those jumps are happening much more frequently. But what I would say is that emerging pathogens I think are inevitable. But the idea that they have to turn into a pandemic is not. I really believe that. From the point of first interaction between a animal and a human the virus hunters that are out there finding these pathogens of concern to the immediate sort of mitigation containing of that virus - to the therapeutics that were developed so rapidly there is so many things that can be done to prevent these emerging pathogens these organisms with which we dance on this planet Earth constantly. But that dance can be a pretty controlled one. It really is not that hard to do when you start to put all these puzzle pieces together.  The book is called World War  Lessons From The COVID-19 Pandemic And How To Prepare For The Next One. Dr. Sanjay Gupta it is been a pleasure. Thank you so much.  Thanks for having me.  