 Fridays we hear from StoryCorps recording conversations between loved ones. Today a woman speaks with her father a veteran who in the late 1950s witnessed the detonation of more than 20 atomic bombs. It happened at a test site in the desert north of Las Vegas known as Operation Plumbbob. It was one of the largest series of nuclear tests ever conducted on U.S. soil.  My name is Joel Healy. I was in the U.S. Army and I witnessed Operation Plumbbob in 1957.   Can you describe what it was like to witness your first nuclear explosion?  Well I was 17 years old and I thought to myself if there is a hell on Earth it is gotta be that. You felt the shock wave of the thing going off and then the heat. And the biggest one that was set off in the desert when I was there was a 74 kiloton almost twice the amount what was used in Hiroshima and Nagasaki.   In one of the explosions I could see the bones in my hands.  When it go off where were you physically?  In some cases we were in a trench. Other times we were just standing up out there.  What were you told about safety?  Do not worry. You will not be in harm's way.   The Army had their own film teams out there to show these are our boys whistlin' Dixie going into a nuclear device.  You are kidding.   They had a motto then Atoms for Peace. And you know I am 17 years old and I buy into it because I am thinking they spent a lot of money training me to be a soldier. They would not intentionally put me in harm's way. And this is 1957. We dropped those bombs on Japan in 1945 so they have known for 12 years. Troops going into battle know that there is a very inherent risk that they may not be coming out unless it is in a black bag. In this instance they never said a word. And they knew it. It is just a disgrace. I do not really like to talk about it. A lot of good men died. That is all I have to say.  Joel Healy speaking with his daughter Kelli Healy Salazar about taking part in the Operation Plumbbob nuclear tests back in 1957. It is hard to determine just how many veterans became ill from being at those tests but Healy and thousands of others have received compensation from the U.S. government as part of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990. This interview will be archived at the Library of Congress. The StoryCorps podcast is at npr.org. 