 It is Friday when we hear from StoryCorps where everyday people tell the stories that have shaped their lives. This project has been going on more than a decade and Americans keep telling astonishing tales like this. In 1997 Darius Clark Monroe was a high school honor student in Houston Texas. He would never been in serious trouble but soon after his 16th birthday he robbed a bank at gunpoint with two of his friends. Many years later he sat down at StoryCorps with David Ned a customer who was in the bank during the robbery.  How did you get to that point where you said I am going to rob a bank?  Well what was happening at my house was that things were not going well in terms of the finances. My parents were working all the time and once they told me that we were in like 25000-30000 of debt I was thinking how am I going to help 'ecause nobody else is going to come save the day. And so one day on TV there was this guy who had robbed this bank and I was struck by how easy it seemed.  Did you really think you were going to get away with this?  I literally thought no one would ever find out. It took almost four weeks before I was arrested and then sent to prison.  How many years they was given you?  Five.  Five years?  Mmhm. When I got out I wanted to apologize to the people who were inside the bank. And when I spoke to you it was the first time I got to truly understand the seriousness of what I did.  When you came into the bank you made us all lie on the floor. Can you imagine laying on the floor and all you hear is that shotgun?  Clak-clak. Everything in me was shaking and I kept saying to myself it is over. I used to think I was not scared of nothing. They used to call me Brave Dave. I figured if anybody tried to rob me I would say well they are going to have to take my life to get my money. I done worked too hard for it. So that was hard for me because I had to come to grips with that. One thing that helped me when you came by and asked me to forgive you years later I thought about my son. He could have been put in jail because he is been through some stuff. But should he ever turn his life around I would like that somebody he may have taken advantage of would give him a second chance.  It has been incredible to be given a second third or fourth shot and having you be a part. It has given me hope.  I am really proud of you and I do not know if you have got a good relationship with your dad but if you do not he is the one that missed out on a great son. And I am here to do whatever it is I need to do seventeen years later to help you be a great young man.  That is David Ned with Darius Clark Monroe at StoryCorps. They became acquainted while Darius was a film student making the documentary Evolution Of A Criminal. This interview like all StoryCorps recordings will be archived at the America Folklife Center at the Library of Congress and you can get the StoryCorps podcast on iTunes or at npr.org. 