 Ever since Diana Kennedy released the book The Cuisines of Mexico in 1972 she is been considered one of the leading experts on authentic Mexican cooking. Kennedy is originally from Britain. She moved to Mexico in 1957. She spent decades crisscrossing the country in search of recipes and new dishes and the perfect tamale. In the past her books have focused on regional cuisines across Mexico. Her new book dives into the cooking of just one state Oaxaca. NPR's Jason Beaubien caught up with Kennedy in her home in western Mexican.  Diana Kennedy's house is at the end of a dirt road that is only passable in a pickup truck or a four-wheel drive. This part of Mexico is quite lush at this time of year. Recent heavy rains have made her rambling gardens feel like a swath of jungle. On her seven acres she has fruit trees - apricots oranges figs. There is an overgrown corn patch. In raised beds she is growing vegetables. Other plants that are scattered about like weeds are actually herbs. Vines crawl from one tree to another.  This chayote I brought from Siere de Puebla. And you eat the vines as well as the chayotes.  Chayotes are pear-shaped vegetables that taste a bit like zucchini.  The local ones here - the ones that grow like wild over the trees - have spines on them and it is a less compact flesh.  Kennedy's is a cook's garden. It is a repository for key ingredients for recipes from various parts of Mexico.  This is edible and it is use with beans in Veracruz - part of Veracruz.  In the greenhouse attached to her house she proudly declares that the only plants you cannot eat are two orchids. The glass structure currently is overrun with chilies red sweet ones and bright orange habaeros ready to be picked. In her kitchen she is toasting dried chilies in a skillet.  This wonderful aroma comes up as you are doing this.  Kennedy is often referred to as the Julia Child of Mexico an ex- patriot who is come to dominate the national food scene. At 87 years old she is still fit and moves energetically around her kitchen. Traditional clay pots line one wall. Spices and vegetables hang in wicker baskets. The centerpiece of the kitchen is a long cement counter adorned with Mexican tile and topped with built-in gas burners. And if she happens to let you into her kitchen you have to behave yourself.  Now do not go over on the garlic because most people put far too much garlic in Mexican food.  She is cooking a simple recipe of beans with yerba santa that comes from the western highlands of Oaxaca.  Not those big elephant garlics you get in the States - just drives me mad. I do not want to crush them down either. I do not like crushing it crushing it on the board and leaving all the flavor on the board.  Kennedy is a stickler for authenticity. She is not just cooking to create a meal. She is cooking to preserve to document dishes from remote parts of Mexico that are usually made entirely with local ingredients. She is crushing some wild oregano and cumin seeds in a stone molcajete.  Wonderful flavors come out of these as you know. Do not ever overdo the cumin. We are not in the north where the cumin is more predominant.  Her new book is called Oaxaca al Gusto. It is a cookbook with recipes but it is not a conventional cookbook. At almost seven pounds it could also be a coffee table book or a text book or a travel log in which this southern Mexican state is viewed through its food. Kennedy divides the book up not by recipes but by geography and she dives into the varied cuisines of this diverse state. She says this is what makes Oaxaca special.  Because of all these cultural differences and because of all these microclimates where you have got all these different ingredients that are used.  And she follows the local recipes religiously using the chilies and other spices that are from that area. She is a food anthropologist. In her section on the Amuzgos an indigenous group from the Pacific coastal region of Oaxaca she writes Tamales too play an important role in their diet. They are filled with iguana armadillo goat shrimp mushrooms beans pumpkins and even the black grubs known as cuetlas.  Now we can turn this over.  The book even has a recipe for iguana in a mole sauce. Kennedy says she can already hear her critics in the U.S.  Okay so they are going to say there are a lot of wild recipes that nobody can do in this book. But a lot of recipes you can do. And I want to say how many recipes do you do in any cookbook. I swear you do not do half of them.  One that many people north of the border may skip is her recipe for a wedding stew from the isthmus in which you cut up a whole ox and boil for hours. But there are many simple recipes in this book like the beans she is cooking. The chilies garlic cumin and oregano are blended with a bit of water in an old electric blender.  In this - the bean pot.   I am going to now - here's the beans. You see all soupy beans. And you want them when you cook them you do want some - leave all that broth in it because the flavor is in the broth...  She adds the spices into lard that is sizzling in an unglazed earthen pot. Eventually she will put the pre-cooked beans in too and let simmer. Right before serving she adds rough chunks of fresh yerba santa leaves to the mix. The yerba santa gives a slight flavor of anise to the beans.  It will go in just like this.  She serves the beans in fresh homemade tortillas with a bit of cheese crumpled on top. The chilies play off against the mild licorice taste of the yerba santa. Kennedy's new book is beautifully illustrated with luscious photos of raw ingredients cooked meals overflowing markets and sweeping landscapes of Oaxaca. Her deep expertise is also the one downside of this book. The index is arranged geographically making it hard to find a recipe unless you already know what part of the state it comes from. She also leaves out recipes for such staples as masa the ubiquitous tortilla dough that is required in many recipes. But she makes up for these short comings by providing insight into the culture and history that accompany these meals. In the end Kennedy delivers a collection of authentic unusual recipes from one of the culinary hotspots of Mexico. Jason Beaubien NPR News.   And you can try Diana Kennedy's recipes for yourself. Just go to our Web site NPR.org. You can follow this program on Facebook and on Twitter. On Twitter we are morningedition and nprinskeep. It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep. 