 NPR's Anne Garrels reports.  With one of every seven residents in Togliatti working at AvtoVAZ just about every family depends on the factory. As sales have plummeted production has been cut in half along with the work week and salaries.  .  Thirty eight-year-old metal worker Vladimir Potamashnev now earns only 250 a month - not enough he says to feed and clothe his family. He blames Prime Minister Putin for focusing on oil and gas at the expense of Russian manufacturing.  I once believed in Putin and Medvedev but no longer. We sit on oil and gas and they think that is just fine.  The overall global economic crisis laid bare long-standing problems at the plant which produces outdated models which cannot compete with foreign imports. In one of Togliatti's many car showrooms salesman Alexander Koblov says the plant needs to improve quality.   All too often the doors do not close correctly and the plastic is poor and of course we need new designs.  Sergei Tselikov a leading industry analyst says Putin approved new management in AvtoVAZ four years ago but Tselikov says it is failed to come up with a long- term strategy to save either the plant or the city.   Management is not from the automobile industry and there continues to be a huge turnover at the top. They are lurching month to month with no real plans for the future.  Once the pride of the Soviet Union Togliatti is now shabby. Piotr Zolotariov head of the local independent trade union anticipates the situation will only get worse.   The local government does not have taxes to repair roads or fix the lights. There are problems with the water supply. The infrastructure is wearing out. We see much more crime more drugs than ever before. The best and the brightest who could save the city are fleeing.  Analyst Tselikov estimates that for every job lost at the plant another will be lost in town bringing the total new unemployed to as many as 70000. Officials hope public service jobs like street cleaning can cover some of these numbers but most people do not see how the city can cope with this unprecedented crisis. Victoria Melnikov works at a clothing store.   Everyone is already feeling the effects of the pay cuts. And now everyone is wondering if they will have a job. My parents work at AvtoVAZ. If they lose their jobs what will they live on? Nobody knows what is going on.  Anatoly Ivanov a member of the city council says the situation is potentially explosive.   Will there be strikes? Will there be violence? Will workers close the main highways like they did in Pikalyovo last summer? It is very possible it could reach that point and then the security services are poised to stop this.  Management has yet to announce which workers will be let go only saying the first to be cut would be those who are at or near pension age 55 for women 60 for men. Nikolai Chubenko moved here to build the plant in 1968. Now 60 he has no idea how he and his family will survive if he is among those cut.   Some Russian economists say the crisis is over but we see it is just beginning. Everyone is just waiting.  Anne Garrels NPR News Togliatti. 