 And some businesses here in the U.S. are struggling with the ripple effects of the European debt crisis. NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports that is especially true for businesses with ties to Greece.  The Prima Foods warehouse is sparsely decorated in Greek blue and white. It stocks olive oil from Crete by the drum feta by the brick and Kalamata olives by the barrel. The importer sits across the street from shipping containers that come into the port city of Baltimore. Prima's president is Kosta Bouyoukas. Hello.  How are you?  Hey. Good.  Nice to meet you.  Bouyoukas looks like a Greek character from the movies. He is sturdy he wears a gold chain and when clients show up to pick up boxes of frozen spanakopita he greets them with a mix of Greek and English.   Thank you thank you very much.  The office he inhabits is filled with photos and posters that suggest fierce loyalty to family and heritage. Behind the small retail store in the front there is a 4600-square-foot warehouse.  Here we have juices from Greece. Like apricot and peach. Like this is pasta. It is orzo...  Prima mostly serves Italian and Greek restaurants. Normally it receives 50000-pound shipments every other week. Nowadays that is less reliable.  The Greek government right now it is a mess. We place order - usually it takes 19 days to get here and now it takes about 40 days because they have strikes on the ports they have all these things happening every day.  In addition to this Prima Foods is getting squeezed by the exchange rate. Its suppliers especially in Greece are changing the terms of contracts.  Instead 60 days they want to get paid in 35 or 40 days now.  And you are OK with that?  I do not have a problem.  But then you get mad when they do not ship it?  I get mad because I depend on those products.  Shipping though it is less reliable also costs more as fuel prices rise. This gets passed along to customers whose gripes fall back on Bouyoukas. Bouyoukas says it is stressful seeing his business buffeted by the eurozone's problems.  We do not think two years down the road anymore it is just what happens today next week a month from now you know that is how it is. Because we do not have no control over what happens in Greece.  It is not just that importers like Bouyoukas have struggled U.S.-based exporters also face problems. Sharon Doherty is president and CEO of Vellus a small business in Columbus Ohio that manufactures and exports shampoos for show dogs. Doherty has distributors she ships to in dozens of countries including Japan Singapore and around Europe. She expected to start with her first Greek distributor last year.  And she was so excited. I mean I received so many emails from her telephone calls we were going to order her banners. And it was going so good. It is like it just happened all of a sudden.  What happened was Greek's debt became unsustainable. It requested a bailout from the rest of Europe and the chaos led the distributor to cancel the deal. That was not all. The currency fluctuations prompted other European buyers to start buying in smaller quantities.  I mean to be honest with you I was worried about it. I did not know how it was going to go. When they are hurting you are hurting. So you need to find out what you can do to help them.  She is offered discounts which have helped her sales recover. She is now following the news and hoping for the best because what is good for Europe is also good for her. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 