 This week Congress dedicates a bust of Winston Churchill in Statuary Hall at the U.S. Capitol. It is meant to honor the British statesman's legacy of determination and resolve. He is the man who as he became prime minister during World War II flatly told his country I have nothing to offer but blood toil tears and sweat. Churchill's view of the United States as well as his wit are summed up in an oft-quoted line that Maine Senator Angus King used during the recent Congressional debt ceiling debate.   American politicians have gotten a lot of mileage out of that line - maybe too much as NPR's Scott Horsley reports.  There are whole volumes dedicated to the famous sayings of Winston Churchill.  But it is that backhanded compliment to America that is especially popular on this side of the Atlantic.   Representatives Paul Ryan Tom Cole and Jaime Herrera Beutler are just a few of the many American lawmakers who have borrowed that line to add gravitas and a bit of humor to their speeches. Virginia Senator Mark Warner often turns to Churchill to provide a light-hearted conclusion to an otherwise gloomy message about the U.S. debt burden.   Warner used the line so often his staff decided to put it on a plaque or some other memento. But when they went to research the origins of the line they came up empty despite blood toil tears and sweat.  I wish I could substantiate it that he said it. But so far I cannot.  That is Richard Langworth editor of the journal Finest Hour published by Winston Churchill.org. Langworth has combed through millions of words written by and about Churchill and he found no evidence the former prime minister ever said that about America. Langworth says that is not unusual. Like Mark Twain or Yogi Berra Churchill did not say half the things he is supposed to have said including the famous comeback to Lady Astor who supposedly told Churchill if they were married she would put poison in his coffee.  And Churchill supposedly responds to Lady Astor If I were married to you I would drink it. But that turned out to be F.E. Smith Lord Birkenhead Churchill's very very dear friend who was much faster off-the-cuff than he was. But because Birkenhead is forgotten it is been ascribed to Churchill.  Nigel Rees the host of a long-running BBC quiz show Quote...Unquote found so many examples of this oratorical identity theft he coined a phrase for it Churchillian Drift.  What I meant by that was people if they do not know who came up with a remark originally or if they cannot be bothered to look it up they automatically ascribe the quotation to somebody who likely said it. And obviously Winston Churchill is a very quotable person. He did say some marvelous things in a very special way.  Rees says thanks to the Internet it is easier these days to check the validity of famous quotations. But it is also gotten easier to spread misinformation.  If but one person puts on the Internet that Sir Churchill said something well then it gets repeated by about 200 other people.  When Senator Warner's staff informed him that Churchill never uttered those words about America reliably doing the right thing eventually he was only a little bit sheepish.  If Churchill did not say it he should have.  That is because Warner says the line reflects an underlying optimism in the way Americans see ourselves.  Sometimes it takes us stumbling around a little bit but we ultimately get to the right place. And Lord knows we have done an awful lot of stumbling around in the last few years.  So even if this particular line was not Churchill's finest hour do not expect American politicians to stop quoting it. They will quote him on the beaches. They will quote him in the streets. And they will never never never never never give in. Scott Horsley NPR News Washington. 