 We have a new installment this morning from The Race Card Project. People offer a story in six words and those six words are often just the start of the conversation.  My name is Jesse Dukes. I am from Charlottesville Virginia and my six words are must we forget our Confederate ancestors.  Must we forget our Confederate ancestors. Those six words came to radio reporter Jesse Dukes after a trip to Gettysburg in Pennsylvania. He was talking with Civil War reenactors for the Virginia Quarterly Review. Dukes does not have Confederate ancestors so far as he knows but most of the reenactors he met say they do. NPR's Michele Norris spoke with Jesse Dukes.  You embedded with a group of Confederate reenactors. You did the Gettysburg reenactment in June of 2013. What is it that you were trying to do not just as a journalist but as a Southerner?  I think - well part of it was I just wanted to see the spectacle of the thing because like this was going to be like the Woodstock of reenacting is what everyone told me. You know this is the 150th anniversary of Gettysburg. Gettysburg's the most famous battle.   What was it like out there on the battlefield?  It was - people were shooting actual guns not loaded but they were making the same sounds. And all the smoke was coming out and it was blue. And you could not see and the smoke stung your eyes. And you could smell the gun powder.   I wanted to sort of understand what they got out of it and I also wanted to do that in an environment where I thought people would be comfortable talking about things like the legacy of slavery and the legacy of Jim Crow and the legacy of racism.  And were they? Did they talk about those things?  Not much  you know.  But you made them talk about that...  Only when I...  ...Because you asked a lot of questions.  Only when I brought it up and people were not super comfortable to talk about it I do not think. But they did and I should say everybody was very kind and everybody was very welcoming. And invariably people would say you know racism was so terrible. It was an abomination and it is so terrible that the Confederate flag was used by the segregationist movement and used by the Klan and that it is associated with lynchings and all these things are awful. But that is not what I am here to connect with you know and...  What were they there to connect with then?  Well for one thing they were there to connect with their ancestors you know and just maybe not run up that exact same hill but a simulacrum of that hill with the same sounds and the same shouts and the same visual stimulus minus the blood and dying. And it still seemed to define who - their identity.  You had a chance to talk to people who suited up not as you did one time but do it you know often every weekend and many times a year. What did they tell you?  I think people tried to distance their ancestors from the guilt associated with slavery and I also think they tried to implicate everybody else in - so pointing out very accurately that slavery the economic system relied on the markets and the textile factories and places like that in the North. So they pointed things out like that.  There is one woman that you spent time with Sara Smith.   I am Sara Smith and I am from Dayton Virginia. I am with the Sixth Virginia Company C.  She is in medicine and she had an interesting story. She said that her family did not own slaves. You described her as someone who every time someone quote took a hit in the reenactment that she wanted to sort of take on her nurse's role. It is what she does in real life ...  Which is not what she is supposed to do . She is supposed to stand there and she actually was holding the flag. And she is supposed to stay there and hold the flag but she kept wanting to put it down and go make sure they were OK.  Sara Smith's great-great-grandfather Henry N. Smith fought in the original battle as a sergeant major for the 25th Virginia. He would have been about 20 at the time and was wounded during the three-day engagement.   He was wounded Gettysburg 763 served later as captain Second Company A 67th Virginia Mountain Infantry.  She sees it as the flag her great-great-grandfather carried up a hill in a desperate attempt to maintain his state's freedom from government interference but she does not think that he was fighting to preserve slavery. And so for her to put that flag on her truck...   They are on the back of my truck you know. I think people need to realize - and I know it is probably overused but it is a history not hate issue.  Well if her great-great-grandfather was a good noble brave person who was wounded and then came home and still lived to be something like 80 and shows so much bravery on the field and he could carry that flag why would it be wrong for her you know to put it on her vehicle?   I think too many people get you know caught up in the symbol. You know for us it does not mean the same thing it means to other people and I think it is an education piece. The flag that they get so upset over was actually not a flag. It was just - you know it was a battle flag you knows. It was what you formed off of to know you were on the right side.  Jesse you talk about something a few times through this piece. It is quite a long piece and you mentioned something a couple times this notion of a willful innocence on the part of the reenactors. Could you explain that?  This kind of logic that says OK I have the right to love my great-great-grandfather and to admire those things in his life that are admirable like bravery like loyalty like accomplishments like survival. And because he must have been a good person then the cause he fought for and the flag that he held must not have been a bad cause. And therefore the symbol of that cause a symbol of that cause the Confederate flag cannot be offensive to people. And so people who are offended by it just do not understand what the Confederate flag really means. That is what I am referring to as willful innocence.  You note that for some people the Confederate flag is an expression of distrust in big government regulations and gun control. It is a part of the state's rights argument. For others it signifies awareness that rural Southerners are too often seen as backward and a defiant assertion of pride in a certain kind of whiteness that is dismissed or diminished. As you write I am a redneck and I am proud of it.  Right.  And you said that there are also some Southerners who are perfectly aware of the racist meanings applied to the flag and they fly that flag proudly anyway.  Yeah and I think if you are not from the South you tend to assume the last of those. You tend to assume that it is a conscious expression of racism and defiance and maybe a little bit of the second too. And it is interesting I remember I used to live in Maine for a few years and I would see the Confederate flag like in rural Maine. And I think it is transcended Southern identity to become kind of rural impoverished identity too. And I think there are poor people in the rural South and North and all over the country who do feel like they are stereotyped and they do not have everything that is due to them. And I think that is a legitimate complaint.  Including respect.  Including respect. I am not sure that waving a Confederate flag is a great way to get that respect back and often it is enacting the stereotype that they are trying to escape. But I do think - I do think it is a legitimate complaint nonetheless.  That is Jesse Dukes talking with NPR's Michele Norris founder of The Race Card Project. Find more at npr.org. 