 Today in Your Health a question some women face. It is when to freeze their eggs if they are concerned about fertility. Egg freezing has become more popular for women - women that is who can afford the price tag of 8000 or more. We are about to hear about a test that is supposed to give women more information about their fertility but it can be ambiguous and some worry it is easily misinterpreted leading some women to feel pressured to freeze their eggs and others to miss their best window to do it. Here's NPR's Eliza Barclay.  I am in Samantha Margolis' kitchen in Washington D.C. where she is getting ready to give herself an injection.  So you mix powder with saline solution and there is - I have five vials tonight of Bravelle and three of Menopur. And you cannot do more than six vials so tonight I have to do two shots.  Inside the vials are hormones. Margolis is injecting them below her belly button every day for 10 days to stimulate her ovaries.  It is more of the air bubbles.  The drugs makes several eggs grow at once instead of just one in a regular monthly cycle. At the end of the 10 days she will have a medical procedure to take out the eggs so they can be frozen.  So I just grab a little bit of the skin and inject myself. And you barely even feel the needle. What you can feel 'ecause I am pressing it in is you can feel the medicine going in. And it is just a teeny teeny tiny sting. It goes in relatively quickly and easily but because the needle's so small it just takes a little bit of time for the medicine to go in. So I am done with that one.  Margolis who is 36 decided to freeze her eggs a few months ago. She was worried she might go through menopause as early as her mother had at 40. But Margolis also decided to do it because of what she found out from a test. Technically it is called an ovarian reserve test. Different fertility centers have different versions of it but most check three different hormones in the blood that typically change a lot in women between age 35 and menopause. There is also an ultrasound that counts the follicles in the ovaries where the eggs grow. All this information is supposed to give doctors a rough picture of a woman's egg supply and Margolis's did not look good. When she asked her doctor whether she should freeze her eggs...  She said to me Samantha I am not an alarmist but I would do this and I would do it as soon as you can. I would not wait.  Two cycles of hormones and 22000 later Margolis got just eight eggs to freeze. Doctors recommend having 15 to 20 eggs for the best chance of making a baby with them later through in vitro fertilization.  I wish that this was at a certain age part of your annual exam. There is no question that if I would have had this test earlier and known what my count was that I would have done this years ago.  Reproductive medicine experts say this test can be useful for women like Margolis. But they worry that many women will be misled by their results.  There are issues with the test the reliability of the test.  That is Samantha Pfeifer. She is an associate professor at Weill Cornell Medical College. She also leads a committee at the American Society for Reproductive Medicine that guides doctors in her field. The problem with the test she says is that it is not precise. It is just a snapshot of one moment in time.  These tests should not tell me how many eggs are left. They can generally give you a sort of a sense of is there a lot of eggs there or there are fewer eggs remaining. They are not really predictive of when someone is going to go through menopause or not be able to achieve a pregnancy.  Some women may have a lot of eggs but few that are viable. And other women may not have many eggs left but can still get pregnant no problem. There is just a lot of uncertainty in measuring egg supply. So Pfeifer says it is way too soon to be offering this test along with your Pap smear.  I think that for some people this testing is very helpful in guiding them in decision-making. But for other people it is certainly - it may not in and of itself really direct them that accurately.  People in the egg freezing business see it differently. Many of them say all women should get the test to be better informed about their fertility.  There is no reason why we should not be doing this test again on an annual basis.  Jay Palumbo is a vice president at Eggbanxx. It is a company that markets egg freezing with parties branded Let us Chill. Palumbo calls herself a fertility matchmaker because she helps women who want to freeze their eggs find doctors who will do it. She says many of the women who call her looking for a doctor have gotten bad news from the test.  The egg freezing population - about 20 percent of them find out they have a fertility issue. And it is interesting to hopefully catch people early on in the process that maybe possibly they are able to avoid some of the heartache later on.  The heartache as the fertility industry sees it is having no eggs or no good-quality eggs left when the time comes to try and get pregnant. Many women though will not get clear information from the test which can make a major life decision like egg freezing more agonizing. You already have to weigh the cost - 8000 to 30000 and the possible side effects of the hormones. And then there is the fact that the success rates of a live birth from frozen eggs are only on average about 40 percent. Joann Galst is a psychologist in New York City who specializes in women's fertility issues. She says the test can be dangerous in other ways. Measuring your fertility can be like a Pandora's box.  This is a really personal field in terms of how people feel about themselves as beings and their future life goals in terms of parenting. It hits them in a very profound deep way to get any information that you know there may be a problem in this area.  That is why every woman getting the test should find a doctor or nurse trained to interpret what is really just a murky picture of fertility. Dr. Samantha Pfeifer says when the tests improve doctors will be able to better guide patients to the right decision.  Ideally we would love to know how can we predict who should freeze their eggs for example or who should try and get pregnant sooner or who should do something sooner because their fertility will decline faster than expected? And if we can say OK these people do not have to freeze their eggs because they should have no difficulty getting pregnant well into their late 30s - well that would be great to know that.  But for now Pfeifer says the test is not there. Eliza Barclay NPR News. 