 Philadelphia is going through an unrelenting surge in gun violence. More than 1800 people have been shot this year and the city is on pace to set a new annual record for homicides. For funeral directors the grim numbers mean more burials. Aaron Moselle from member station WHYY in Philadelphia reports.  Ask Imam Suetwedien Muhammad how he knows Philadelphia is experiencing a historic surge in gun violence and he will give you three chilling answers. First he is officiating far more funerals. Before the pandemic he averaged three services a month he is now doing roughly five services a week. And of those five that you are doing on average each week how many of those would you say are gunshot victims?  Every last one of them.  All of them.  All of them. Every last one of them.  Second the monthly electric bills at the Masjid Muhammad leads have doubled during the pandemic. That is because more families are using the facility for their repasts in part because it is considered safer than inviting people back to the neighborhood where the shooting occurred. But it is perhaps the cleric's final piece of evidence that is most striking. Muhammad says the violence is so unrelenting that he is in the process of buying land from local cemeteries so he knows there will be a Muslim burial plot when he needs one.  Oh we are definitely going to need it. You know we are definitely going to need it. And the other thing is is that it is important to us to try to bury all the Muslims together.  All of it weighs heavily on Muhammad a longtime anti-violence advocate. He says it is particularly hard because many of the funerals he is leading are for teenagers and young adults.  You know I try to give it to God. I try to talk it out with God because it is so disheartening and it is also so lonely.  West Philly funeral director Michael Forrest can relate. He says he does his best not to fixate on what he sees on the job.  I mean I would have PTSD. I could not do it. You go home and you reset.  The work still takes a toll and he says it is more taxing when he is helping a family that is lost a loved one to gun violence.  Emotionally physically the time effort dealing with the families their emotions as they unpack their anger issues the regrets the guilt. And they all come and they put it in my lap. I do not necessarily get blamed for it but sometimes I am the punching bag because I am the one that they can lash out upon because I am sitting there. I am an easy target.  Arranging more funerals for gunshot victims has also made Forrest's business more dangerous. He says there is always the possibility of someone showing up at a church or a cemetery to fire off a few shots particularly if the murder was committed by a member of a rival street group.  Some want revenge. Some want to make a point. Some want to scare the family. There is so many different reasons as to why these things happen.  It is unclear what is driving this current surge in gun violence. Advocates say the pandemic is partially to blame because it is meant more time indoors and online increasing the chances of a social media dispute escalating into a fatal shooting that sets off a cycle of retaliatory violence. Either way Forrest does not think things are going to get better anytime soon.  I think we need to take a page out of the books of old and just learn conflict resolution and just be a little kinder and a little more understanding. With some dialogue you know I do not know some meditation maybe we can get through this.  For NPR News I am Aaron Moselle in Philadelphia.  