 Hurricane Dorian is now looming over the Carolinas but we still do not even know the full extent of the storm's impact on the Bahamas. The death toll there has risen to at least 30 but authorities warn that figure is likely to rise as search and rescue teams manage to gain access to some of the islands. On Abaco and Grand Bahama buildings have been obliterated whole sections remain underwater - all of which makes the rescue and recovery effort dangerous and complicated. Neko Gibson is a founder of BahamasEvac Services. It is his job to help find stranded survivors and bring them to safety. We reached him between search and rescue runs. Mr. Gibson thank you so much for taking the time this morning.  Thank you.  First if I could just ask you to just describe what the effort looks like right now. How many people have you been able to help at this point?  We have been able to transport around 60 people. The priority right now is just to get all of the injured people out. There is still a large number of injured people on the ground that have sustained you know lacerations injuries to legs arms heads you name them. So we are just trying to do what we can to get those people to medical facilities. U.S. Coast Guard has been doing an amazing job helping us out on that end. The problem is we are just trying to coordinate the extraction of all of those people that need to be airlifted out before we focus on efforts going in.  If I can ask more details on the rescue efforts where are you extracting people from? Are you - and how are you finding them?  So the people that we have been coordinating with have you know somehow gotten word out through other patients that have been airlifted giving their locations and their GPS coordinates. And we have just been coordinating that with NEMA U.S. Coast Guard and word of mouth on the ground as to how we can get to these people.  And the kinds of injuries - you said there is a lot of lacerations. Presumably this is from falling debris. What can you say about the injuries you are seeing?  Yes. I mean for the injuries it is all - you know if you think about it from a debris standpoint there is a ton of water moving you know very very quickly. Visibility you know for that water is really reduced. So you know as you can imagine there is a lot of people that got hit and brushed by certain debris and parts. You know people being stuck in their homes things floating around that they cannot physically see. So like I said you know just trying to get a handle on those personnel that really needs to be flown in for medical attention.  What is - if I can ask what is their emotional state?  I mean everybody is up spirit and thankful for first of all life and just the ability to be reunited with their families because you know that was a part of - it is a really traumatic experience. I think they are most grateful to be alive. And I think you know the Bahamian people they are really resilient and you know they are adequate about getting in and rebuilding. But for now it is just you know just being thankful for the life in itself.  Is there a specific story you could share with us someone you met during this someone you were able to help?  One that sticks out in my mind is a mother that lost her own child in the storm that was one of the victims confirmed. And like I said I really cannot say much other than the fact that you know a lot of people lost their lives a lot of people lost their children. And it is tough. It is really tough.  Where are the people staying the people who you are able to help and rescue?  So those people you know other than when they leave the hospitals they have - some of them have families that they stay with. The government is stepping in to assist social services - everybody's doing a great job on that end. So we are just trying to get every other Bahamian to open their doors and just you know do the right thing like right now.  I imagine you have seen hurricanes there before and especially in your line of work. How does this one measure up?  It is a totally different category entirely. I cannot even wrap my mind around the significance and difference right now. I mean literally entire communities obliviated - I mean just gone.  Neko Gibson is the founder of BahamasEvac Services which is helping with search and rescue missions on the islands. Thank you so much for taking a few minutes to talk with us.  Thank you. 