 One of the biggest tourist attractions on the Oregon coast is Haystack Rock. I am looking at pictures now - wow a monolithic rock at the edge of the ocean covered in grass surrounded by tidal pools. But the main thing visitors want to see is the puffins who live there. A volunteer has styled himself as the Puffin Man to help tourists reach their goal. Our intrepid correspondent Kirk Siegler went to a Haystack Rock to meet him.   In a fleece vest clutching binocs  meet Art Broszeit.  Yeah I have just recently been called by the locals the Puffin Man .  He is one of tens of thousands of volunteers that the Park Service relies on every year to conduct wildlife field surveys staff visitors centers and things like this mobile interpretive center on the beach next to a Haystack Rock. We are looking through a pair of high-powered spotting scopes trained on its grassy slopes...  They are up there somewhere.  ...Trying to spot the elusive tufted puffin.  I see them flying. There is one flying there. A lot of times what happens is they come right out of their burrow and they just take flight.  This is about as far south as you will still find the puffins which burrow in and nest on this rock in the summer. They are cute - their black bellies a bright orange bill black and white faces and the yellow tuft which looks like a strand of coiffed blond hair. The males and females grow the tufts during the mating season.  For such a small bird they are pretty tough because they live out 100 miles off the shoreline here. And the young ones you know they will spend the first four years out there.  Art volunteers out here all summer and has met people who have trekked long distances to see these birds.  Everybody wants to come here and see puffins. I have had people that specifically go to Iceland to see puffins and do not see them. And you know and I would have them down here and I try my best to give them a view of a puffin.  There used to be hundreds of puffins nesting on this rock. This summer the official count is 30. One reason - their food source is becoming harder to reach due to climate change.  The puffin's a diving bird. They dive down typically 40 to 60 feet. And so the fish - you know the upper water - the upper parts of the ocean are warming. So the fish go down deeper into colder water and a lot of the birds just cannot reach them.  So you would better come see the tufted puffin while you still can.  Oh I see a bird.  Dude that bird's chilling.  There are plenty of other birds to see too - cormorants black oystercatchers cliff swallows.  Oh there is a bald eagle. There is a bald eagle right there.  Art says Haystack Rock is the eagles' dinner table so most of the other birds take flight.   The eagles the puffins the waves and especially the tide pools beneath Haystack Rock are a hit with kids like Connor Reblkin. Connor is visiting from British Columbia and it is his first time seeing Haystack Rock.  I would like to live up there.  Really?  Yeah. Would not you?  Sure.   Up there - they are the black and white ones that kind of resemble a penguin.  OK.  So right now I am not seeing any puffins but...  Art Broszeit says whether he is out looking for puffins or just answering questions from beachgoers his is a great summer gig.  If I can spark interest in one or two young people you know to enjoy you know the outdoors and looking through binoculars and stuff like that it is a good day for me.  Puffin Man is winding down his summer volunteer stint. Soon he will look for another wild place to enjoy with visitors.  Fantastic.  A family of science engineers.  Kirk Siegler NPR News Cannon Beach Ore.  