 And I am Steve Inskeep in Atlanta Ga. one of the divided states where we are hearing voters in this presidential debate season. We met four of them on the program yesterday. And now three of them have come to our studios at WABE here in Atlanta to talk about last night's debate. Suzanne Menarcine is here a retired airline pilot and businesswoman. Welcome to the program. Good morning.  Thank you Steve.  Thanks for coming by so early. Jon Jackson is here a farmer from Milledgeville Ga. Good morning sir.  Thank you Steve.  And also Tonya Hicks an electrical contractor from the Atlanta area. Welcome to you.  Thank you Steve.  Glad you guys are here. Sorry to say that one more voter Jimmy Arno who we met yesterday unable to make it this morning. Jon Jackson I want to start with you. You said yesterday on the program you support Donald Trump. You wanted a bull in a china shop.  . Absolutely.  Did you get that last night?  He exceeded my expectations 100 percent. He stood up. He did what he had to do. He was poised and he was shooting from the hip when - when he needed to. And he was able to talk about his policies.  Tonya Hicks you told us on the program about your view of Hillary Clinton that you had sympathy for the idea that she had to be a woman in a male-dominated field.  Yes.  How do you think she did last night?  Oh she did great. I loved her facial expression. I mean she allowed him to talk. She really did not interrupt him as much. She wanted him to say everything that he was saying.  OK Suzanne Menarcine I want to ask you - you said with a little hesitation in our interview that - that you felt that Donald Trump was a hateful person. Did he show that last night or did he persuade you that he perhaps is a little different?  No he did not show that he is any different. But you know I thought Hillary stayed on task. She stayed focused.  Well let us listen to an exchange that they actually had - Clinton and Trump - on the economy. Secretary Clinton said that Donald Trump favors tax cuts for the wealthy. Let us listen.   I do not think top-down works in America. I think building the middle class investing in the middle class making college debt-free so more young people can get their education helping people refinance their tax - their debt from college at a lower rate those are the kinds of things that will really boost the economy. Broad-based inclusive growth is what we need in America not more advantages for people at the very top.  Mr. Trump we are talking...  Typical politician - all talk no action sounds good does not work never going to happen. Our country is suffering because people like Secretary Clinton have made such bad decisions in terms of our jobs and in terms of what is going on.  Tonya Hicks you are a business owner an electrical contractor. Did you hear anything in that discussion of the economy last night that related to you directly?  Yes like when he said our country is doing bad because of people like that. No our country is doing bad because of people on Wall Street and people like him that only think about doing good business and not thinking about the people on the other end of that business.  Jon Jackson you are in effect a businessman. You are a farmer. Did you hear anything that related to you directly?  Actually I am a farmer so it is kind of like throwing a free corn out for the hogs to come to slaughter - you know free this free that free this free that. Hey come on here so we corral - so that we can we control your lives.  When she spun out programs that she wanted to do to help the middle class you just heard...  To help - and I look at those as giveaways as free corn. You know and like Trump said you know you cannot have a lot of that. You know we have to be able to take care of ourselves and to create institutions where the entrepreneurial spirit is able to thrive not free this free that. And it is just more to kind of get votes.  So you do not think the bailout was free corn?  The bailout was something that Hillary supported.  Yeah no but I am saying do not you think that...  Absolutely...  ...Trump and his friends they all got free corn? So if they can get some free corn...  No Trump...  ...We can get some free corn too.  Trump did not get free corn.  All right let us move on. I know - I want corn after this. I want to go get some corn on the cob. I just want to mention that we are listening to a special feature on MORNING EDITION called Divided States. And let us listen to just a little bit more of last night's debate. There was a discussion about the fitness and temperament to be commander-in-chief. And here's just a little bit of that. Secretary Clinton questioned whether Donald Trump could be entrusted with nuclear weapons.   So a man who can be provoked by a tweet should not have his fingers anywhere near the nuclear codes as far as I think anyone with any sense about this should be concerned.  That line's getting a little bit old I must say. Listen...  It is a good one though - well describes the problem.  It is not an accurate one at all. It is not an accurate one. So I just want to - she gave a lot of things and just to respond. I agree with her on one thing. The single greatest problem the world has is nuclear armament nuclear weapons not global warming like you think and your president thinks.  Suzanne Menarcine let me bring you back into this discussion. Questions have been raised because he does not have political experience because of his attitude on stage whether Donald Trump is ready for that responsibility to be commander-in-chief. I know that you are a Hillary Clinton supporter but tell me did you see anything last night that reassured you at all?  I was not reassured by Trump at all. I was reassured by Hillary. I felt that she came across as presidential. She came across as calm and composed. And she answered the questions with substance. I think again Trump got into his routine of I am the greatest I have got the greatest plan I have got the best words it is going to be tremendous. And that bothers me.  Jon Jackson as an Army Ranger Army veteran would you be comfortable saluting Commander-in-Chief Donald Trump?  Absolutely. He is presidential. You know he walks into the room and he - the man's respect you know? Most people are frightened and intimidated by those type of things. But as an alpha male and living in an environment where we - you know we shake hands we look each other in the eye that is what we want.  Got a few seconds left. Let me go around this table here and ask each of you what concerns you still have about your candidate. Tonya Hicks you are supporting Hillary Clinton. What very briefly is a concern you still have?  I do not have a concern about Hillary. I feel like she handled herself well last night. It was almost like being in the schoolyard with a bully. I think she did well.  Jon Jackson concerns about Donald Trump? Granting you support him any concerns?  No he is doing excellent just you know keeping the fire up. I do not want him - my concern is that he may you know slow down and I just want him to keep it up yes.  Suzanne Menarcine you get the last word.  I get the last word. I am no longer a reluctant Hillary supporter. I fully and enthusiastically support Hillary today. I was impressed by everything I saw. I still want to see more substance on the plan but overall I am very pleased.  I am wondering if we are learning one of the overall impressions of this debate is not necessarily that a lot of minds were changed but people got a stronger impression of the person they already support or already oppose. And everybody here is nodding. Well Tonya Hicks thanks very much for coming by really appreciate it. Jon Jackson thanks to you. And Suzanne Menarcine thanks to you. I am really glad all of you joined us in the studios of WABE this morning. 