 So other news. Fans of Kate Bush have been waiting for a chance to see her go on tour. They have been waiting in fact for more than a generation since 1979. Now the British singer-songwriter is performing her first live shows in 35 years - all shows in London. And Christopher Werth reports that fans are coming from around the world.  She was the first woman to top the British charts with a self-written song.   The year was 1978. Kate Bush was 19 years old.    Out on the wily windy moors we would roll and fall in green.  Since then she is hit the U.K. Top 40 25 times without touring to support her recordings. And now that she is back on stage eight of her old albums are back on the charts.    It is me your Cathy I have come home.  Kate Bush's impressive vocal range and complex lyrics have earned her a legion of dedicated followers many of whom are traveling great distances to see her.  I am Duncan Reith. I have come from Toronto Canada.  I met Reith and his wife Beth under a glowing marquee outside the Hammersmith Apollo theater in London. All 22 shows here sold out in less than 15 minutes and Reith happened to be among the lucky few to get tickets.  You never thought this was going to happen and the fact that it has means you have got to do whatever it takes to be here.  Reith says the tickets and the trip have set them back roughly 7000 U.S. dollars. But he says the only thing on his mind  the last few days is one of Kate Bush's most popular songs a tune called Running Up That Hill which hit the U.S. Top 40 in 1985.   Everywhere we have gone in London I have just been hearing this drumbeat over and over and over again.    It does not hurt me. Do you want to feel how it feels?  The voice the lyrics - they are intelligent. They are not just the simple rhyming words. There is obviously so much thought and care that goes into everything. It almost paralyzes me.    And if I only could I would make a deal with God and I would get him to swap our places.  There is something wildly passionate yet kind of bashful about a serious Kate Bush fan. Many of those I spoke with like Marie Hansen and Dorte Kalhaute who came all the way from Denmark describe feeling a close intimate connection with the artist.  I just always - like since I was 16 felt like she was really speaking to me personally. I do not know how to explain it but it is a very very intense kind of feeling.  What would you say is your favorite Kate Bush song?  Oh I think it is Breathing.    Outside gets inside through her skin.  It is about what happens if there is atomic war how you cannot breathe because then you die. It is scary.  Kalhaute says every Kate Bush song tells a story. In fact her comeback show titled Before The Dawn is more like musical theater than a rock concert.   Turn your phones off during the performance. Thank you and enjoy the show.  I could not record inside the theater but I can tell you there was a shipwreck a lot of moving stage sets and an entire race of fish people. Kate even turns into a bird at one point. Outside I waited to capture reactions from fans.  I do not think I will ever look at this world the same way again. It was that good.  Becky Ross is from England. She traveled just a few hours to be here. She says she is leaving a bit shell-shocked.  I was laughing. I was crying. She touches each person individually in that audience even though there are thousands of us in a very specific way. And that is the genius of Kate Bush is the fact that she can reach into each person and make them feel like they are the only person in that whole big hall.  So even if Kate Bush never performs in public again these fans at least are happy. For NPR News I am Christopher Werth London.  This is NPR News. 