 Here is one way to view the presidential election - two white men born in the 1940s are contending to lead a diverse nation in the 21st century. As they debate the pandemic police violence and protests - not to mention the supreme court - Black voters hear it all. They are considered a reliable Democratic constituency. But in closely contested states it matters how many show up to vote and whether some take the Republican side. So we have been listening to Black voters in Pittsburgh in the swing state of Pennsylvania.   We got an overview of Pittsburgh from an incline railway. It runs up a steep ridgeline giving a view of skyscrapers downtown. At the observation deck on top we met Tanisha Long.  It never looks the same. The way the sun sets over here like it is a ton of different colors. And it shines off the buildings.  We looked down on a stadium near the spot where three rivers come together.  And you can actually walk across the bridges to get to like the Steeler games and everything like that.  Are you a Steelers fan?  Absolutely. They actually did something really cool where they honored one of the victims of police violence in Pittsburgh Antwon Rose Jr. by wearing his name on the back of their helmets for the first game. It was so beautiful.  This year Long founded a local unofficial chapter of Black Lives Matter. Pittsburgh is a very Democratic city. Although she grew up in the surrounding countryside.  Very very conservative. You just go from seeing Biden signs to Trump signs out of nowhere.  In 2016 those conservative counties delivered a big vote for the president. In 2020 Long wants Democrats to register more voters for her side.  I want outreach. I want to see you in these counties. I want to see you talking to these people. You are going to lose a lot of these voters and counties if you are not showing up which is kind of what happened with Hillary. I just cannot have that happen again. It is really stressing me out.  Joe Biden has campaigned in western Pennsylvania competing against the president who was in Pittsburgh just this week. To hear how the candidates are being received we drove downhill to another Pittsburgh neighborhood. American flags hanging from some of the old Victorian porches.   Turn right onto Jacksonia Street. Then turn left onto Buena Vista Street.  Buena Vista is one of the area's streets named after battles in the war against Mexico. There we sat in a park with this man.  Damon Young. Writer. Pittsburgher. Professional Black person.  .  All right.  That is a joke he adds. He has written a memoir. Its title is tattooed on his biceps - What Does not Kill You Makes You Blacker. Jasiri X a hip-hop artist sat six feet away wearing the logo cap for his company 1Hood Media.  We have a show called This Week In White Supremacy.  Do you ever run out of material for that subject This Week In White Supremacy?  You know we actually might have to do more than once a week.  The men say this is one of the few diverse neighborhoods in Pittsburgh. Most neighborhoods feel segregated.  We are sitting to you in a city that last fall was called the worst place in America for a Black woman to live. This was a study that came out of the mayor's own office that basically said a Black woman could go anywhere else in this country and have a better quality of life.  Wait the same city that is often called one of the most livable cities?  That is the...   That is the joke.  Yeah that is the thing.  Which makes it tricky to persuade people to vote.  It can be a hard sell because if someone says well we have had nothing but Democratic mayors in Pittsburgh. And like well it does not affect me. There is still this violence happening. There is still no jobs. There is still these - you know the schools that are better in the white communities that has not changed with Barack Obama being president or Bill Peduto being mayor. So why should I care?  When the president talks he will say some of the very same things you just said. He will say - and he will - in this state Democratic Party - he will say you have had a Democrat mayor a Democrat governor...  That is the one.  ...It is done nothing for you.   That is some of the truth that he talks. But he also mixes it with falsehood because he also said give us a chance. And we are 200000 deaths later.  Both men say they feel their lives depend on ousting the president. And they will vote for Joe Biden. But Damon Young feels his fate is out of his hands.  We talk about how you know Black women Black voters Latino voters will decide. No white people will decide the election. White people you know voting 60 65 for a person who I hold responsible for the deaths of 200000 Americans. So if he wins again it is not because we were not engaged. It is not because we did not come out. It is because white people came out and ignored the four years of evidence of Donald Trump being a unrepentant racist and misogynist and terrible businessman - I mean just everything you can say about him.  We did find enthusiasm for the Democratic nominee when we drove across the Allegheny River into the Hill District. In this historically Black neighborhood we met Lisa Cunningham in a grocery store parking lot.  I do not go for the BS OK? I listen to my facts the way they are presented.  She talked of her daughter who was sick earlier this year with COVID-19 and her grandkids home from school. She blames the president's management of the pandemic. Are you eager to vote this time?  I am. There is nothing that is going to keep me from it. I am going in there - COVID and all - to cast my vote. I just do not care.  You are going to do it in-person?  I am doing it in-person.  You do not like the mail-in option or the absentee?  I as not taking that chance. I do not want to take that chance. I have my husband. We go hand-in-hand to vote.  Will it be for Biden then?  It will be for Biden. I adore him. I like his slow speech. He is not spitting stuff out of his mouth that do not make sense.  A few parking places away we met Casey Turner . She is 22 and says police bias shaped her life.  At 15 I was put into the county jail for my first time because some stupid down Fifth Avenue was robbing people and I looked like the person who was going around robbing people.  I think I heard you say put in the county jail for the first time.  Yeah.  There was another time?  It was another time.  That experience has not yet translated into voting. She was over 18 by the 2016 election but says she sat it out. The campaign was so intense she says she did not know what to think. And she is been astonished ever since by President Trump.  I was surprised to actually think stuff like that was possible you know because when you are young and you are in school they teach you about presidents. And he is doing  that we have never even seen. I actually grew up wanting to get into politics. And I changed my career course because of him. I did not want nothing to do with that.  There are officials in Pittsburgh who want to engage people like Casey Turner. One of them is Summer Lee. She is a state representative whose district includes several old industrial suburbs.  We do not get a lot of Black women running for office. We do not get a lot of progressive folks running for office in western Pennsylvania.  We talked while sitting in the Civic Square of Braddock Pa. which is part of her district. One of the Pittsburgh area's last steel mills is just down the street. Amid the old brick houses and vacant lots on the slopes running up from the Monongahela River Lee ran for office in 2018.  What we ran on in this area was education and how it is connected to health care and how health care is connected to environment and how your environment is connected to your schools and the way that your kids perform. You know we had a fracking proposal down at the steel mill. And those were the things that really galvanized folks.  She has clashed with the local Democratic Party fought off a primary challenge for reelection this year and differs with her party's presidential candidate. She wants to ban fracking now while Joe Biden prefers to continue it until a later date. She supports Medicare for All which Biden does not. I think I read - do I have this right? - you were a delegate to the national convention.  Yes.  You voted no on the platform.  I did.  Why?  It is not an inclusive platform. I do not believe it is a platform that meets the moment.  How enthusiastically are you able to support then a presidential candidate who is running on a platform that you voted against and who is on the opposite side of you on one of your signature issues?  I mean he is on the opposite side of me on many issues but so are lots of other candidates. If we are fighting for more equitable funding for schools if we are fighting for you know police accountability and an end to police violence if we are fighting for criminal justice reform - whatever it may be you know? - we have an obligation to move us closer to that not farther away. And I think it is very clear what is going to move us farther away.  For Rep. Summer Lee President Trump makes the choice a lot easier than it might otherwise be.   It is not hard to hear the rumble of dissatisfaction along the train tracks in Pittsburgh like the neighborhood where we met Lenny McCallister. It is called Homewood and was once middle class but later declined.  My mother grew up right down this way on - you go down here you will eventually hit Mount Vernon Street.  As we talked on the street a passing driver waved.  Love you boy.  I love you too cous' I will see you later on. That is literally my first cousin.   Just driving by in a Chevy Suburban there.  Told you I was from here. If you doubted me was like well you know Republicans like to say they got street cred because they - just because there you go.   Just saying.  He ran for Congress in 2016 as a Republican and met us while wearing a pinstriped suit with an American flag lapel.  For me it is being a pro-life Catholic born and raised Catholic. It is the value of education and school choice.  Although he did not vote for Trump in 2016 and says he will write in another name this fall.  When Mr. Trump said in 2015 that he never felt that he had to ask God for forgiveness as a Christian he just figured he would fix it himself - as a Christian you understand that you cannot fix everything yourself. When I heard that that was enough for me to take a step away from his candidacy.  Why not vote for Joe Biden?  His 1994 crime bill disproportionately impacted communities such as Homewood-Brushton where literally generations of fathers and mothers spent disproportionate amounts of time in jail.  Lenny McCallister insists Republicans could attract more Black voters like him but do not often embrace diversity. He says he embraces the Black Pittsburghers we met in this story who do not agree with him.  We say we love America. We love America in a sense that we love what we are familiar with. We do not love Damon Young or Summer Lee when they disagree with us. We do not love those type of Americans when they are critical of us. That is when they become our enemy. Damon Young's never going to be my enemy. Summer Lee as a hardcore left-leaning Democrat is never going to be my enemy.  McCallister says he wants the country to see an elevation in tone. He says he is looking for a leader who can embrace unity diversity and strength. 