 Just before Newark Mayor Cory Booker presented the Democratic Party platform this week he slipped on a curb. The mayor of New Jersey's largest city twisted his ankle but did not show it when he stepped onstage.  We taped it up. I swallowed enough drugs to tranquilize an elephant - pun intended. And after the adrenaline of the speech Elma had to remind myself that my ankle was swollen to the size of a baseball because I think I kind of floated off the stage.  When we caught up with Newark's mayor a little later on Charlotte he argued that the country is in fact better off than it was four years ago.  There was real fear all across this country and in fact globally about financial markets that were in free fall about an auto industry that was crashing about job losses that were up to about 750000 a month. And now we see an economy stabilized a financial industry rescued an auto industry rescued. You see frankly that we are on a path to recovery.  Although some of the president's own advisers on Sunday were not too eager to embrace that language at first to say that we are better off.  You know when it comes to language and soundbites I am going to be the first of many surrogates to say that we do not always maybe resonate with the chorus that we should in perfection. But you know surrogates are not facts. Facts are facts. And when you look at the facts of the president's record on everything from education and significantly increasing Pell grants and pathways for people to college when you look at his record on women's health all of these things when it comes to his record show that we are a different America a more secure America a more inclusive America and a recovered America a recovering America from a financial catastrophe.  Mayor Booker I want to mention for those who missed your speech on Tuesday night that you were effectively presenting the Democratic platform. And I want to play a little bit of that speech in which you talk about what the platform contains.   This platform of big and practical ideas sets forth an emboldened pathway towards the historic hope which is driven generation after generation of Americans forward.  Mayor Booker some people will hear that phrase big and practical ideas and may be asking What big and practical ideas? That seems to be one question that a lot of people have is what exactly would President Obama do with a second term that he could practically accomplish other than not be Mitt Romney?  Well this is what excites me because I am much more of a policy guy. I am not a partisan guy. When it comes to our platform and our policy we have got to have a balanced approach towards deficit reduction. We cannot do that in a way that favors some Americans over others and continues a trend in our nation that is very disturbing to me which is savage disparities in wealth. We need to cut and have a balanced deficit reduction plan which the president has presented to Congress 4 trillion of deficit reduction in addition to strategies that will create jobs today - if Congress would act on them. Or you have the Romney-Ryan plan which the only thing I can divine out of that is that they are not only going to do deficit reduction which is critical but they are also going to gut those things that actually produce a return on investment for us and our economy in the long term. So our president says we are going to cut and do responsible budgeting address deficit. But we are also going to make sure we are investing in education we are invested in infrastructure...  Well let me ask you about that. I mean all the things that you lay out do they not basically forecast several more years of massive battles with congressional Republicans and also quite a few contradictions? Because if you are talking about trying to balance a budget that is a trillion dollars per year out of whack and at the same time talking about more investment in education infrastructure and other things are you not going to hit a wall someplace?  Well you know again I can only speak to you as a guy who every year has to balance a budget. And so there are areas that I have had to cut deeply and it is tough for me. We cut our workforce 25 percent. But it did not stop me from making critical investments in the areas that are important to my city. It is the same thing on the national level. When we came out from war and we were a struggling American economy we did not cut education. We did the G.I. Bill. This is a time we need to go on a strict diet. But we also need to make sure that we are exercising America muscle by investing in those things that will make us a stronger country.  One other thing mayor New Jersey Governor Chris Christie had a prominent speech at the Republican Convention. You had a prominent speech at the Democratic Convention. Did you feel at all competitive with him as you prepared your speech?  Not at all. Look the governor and I are I think the smart kind of partisans in the sense that we are putting partisan battles into the proper box. Chris Christie I could write a dissertation on our disagreements. But to the extent that we can find common ground and work together I am going to seize that ground and focus on moving forward not petty partisan battles.  Governor Christie faces a reelection campaign next year. Should they be looking over his shoulder to see if you are coming?  He should look over his shoulder because when I am a candidate and not I am going to be supporting whoever the Democratic candidate is.  By when do you need to decide if they are going to run in practical terms?  You know by early - the early months of 2013. I think the earlier that I decide the better because I really want to see a unified Democratic Party focused on getting New Jersey moving in the way that I think the most New Jerseyans will want to see on a range of issues.  Well Newark Mayor Cori Booker thanks very much. I enjoyed it.  Thank you very much. I appreciate it.   He is at the Democratic Convention in Charlotte a conversation recorded early yesterday before a fight over the Democratic platform. Democrats were criticized for omitting references to God and to Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. After some contention in the afternoon they put those references back in. This is NPR News. 