 Fans of the rock band Phish have a lot to celebrate right now. Five years ago the jam band broke up after more than two decades. Now Phish is back together and back on the road playing sold-out shows across the country. Next week Phish is releasing its first studio album in five years called simply Joy.   Phish is one of rock's most popular touring bands ever with some of music's most zealous fans called Phish-heads. The band's singer and lead guitarist Trey Anastasio and the keyboard player Page McConnell sat down to talk with us about reunion. Trey says it all began on his birthday with a gift a poem from Phish lyricist Tom Marshall. Those words became the first song on the album. A couple of days later his three band mates showed up with a gift of their own. Mr.  An album that they had made for me that was songs that I could overdub onto but more importantly it came in this amazing package that was a triangle that opened up and inside of it was an actual album with album cover art. And they had done a photo for the cover. And it was unbelievable and very very very moving.  Mr.    leave the presence all its time take my hand  Page it almost sounds like you and the other band mates were trying to court Trey - almost the way you would court a love interest to get him back into your life. Mr.  It is much more complicated than that I think because Trey and I had been talking on the phone quite a bit just about our history and our relationship. And that sort of happened over the course of two years leading up to that maybe. It was just a gift. There were no strings attached.  Mr.  When we did our last show before we stopped it was in Coventry.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  And there were 3500 people on the backstage guest list.  This is Coventry Vermont right? Mr.  Yes.  Thirty-five hundred people on the backstage Mr.  There were more people backstage than a lot of bands have at their  Mr.  in the audience.  And the audience itself from what I understand it was tens of thousands of people in mud up to their knees. Mr.  Right.  It was flooding. It was - I mean kind of an epic event.  Mr.  It was - it was an epic event. And it was a little sad. It is - the point that I am making is that it is tiring when all your friends are there. Its fun but it became very unhealthy. Today that is all gone.  And so now you have this new album. And listening to it a lot of the songs do seem to look back. Let us listen to one of them. This is the last track on the album Twenty Years Later.  Mr.   I can hold my breath for a minute or so five days without food is as long as I will go. I did not sleep once for four days and three nights. I once did not stop for seven red lights. I jumped into water that is fifty degrees  There seems to be kind of a wistfulness in this like it sounds like you are saying I made mistakes but those mistakes kind of made me who I am. Mr.  That sounds pretty accurate.   Mr.   Twenty years later I am still upside down. It is a small world but it is turning real fast. We are upside down. It is a new day and the morning has passed  I have heard many of your fans say that you really cannot experience Phish until you have seen the band live. And I am sure many people listening to this have not seen you live and may buy the album but may never see you live. What do you say to the fans who say look you really do not know this band until you have attended a concert? Mr.  This is Trey talking.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  I have to agree with that statement.   Really?  Mr.  Not that I am not trying to you know promote the record  Not that people should not buy the album. Mr.  We absolutely love the record.  Mr.  It is interesting because when we are in the studio making a record I already know that most of the fans are not going to really think that much of it. I do not necessarily have to worry that I am going to please them because what they want is the live show.  Yeah. Mr.  They do not really want this album. So many previous albums we have released have come out and the hardcore fan base does not really embrace it.  Because Phish is so good at playing live they recorded most of the songs on this album live some in just one take. One notable exception is the song Time Turns Elastic clocking in at 13 minutes.  Mr.   In and out of focus time turns elastic  Trey tell me a little bit about the origins of this song and how it is different from the other tracks on the album. Mr.  Well this was written at first as a full orchestral piece for guitar and orchestra. And interestingly it is going to be performed  With the New York Philharmonic. Mr.  New York Philharmonic on September 12th. When we got to the studio our producer said it would not be a Phish album without one of those big epic Phish tunes. And we arranged it with the four of us bit by bit as a Phish tune. We had to kind of go through  Something like 260 takes from what I have read? Mr.  That is what I hear.  Mr.  We liked number 217.   Mr.   Now that the leaves turned to gold the moments all glow frozen and free from time. And out here on my own.  So you guys played together virtually non-stop for 20 years you took five years off. Now you are back together with a new album. What happens next? You just keep going till you are 85?  Mr.  What we have is a second chance here to do this. And it was so successful for those first 22 years or so and then it went away. And if it had not come back that would have been a lot. But then to be all to come back and have a second chance at it and to tweak some of the things that were not exactly right Mr.  We are aware of how rare it is for a band after 27 years to have all the original members.  Yeah. Mr.  And to be still be playing together. It is a very very precious thing.   Trey Anastasio is the guitarist and lead singer and Page McConnell is the keyboard player for the band Phish. Thanks guys. Mr.  Thank you. Mr.  Thanks very much.  There is live video and songs from Phish's new album Joy at nprmusic.org. 