 Mental health services are among the government programs being hit by sequestration those five percent across the board federal budget cuts. Suicide prevention is part of mental health and a cut in that funding is especially troubling for American Indian communities where suicide rates are four times the national average. Laurel Morales of member station KJZZ reports.  Emmy Burruel still calls a sheep camp on the Navajo Nation home even though she lives outside the reservation in Flagstaff. A couple years ago she and her husband were fixing up their guest room when they received a phone call.  My mom is crying hysterically and she is you know she is like we found your brother. And I am like what do you mean you found my brother? And she says he is gone. You know he hung himself.  Burruel and her husband packed up the kids in the middle of the night and drove three hours to be with her mother. Burruel says she wishes she would have recognized the signs of her brother's depression - the red flags she sees so clearly now.  I should have asked or I should have intervened somehow. But on the flip side of the coin is you cannot blame yourself because you just cannot. You cannot put yourself in that place.  Instead she helps others see the signs. Today she teaches suicide prevention workshops like this one to counselors community leaders and social workers.  I know for me being Navajo and coming from Navajo culture you know there is a lot of tabooism around it. You know the cultural aspect of you do not talk about death.  In the 19th century many American Indian tribes gave up much of their land to the federal government in exchange for promises of funded health care education and housing. But time and again those funds have been cut. And the recent sequester is no exception. At a Senate Committee hearing last spring in Washington the National Indian Health Board's chairperson Cathy Abramson raised her concerns.  Since the beginning of the year there have been 100 suicide attempts in 110 days on Pine Ridge. Because of sequestration they will not be able to hire two mental health service providers. We cannot take any more cuts. We just cannot.  This is a long term problem that is going to take decades.  Brandy Judson runs the suicide prevention program at Native Americans for Community Action. It provides free or low cost mental and physical health care in Flagstaff.  This is not a three year job. You know you do not do suicide prevention for three years and fix the problem.  Judson says they need funding to sustain the program. Eighty percent of her organization's budget comes from the federal government. And she says she is seen its impact. Judson knows how effective suicide prevention can be when fully funded.  Having done a screening in a school and identified several youth who had either prior attempts or extreme thoughts of suicide seeing them now almost a year later having gone through counseling and feeling much better and no longer having those thoughts it is really powerful.  It is been three years since Emmy Burruel lost her brother to suicide. Today she feels she is in the right place to help others.  I heard one shaman say you have to know a little bit about the bad to fix the good. I suffered the bad so now I need to know I can fix the good and help other families.  But she says because of sequestration suicide prevention programs will reach fewer people. For NPR News I am Laurel Morales in Flagstaff.   That story came to us from Fronteras a public radio collaboration reporting on the Southwest. It is NPR News. 