 Rachel Gotbaum reports.  In Port Clyde almost everyone fishes or is related to someone who does. Dougie Anderson started fishing here with his grandfather when he was just six years old.  My goal all my young life was to be the youngest captain on the coast and boats was everything to me.  Anderson says Port Clyde's waters used to be teeming with cod flounder and other groundfish but by the 1970s commercial fishing got easier.  And all of a sudden we got a brand new fleet coming into New England. We had every piece of electronic equipment we needed. We had boats that we could fish more weather and virtually a fish had no place it could hide.  Glenn Libby has been fishing in Port Clyde for 40 years.  It got really tough. You were not making much money getting behind in your bills. It was easy to think about giving up.  So what did they do?  We got mad I guess stopped blaming other people tried to find solutions.  Glenn Libby says it was a decidedly humble beginning.  We started out doing it with shrimp. We had about 30 people sign up to buy a five-pound bag of shrimp every week.  Port Clyde Fresh Catch as it is now known is becoming popular with chefs whose customers are demanding local and sustainable foods.  And then this is the  for the pork. And we need basil.  One of those chefs is Joseph Margate of the Liberty Hotel in Boston. He says he buys his fish directly from the Port Clyde fishermen whenever he can.  The whole idea of the menu is to put you know that your crab or your lobster or your halibut comes from Port Clyde. That is a better story.  John Sackton is editor of Seafood News. He says what is happening in Port Clyde is becoming a model for small boat fishermen across the country.  The fishermen do not have the ability to make up their business by volume so in order to keep fishing they have to think about this in a different way. It does allow them to stay on the water and stay in the business.  The new business model for the Port Clyde fishermen is not just about how they sell their fish but also how they catch it. They are now collaborating with the same environmental groups that they once battled to learn how to fish in more sustainable ways.   Back at Port Clyde Harbor Glenn Libby's brother Gary is showing off his new environmentally sound fishing net.  This is a seven-inch square mesh cod end. It is larger than the legal size mesh. The reason for using this is to let the smaller fish get out and rebuild the fish stocks at a faster rate so that we are not the last fishermen in Port Clyde.  The fishermen in Port Clyde say they are starting to see greater numbers of fish in the waters here again. But Glenn Libby says that even with the big changes they are making now it could take generations to repair the fishery.  I have got a 15-year-old grandson and all he wants to do is go fishing. And if we do not have a viable business he is not going to be able to do it.  For NPR News I am Rachel Gotbaum. 