 In Texas doctors and clinics that provide abortions are trying to navigate a new and difficult reality. Any abortion after about six weeks of pregnancy is now illegal and that is been the case since Wednesday when a new Texas law went into effect. Thursday the Supreme Court ruled that they would not temporarily stop this law despite several ongoing legal challenges. Ashley Lopez of member station KUT visited a clinic that provides abortions in Austin and she joins us now. Ashley tell us what is going on at health clinics in Texas? Were patients still being seen where you went?  Yes they were. People were coming in for appointments but not necessarily getting the care they wanted. So I went to one of four clinics in Texas run by Whole Woman's Health. I arrived later in the morning. And 11 patients had already been seen in that one clinic to confirm their pregnancies andor to see how far along they were. And of those 11 only three still qualified to get an abortion under this new law. The other eight were past the legal limit.  So what did the doctors the other medical staff - how did they handle that?  Well they really cannot do anything. I spoke to Dr. Joe Nelson and he told me about a patient who came in on Wednesday. She had already gone through a medication abortion which is through taking pills. It is a very safe process and effective but in very rare cases it does not work. And that is what happened to this patient. Joe Nelson says she came back to the clinic for next steps.  Here she was still pregnant. The law was passed. And not only was she now forced to continue a pregnancy that she did not want it is now a complicated pregnancy because of the medications she took. And so walking into that room all I could do was just sit with her as she cried. I mean there is nothing else that I could do.  He said he is been surprised by how many patients were blindsided by this law. Many people do not follow the news that closely and they woke up that morning not realizing their abortion rights had been severely curtailed. I also checked in with Planned Parenthood yesterday and they told me they have also turned away the majority of patients seeking abortions in their various clinics throughout the state. A spokesperson told me they expect that 85 of patients who were seeking an abortion will no longer qualify under this new law.  When you talked to other workers in these health clinics what did they tell you about their perception of the new law?  Well they feel really angry sad and defiant. You know no one said they were thinking of quitting their job over this. These workers have a lot of resolve. This is something they care deeply about. And they are used to fighting tough laws in Texas. But because of the way this new law was written they are also very vulnerable right now. The law was designed to not be enforced by the government. Instead enforcement is in the hands of the public. Anyone can now file a civil lawsuit against anyone who they think might be helping a woman get an abortion after the new legal cutoff. As we said that is about six weeks. And despite the situation there and personally though staff members told me they are most worried about the patients. I talked to Sonja Miller who is an administrator.  Staff are angry. They are devastated in some ways. I mean when you have to look a woman in the eye and say I am sorry. According to the sonogram you are - we have found fetal cardiac activity and we have to turn you away. The state of Texas will not allow you to have an abortion.  Clinics in Texas are still fighting this in court. And they hope they can ultimately get this law struck down in the future but we do not know if or when that will happen.  Ashley Lopez from KUT in Austin. Ashley thanks for your reporting. We appreciate it.  Yeah thank you. 