 NPR's business news starts with the latest look at homebuilding.   The government keeps track of how much is spent on construction around the country. It is one indicator of the economy. And today the government said overall spending on everything from hospitals and highways to office buildings fell last month by 0.2 percent. Spending on private homes rose but that was offset by drops in almost every other area. And compared to July of last year the number is down more than 10 percent.  And when construction slows there is less of a need for all those massive yellow construction machines - excavators front loaders skid steers. Many are now on the block.   From Colorado Public Radio Zachary Barr has more.  Richie Brothers bills itself as the largest industrial auctioneer holding sales all over the world. At today's auction a new piece of heavy equipment rumbles across a runway every minute and is then sold to the highest bidder bidders like Jim Culverwell from Arizona.  I have done it in the dirt all my life.  Culverwell's retired now and he is looking for a deal he can resell for a profit.  Well what I look for mostly is small crawler tractors older motor graders.  Culverwell also pays close attention to everything else for sale and so do others like Dave Pate the owner of a large construction company in southern Colorado. Pate says business is terrible so today he is strictly a seller. Flipping through the auction catalog he notices something that gets him really discouraged 35 scrapers for sale many nearly new.  Usually you might see a half a dozen scrapers and usually they are all junk. The stuff I am looking at out there looks like it is really nice stuff.  A scraper is an enormous machine. It churns up tons of dirt in seconds and then deposits that dirt somewhere else. It is like a giant self-loading dump truck. Now the secondhand scraper market is volatile and telling because scrapers are mostly used just for the biggest jobs.  They are the first in on road building. They are the first in on a new subdivision. And when they are selling their stuff they do not see nothing coming up.  So just how telling is the used scraper market as a leading economic indicator? Robert Frank is an economist who teaches at Cornell and I tell him about all the scrapers getting auctioned off. He cautions against taking it too far.  Just because maybe there are fewer really big jobs the ones where you would use a scraper it does not necessarily mean that overall activity is going to be depressed to the same degree.  It just means that the biggest jobs are not there.  Yeah. I mean obviously the big jobs employ a lot more resources than the small jobs.   Back at the auction the scrapers roll in and it is like celebrities just walked in the door. Everyone stops what they are doing and stares. After all a new scraper can cost a million dollars.   Prices for all used heavy equipment are down about 30 percent from where they were a year ago and scraper prices have slipped even more. Just a year ago a late-model scraper would have set you back about 500000.  Sold 250000.  The first one sells for 250000 dollars. From there prices plummet. One bidder waits patiently until the very last machine drives across the ramp.  Thirty-two hundred and...  And then he nabs it for just 132000. And to him that says a lot about what is happening in his industry.  You can tell there is no dirt work out there at this time.  Shane Aulick's Nebraska company primarily hauls sugar beets but recently fell into a side job that requires a scraper. Earlier today Aulick gave his new purchase the once over but he was not able to examine it closely.  I do not know what is wrong with my machine. It seems like it was pretty reasonable so maybe there is wrong and I did not see it.  For NPR News I am Zachary Barr. 