 Two cities two police killings of African-American men two protests last night. In Charlotte N.C. yesterday police shot and killed a 40-year-old man they say was armed with a gun. As we heard elsewhere in this program during the protest that followed there at least a dozen police were injured. Police cars were damaged and tear gas was fired to disperse a crowd. We turn now to the other community Tulsa Okla. where last night a peaceful protest drew several hundred people to police headquarters. They were demanding justice for last Friday's death of Terence Crutcher an unarmed African-American man father of four who was shot and killed by a Tulsa police officer. We are joined now by the mayor of Tulsa Okla. Dewey Bartlett. Mayor good morning.  Good morning David.  You know just - I want to talk through this video with you. Seeing this police video it looks like Terence Crutcher - I mean he has his hands up appears to be cooperating before being tasered and shot. Am I missing something here?  No the video speaks for itself. I mean it is very graphic very difficult to watch but it is there. The difficulty we have is that we - at least at this point we do not have a recorded conversation between all the participants in the events both before during and after. We have recordings of the radio traffic but not a direct conversation. So that will result from the interviews that have been taken so that will - that is certainly part of the investigation as well.  You are saying conversations maybe among police that might give investigators others an idea of exactly what these police officers were thinking ahead of this death?  Exactly exactly what orders had been given to the - Mr. Crutcher for example what might have led to the mindsets of the police at that time.  Interesting thing yesterday the police announcing that PCP this illegal drug that can cause hallucinations had been found in Crutcher's car. Is that somehow relevant to the investigation do you believe?  No it is not. And as a matter of fact when we first had a meeting with the family we told - our police chief told the family at that time that PCP had been found but that the police department was not going to be the instigating delivery of that information to the public. The attorneys for the family apparently asked that question in a public way of the police and so they had to respond honestly. But it was not our - you know that is a very good question. The answer is that no it is not relevant as far as this point in time certainly. So there is no reason at all for us to try to give bad information towards that individual or the family. Anything in their history is not relevant at this point.  You - your city's been getting some praise for being very transparent about all of this inviting a civil rights investigation immediately. Have you learned from - some lessons from other communities that have gone through this kind of thing recently?  Well that plus we have learned from our own experience. Several years ago we had - on Good Friday before Easter we had a very bad situation where two idiots went through a predominantly African-American neighborhood and started shooting people. We were very open at that point and the reception we had was much better than other cities have experienced.  Mayor we really appreciate you talking to us this morning. Mayor Dewey Bartlett of Tulsa Okla. Thank you.  Thank you very much David. 