 So is the effort to overhaul health care alive or not? Republican senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana are circulating a new draft of their bill to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. This is a last-ditch attempt on a last-ditch bill to win the votes Republicans need. Sunday on Meet The Press White House Legislative Affairs Director Marc Short defended the bill and said he expects a vote this week.   There are millions of Americans who will benefit from this bill. In fact we think every state will benefit. And you know why? Because governors will be given the opportunity to allocate the program in a way that makes the most sense for their constituents and their residents. This is long overdue.  All right. Let us turn now to the Senate Finance Committee which later today will hold the only public hearing on this bill. Ron Wyden of Oregon is the ranking Democrat on that committee. And he joins me now. Senator good morning.  Good morning.  If you had to put a percentage on this where would you put the chances of the Senate passing this bill by Friday?  We have obviously picked up some ground Mary Louise. But right now there is a frenzy of special deals being considered elbow twisting behind the scenes to bring swing votes off the fence. So the fight is far from over. That is why this morning what we are going to do in the Finance Committee - the Senate Finance Democrats - is make sure that people see that the supporters of Trumpcare are trying to defend the indefensible. They are trying to defend a bill that is going to raise Americans costs undermine key consumer protections take us back to the days when health care was for the healthy and wealthy. And the only way you can defend it is as my 9-year-old says by offering a big bunch of whoppers.   Well I am going to let you fill us in on those whoppers in just a second. But let me just remind people - I mean you know the math. But to remind people every Democratic senator and clearly you opposes this bill. Two Republican senators have now come out against it. This leaves no wiggle room no additional defections if this is going to pass. I gather there is no tweak they could make that would win your support at this point?  I cannot conceive of anything they could come up with. Look we know who is for this bill. The Republican campaign contributor class wants this bill. And so in spite of the fact that every single major health group in this country every consumer organization says this is a bad prescription for Americans you have got essentially a donor class of far-right Republicans who just keep pushing and pushing. And it is clear they are going to try to find every possible way now and in the days ahead to do that.  OK. So your committee is holding we said the only public hearing on this bill which is something for a bill that could potentially affect...  Which is outrageous.  ...So many Americans. You have got both senators Graham and Senator Cassidy testifying today. What questions do you have for them that would move this process forward in a constructive way?  Obviously we want to hear them try to make the case. I mean in the middle of the night last night they threw out what amounts to a new bill which guts protection for those who have pre-existing conditions even more. It makes it easier to offer junk insurance bare-bones coverage to go back to the days when health care was for the healthy and the wealthy.  You are saying you think these tweaks introduced overnight makes the bill worse?  There is no question that the provisions that hurt consumers before hurt them even more. It is even easier for example to offer junk policies so that if you have got cancer in America or diabetes or other serious medical conditions basically the states can waive out of core consumer protections for you. And the states in effect would let these people be charged more for simply having a pre-existing condition.  So real quick what is your top question for the senators today?  My top question will be on those matters that relate to the consumer protections why they want to raise health care costs and particularly what is the argument for going back to the days in America when health care was for the healthy and wealthy?  That is Democratic Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon. Thanks very much.  Thank you.  And we also have here NPR's congressional correspondent Susan Davis. Susan in just a moment answer the question Senator Wyden would not. What are the chances of this bill passing this week?  He is correct that there is a frenzy of deal-making going on. I think the momentum is certainly not in the bill's favor. When you are making a frenzy of last-minute deals it is because you do not have the votes not because you have the votes. And the senator hold-outs Susan Collins of Maine Lisa Murkowski of Alaska - their opposition is much more fundamental.  They are still holding out. OK. Lots of action to look for today in the Senate. Sue Davis there. Thanks very much.  You are welcome. 