 Turkey is adding even more charges to the crimes it blames on a cleric - a cleric who lives in the United States. The Turkish government already blamed Fethullah Gulen of orchestrating a failed coup in Turkey from his home in Pennsylvania. Now the government says he is to blame for everything from a mining disaster to traffic accidents. NPR's Peter Kenyon is covering this story from Istanbul. Hi Peter.  Hi Steve.  So what did this man do according to the Turkish government?  Well it is a pretty impressive list. You know these come out day after day over a number of weeks but when you stop and add them up it is kind of amazing. You remember the shoot-down of the Russian fighter jet last November?  OK.  Well the two Turkish pilots who were involved in that were arrested last month charged with taking part in the coup effort. And then the Ankara mayor decided that the plane shoot-down was their fault too as opposed to anyone else's mainly because of this cleric Fethullah Gulen. There was a terrible mining disaster in 2014 300 people killed. Company had a questionable track record on safety. But then after the coup a mine manager comes out and says well I think terrorists were involved and he specifically mentioned the Gulenists. And then just recently there was that really horrific bombing at the wedding in Gaziantep - dozens killed most signs pointing at the Islamic State. And then President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said maybe it was ISIS but the Gulen movement could have had a hand too do not forget that. So they just keep coming.  And when you say a movement I guess that reminds us this guy is a leader of a large group. And it is alleged that different followers of his might have been involved with - well it sounds like with just about everything.  That is right. And it does - it is not just recent stuff. There was an infamous murder of a Turkish-Armenian journalist. That is 2007. Few believed it was only the teenager originally accused but now the case is open and two Gulen-linked police chiefs are back in the picture. And then when you get down to the local level media is accusing him of everything from mysterious heart-attack deaths to suspicious traffic accidents. So it is all coming. And some of the claims do get quite extreme. Turkish media are quoting an indictment written by a Turkish prosecutor and it declares the Gulen movement was created by the CIA as were quote the Mormon Church and the Church of Scientology.  And we should also mention that Fethullah Gulen has denied any wrongdoing in case after case after case. Do you have any sense about whether ordinary Turks believe all these accusations?  Well that is actually an interesting question. The public is getting barraged with anti-Gulen attacks in the pro-government media every day. And most media do not even call it the Gulen movement by the way. It is now FETO and that stands for Fethullah Terrorist Organization. And it is also commonly called a terror cult. It is hard to know how it is all being received. But from talking to Turks my impression is they could see how some Gulen followers might have been behind the coup attempt. But you bring up these other things and then there is a fair bit of skepticism.  Why is the government piling so many charges on this man?  Well some Turks see it as a strategic move with this extradition request going on. If in other words there is so many things he is accused of it becomes politically hard for Washington to say no. As we mentioned Gulen denies any involvement. His lawyers say the government's allegations have a history of not bearing up under scrutiny. And there is this question of evidence that remains. It is only now that evidence that is coup-related is being compiled to be sent to Washington. So this extradition could well be a long process.  A reminder that that is going on now. Turkey is trying to get its hands on this man. Peter thanks very much.  You are welcome Steve.  NPR's Peter Kenyon is in Istanbul. 