 We are following the path of Hurricane Maria a whopper storm that is now battering Puerto Rico. There are winds blowing at 145 miles per hour tearing off roofs and smashing windows. We have Los Angeles Times reporter Molly Hennessy-Fiske on the line from San Juan. Hi there Molly.  Hi. How are you?  I am OK probably better off than you right now. Where are you? And where are you watching this play out?  So I am in Old San Juan at a hotel up on the eighth floor. I have been doing some Facebook Lives off of this balcony where you can see the main waterfront street - the water the buildings like you were saying getting battered by these winds. The winds drive the rain. And it is almost like these sheets of - white sheets of rain almost like a snowstorm. It is that intense and can get sort of white-out effects. We are also seeing water rising in the streets which I know is a concern. Not so much here because it can run off but in inland areas the water accumulating in the streets could be more of a problem. There is also a lot of houses inland in the center of the country that are made of wood with these zinc metal roofs that people here have - who have relatives there have told me they are worried about. And the governor had urged those people to go to some of the 500 shelters that they have opened across the country. But in a country of 3.4 million people there is - only about 12000 people are in the shelters that have been opened nationwide. There is about 500 shelters open nationwide. So there is concern about the people who are out in houses. A lot of them are wood-frame houses with metal roofs.  So Molly I just want to be clear here this could be catastrophic. I mean you had the public safety commission of Puerto Rico saying if you are in some of these wooden houses you either get to a shelter or you will die. So I mean this sounds pretty dire.  Definitely. And people here in San Juan are concerned about relatives in those other areas. Cellphone service has gone out. Power has gone out. So we will have to assess the damage. It could be days before they can get out to some of these areas and see how people are.  And I understand that there is a big shelter in a coliseum in San Juan where there were thousands of people and they had to leave because the roof blew off there. What happened?  Well there is a couple of massive shelters here in San Juan. And I am not totally sure of the status because we have not been able to get out there. But there were 500 people at the Roberto Clemente Coliseum. And then there was another shelter that had been opened across from that. And there there is also another shelter at the convention center for people with medical needs. They did seem to be staging in a way that they could move people among the shelters if they needed to. But a lot of these people had evacuated from islands already so they were already kind of you know traumatized from that. And a bunch of them have . It is not just people but it is people moving with pets with children with elderly relatives.  And Molly one of the unbelievable realities here is there are people who had evacuated some of these previous hurricanes and come to Puerto Rico thinking that it was going to be safer there and are now facing this. Is that right?  That is right. We had people who came from the U.S. Virgin Islands who lost their homes who are sheltering here with their pets. They are not sure when they are going to be able to get out if they will be able to go back or will have to go to the States. Also people who came from Dominica which has already been devastated by Maria who do not know if they are going to have homes to go back to.  All right. And you can hear that line going in and out. Speaking to Molly Hennessy-Fiske. She is a reporter for the Los Angeles Times on the eighth floor of a hotel in Old San Juan where Hurricane Maria has arrived. And we will have much more on this throughout the day. 