 During a long murky war in Colombia warlords who emerged to fight rebels became some of the most feared people in the country. Over the last year some of those warlords who led paramilitary groups have been extradited to the United States which sees the men in another light - as notorious cocaine traffickers. Now those extraditions have ended blocked by Colombia's supreme court which says sending the warlords away has deprived victims at home of justice. From Bogot NPR's Juan Forero explains.  For years Colombia has been gripped by a drug-fueled conflict. Marxist rebels have tried to take power. Right-wing paramilitary groups illegal militias with close links to Colombia's army fought to stop them. Unidentified Man   Unidentified Man   That is until 2006 when the paramilitaries finished laying down their arms in government demobilization ceremonies. Special judicial hearings were then staged to deliver justice to the victims of war crimes. The offer to paramilitary commanders was leniency in exchange for a truthful recounting of how they ordered assassinations and massacres. But today the ambitious reconciliation effort is in disarray after the government extradited 15 top paramilitary commanders. Unidentified Woman   The extraditions last year were big news here. President Alvaro Uribe told the country the commanders had not cooperated with investigators. President    He said they continued committing crimes from drug trafficking to murder. But do not tell that to Bela Henriquez. Ms.    Henriquez is a biologist who works in a government lab where she recently explained how she studies mosquitoes. Twenty-five well-educated and ambitious hers is a future filled with promise. But like thousands of Colombians she cannot let go of the past. She is obsessed with finding out as much as she can from the paramilitaries who murdered her father. Ms.    She said it is a driving necessity. In testimony two years ago one of the commanders Hernan Giraldo confessed to ordering her father's murder. Ms.    But she says the details were scant and that the testimony did not mean that justice was served. And then Giraldo was extradited. Michael Reed says Giraldo and the other paramilitary commanders took with them a treasure trove of historical information about the links between Colombia's elite and the paramilitaries. Reed is a lawyer with the International Center for Transitional Justice a New York group that studies the efforts to unravel Colombia's war crimes. Mr.  Basically a political decision was made to trump human rights investigations and prosecutions with drug-trafficking prosecutions.  In a recent ruling Colombia's Supreme Court said the extradited commanders have not been able to continue corroborating from American jails. Augusto Ibanez is president of the court. Mr.    Ibanez said the court would only restart extraditions once the U.S. ensures that extradited warlords comply first with Colombian investigations. William Brownfield the American ambassador in Bogota said the U.S. is working to cut red tape. Mr.  Clearly the Supreme Court laid out that problem for us and I have some ideas and we are working some ideas to solve it.   Soothing music plays at a house where Bela Henriquez meets with others whose fathers were also killed by the paramilitaries. Ms.    She says they get together to fight for justice to guarantee that the atrocities do not ever happen again. Juan Forero NPR News Bogota Colombia.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 