 Hurricane Dorian reminds us of three factors that measure the destructive force of a hurricane. There is high wind which is what defines a storm as a hurricane. There is water - the height of the storm surge the amount of rain. And then there is the storm's speed - the slower it moves the worse it is because that means the storm lingers as Dorian did when it stalled over the Bahamas. Scientists have linked slow-moving storms to climate change. So let us talk through the evidence with Jim Cason. He is a climate scientist with NOAA the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Good morning sir.  Yes good morning.  Basic question first - what is it that makes a hurricane move slowly across the ocean?  Well the first thing that causes that is just slower winds that it is embedded in. They tend to move somewhat passively in the wind like a leaf in a stream. So the stream itself is slowing down and so the hurricanes tend to slow down as well.  OK so you are reminding me of the massiveness of the forces at work here - that a hurricane giant as it is powerful as it is is just kind of drifting along in the wind like a leaf. Is it purely a random question then whether it happens to catch a big wind or does not catch a big wind?  Well it is certainly partly random. But there is also in the background what appears to be a sort of a longer time scale signal of a trend and they seem to be slowing down over time.  How bad is the slowing? What are we talking about here?  Oh well it is been about 17 over the past 118 years. So that is really substantial. I mean quick back-of-the-envelope - means that you get about 17 more rain locally than you would have.  And once in a while you get a storm like the one that hit the Bahamas and it lingers there for a day.  Yeah. Well that is certainly an extreme example of what we are talking about. Harvey and Florence have both been good examples as well of what happens when a hurricane does not move quickly.  So you have measured slower storms storms moving at a slower speed which means they are more destructive. Then the next question is are you able to link that to human-caused climate change?  Yeah I think that it is a fairly compelling inference if nothing else. Our studies look at past data. So it is not a direct attribution study per se but we know that all of the numerical simulations in our best theoretical understanding is that winds will generally slow down as the planet warms. So this is entirely consistent with a human fingerprint on what we are seeing.  So you have seen over the past century a substantial slowing of hurricanes. But we are still in the middle of climate change. We are not doing enough necessarily to reverse course at this point. Should we expect a lot more of this a lot more destructiveness of far slower hurricanes?  Well yes. I mean the trend that we are experiencing that we have seen in the past is projected to continue into the future. So there is no reason to think that as long as we keep on with business as usual that this trend is going to change in any way - so yes.  Does that mean we have to prepare for hurricanes in a different way?  I think ultimately yeah. For long-term planning like city planning and things like that then yes we do absolutely have to take these climate change trends into consideration. From a more immediate point of view of how do we get out then that kind of time scale is not so important to us.  OK. Dr. Kossin thank you so much. Really appreciate it.  Sure. Thanks for having me.  Jim Kossin is a climate scientist with NOAA the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 