 The U.S. Open tennis tournament continues over the weekend in New York. Last night Argentina's Carlos Berlocq was the latest victim of the seemingly unstoppable number one seed Novak Djokovic. The Serbian star won six-O six-O six-two. For more on the tournament's highlights we are joined by Sports Illustrated's Jon Wertheim. Welcome back to the program. Mr.  Thanks Steve.  Oh man. I was watching - this is going around on YouTube this rally from Djokovic's match yesterday. And it is amazing because you see Berlocq really truly working hard. He seems almost heroic and Djokovic seems to be toying with him almost. Mr.  Always good when we can furnish entertainment in a match in which one player wins two games. But no. I mean that was sort of - this has been a theme all year. Djokovic has just been this unstoppable force.  He just seems - I mean he just seemed like a different quality player. He could just hit a couple of easy lobs get the other guy out of position and crush him. Mr.  Yeah that is basically - I mean you are exactly right. It is a different quality player. And that is what we will see with Djokovic. You know he will not be winning six-O six-O six-two later on in the tournament. But right now it just looked like two completely different classes of players in his first two matches.  Well let us talk about some of the other players that might be in the upper class there. Rafael Nadal Roger Federer how are they doing? Mr.  Well they are still in the tournament which is always good.  Mr.   particularly dazzling. You know Djokovic has never won this event. On the other hand he is lost two matches - and one was by injury - since Thanksgiving weekend. So this has just been absolutely dominant year for him. He is never won the U.S. Open but boy he sure is the favorite especially given sort of relative play these past couple of days. Djokovic has looked tremendous and Nadal and Federer have not. On the other hand again they have won this thing six times between them. So we will see what happens.  Has anything surprised you so far in the tournament? Mr.  Well the Americans have done surprisingly well which you know for jingoistic reasons is always nice. It is been you know the weather's cooperated. The U.S. Open did a great job getting this in order after you know Irene mania. Nice tournament so far. We will see what the second week brings. But it is been very pleasant these first four or five days.  What about on the women's side? The top woman Caroline Wozniacki won six-two six-O - pretty dominant there as well. Mr.  This is a number one player though who has never won a major which is always a great source of concern. And she is not Serena Williams though she is the top seed. And she did look good Wozniacki did last night. But as I see it this is really Serena Williams' event to lose.  But you do have a situation then where the top player on both the men's and women's sides has never won the event that we are looking at here. That is interesting. Mr.  Right. Actually the top two women's seeds have never won a major or any kind. And Serena Williams for a variety of reasons most of them injury related seeded 28th yet is the overwhelming favorite. So go figure. But that is sort of a snapshot of women's tennis these days.  Does that 28th seed make it more difficult for Serena Williams? Of course it would mean she would face more difficult match-ups in the early rounds than she is gotten so far. Mr.  Yeah it is sort of double edged. Her next opponent is the fourth seed. So we have a third round match between the favorite in Serena and the fourth seed which is quite rare. Sort of a de facto final. And yet on the other hand if Serena wins that match which I suspect she will then the path suddenly clears. So you face tougher opponents earlier but then you know your draw opens up a bit. But you know I think Serena she is done this before and it almost does not matter to her. And this is how she rolls.  Jon thanks very much. Always a pleasure talking with you. Mr.  Anytime. Thanks Steve.  Jon Wertheim of Sports Illustrated is covering the U.S. Open Tennis tournament in New York.  This is NPR News 