 Put 10 Democratic presidential candidates on a single stage and you challenge all of them to say why they are unique.   I am the only person up here...  I think I am the only person on this stage even though...  I am on - and I think the only person on this stage...  I think I am the only person on this stage who...  I am the only one up here who is ever beat the NRA.  So we have established that each candidate was the only one to do something and the contest on ABC did highlight some genuine differences. While it is hard to say that anybody won a debate so far ahead of the voting we can learn something about those differences. So we have called up a couple of viewers. Republican strategist Scott Jennings was watching in Prospect Ky. Welcome back to the program.  Thank you. Good morning.  And we are also joined by Democratic strategist Jennifer Palmieri who was watching in Missoula Mont. Good morning.  Good morning Steve.  And guys I think it is fitting that you both know Washington really well but you are both way outside Washington where sometimes the same image on the same TV screen can just look or feel different. And Jennifer let us start with you. What sounded like it would play well in Missoula?  I do think that Joe Biden sounded like he would play well in Missoula. You know the - my big takeaway from the debate was that if you want to beat Biden you are going to have to do it on the ground in Iowa. I think people thought there might be a debate where he really performs badly and you know people are looking for a moment where his support starts to collapse. And I think it is kind of evident at this point that is unlikely to happen. And debates are interesting but we have to keep in mind they are all headed to Iowa. And that was my big takeaway was that is where you are going to have to - that is where you are going to have to beat him.  So Biden who is been the front-runner in polls held it together. How did look from Kentucky Scott?  Yeah. I have a similar sentiment as Jen. I think that nobody in this debate or frankly any other debate had a moment that drains support away from the rest of the crowd. So that means you have to build a real campaign organizationally to turn out the people that are for you. Biden's you know bebopping along at 30. I do not think he is going to go up or down. Warren and Sanders are still fishing off the same pier. They are fragmenting that wing of the party. And nobody is really moving fast. So at this point I do not know that we learn much from the debates. What I am more anxious to find out now is are they actually building campaigns to turn out the voters who support them? Nobody's got a dominant lead. So it is all really coming down to campaign tactics. And can you get out what you have got?  Biden bebopping - I guess that is political consultant jargon.   To his record player to his record player.  Oh he did make a reference to people and we could have a big discussion about that. That was a discussion about race. He was saying that he encouraged parents to be playing records to their kids. We could discuss that but let us discuss health care for a moment if we can. We have Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren standing on either side of Biden. Sanders and Warren both favor Medicare for All. Biden kept saying that is too expensive and he highlighted his support of Obamacare. Let us listen.   I think - I know that the senator says she is for Bernie. Well I am for Barack. I think the Obamacare worked. I think the way in - we add to it replace everything that is been cut add a public option guarantee that everyone will be able to have affordable insurance.  OK guys. Biden suggests look your taxes are going to go up in this Medicare for All scheme. The others are saying look your overall costs are going to go down. Let me just ask you - what are the politics of each argument? Scott you first.  Well the politics here are for Republicans when you hear the more radical health care plans what we hear is we are coming to raise your taxes. I mean if you hear the Bernie Sanders-Elizabeth Warren plans and the more radical plans in the field we just hear about massive tax increases and losing your private insurance. I thought it was noteworthy that the more not-socialist candidates in the field were more critical of the Medicare for All plans last night. But what we see across the board is just plans to raise taxes take away private insurance and really change - radically change health care in a system where frankly most people like the plan that they currently have.  Jen Palmieri having been in a White House that struggled with the health care issue to say the least - politically struggled with it - is it wise for Democrats to be going for such big change in an election they are desperate to win?  Well you know both Biden and then - on one side and Warren and Sanders on the other are going for different voters within the Democratic primary electorate. And Warren and Sanders are going for the voters that are looking for very big change and Biden is going for the voters who want to beat Trump as their No. 1 priority. And I think what - you know Warren is the really interesting one here. And besides Biden she is the one who impressed me the most last night. She continues to play her own game. And other than that one time with Biden that you just played people did not really try to go after her. And she is had a slow and steady but very steady rise. And no one's really been able to disrupt that yet. And she could end up being as a real force. And not everyone in the Democratic primary electorate is where she is on health care. But there is you know a sizable enough amount of voters that that is what they are looking for.  Very briefly do you worry about someone like Warren making an argument that works in the primaries and does not work in November of 2020?  Well that my friend is the story of Democratic presidential primaries from the very beginning. And this is the process by which - the primary process is the process by which the Democrats decide where they stand on the biggest issues and who they want that standard bearer to be. And you know sometimes that makes our case more difficult in the general election but that is what this process is about. But she does continue to impress me with how - you know running your own race and not getting dragged in to debates that you do not want to have it is a tough skill and she is got it.  Scott Jennings did any of the trailing candidates a little bit lower in the polls make an impression on you?  Yeah. I was watching Beto O'Rourke last night. I do not think he is got a chance to get the nomination but he is moving the field further left on the gun issue just the way Warren and Sanders are moving the field left on health care. So to your point and your question to Jen I am anxious to see if he stays in long enough to continue to move that field far away from where most people are which is probably for some kind of gun reform but not for the government showing up and confiscating your guns which is now the motivating issue for the Beto campaign.  Oh which is what O'Rourke said. He said I will take your AK-47 away. Jen Palmieri did anybody at the bottom end impress you very briefly?  Harris. You know Harris had memorable lines - can be just that just memorable lines from the debate if they do not translate into rise in the polls in Iowa. But I thought Harris had a particularly great opening in her direct - that she directed directly at Trump. I thought that was very effective.  And also compared the president to the Wizard of Oz at one point. Jen Palmieri thanks so much.  My pleasure.  She was communications director for the Hillary Clinton campaign served in the Obama White House. Scott Jennings was an adviser in the George W. Bush White House. Thanks to you.  Thank you. 