 The fall TV season is just getting started which means it is prime time for Eric Deggans TV critic for the Tampa Bay Times regular guest here. Hi Eric.  Hey. How is it going Steve?  I am doing OK. So I gather that there is a trend of somewhat older people in some of these shows. We are talking about adults with crabby old parents.  And unfortunately they are all stereotypes. They are kind of typically crotchety and very dysfunctional very self-centered and of course the kids get to complain and moan about their parents who do not understand them.  But it is the full range of baby boomers here - from people still stuck in the '60s all the way back to people still stuck in the '50s. Is that right?  Oh yeah. And you know it is interesting. You feel like these writers in Hollywood are kind of working out their issues with their parents in these sitcoms. Because we have a show called Mom from Chuck Lorre that is about a woman that is just out of rehab. And her mother has all the bad habits that she is trying to get rid of. She is promiscuous. She is also just out of rehab. And then this woman is afraid she is going to pass it down to her daughter. And you see this stuff working out in all these different shows.  And there some others here. I could name a few of them The Millers The Crazy Ones Back in the Game. And then there is this series called Dads.  Oh yes Dads. It is the trifecta. It is a terrible show.  It has the stereotypical crotchety parents played by Peter Riegert and Martin Mull. And it also has loads of sexist and stereotypically racially prejudiced stuff about Asian people.   It will surprise no one that this is from the writers who came up with I Saw Your Boobs on the Oscar telecast now is doing a live-action sitcom. Hopefully the show will get better as they do future episodes.  OK. So you do not seem totally enraptured with the programs you have been talking about so far. Any of the new TV shows any good?  Oh yeah. There is this wonderful new comedy on Fox. It is probably the best new comedy of the fall. It is called Brooklyn Nine-Nine and it features Saturday Night Live alum Andy Samberg and he is aligned with Homicide Life on the Street and Men of a Certain Age alum Andre Braugher. And I think we might have a great clip from that show too.    I think I am going to start using that phrase here on   Now what you are missing in radio of course is this visual of Andre Braugher who we have seen - you know with close-cropped hair but he is back in the '70s so he has a little bit of an afro. It is really a wonderful look. And to see these two types play off of each other - Andy Samberg's kind of silly Andre Braugher is more serious but he is also very aware of what Andy Samberg's character is trying to do. And he knows how to get one-up on him every time. And it is just great to see these two guys. They have a really unexpected and really funny chemistry together.  Eric Deggans TV critic of the Tampa Bay Times and soon to be on staff at NPR. Eric welcome by the way.  Thanks for having me.  And remember Put down the yo-yo and back away from the girl.  