 Nate Rott is here with me. He covers the environment for NPR. And we are talking about the Trump administration's decision to repeal an Obama-era regulation protecting wetlands and streams from pollution. The Environmental Protection Agency confirmed this yesterday saying they want to give farmers home builders and landowners more certainty. And Nate can you just start with how this Obama-era regulation was working?  So that might be giving it too much credit almost because...  OK.   You know from the very beginning when this rule was implemented in 2015 it was facing challenges - legal challenges political challenges all the above. But basically what the regulation was trying to do was expand federal water protections under the Clean Water Act to rivers streams wetlands lakes - some argued even ponds - that did not officially have protections before. The Clean Water Act largely limits pollution in what they - what are called navigable waters. Think big rivers you know big enough to float a boat. But in the 40-plus years since the Clean Water Act was - went into effect court decisions including a Supreme Court decision left the door open for protections of waterways to be expanded. So not just you know rivers but the streams that feed into those rivers or the wetlands next to them. Water systems are connected right?  Right.   So Obama wanted to officially extend federal water protections to that larger connected system.  But it never got off the ground really because of all these legal challenges and everything. But - so you had farmers. You had miners. You had a lot of people pushing Trump administration for this rollback of this Obama-era regulation. What was their central argument?  Well you know like look - without question the - this rule certainly expanded federal protections to new waterways that did not maybe automatically have them before. And that alone was fuel for criticism from miners farmers developers who saw this as a federal land grab and argued that it was an overinterpretation of what the Clean Water Act itself allows the federal government to do. So they were thrilled to see the Trump administration carry through on its promise to repeal this. But as with a lot of policies one way or the other it is kind of hard to know what the on-the-ground impact was versus a lot of the rhetoric that surrounded this policy. And part of that was because as I mentioned before it was challenged right away.  So the head of the EPA Andrew Wheeler I want to give a listen to this. This is the announcement he made yesterday.  When President Trump took office he immediately set in motion a process to remove and replace regulatory burdens that were stifling American innovation and economic development. The Obama administration's 2015 Waters Of The U.S. definition was at the top of the list.  So Nate this goes beyond saying hey this is a regulation that we needed to scrap or roll back to give more certainty for farmers and let them know that they do not have to worry about their ponds. This goes to like a fundamental goal of the Trump administration to roll back President Obama's environmental policy. Is that fair?  Oh absolutely. I mean President Trump before he was president was pretty clear that that was going to be one of his top you know agendas when he - if he was to take office. And you know Wheeler when he was making that announcement yesterday at the National Association of Manufacturers headquarters in D.C. he was bragging about how effective his agency the EPA has been at deregulation. I think he said they have done - they have taken 46 deregulatory actions and they have 45 more in the work. You know and that is just one agency. That does not include Interior and it does not include other agencies that are also doing deregulation. Of course he did not say that many of those deregulatory actions are being held up in court and it is very likely that this rollback will face the same sort of challenges.  NPR's Nate Rott here at NPR West with me. Nate thanks so much.  Yeah. Thank you David. 