 So we brought one of country music's biggest stars into the studio recently. Hi Alan Jackson.  Hey David.  Hey how are you?  Doing good man. Thank you.  Alan Jackson has been a huge success in an industry that he actually loves to trash. What we are hearing here is his sarcastic take on how to guarantee that a song gets played on country radio.    Yeah it is a three-minute positive not too country up-tempo love song... Three-minute positive not too country up-tempo love song.  OK.  'ecause that is what they always seem to want.    There'ill be no drinking no cheating no lying no leaving. That stuff it just do not belong in a three-minute positive not too country up-tempo love song. Here we go...  Let us be clear Alan Jackson has had no trouble selling his music - as in tens of millions of albums and a whole truckful of awards. But he has always tried to stay true to country's roots and that is especially so in his newest release. It is an album of bluegrass songs with a simple title The Bluegrass Album.  I have been trying to make this album for I do not know 15 years or longer. I am just a fan the music and you know it is always been closely related to country music especially the kind I make.  You wrote some of the songs on this album. And you covered some as well. And there is the classic on here from the bluegrass legend Bill Monroe Blue Moon of Kentucky. And I wanted to play the original version of that.  Oh I  just love that.    Blue moon of Kentucky keep on shining. Shine on the one that is gone and proved untrue. Blue moon of Kentucky...  Al Jackson Bill Monroe has what a lot of people in bluegrass call that high lonesome sound more tenor than baritone. And the Alan Jackson I have always known it is a little lower than that. And I wonder I mean when you are in the shower singing this song are you trying to get up there in the Bill Monroe octave?   No I cannot get up there. I never tried to sell myself as a bluegrass singer. I just was paying tribute to the music that I liked. And I thought it would be better if I just sang it as natural as I could and tried to make it fit in with bluegrass.    Blue Moon of Kentucky keep on shining. Shine on the one that is gone and proved untrue...  Your mom comes up a number of times in this album.  My mom does?  Yeah you talk about your mama telling you certain things sounds like keeping you out of trouble...  Oh the Long Hard Road.  Yeah.    I hear the voice of my sweet mama calling telling me to change my ways. In my mind I smell the dogwood blooming. Takes me back to yesterday... Yeah I think that was just a song about - I was kind of just thinking about all the years since I left Georgia. And I think that when parents are helping you along and - you always remember things that they say and do as you are growing up that even as old as I am now I still can think of things.  What advice did she give you when you sing about her giving you advice?  Well I think that both my parents you know when I decided to leave and go to Nashville that was just the craziest thing anybody had ever heard of in Newnan Ga. You know somebody just pack up and go way off like that it was like traveling to Japan or something for us. And I think they were very concerned about it but they also have always been supportive of what you want to do. And you know Daddy always had told me he said You know go up there and try it and if it does not work you can always come home.  Well we talk about bluegrass and lonesome sounds and you have known lonesome. A lot of your fans have probably read a best-selling book by your wife Denise about some struggles in your marriage. I wonder what the low point was.  Well I would say the low point in that was when we were split up. And I thought we were going to end up divorced you know. And luckily we worked it all out. And things are better than ever and have been now - gosh it is been 15 years ago maybe? Yeah. So we have been married 32 years I think now. And so...  Congratulations.  ...that is basically half of our - second half of our relationship has been really great.  What is it like to have your wife tell you that she is going to write a book baring everything?  Well first I did not really - was not really crazy about the idea. And especially you know I knew it was going to get some attention and all my fans were going to read about it. But I think she posed it in a way that was very helpful. And I still continue to get comments today from fans - women especially - that bring the book to the shows or something want me to sign it. And people tell me so much how much they read that book and it helped them through a similar situation in their relationships. So I - it really did great for a lot of people. And I guess it was worth the price of laying some of our personal life out there for that reason.  And we should say you are together but facing another challenge. I mean Denise - your wife - was diagnosed with cancer not so long ago. And you sang about the moment that you got that news.  Yeah I wrote a song. It was on - I think it was on the last album. It is called When I Saw You Leaving. And it was just you know a lot of emotions going on of course.    ...leaving. When I saw you leaving in my mind... And again that was a song that is - a lot of time songs that come out of your life are - are obviously more true and have more meaning and they are real so it effects people that way.  Now I know as of about a year ago it looked like she had won the battle against cancer. How is she doing now?  Oh it is great. Yeah we just had another checkup recently and everything is clear and good. And we just keep on hoping for the best. And right now it looks wonderful.  That is great news. And she is on this new album in kind of a happier way.    Mary... Oh yeah.  ...sweet wife...  Now you told a story on stage recently about her asking you why you are singing about your wife but naming her Mary instead of Denise.  Yeah I played it for her. You know it is a really sweet song about somebody married somebody named Mary. And she of course wanted to know who Mary was - just joking she knew it was not anybody. But she said You mean Mary your second wife?  I said - she is just joking - and I said no. You know I am just - her name is Denise and we call her Nisey. That is been her nickname most of her life. And I told her Nisey just did not sing good and Mary just kind of came out. And I felt like since that was Jesus' mama that she would be all right with it. And she was.  Well a big hello to your wife and really happy that she is beaten cancer. That is just wonderful news.  Well thank you David. I appreciate that. It is been a real blessing to have all that work out the way it has. And we have been a lot luckier than some.  Well thanks so much for your time.  Thank you so much.    Mary sweet wife...  That is Alan Jackson. His latest release The Bluegrass Album is out this week. It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am David Greene.  And I am Steve Inskeep. 