 Amid all the talk of alternative energy sources like wind power or solar there is an old-fashioned fuel that might be even more important. Natural gas is cleaner than other fossil fuels and it is produced in the USA. This week we are going to take a look at the role of natural gas in our energy future. NPR's Tom Gjelten is helping us. He is in the studios. Tom good morning.  Hi Steve.  Okay. Many people already use natural gas to heat our homes. What are the possibilities of doing something else with it?  Well for a long time gas was not taken all that seriously. I mean it was a nice fuel but the view was that there just was not enough of it to really get excited about it and that is what changed. It now looks like we have way more natural gas in this country than we would thought we did. This could change the whole energy picture. It is the idea that there is more supply of natural gas than we thought.  Were there new discoveries?  No. What we are talking about is actually gas that we have known has been there all along but it is embedded in rock shale rock a mile below the surface of the earth. And until just a few years ago it did not seem practical to get the gas out of the rock. So when we tallied gas reserves in the country we did not even bother to count the gas that is in that shale rock. And what is changed is that gas producers - and this is fairly recent development - gas producers have figured out how to get the gas out of the rock and as a result there is this gas rush all over the country. Like this place I went to in Pennsylvania. Turns out there is a lot of natural gas under the farmland there. I found this gas man named Ray Walker who is moved up to Pennsylvania from Texas a couple years ago to drill new gas wells. He is been in the gas business for about 20 years but you get Ray talking about this shale gas he can barely contain himself. Mr.  It is the biggest deal I have ever even heard of. It is huge.  Mr. Walker's standing on a drilling rig about 160 feet tall. The rig serves as a giant brace for an eight-inch drill bit that is slowly turning working its way deep down into the earth down 6000 feet to a layer of shale rock.   The rock is part of what is called the Marcellus formation - 400 million years old and stretching all the way from New York to West Virginia. It is where Ray Walker is finding gas. Mr.  If we were able to get a big enough chunk of Marcellus shale up to the surface and I could break it for you right here you could strike a match to it and it would light for a little bit.  But he would have to break the shale because the gas is embedded in the rock. It seeps out only where there is a crack. And the trick is to break that shale a mile underground. For that Ray uses water. Mr.  So if we put water in there and enough pressure the rock has to break. And so as that rock breaks things slip and shear and all those things start taking place.  And a little gas seeps out. It is called water fracturing. Ray Walker's company Range Resources uses it extensively along with horizontal drilling.   After this drill bit gets down 6000 feet to the shale rock an operator slowly turns the bit until it is drilling sideways through the shale. That way the pipe can penetrate more of the rock. It is this combination of water fracturing and horizontal drilling that is made it possible to produce shale gas. It is all new. Range Resources has only been in Pennsylvania for two years. Ray a senior vice president did not learn these techniques back at Texas AM in the 1980s. Mr.  What we used to think the way things worked is now all changed. The ability to produce these shale reservoirs is going to revolutionize this industry all over the world.  Shale gas may be the number one new energy story right now. In June the Colorado School of Mines said the new ability to reach unconventional gas deposits means natural gas reserves in the U.S. are now 35 percent higher than they were estimated to be in 2007. Ian Cronshaw of the International Energy Agency says the production of gas in North America was heading downward as recently as two years ago. Mr.  Suddenly since then we have seen this dramatic increase and now we have seen U.S. unconventional gas rise.  It is as if the United States were suddenly able to produce an extra million-and-a-half barrels of oil each day. Mr.  That had happened in the oil industry that would have been a headline item but because it is in gas no one seems to pay any attention.  Nobody paying attention an old lament of natural gas guys like Robert Hefner. He is been in the business in Oklahoma for 50 years. All that time he is been claiming there is lots of natural gas in the United States. The big oil and coal companies just pooh-poohed him. Mr.  I once had to tell the Exxon people in front of a Congressional committee that I respectfully disagreed with every single thing they had presented.  But maybe now at the age of 74 Mr. Hefner has been vindicated. Mr.  The nation now - I used to say awash in natural gas - now I say we are drowning in natural gas.  If Hefner is right the implications are wide ranging. Timothy Worth a former Colorado senator who now heads the United Nations Foundation says natural gas can finally challenge coal as America's top domestic energy source. Former Senator  The coal industry has been arguing for years that we have to do everything we can to exploit this huge coal reserve. Well the natural gas reserve is significantly larger. And what is important about it is that natural gas is much much cleaner than coal.  When burned natural gas produces half as much carbon dioxide as coal. Much of the nation's electrical power now generated by burning coal could instead come from natural gas. That would mean a significant decrease in greenhouse gas emissions. And then there are the national security considerations. Robert Hefner the Oklahoma gas man wants to see more American cars running on natural gas instead of the liquid kind that comes from oil. Mr.  If we were to convert half of our existing vehicle fleet retrofit them to natural gas we would eliminate a little over half our oil imports.  There are still skeptics. If gas production is to be increased it will have to come from the shale deposits. The market price of natural gas has fallen sharply in recent months and if it does not recover gas companies may not be able to earn enough to justify the relatively high cost of shale rock operations. But many environmentalists see natural gas a fuel the nation can use during the transition to renewable energy sources. Christopher Flavin is president of the Worldwatch Institute an environmental research group. Mr.  Even the International Energy Agency is saying the path for oil is now downward and suddenly we have got this very different picture for natural gas. I think it is unfortunately not fully percolated into the understanding of what is possible among policymakers. But I think that as that takes hold in the next few years it is really going to change the game.  But the natural gas industry needs to be well organized if it is to make its case. In the energy world bigness generally wins out.  NPR's Tom Gjelten is reporting on the possibilities of natural gas this week. And Tom is this industry not very big now?  The problem Steve is that the natural gas sector is actually big but it is characterized by very small independent companies. Most of them have just a few dozen employees. The question of how they can compete against big coal big oil is a very interesting one. I am going to get into that tomorrow.  Okay. We will be listening thanks. NPR's Tom Gjelten.  Thank you Steve.   And you can find an interactive map of natural gas resources in the U.S. by going to NPR.org.   This is NPR News. 