 In Japan people in the northern region of Hokkaido woke up to sirens and instructions to take cover.   This after North Korea again fired a ballistic missile which again flew over Japan. And this comes just days after the United Nations slapped another set of sanctions on North Korea. NPR's Elise Hu is tracking all of this from Seoul South Korea. Hi there Elise.  Good morning.  Hi. So give us the details. What do we know about this test today?  This missile fired is believed to be the same type that was launched over Japan on August 29. But this time it went a farther distance about 2200 miles before landing in the ocean off Hokkaido's east coast. And that is important because it can send a message that if the direction of this missile were different and it was aimed at say Guam then this type of missile could reach that U.S. territory which North Korea as you know has threatened before.  Indeed. So we heard the sirens there. How else is Japan reacting to the latest test?  It also sent out text alerts to all cellphones in the 12-prefecture region that was affected of course. It also interrupted radio and television broadcasts there because the Japanese government was concerned about falling debris. Ultimately officials say there was no debris reported and that the Japanese people were not in danger. But the Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe is very upset. He is calling for international unity in getting more pressure to be applied on North Korea. But that is really kind of all Japan can do at the moment. And the same goes for South Korea where I am at because the core security issue is between the U.S. and North Korea. And both sides so far in general are continuing on the same path as before which is this cycle we have been in of provocation then condemnation then isolation before the cycle starts back over again.  Well that is right. I mean it does seem as though almost every week or so at this point there is some new test some new provocation going on. Any sense of what might break the cycle?  Well if you speak with the proponents of isolation through sanctions then the argument goes that if North Korea does feel sufficient pressure from these economic sanctions that eventually at some point it will cry uncle and then want to return to the table for talks. There have been something like eight rounds of sanctions since 2006. And North Korea up to this point has only improved its nuclear capability and its testing in that time. The other approach is to consider dialogue or direct talks. But even South Korea's president Moon Jae-in who was elected on a promise of more engagement with North Korea is now saying that it is not time for dialogue. And North Korea for its part has shown no indication of willingness to return to talks from its side either unless there is major concessions.  They certainly have not. I mean this is - what? - like the 15th North Korean missile test this year?  Yes. And this is on pace with the tests of last year. So...  Despite all of these new round of sanctions - I mean it is clearly not working what is being done so far.   Until they do is what the proponents of sanctions say. So  we will see what happens. But you know one thing to remember of course is that North Korea really believes this is a deterrent for them that these tests are defensive against what they see as a hostile U.S. And so it will be hard to get North Korea to give up its program.  That is NPR's Elise Hu tracking this from Seoul. Elise thank you.  You bet. 