 And let us turn to Syria now. Those supporting the opposition in that civil war face a challenge. Groups fighting the Assad regime are split into many factions. Some even have links to al-Qaida. Yesterday several powerful Islamist factions announced a break with the opposition leadership that is backed by the United States. NPR's Deborah Amos spoke to some rebel commanders who did not sign that declaration. They are moderates supported by the U.S. and they are seeing American support fade at a crucial time.   A satellite cell phone rings for rebel commander Bashar al-Zawi at home with his family in the Jordanian city of Irbid. It is a rare domestic break for this wealthy businessman turned rebel commander. But he is anxious to get back to his battalion of 5000 fighters in southern Syria. They are taking part in a rebel offensive that is squeezing the Syrian army around the city of Dera'a. Military analysts say the fight is one of the most strategically important battles because Dera'a close to Damascus is the regime's stronghold in the southwest. And you are going back to Dera'a to tonight  Yeah sure.  What will be your aims? What will you be doing?   Escalation. I am a leader of a brigade so my job is not to preach peace.  He shrugs off disappointment with the most recent U.S. policy shifts abandoning military strikes to focus on the diplomatic track in cooperation with Russia. Al-Zawi is focused on the fight for Dera'a where he says months of quiet preparation have paid off. Rebel sources say earlier this year Saudi Arabia stepped up arms shipments through Jordan. The CIA vetted the rebel groups that received the arms to make sure none went to Islamist extremists. We do not have extremists in the south says al-Zawi.   There is a good command between the groups. And hopefully we will be successful. But there is a shortage of ammunition.  And that is where al-Zawi and other commanders see a link between the U.S. turn to diplomacy and waning U.S. support for rebels on the ground. The pipeline of weapons ammunition as well as non-lethal aid pledged by the U.S. has slowed in recent weeks. America's focus says al-Zawi has shifted to destroying chemical weapons while the rebels insist on destroying the regime.   We were hoping for an intervention that did not happen. Everyone is only talking about chemical weapons now.  Al-Zawi heads the Yarmouk Brigade which is part of the Supreme Military Council backed by Washington and the Saudis considered the moderate wing of the rebel movement which is strong in the south.     The brigade regularly uploads battle reports to YouTube showing rebel fighters attacking regime checkpoints. But the capture of the city of Dera'a has remained out of reach. Some of the Assad regime's strongest forces are in the Dera'a region says Abu Ismael a defected army general who heads the southern command. Abu Ismael who taught military strategy at a Syrian war college before the revolution says a U.S. strike could have changed the balance against the regime.   In the beginning the regime was afraid. They evacuated most of the military headquarters and the security branches. But after the Russian-U.S. agreement the regime felt comfortable and started escalating.  And there has been another change he says. On some battle fronts the Assad regime has replaced Syrian field commanders with Iranians and Hezbollah fighters - the Lebanese militants.   Iran and Hezbollah have better experience in street wars.  We hear only promises from the Americans he says to supply and strengthen moderate rebels in the south.   They have been talking about it for a long time.   Do they ask you about are your guys moderate?   We developed trust. In the beginning they were afraid. Now there is trust. They know who the moderates are and who is not.  The extremists are in the north he says. In the south rebels are focused on Dera'a. And he says they need all the help they can get. Deborah Amos NPR News.   It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 