 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am David Greene.  And I am Don Gonyea. The Ukrainian and Russian presidents' press offices say the two leaders have agreed on the measures needed to establish a cease-fire in eastern Ukraine. But the details of that phone call between Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko and Russian President Vladimir Putin were not revealed. Meanwhile NATO allies meet tomorrow in Great Britain to discuss the war in Ukraine. For more we now go to NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson in Kiev. Good morning.  Good morning Don.  OK so there is been a lot of back and forth published about what that phone call accomplished. Can you tell us what was or what was not agreed to?  Yes it was rather confusing. Initially the Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko on his official website published a two-line statement saying that an agreement for a permanent cease-fire had been reached with Russian president Vladimir Putin. And then it was amended to say that an agreement was reached a quote cease-fire regime with the mutual understanding on the steps that would facilitate peace. Meanwhile the Russian media were reporting that this was not the case and that in fact Russia could not be partied - or could not be part of a cease-fire agreement because they are not partied to this conflict in their opinion. But then more recently what is being said is that - and this is again in Russia - that Mr. Putin says that there could be an agreement reached between the Ukrainians and the rebels or the Russian-backed separatists in eastern part of Ukraine by September 5 which is when they are supposed to be meeting again in the Belarus capital of Minsk. So there is a lot of confusion but one thing that Mr. Putin is also quoted as saying is that the two leaders have agreed on prisoner exchange humanitarian corridor for refugees and supplies. So you know it does look like there is some development or movement but it is still a little bit fluid and exactly whether this is a cease-fire or not seems to be up in the air depending on who you are talking to.  OK so Putin says the deal cannot be with us because we are not in the fight - the separatists are in the fight. So what are the separatists saying?  Well again we have to rely on Russian media here because the Donetsk People's Republic as one of the rebel entities is called speaks to Russian media more often than not. And one of these officials who was quoted was involved in the talks in Minsk earlier this week on September 1. He is saying - he called this a quote game or some sort of game by Kiev - the cease-fire announcement. And he says it is impractical as long as Ukrainian troops remain in the East. And that is certainly been the position of the rebels all along because they are trying to establish a country or autonomous region that they call New Russia where Ukraine would have no meaningful control. So it is - they obviously do not agree with it.  And just quickly any signs of any change in the fighting?  Yeah. Ukrainian troops are pulling back from a lot of positions in the East but they seem to be reinforcing themselves in the southern port city of Mariupol which the rebels have said they would capture.  NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson in the Ukrainian capital Kiev. 