 And if Apple was aiming to please Wall Street yesterday with new lower priced phones and big distribution deals in Asia - it failed. Apple's stock dropped sharply after it unveiled its latest update to the iPhone. That may be because Apple's iPhone empire was not built on distribution deals - it was built on technology that enchanted consumers. So we have asked NPR's Steve Henn in to talk about what new technological innovations Apple introduced yesterday. Good morning.  Good morning.  What is new in the world of the iPhone?  Well for a while now Apple has coasted along making incremental improvements to its phones and in many ways yesterday was no different. The iPhone 5S will have a faster processor. There is a new chip that will allow it to run motion detectors in the phone all the time without running down the battery as quickly. Apple also enhanced the camera and is making claims of better battery life - really a lot of stuff that we have seen before. The one thing that I think that has the potential to capture some people's imagination is Apple's attempt to get rid of passwords.  Right. Apple is putting a finger print scanner on this phone. Describe that for us.  Well Apple calls the system Touch ID. And it works by embedding a small sensor in the little home button at the bottom of the phone. So now instead of tapping in a password to get your phone on or to buy an app you can simple scan your finger. But before any of this works you have to train your phone.  Oh yeah. Right.   You know I have a hard enough time trying to train my cat Maggie not to walk across the keyboard when I am typing. I am not so sure I want to train my iPhone. How does it work?  Well when you are setting up the phone there is a little set of instructions that will tell you to scan your thumb or finger from different angles. You know I do not know if you have ever been fingerprinted - but unlike in jail where they roll you finger across a big screen to get a full print - Apple has just as a tiny little sensor to work with here. So it has to take multiple readings of your print and then piece them together. The theory is if they do this right you will not have to pick up the phone in exactly the same way every time for this  to work. You know Apple's not the first company to have tried this. Motorola introduced a fingerprint scanner back in a phone in 2011 and it received tepid reviews. The thing is a scanner like this if it does not work all the time pretty quickly it quickly gets annoying.  Yeah. What happens if it does not work?  That is a really good question and honestly I am not 100 percent sure. Apple said that it is possible to turn off the scanner if you do not want to use it. And so I think it safe to assume that if it completely failed to work it would probably default to the old pass code. But I asked Apple that and I did not get a clear response. The thing about any biometric system is there are actually two ways biometrics generally fails and they are related. The first way a system like this can fail is it might allow someone who is not me to access my phone. It could identify your finger as mine and turn it on. That might be awkward but it is unlikely to be completely disastrous. The second kind of failure is that I pick it up my phone and it does not let me in - a false negative. Now if Apple designed a system that generated millions of false negatives and customers were not able to get into their phones that would be a commercial disaster. So it is pretty likely that Apple has tried to build a system here that delivers more to deliver false positives than false negatives. So when this phone hits the streets I am going to be really curious to see how secure it is in the real world and whether or not people figure out how to hack it.  Well on that thought thanks very much.  Oh my pleasure. 