 Let us examine a few numbers that help define the human cost of Syria's war.  Syria's population is about 23 million - or at least it was before the war. Today just over half have been forced from their homes. Some are refugees within their country and 4.1 million people have left it.  Four-point-one million people outside their country and of those millions roughly 1500 have found refuge in the United States. Though the U.S. has donated a lot of money it is let in just a tiny fraction of the refugees absorbed by Turkey and nations across Europe. Now there is pressure to change that. NPR's Michele Kelemen reports.  Syrian-American Bilal Kanawati runs an IT business in North Carolina and tried to help his cousin another computer expert escape from Damascus. He was ready to sponsor visas for his cousin's family to come to the U.S. making clear they would not be a burden on the U.S. government.  And we sent the paper. We paid all the fees. And we just got denials on all of them.  And he says his cousin's life just keeps getting worse. The man's house was destroyed by a Syrian airstrike. His 15-year-old daughter fell ill and died because they could not reach a hospital and his son is about to be drafted.  The bottom line we really worry about his kids going to have to - not by choice - have to join the Syrian army.  Kanawati is not alone. He says his friend another Syrian-American was trying to help his brother get out of an area that is often hit by Syrian barrel bombs.  Last week one of these barrel they throw on civilian area. It came and hit him near his shop and he died.  He says after spending 6000 trying unsuccessfully to get his cousin's family to the U.S. he is giving up hope of helping any other relatives. Khalilah Sabra who is with the Muslim American Society Immigrant Justice Center in Raleigh N.C. says U.S. immigration authorities should be making the situations a priority.  They are not making this process easier. They are making it difficult.  She is been trying to help a Syrian couple get reunited with two of their children who they had to leave behind in Turkey because they could not get visas for everyone when they fled early in the conflict.  And there are lots of stories like this lots of stories of broken families.  Syrian-American communities from California to Michigan are ready to support refugees from their troubled homeland says Anna Greene of the International Rescue Committee an organization that helps to resettle refugees.  This is a community that is ready and able to help this population. But we also have volunteers across the country that work with IRC with all nationalities of refugees that we resettle who are waiting for this population and saying we are ready when is the population going to arrive? We are ready to help them.  The U.S. resettles about 70000 refugees from all over the world each year. When it comes to Syrians the State Department says the U.S. has taken in about 1500 since the start of the conflict and could take in 8000 in the next year. The U.N. is trying to find homes for 130000 of the most vulnerable refugees to ease the burden on countries in the area. And as Anna Greene points out the U.S. usually takes in half the global demands.  So that means 65000. That is our share of the burden if we really want to make a difference in saving the most vulnerable and helping these countries cope.  So far the U.N. has referred 15000 cases to the U.S. They tend to be the most desperate Greene explains. And she says what is worse is that aid agencies do not have the money they need to help these people either in Syria or in camps in neighboring countries.  We have individuals - Syrian refugees - who may have been in Lebanon now three or four years. They have completely exhausted their savings. And with only 37 percent funding for the refugee effort they are getting food rations cut. They are having difficulties getting assistance to be able to go to the hospital.  And that is one reason she says Syrians are making those dangerous journeys to Europe. Michele Kelemen NPR News Washington. 