 Top executives from Facebook and Twitter are here in town today with some important meetings. They are going before House and Senate committees on Capitol Hill and they will be grilled again about what social media companies could have done to stop Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election and what they are doing now about Russian propaganda ahead of the midterms. NPR's Tim Mak will be covering the hearing and he is with us in the studio. Hey Tim.  Hey there.  So as I mentioned these companies have been in this situation before answering these kinds of questions. In the past they have been reluctant to say they could have done more to prevent their platforms from being abused. Are they - do you expect them to say something different today?  Yeah. I think there is an increasing sense amongst big tech firms that this is a serious problem that an open society and social media platforms can be actually used against American democracy. Facebook for example is expected to emphasize how they are doubling the number of people working on safety and security issues to more than 20000. And they are going to talk about how they are collaborating with law enforcement increasingly in the months ahead. But there is one firm that is not going to be there at all and that is Google which has declined to send founder Larry Page or its CEO to appear before the Senate Intelligence Committee today. And in his place there is going be a little chair there a little sign - a bit of Washington theater - as there is bipartisan consensus from Republicans and Democrats on this committee that their offer Google's offer to send its chief legal officer is insufficient.  I mean this is really what the central tension has been about how these companies define themselves right? Are they just a platform for people to express their views or do they have a responsibility to curate them? How did they come down on this?  Yeah. I mean Facebook in particular is trying to make a good faith effort towards transparency and addressing some concerns from lawmakers and the public. And a lot of this is driven by the changing nature of the threat and how serious it now appears and has become. There is no sign that this threat is diminishing. In fact just in the past month we had Microsoft Facebook and Twitter all announce that they had discovered and disrupted foreign operations. Iran was revealed to be a new player in worldwide disinformation campaigns. And on top of this we found that there was a new Russian disinformation campaign and apparent hacking attempts. Big tech firms are really on red alert.  So these threats keep popping up and these companies say that they are equipped to manage them.  Well that is the thing about it. Some of these issues can be addressed by the companies themselves. Some of them can be addressed by regulations that Congress might propose such as online ad disclosures or things like new sanctions against foreign actors. But a lot of this has to do with people themselves. It is a multidimensional threat. It involves everything from hacking emails to bot networks online to disinformation campaigns to election infrastructure security. And a lot of this can be dealt with folks who are just listening to the radio right now and that is doing things like securing their emails with multifactor authentication and being super judicious about the kinds of information they view online whether or not they double check their sources whether or not they are looking at news sources that have credibility and a long track record of being established. It is a really complicated problem. It involves state governments big tech firms Congress and people being responsible themselves.  And us. You are saying it is on us. All right. NPR's Tim Mak thanks so much. We appreciate it.  Thanks a lot. 