 The delta variant is pushing coronavirus numbers up in the U.S. The number of people getting COVID is nearly three times greater than it was just a month ago. And CDC director Dr. Rochelle Walensky says it is due in large part to those who are still unvaccinated.   We are seeing outbreaks of cases in parts of the country that have low vaccination coverage because unvaccinated people are at risk.  All right. So is it time to change the guidance on masking requirements again? Former U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Jerome Adams says the CDC may need to. Dr. Adams welcome to the show. I know the CDC's masking guidance relied on a - kind of an honor system. Wear a mask indoors if you are not vaccinated. Now on Twitter you call that guidance harmful. Why'd you tweet that?  Well though well-intentioned the former CDC guidance or more appropriately the messaging of it has just absolutely unequivocally failed. Cases are rising everywhere. More people than ever vaccinated and unvaccinated are going maskless. And it does not seem to have convinced anyone to get vaccinated. And now you have local law enforcement officials like the LA County Sheriff directly citing the CDC guidance as a reason not to enforce local health mandates. But what your listeners need to understand is this delta strain is much more contagious - 1000 times more virus particles in the air if you have it. So even if you are an asymptomatic young person maybe you are an Olympian or a boxer or a college baseball player or an NBA star you are now 1000 times the problem to everyone around you by being unvaccinated even if you get it and you are asymptomatic.  Doctor what is the difference between the guidance and the messaging?  Well the guidance was based on vax it or mask it. And the science at the time suggested that if you were vaccinated you had a very low chance of spreading the virus. So you could go without a mask. The problem is that what people heard was no more mask. And they also rolled it out so quickly that it kind of took local health officials many that I have talked to completely by surprise. They did not have time to implement a plan. Businesses - Walmart just throws their hands up in the air and says hey we do not have a way to figure out who is vaccinated or who is not - so no mask for anybody. That was the problem with it.  So does the guidance need to change from the CDC?  The - I absolutely think that the CDC needs to come out and and say to people look this virus is changing rapidly because here's something else that people do not understand. When you look at the Israeli data the Pfizer vaccine was still incredibly effective at preventing severe disease and hospitalization but 64 effective at stopping spread. So even the vaccinated now could be spreading - much less spread relative to being unvaccinated. But that is being counteracted by delta being so much more contagious. We cannot afford to send the message that if you are vaccinated you have no worries and no responsibilities. We need both vaccinated and unvaccinated adults to take this seriously. And taking it seriously means if your local health officials say cases are going up and positivity rates are going up in your location you may need to vax it and mask it.  Now one place where cases and hospitalizations are rising is Arkansas. Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson spoke to All Things Considered yesterday. Let us take a listen.   Quite frankly this delta variant the longer it hangs around the easier it is to give positive results to somebody who has been vaccinated.  Dr. Adams how likely is it that vaccinated people will be able to catch COVID and show symptoms?  Well we still do not know that yet. And that is one of the challenges. You know I talked about the messaging that Tony Fauci and I had on masking last year. And one of the things is this virus has humbled us. What we thought we knew changes very quickly. We thought there was low asymptomatic spread. We quite frankly were not suspicious enough of reports that there were high degrees of asymptomatic spread. And our messaging did not reflect what ultimately came to be true. This delta variant is changing what we thought we knew. And again when you look at boosters particularly for people who are vulnerable or older it may be that at least in terms of stopping spread that we need to again focus on vaccinated as well as unvaccinated. Now I do not want people to take that vaccines are not highly effective.  Sure.  They are still highly effective at preventing serious disease and death. And you are going to spread less if you are vaccinated than if unvaccinated. But again we may need to vax it and mask it...  Yeah.  ...Sorry - in places where cases are going up. And you have got places where you have got 10 15 20 positivity rates.  Dr. Adams I realize we do not know what we do not know. But that is frustrating and a little scary to know that you and Dr. Fauci did not know as much or  more than us. I mean it feels like - we are looking to you to tell us what to do and lead us.  Well exactly. And one of the things that we need to have comfort in is letting the public understand that we are trying to build the plane as we are flying it that this virus is changing in real time. And that is how the scientific process works. Science is not a destination. It is a journey. And we need to have the courage to say look that we had this is our hypothesis. It did not prove to be true. Now we have got to course-correct. The hypothesis that if we told people vax it or mask it it would encourage more people to get vaccinated has failed. So we need to change the message.  So bottom line Dr. Adams vaccinated or not what should people be doing when they are considering going out say to the store?  They need to consider where they are going who they are going to be around whether they are vaccinated or not and whether they can ensure themselves that the people around them are going to be vaccinated. So me personally when I go out if I am going out around people who I all know are vaccinated I - right now I do not wear a mask. If I go out around people who I am not sure whether or not they are vaccinated I am going to be much more likely to wear a mask. And I am always going to make sure I am careful when I am bringing my 11-year-old daughter around because something else that people need to remember is that when you talk about unvaccinated in a pandemic of unvaccinated that includes our kids. That includes people with access issues. That includes...  Yeah.  ...Older and vulnerable people. So you may need to mask it and vax it the future.  Dr. Jerome Adams former U.S. surgeon general - Doctor thanks a lot.  Thank you A. 