 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show national political reporter for The Associated Press Juana Summers and NPR political editor Domenico Montanaro. All right. Let us start the show.    Wholly holy.  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend. Thank you to both of my guests for being here. Domenico Montanaro my old friend...  Hi Sam.  ...My old editor.  That is right.  .  ...Lead political editor at NPR Politics.  We miss you man.  I miss you all too - not enough to come back and  cover politics.  .  Yeah. I say it wistfully.  Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Also here with my friend Juana Summers national political reporter covering 2020 for The AP.  Thanks for having me back.  Of course. So I am playing in studio this weekend a song called Wholy Holy by Aretha Franklin. Just listen. Listen to this voice.    Come on together one another. Wholly holy.  So this song is from her legendary gospel album Amazing Grace. And I am playing Aretha this week because she got a prize. She won a Pulitzer this week.  Oh yeah.  She got a special citation for her quote indelible contribution to American music and culture for more than five decades.  It is been a good couple of years for the Pulitzers...  Yeah?  ...You know in music. I mean Kendrick Lamar won for Damn last year.  Oh he did.  Yeah.  So I am also playing this song from this album because there is a documentary of the recording of this live gospel album that is in theaters now and I saw it this week. And it is spectacular.  I have heard about it.  Yeah.  And I really want to see it.  You see the sweat on her brow. You see her her earrings jingle. And you just realize like no one's ever done it like her since. And it is a really interesting week to watch that movie because I also watched another music documentary - Beyonce's Homecoming movie on Netflix which is another piece of spectacular. Have you guys seen that one?  No.  Oh yes.  Oh my God.  .  I would be in trouble if I had not yet. Even Kamala Harris is tweeting about this. Like I would be behind.  But I did notice that you said Beyonce Twitter is greater than Mueller Twitter.  Oh that is true every day.  Like obviously.  Every day.  Obviously. Obviously.  Some of us have to get paid to watch Mueller Twitter.  .    Wholly holy.  All right. We are going to start our week as we always do. I am going to ask each of you to describe your week of news in only three words. Disclaimer listeners - we are taping this on Friday morning. By the time you hear this things will have surely changed. Sorry not sorry. Domenico with that what are your three words?  Normalizing extraordinary behavior.  Oh .  And...  OK.  Yeah. That was three words that was in the lead of Dan Balz's column yesterday from The Washington Post who is kind of the dean of political analysis around here. And he wrote that the Trump presidency has long been an exercise in normalizing extraordinary behavior with President Trump repeatedly stretching the limits of what is considered appropriate conduct by the nation's chief executive. And this went on to outline essentially why the Mueller report was so damning for the president because when you read that report it is a whole lot different than the way the attorney general William Barr wanted to frame it.  That is the thing. So I want us to take a second just to kind of outline the big findings of this report. Can you give us like a one-minute recap of like the big findings?  Sure. I will give it a shot. You know the fact was that Russia interfered in the 2016 election trying to help Trump and the campaign expected to benefit from it. Now there were numerous links they said between Russia and the Trump campaign. But the investigation did not establish that members of the Trump campaign quote conspired or coordinated with the Russian government.  So there was contact made.  Lots of contact.  But the report basically says that contact was not nefarious enough to meet the criminal threshold for...  For conspiracy...  ...For conspiracy.  ...Or for coordination. And I think that is a key difference in distinction. That is not saying they did not do bad stuff.  And so that is just kind of one part of this report.  Yep.  There is a whole second part that deals with how the president may have tried to you know interfere with the investigation...  Right.  ...Into the campaign. And what I found the most interesting about that was that this report says there were several times where he tried to interfere with the investigation. But he was thwarted because his own staffers would not follow his wishes.  Absolutely. And that was my biggest takeaway from this report is that it really exposed a culture of dishonesty within this White House that was created and led largely by the president himself where he repeatedly as we have now found tried to fire people who worked with him who did not carry out his wishes. But as you point out he was probably safe in part because people who worked for him saw that this was getting into a not great place. And they stopped him from following his own instincts. And I think...  Wow.  ...That tells us a lot about what is going on inside this White House and that this is a president who has not only lied to the public but also the people who work for him.  Yeah. I mean the way this obstruction section was written was really clever. I mean obstruction was a complete other matter altogether. It was pretty dispassionately written. And what investigators said first - they could not prosecute Trump because of Department of Justice guidelines where...  Yeah.  ...They said you cannot indict a sitting president. So it kind of puts the investigators in a little bit of a bind. But the report also said - went out of its way to say that if Trump quote clearly did not commit obstruction of justice we would so state. We are unable to reach that judgment. And then it went on to list 10 separate instances that there is evidence of obstruction of justice essentially giving Congress a road map to then go down that path and hold him accountable.  And so you have written about what happens next Domenico and what Congress does with this. I think Democrats do not want to give up on this. But it seems as if there are some big questions now about the I word.  Right. I mean we talk about two different I words - impeachment and investigations.  OK.  And I think that Democrats are hewing much more closely to investigations. Let us see what turns up under other rocks. Remember this report also outlined the fact that there are a dozen other investigations that have been launched not just by...   It is never going to end.  Right - but not just by congressional Democrats - talking about law enforcement...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...Things that - financial crimes potentially that have been referred to other U.S. attorneys around the country other investigators. And all of that potentially could turn something up. I think the big thing here for Democrats is they do not want the political backlash and a repeat of the 1990s where Republicans had the shoe on the other foot when they did impeach President Clinton at the time. And then they wound up really being hurt politically by that. And Democrats want to avoid that. And they have already made enough of a political argument to use this against Trump in 2020.  For both of you what is your most standout thing from this 400-and-however-many-page report?  I think for me the big thing - and Domenico touched on this a little bit already - is the fact that this was positioned in - and the president was making this prebuttal on what Barr said as to something that was completely exonerating of him. And it is very clear from reading this that this was not...  It is not .  ...A complete exoneration. That conclusion was not drawn. And so I think the dissonance between how the attorney general talked about it how the Trump campaign and Trump White House has positioned it and what the report actually said is I think the most important and clear thing that came out for me.  Yeah.  Yeah. I agree with that. And I think that what we also learned is that Mueller is now much more likely to testify because...  Oh.  ...Attorney General William Barr in Democrats' eyes has been completely discredited. They want to hear directly from Mueller himself. What Jerry Nadler the head of the House Judiciary Committee who would shepherd impeachment proceedings by the way has done is he is formally requested that Mueller testify either on or before May 23. Barr said he has no objection to that. So we will see if we actually hear from Mueller who has stayed silent for the last two years.  That guy - well what I hear you both saying is...   ...More to come. On that note Juana I think you have three words.  I do. I am going to talk about one of my favorite topics. And that is money.  .  So my three words are burn baby burn.  OK.  And I want to talk about - we just ended the first quarter of fundraising for the presidential race. And I just want to talk about...  Can you just pause real quick right there? It is spring of 2019. And we are already talking about fundraising numbers for 2020. Oh my God.  I am so sorry guys.  Pay attention Sam. There is an election going on.  .  There is always - anyway as you were Juana.  .  We are in the perma-campaign.  Yes. Yes.  So today I want to talk about what the candidates are raising but also a number that I think is more important. And that is what they are spending. And to do that I want to focus on two candidates.  OK.  Elizabeth Warren the senator out of Massachusetts...  Yes.  ...And South Bend Ind. Mayor Pete Buttigieg...  Mayor Pete.  ...Who is given us all a pronunciation lesson.  Say it again.  Did you say Buttigieg?  Is it Butti...  Buttigieg.  I think I am going to...  Butti - I do not know.  .  I am going to follow the mayor's cue. And I am going to go with Mayor Pete today...  There you go. There you go.  ...So I do not get myself in trouble...  Mayor Pete - Mayor Pete.  ...With the Pete Twitter bots out there.   So here's what I have got for you. I am going to start with Elizabeth Warren. She raised 6 million in the first quarter of 2019.  OK.  And those reports became public on Monday. But the number that I think is even more interesting is that she spent 5.2 million. That is more than any Democratic candidate and the 2020 field. And that tells us a lot about how she is running her organization right?  Yeah.  She is making a big bet early on that early investments and organizing in key primary states are going to pay off for her in 2020. Now by contrast Mayor Pete - he is only been in the race for a hot second it seems like. He raised 7 million. But what he spent - just 700000 - so only 9 percent of that.  That is the most Mayor Pete thing ever. He would save all his money.  He is. He is hoarding it. This looks more like a report that you would see out of a congressional candidate rather than a presidential candidate...  Wow.  ...Who is one of the biggest online fundraisers.  I think part of that though is that I think he is kind of surprised at what he is been able to do fundraising wise you know? He was somebody who is pretty largely unknown. And then he did the CNN town hall. And all of a sudden he gained half a million Twitter followers.  Wow.  Money started coming in. And he knew he had to run a lean campaign from the start. Elizabeth Warren on the other hand had been a huge progressive star for years. And she expected to have a big campaign. But frankly her money numbers are kind of underwhelming.  Yeah. So what is interesting about all these fundraising numbers - the top two fundraisers are Bernie Sanders for the Democrats and then Kamala Harris. But their two figures combined for this last quarter basically just matches what Trump raised. He is outraising everybody right?  That is true. And so here's my take on all of that. When you look at this there is one candidate - not discount to Bill Weld - on the Republican side of the aisle.  .  There are - probably by next week we will have - what? - 19 20 candidates...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...On the Democratic side of the aisle. If you look at how many people are giving not just to one candidate but to many and infusing their dollars across the map I think it shows us that there is a lot of enthusiasm. And I think from talking to voters many Democrats and left-leaning voters are furious about the direction the country is going. And they are concerned about the administration. And they have been looking for an outlet to tap that outrage in. We saw them do that in infusing record-breaking fundraising totals in 2018. And now that we are coming closer to 2020 they are signaling that discontent and their need to have an outlet with their dollars across the map.  I have three words that are a bit less about politics.  Thank God.  Go for them Sam.  They are save the churches.  Oh.  And I am talking this week about Notre Dame on fire this week in Paris. It was such a surreal sight to see such an iconic piece of history engulfed in flames. But I was most surprised by the overwhelming outpouring of support to bring back this cathedral right away. France's three richest families pledged more than 700 million. Altogether donors have pledged already this week more than a billion dollars to rebuild this church.  Wow.  It is astronomical.  I think for me it was just really striking. And I should say I have never been to Paris or been to that cathedral. But just literally watching history set aflame before our eyes and watching it in real time was a really gripping moment. And I think for - I think the big lesson I got is that we have to guard our history and we have to be mindful of our history because it will not always be there. And just not having that iconic sight for generations to come would be devastating.  Devastating. You know that definitely was the first wave of coverage - this kind of outpouring of grief from the world it seemed. But then about a day or two into this story a lot of folks were saying you know there are other sacred sites that need rebuilding talking about ancient sites destroyed by the Islamic State in Syria or even the string of black churches that have been set on fire here in the States. And there were these questions about what gets our attention and what gets our money. There was a big push online for people who were concerned about Notre Dame to also give to a GoFundMe campaign for three historically black churches that had been burned in Louisiana within two weeks in the same parish. As of this taping that fundraiser which had a 1.8 million goal has raised a bit over 2 million. So there is going to be some preservation of this American history as well and some rebuilding too which is I think a very good thing. It is also weird to see all this church news happen during Easter week.  Yeah.  Yeah for sure.  All right. On that note coming up as our definitions of gender become more fluid there is a big question to answer. Who is or is not allowed on single-sex college campuses? That is after the break. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   Listeners hello. Before we get back to the show we all know that we rely on technology every day. We are on our phones. We are on our computer screens. We are using our smart speakers et cetera. I want you all to tell me if there was ever a time when you felt like your tech habits got unhealthy. How did you realize that? How did you fix that? Share that story with us. Send me an email or record a voice memo of your story and send that to us at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. This is all for an upcoming episode that could include you. All right. Back to the show. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am your host Sam Sanders here with two guests. Domenico Montanaro lead political editor at NPR thank you for being here.  You are so welcome. This is a pleasure.  Thank you. And Juana Summers national political reporter covering 2020 for The AP who is with us on her day off. You are a trooper.  Only for you guys. Always glad to be back.  I appreciate it. I appreciate it. So before we get to the next news topic I want to ask you all a question. For both of you Juana Domenico do you like your dentist?  Huh.  .  You know what? I think my dentist does a good job but I do not like what they charge. And sometimes I feel like you do not always - it is not like a painter. You know if a painter comes to your house and is like hey yeah I could do all these rooms. You ask how much. They give you a pretty good idea. Dentists are like well we will see what happens when we get in there.   Like no. What?  Yeah.  Give me a range.  Juana.  This is a very good reminder that I probably ought to go see my...  Oh.  ...Dentist because it is been like a year so...  But Juana's onto something. You actually may be totally fine Juana. There was a story in The Atlantic this week and it basically reports that this idea that we all must go to the dentist twice a year - that is probably made up.  No.  Researchers and scholars have traced that back to a few sketchy sources including a toothpaste advertisement from the 1930s. Now most dentists say you only need to go probably once every 12 to 16 months.  Oh.  But they are still not publicizing this because they want your money.  Yeah they do.  My mother will be so glad to hear that.  Right.  But I am sure she is going to be horrified that I just admitted that on air .  Dentists do better. Why is not there like a flat-rate dentistry service?  I do not know but I have muted the term do better on Twitter so...   ...I do not know if you can hear it.  All right enough of dentists. Let us totally switch gears now and talk about school - not dentistry school but college. And some news at a legendary historically black college happened just recently. Morehouse College the all-male school in Atlanta Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s alma mater - Morehouse announced this week that it will start formally accepting transgender men beginning in fall 2020. It is big news. And I want to talk about what that means for Morehouse and what it says about trans rights on a larger scale across the country. So I sat down recently with Morehouse graduate and Out Magazine reporter Tre'vell Anderson to discuss. Here's our chat. Hey there. How are you? TRE' I am good. How are you?  I am good. Thanks for your time today. I really appreciate it.  Not a problem.  Yeah. So let us talk about this policy change at Morehouse. I saw it and it surprised me. What exactly is in it?  So the policy basically says that they are going to be accepting trans men.  OK.  The institution is still not accepting women or people who identify as women regardless of their sex assigned at birth. And it really kind of I think within the college community - for me I froze when I heard the news.  Wow.  But it definitely - as I wrote in my piece for out.com it is a historic move but it definitely is not perfect as written.  Yeah. Yeah. I guess speaking to it not being perfect there is already some pushback because it does not include some trans people. People who transition to female during their time at Morehouse...  Right.  ...Under this policy they technically are not allowed to stay.  They are - I think the policy says their eligibility status changes right? They will be forced...  That is weird.  ...To withdraw.  Wow.  And that is drawing a lot of concern from people in part because the policy - right? - is different from say Spelman College our sister college across the school. They...  Which is just for women.  That is just for women. They updated their policy a couple years ago. And their policy states that if you are a woman who comes into their manhood while a student - right? - that you will be allowed to finish your education...  OK.  ...At the institution.  OK.  Morehouse's policy says that you are basically forced to withdraw...  Yeah.  ...And find other educational opportunities.  That is something. And I could totally see Morehouse saying down the road maybe they should change that.  I would hope they say that sooner rather than later...  Yeah.  ...In part just because you know as a student you are already dealing with a lot. And then if you are coming into your identity in any particular way you do not want to have to worry about - have to now find another school...  Yeah.  ...To finish out your education.  Yeah. Yeah.  I think gender is just one of those things that is so fluid and it comes and bites you in your butt when it wants to.  .  And so you cannot control when it happens.  Yeah. Well there is also this bigger existential question about what it means to have an all-male college like Morehouse or an all-women's college like Spelman. You know as our understanding of gender changes these schools maybe cannot exist as they did before.  I think it is a situation where we have to get comfortable allowing the legacy to be more expansive than it has been. I often say that you know people are often surprised when they see me and I say that I went to Morehouse because I am gender nonconforming. And everyone's always like how did that work?  .  Like how was your time there?  Yeah.  And while I was not as gender nonconforming as I am now while I was there Morehouse has a rich history of queer and trans students and graduates right? Now you do not see those people in the brochures.  Ah.  They do not talk about those people at convocation right?  Ah.  And so I hope that this will begin a process of bringing some of those people and some of those voices back into the...  Yeah.  ...Conversation of what it looks like to be a Morehouse graduate.  Yeah. So it is really not even saying you all can come in now. It is also saying we are going to publicly speak to the fact that you all were always here.  I hope so. I mean I think what we know is that the institution - they often talk about the brotherhood...  Yeah.  ...Right? They often talk about Morehouse men...  Yeah.  ...Men of Morehouse. I...  That language may have to change.  I think it is great - it would be great if the school started saying Morehouse graduates - right? - as opposed to Morehouse men. But...  It is going to be hard to shake that.  It - listen OK?  .  1867 is when the institution was founded OK?  Yeah .  So you are shaking a lot to get...  Yeah.  ...To that point.  Yeah yeah. Do you think compared to the average college across the country that Morehouse is more or less generally accepting of the LGBTQ community? And why?  I think that there is a culture on our campus specifically but also on campuses across the country that are HBCUs and otherwise - that they allow students who are gay or queer-identified to - like you can be gay...  But do not talk about it.  ...But - right do not talk about it.  Oh yeah.  Or you can be gay but not too gay...  It is like the...  ...Right?  It is like the black church.  Very much like the black church.  The choir director is gay...  Right. And it is important to say...  ...But no one's going to talk about it.  Exactly. And it is important to say that Morehouse is a - we call it historically Baptist.   And so like there is a lot of kind of religious undertones seeped into every single part of the institution right? And so that is the background that we are dealing with.  Yeah.  And we are an institution known for raising preachers raising teachers...  Yeah.  ...Right? Martin Luther King Jr. is our most famous graduate right? And so I do not know if I would say Morehouse - it makes it more difficult for LGBTQ folks. But I know that there is a difficulty there.  So this comes as across the country there are you know a lot of anti-trans measures. We have seen the Trump White House's trans ban in the military take effect.  Right.  We are seeing states across the country enact anti-trans laws. What do we think all of this is saying about wider attitudes about trans acceptance?  You know it is interesting because I think while we have kind of this political landscape in which trans lives are trying to be erased and ignored and all this other stuff in Hollywood and the media - right? - trans people are experiencing unprecedented visibility...  Yeah.  ...Right?  Yeah.  And so it is this really interesting paradox. I think theoretically we believe that this media visibility that trans folks are having will help change hearts and minds - right? - across the world right? And we say that because that is what happened with gay people...  Yeah.  ...Right? - Will  Grace and all...  Oh yeah.  ...Of that. And so I mean I think I hope in - that we will get to a point where the media representations that we see of trans folks spills over into our everyday lives and people start to respect and uplift and allow trans people just to exist.  Yeah.  But again a lot of people still do not know a trans person.  Yeah yeah.  And that is not to mean - that is not to say that they have not met a trans person. They just do not know that they have met...  Ah...  ...A trans person...  Yeah yeah...  ...Right?  ...Yeah.  And so hopefully we get to a point where more trans people feel comfortable coming out and identifying as trans. And I think that will lead to kind of the promised land that we might all be working towards.  Yeah. Well I am going to be watching very closely.  You and me both.  Yeah. And...  .  ...I also have to say congratulations to Morehouse. I am sure you watched Beyonce's new Netflix film...  Of course...  ...Homecoming.  ...I did.  There is a scene where she is with the kids and...  Yes.  ...She is wearing a Morehouse shirt.  Yes. I saw - I was screaming the entire time...  .  ...Because I go up for HBCUs. I love them. They are necessary.  Yeah.  And it is so great to see Beyonce kind of give us this little platform.  Right. Thank you so much for your time.  Thank you.  DESTINY'  Can you keep up?  Many thanks to Tre'vell Anderson from Out Magazine for that conversation. All right. Juana Domenico I want to talk to you about that conversation. But I also want to just take a second to acknowledge Beyonce's performance in that Netflix movie once again.  I was wondering if you were going to just acknowledge the drums.  I mean are not they great?  Yeah.  And she had a whole marching band for this thing at Coachella. It is amazing. But I digress. It is a weird time to think about trans rights in America because on the one hand this community is more visible than ever. But on the other hand they are still facing a lot of restrictions legally across the country.  Absolutely. I think one of the things that is been most instructive to me - like I did not go to an HBCU but I have spent a lot of time on HBCU campuses and I went to an all-girls Catholic high school in the Midwest - is having a person who I went to elementary school with who also attended an all-girls Catholic high school come out as trans to me recently. And it is been really instructive for me watching this person just like live their life and be who they are and talk about what that intervening space of time is like for them for me personally was really educating and beneficial. But I do realize the burden that comes along with that because that person is also probably also put in a lot of situations where he has to explain himself in a way that other people just out there living their life doing their day-to-day do not have to. And that is - in a lot of ways that is unfair that they have to do that.  Yeah.  I mean that is really interesting because I also went to an all-boys high school. And it is since gone co-ed.  Oh really?  And I know that they had all these arguments about how good a single-sex education can be right? But I think when you have a school like Morehouse which is an all-male but secular HBCU how they figure out what the expectations are for all of the students and for all of those parents - I think it is a difficult line for all of them to walk.  Oh yeah. I will be watching closely. I find the whole story fascinating. All right. It is time for a break - when we come back my favorite game Who Said That. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR - BRB. Listeners before we back to the show I want to let you know that I am going to be in Des Moines. And if you are around I want you to come hang out with me OK? I am doing a live show in Des Moines Iowa on May 9. You all know I love Iowa. I will be there recording our Weekly Wrap on a Thursday evening May 9. Tickets are on sale at iowapublicradio.org - iowapublicradio.org. Get them while you can. Truthfully I am going to wear a suit for this thing. It is going to be real nice. OK. Hope to see you there. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests this week - Juana Summers - she covers national politics for The AP specifically 2020 - and Domenico Montanaro lead political editor for NPR. Thank you for being here.  You are so welcome.  Thanks for having us.  It is time to play my favorite game Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  You both know how this works. I share a quote from the week. You have to guess who said that or at least get the story I am talking about or at least get a keyword. The winner gets bragging rights and nothing else.  Nothing? - like an Xbox.  You got big dreams.  Something.  The last gift I gave you is still in the box Domenico.   Should we tell people what it was? - like a 70-foot giant pink flamingo.  Yeah.  Yeah.  For your pool.  Thanks.  I want the pink flamingo.  . Let us get into it - ready for the first quote?  All right.  Right here.  All right. Quote The burger is then finished with slabs of bacon imported from Essos a Dothraki delicacy.  What?  So...  Who said that?  Dothrakis are from Game Of Thrones.  Yes.  Oh.  This is about a burger. Just start guessing burger joints. You are already close enough though.  Oh Carl's Jr.   No.   Red Robin.  Who has...   Upper scale high scale.  Upper-scale burger chain? - Shake Shack.  Yes.   Oh.  Oh.   I helped you out. So Shake Shack announced a Game Of Thrones-themed burger and a Game Of Thrones-themed shake this week.  I am the target audience for this. How did I not hear this? All I spend my time - is Game Of Thrones.  I know. There is also...  Well there is a Shake Shack a few blocks away Juana.  On my way home.  All right.  I will tell you what else they have. They have a dracarys burger. It is a double Monterrey Jack cheeseburger topped with bacon and fiery dracarys sauce and a dragonglass milkshake - minted white chocolate custard topped with shards of dragonglass .  Why would you want to drink dragonglass? These people are clearly not fans. I take offense.  . Domenico you got the first point. Next quote...  I did? I thought that was kind of...  I help sometimes.  ...Half a point each.  We helped.  But...  I think we all kind of helped each other out there.  Yeah. All right.  Well...  We - point for everyone.  Everyone gets a point? That is not how this game is played .  Are we - are you Oprah now?   Yes. Everybody gets a point.  I want my Xbox.  Uh-huh. All right. Next quote This is not a living brain. But it is a cellularly active brain. What am I talking about?  This something about robots?  It is about a brain story that was really creepy involving animals this week.  Oh.  You all saw this story.  No.  I am not sure that we did.   Does this...  Oink oink.  ...Have to do with the Mueller report? No.  No.  Pigs?   Yes pigs. After I say oink oink.  I mean that was a give me.  Oh. Was this the one where people - I saw some people saying that like you know why are we even talking about this? They should just be bacon which sort of transitions from our last thing.  .  Yeah.  You know the story I am talking about?  I - well sort of.  This week scientists removed brains from pigs' heads and placed the isolated brains in an experimental chamber. And they hooked up these dead brains to like blood vessels in some device that had a chemical cocktail. And they said...  Wow.  ...That in these dead brains some molecular and cellular functions were restored.  That sounds awesome.  Does it?  No.  I think it does.  That sounds awful.  That is going to - I mean we are going live to like 200.  Do you...  I do not want to do that.  ...Want to do that?  Yeah. I do.  Oh.  I do not want to die.  This got real deep.  It is meta.   All right. Who got that point? I forget.  You.  I think you got that point .  Yeah. OK.  .  One more quote. And this - will this determine the winner? Well...  We will try to