  May it please the court counsel. Members of the jury his name was George Perry Floyd Jr. And he was born on October 14 1973 in Fayetteville N.C. to his parents George Floyd Sr...  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week Black trauma in the media and creating Black joy. All right. Let us start the show.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE FROM NPR. I am Sam Sanders. So this week saw an end to the trial of Derek Chauvin for the death of George Floyd. We have not talked too too much on this show about that trial and there was a reason for that. It just felt like we might be rehashing the trial that we all were bombarded with nonstop over the last few weeks. And if I am being honest a lot of times I did not know what to say. And it hurt to talk about it and think about it and relive that video and George Floyd's death. But this week we are talking about that video and a lot of other videos too. When the verdict in the Chauvin trial came on Tuesday it felt momentous - a big change. Then on the same day another shooting.   Protests in Columbus Ohio the scene of another deadly police shooting. This happened minutes before the verdict was handed down in the Derek Chauvin trial and the victim here is a 16-year-old girl. According to police...  Another Black family traumatized another graphic video for the Internet.   But in the graphic body camera video of the incident it shows a very chaotic scene. It is...  There are so many videos for the Internet.   America's largest police force is facing a serious controversy over a video that is gone viral showing officers arresting a suspect who later died. The video is wrenching.  I do want to warn you this is very disturbing. This video...  I want you to sit down and watch this because it is shocking. It is shocking dashcam video. It is been...  We want to warn you what you are about to see is disturbing.   On the one hand these kind of images they are important and necessary. They document violence for those who would not believe that this stuff actually happens every day. I mean without the video of George Floyd would there have even been a trial to begin with? But these videos hurt. And over the course of this trial and honestly since last summer if not before then I have been thinking about just how much I am asked to consume Black trauma on screen - iPhone screens TV screens even movie screens. I wanted to talk with someone who thinks about things like this a lot Eric Deggans. He is NPR's TV critic. We hit up Eric to discuss how we process the must-see TV that these police shootings have become. And I also had some questions about an entire TV and movie industry that sometimes seems to thrive on Black pain. You know I think for me if I had to offer a review of in particular the cable news coverage of this trial it all felt like must-see TV that I could not bear to watch. It was too much. And every day when I wanted to try to be informed on the trial as it was proceeding I could only give myself maybe 10 or 15 minutes of it because it hurt. It just hurt to be living in that moment and I think it was weird to see parts of my industry the news media ask everyone to live in that hurt nonstop for a few weeks. You know what I am saying?  Yeah.  I did not like that.  Yeah. But you know what was really happening - I mean I see it a little differently as a TV critic. It is all there if you can handle it and if you want it. We live in a media universe now where you can consume this information in the way that you choose. So you do not have to turn on CNN and watch it all and I was constantly advising people not to do that. Do not put it on like a background...  All day.  ...While you are doing your work at home because you do not realize how that unsettles you. You do not realize how...  Yeah.  ...It agitates you. I mean they played the video you know nine minutes or so in the opening statement. They had a recreation of it. They had the 911 operator talking about it. I mean you know they replayed the moments of George Floyd's death multiple times during the testimony - to say nothing of you know the experts sort of dissecting exactly when you know he lost his breath and exactly when the life went out of his body. So there is no reason why anyone should feel compelled to have that on in the background...  Yes.  ...Or watch it all the time.  Well and I am glad you brought that up because one of the big things that I want to talk about in this chat with you is these videos are still constantly shared and constantly on loop. And when these stories are trending in the news the ratings are up. What does it say about us that in spite of knowing how traumatic and painful these videos and images of Black people being killed at the hands of police are we still keep watching and we do not look away?  Well I think different people come to these videos for different reasons. I think people want to see their preconceptions about what happened confirmed. And other people want to see if the narrative that is out there about what is being said - they want to debunk it. But I think the thing that is common is that people feel that in viewing the video they will learn some sort of truth that they can only learn by watching the video. And I think what is happened is we have gotten into this pattern where the only way we can quote-unquote prove that this stuff is happening is to have unedited video of it that people can see. And you can just say look. That is why the George Floyd video was so much more impactful than other videos that we have seen of other deaths because it was unedited and it was a passerby. It was not even somebody who knew who he was. They just filmed it and released it to the public. And so you got a sense that you were getting as close to the objective truth as possible.  Yeah. You know I want to pivot away from news media and talk about entertainment media and the way that the entertainment that we consume and view is also sharing imagery of Black pain and trauma. You know there is been this discussion going on since George Floyd's death and before about the way that Black pain is displayed in the TV and movies that we watch as well. And there are a couple of TV series that are out now that are full of Black suffering. And a lot of folks are already saying do not do this stop doing it. They are drawing a bunch of critique. What are those projects?  Well there is Them a series on Amazon that is out now that takes the travails of a Black family that moved into Compton in the 1950s when it was mostly white and draws a straight line between the racism that they had to face and a horror story much in the same way that Lovecraft Country did. It is like a mashup of like Lovecraft Country and Us. So there is that.  That sounds really heavy Eric.  I know.  That sounds really heavy.  I know man. I know man. It is - I mean I have watched 2 12 episodes of it so far. I have - you know with shows like this it takes me a while to get through them sometimes. You know When They See Us the miniseries on Netflix about the Central Park Five - it took me three tries to get through watching that...  Wow.  ...Because it is hard for me to watch Black pain. But my - as a critic what I always say is - I always ask does the storytelling and the story that you are trying to communicate justify the pain that you are showing?  In terms of looking back on this cluster of projects over the last few years that are showing Black trauma Black pain - I mean even thinking about HBO's Watchmen - was there one of these that just did not at all get it right the most egregious the one where the violence was the least justified to push the story along?  See I would not even get close to finishing something like that. So I - nothing jumps to mind. I feel like Lovecraft and Watchmen justified their use but they were both jarring. They both recreated the Tulsa race massacre. And Watchmen in particular recreated the Tulsa race massacre in a way that you saw - it gave you a glimpse of the full scope of that attack where you know planes may have dropped incendiary devices on the Black district in Tulsa. And...  Would that show have been perceived differently now as opposed to when it came out a few years ago?  Definitely. Definitely. Definitely. I think there is a sense out there that there is even less tolerance for depicting Black pain because we have been through everything with George Floyd. Lovecraft Country came out the summer after George Floyd's death. So we were just starting to be inundated with that video and the ramifications of it. I think if Lovecraft came out you know six months later people would have had much less tolerance for it and much less of a taste for it. You know I think we are reaching this point - when you think about Game Of Thrones - OK? - Game Of Thrones took a lot of criticism for how it depicted sexual assault against women...  Yeah.  ...And how it depicted it graphically and how it depicted it in a way that was almost titillating. And the backlash I am convinced pushed HBO to stop doing that in other shows. And so I think the industry kind of at some point realized that graphically depicting rape just was not going to be tolerated by the audience that it was trying to reach with these high-quality projects. And so I wonder if we are not going to get to that point with depictions of Black pain.  So preparing for this conversation and talking to you right now I feel like - and I want you to check me on this. I feel like something about our American psyche and our society there is an oftentimes perverse obsession with depictions and portrayals of Black pain on screen. And it is in this sad way it is always been marketable if not profitable. And I am betting that if we look back through TV history we can see it a through line throughout. I do not know. You know more about TV than I do. Am I right when I go there? Does this feel like a thing that is been with us for a long time?  Yeah. Yeah. Do you remember Roots?  Oh I do. My mother let me - my mother had my brother and I watch Roots when I was like 7. And I was like Mom you sure you want to do this? And she was like you got to see it.  I watched it with my kids when they were 9 and 10.  Wow.  Yeah man. And I watched it when I was in the fifth grade I want to say maybe. I just remember walking around being angry at white people .  Yeah.  I was just so upset with white people after I watched that. But - so yeah it has been with us - I mean you know Roots is I think '75 '76...  Seventy-something yeah.  ...Something like that - mid-'70s.  Yeah.  So at least since then. But here's the other - here's the thing again. Here's another way to look at it is that this is how you get white people to care. This is how you get white people to care about Black issues is that you wrapped them up in stories about Black pain and they are dramatic enough to get their attention and get them to think about the ideas that you want to you know sort of handle.  Yeah.  And so I just feel like we got to get to a point where it is not about constantly opening up the same wounds to get the same attention. We got to figure out a way to encourage filmmakers to tell stories that are about Black issues and that feature Black characters but are not always centered on the typical kinds of Black pain that fuel these stories.  Well and it is like - I want to close just by saying to like all of the listeners out there you are hearing it from Eric and from me Black people are more than our pain. There are Black people in the future. And in that future we sure do hope to not be having to circulate videos of us getting shot. Let us live in that future.  Yeah. And you know beyond being more than our pain we are also more than just comedy . That is - it feels like those are two things we get from entertainment. We get Kevin Hart or we get you know Them.  Them.  And maybe there is a way...  There is a whole lot more.  There is a whole lot more in the middle there. And yeah I mean I would love to see that.   Thanks again to Eric Deggans TV critic for NPR. Stay with us listeners. When we come back we are going to take a sharp pivot to Black joy.   My next guest came on the show to talk about the newest season of her HBO sketch comedy series. It was going to be a fun chat but we taped this interview right as the verdict in the Derek Chauvin case was set to come down. Like in the hour they said that we would hear. So there was no way that we could avoid discussing that and how hard these last few weeks have been. What is so hurtful to me is how long it took for Black America to get the rest of everybody else to catch up and see how bad it is. I am very angry that it took this long and this much grotesque suffering for this reality to be seen. You know what I am saying?  Yeah. It is really when you think about it a little bit gross because I have definitely seen people tweet like well I did not know this was this big of a problem. And now that I have seen this case and this case and this case and this case - and when you think about that it is like oh that meant that there was a number of people that it took you to feel empathy. You kind of have to ask yourself where were my empathy levels that it did not take just one for me to be like this is not right?  That is Ashley Nicole Black. Her show on HBO it is called A Black Lady Sketch Show. And it is exactly that a comedic sketch show in which just about every face you see every voice you hear is a Black woman up.    Make a mess. Give them press. You the best with your fine ass with your fine ass. Go on girl with your fine ass...  A Black Lady Sketch Show is out with its second season this weekend. I got to watch a bit and I got to say it offers a nice alternative to all the Black pain and trauma we have all been seeing nonstop recently in the news.   I was able to watch the first two episodes before this interview. And I was thinking the same thing that I was thinking when I watched Eric Andre's Bad Trip and that movie and this show are these two wonderful instances of just unmitigated unbridled Black joy Black absurdity Black comedy. I do not have to think about trauma. I do not have to like get caught up in anything that feels too stressful. It is just joy. So it meant a lot more to me than I thought it would is what I am saying.  Thank you. I think that is also how we as a people have survived for this long is that we do find joy and art and beauty in a lot of difficult things. Like I personally - and I am sure a lot of people can relate - a joke that someone tells at a funeral you will laugh harder than you will at any other joke. And so I think part of what can be radical about sketch is that it allows for so much change to play so many different characters to go to so many different environments to see one performer one cast in so many different lights which is just what the nature of sketch is. But then when we are doing it as Black women it does become radical because we are so used to seeing Black women in one light which is often connected to suffering unfortunately.  Yeah or even just seeing Black women in spaces doing things you do not usually see. Like there is one sketch from Season 1 which I really love it is Black Lady Courtroom.    What in the baby hair?   It is a Black lady courtroom.   Black lady courtroom .   Black lady courtroom .  You have got a courtroom with a judge and a jury and lawyers and defendants and prosecution and a bailiff and they are all Black women. And it is this celebration in the first season all these Black women excited to see this thing that they have not seen before and it becomes a party. You brought it back in Season 2. What makes you all hold on to that sketch?  That was probably the No. 1 sketch that people responded to. On Twitter on Instagram we got so many beautiful pictures of people being like Black lady surgical suite Black lady dentist's office. Like wherever that was happening in real life people were...  Yeah.  ...Taking their picture and sent it to us. So we could not...  That is awesome.  Yeah. We could not come back and not go back to that because we just had to honor those fans who were telling us how much that sketch meant to them. And to me that is like such a classic sketch because when I wrote it - a lot of times I just like try to think of a very small moment in life and try to think OK how could you blow this out to its biggest you know comedic conclusion? And that moment where you look across the room and make eye contact at another Black woman and you are happy that she is there but you do not necessarily feel like you could say that out loud and you guys just have that little silent look - I just wanted to blow that out comedically as much as possible. But then seeing the audience response it was like oh yeah they have that moment too and it is relatable to them and that is why they love that sketch that much. And of course coming out of quarantine everyone wants to have a lot more of those moments - right? - where you just  - just seeing people is exciting right now .  Yeah. Black lady after times - that is what we want .  Yes.  So when we talked last you were working on Samantha Bee's show which has a team more diverse than most late-night shows but like it was not all Black when you were there. What is the biggest shift in just your workday day to day working with and in a team as Black as the one that you are on now versus - I do not know - any other team?  Yeah two big things. From a writing standpoint you just have to explain yourself a lot less. And so when I got into an all-Black-woman room - and actually the first sketch that I pitched on the very first day was that Patti LaBelle sketch.    So many times said it was forever...   Oh my God. Patti LaBelle is in your house.   I know.   ...Said our love would always be true.   Every time I get dumped here comes Patti LaBelle with all her octaves.   Something in my heart...  So I started my pitch you know Patti LaBelle because - and in that room everybody knows Patti LaBelle.  Everybody knows Patti.  You do not have to do...  Yeah.  Yeah. You do not have to do that work. And then...  How does that feel?  I mean I just had extra energy left over. It felt great.   Yeah yeah.  And then as an actor the biggest thing - and a lot of Black actors particularly women talk about this - is just being able to walk in the hair and makeup trailer and know that the person in there knows how to do your hair and makeup.  Yeah. Having experienced both kinds of workspaces some that are all Black or close to all Black and those that are not what might you recommend folks working in spaces that are not all Black or are not all women do to make those spaces better for Black people and for women for Black women?  That is a great question. A big thing and a small thing. A small thing - in comedy comedy can be really competitive because everyone's trying to get...  Yeah.  ...Their joke in. And I notice that...  Yeah.  ...Once you get above 50 women it is much less competitive. And women are much more likely to be like her joke is better take that one. And that is just a more pleasant experience.  OK.  And then on a bigger level I think people need to reduce their defensiveness around race. I think a lot of times in the room you know you are having these conversation about a story and you might say something like oh well maybe we do not want to represent this character that way or I know that you are just like innocently pitching this but this is kind of a trope about Black people and maybe we do not want to do that. And I think the natural response to that for a lot of white people is to immediately be defensive and be like you calling me racist and I am not. I mean Sharon Osbourne is doing the I am-not-racist tour right now you know? And I think that if you can just when that feeling comes up take a deep breath and stop. That moment if you choose to indulge your defensiveness and shut that person down you could shut that creativity down in the room. You could be setting yourself up for a month of long quiet days as opposed to you know just take a deep breath and be like oh that is hard for me to hear but thank you for telling me. You know what? I am going to sleep on that and let us talk about it tomorrow and just not immediately respond with that defensiveness.  Yeah. As the great Tyra Banks said learn something from this.   We were rooting for you.   Yes.   All right more with Ashley Nicole Black in just a minute. And listeners if you want to watch a longer version of this chat and see me and Ashley talking to each other just head over to NPR's YouTube page youtube.comnpr. All right. Coming up another very special Black Lady Sketch Show comedian joins us. Stay with us.   All right it is game time. And this week I am joined by two amazing contestants who happen to work together. I am going to let both of you introduce yourselves to our listeners. Tell folks who you are.  Oh I was going to let Ashley go first 'ecause she is - alphabetical order. But hi.   My name is Gabrielle Dennis. Yeah. I am happy to be here.  And I am Ashley Nicole Black. Hi guys.  We are both very very very proud members of A Black Lady Sketch Show. It is a joyride for sure.  Yeah yeah yeah. So I want to play a game with the two of you. This game is called Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  It is very simple. I share a few quotes from the week and you have to guess who said it. There are no buzzers.  Oh we are competing ? I was thinking...  A little bit.  That is so funny. I was thinking we are going to be a great team because I know the news and she knows the pop culture. But never mind. We are competing. You are going down Gabrielle.   I love how you just switched just like that.  Ashley plays no games. And I accept the challenge even though I do not really have that much confidence in my pop culture these days.   All right here is the first quote. Tell me who said it. I am very outspoken about the things that I believe in. I understand that sometimes my messaging can lose its meaning when I get emotional. I am human.  Ooh.  This is a celebrity singer who got in trouble for some stuff she said about yogurt.  Oh Demi Lovato.  Demi Lovato.   Yeah yeah yeah. So tell folks what happened with this. It is kind of bonkers.  The thing is I did not really know exactly what happened. I am a headline reader. So I remember...  .  ...It just being something about froyo. She refuses to do something about froyo. And I was like OK girl live your life.  Yeah. I am the same way.  Yeah.  I saw the headline. I was like Demi's mad at yogurt. I was like I cannot get into this. There is other things going on.   Demi's mad at yogurt yes. It was one of those stories where you were like what? Huh? Why? So that quote comes from singer-activist Demi Lovato. And she got in trouble because on her Instagram last weekend she posted these stories criticizing this random small business called The Bigg Chill because they were promoting sugar-free cookies and other diet foods. And Demi said that perpetuates a society that not only enables but praises disordered eating. And everyone was like that as not it.  Yeah. I mean there are bigger targets. There are much bigger targets.  I feel like she might have been hangry that day.  Yeah.   That is what that was. Well and so I am just like we can have a lot of conversations about how our culture around food is bad and perhaps broken but can we leave yogurt out of it? They as not never hurt nobody. Yogurt's just out here trying to give us the probiotics man. Chill Demi. This just as not for you. Let it go.  In fact Bigg Chill Demi - Bigg Chill.   Ay ay.   I do not know who got that first point. Scout's honor - tell me who got it.  We are going to give it to Gabrielle because she had the best joke. That is how we afford points on Black Lady Sketch Show.   Yeah.  It does not matter who is right. It matters who is funniest.  I like that. All right here's the next quote. This one - tell me what we are talking about. The quote is it is very possible that we are into a new denim cycle. What is that new cycle?  Jeans? I do not understand.  Jeans - a new style of denim. There was a certain style that like the millennials used to wear.  Everybody's comfortable now - like big loose jeans.   Yes that is it. Skinny jeans are out. Loose jeans are in. You all got it. That quote actually came from a New York Times trend piece all about the fall of skinny jeans. That quote came from Chip Bergh talking to The New York Times. He is a chief executive of Levi's. And this whole piece was all about how very loose jeans are in and skinny jeans are out and it is a generational thing.  Well I think our gynecologists will be happy about this trend 'ecause the skinny jeans were not the healthiest options .  OK so one of you is on board. What about the other contestant? Are you down with the big jeans?  Oh I am down with big jeans. I mean I am down with everything big loose and comfortable. That is been the vibe all pandemic because hello who are we trying to impress?  Come on. Come on. Who got that point?  I think we both did.  Oh these collaborative colleagues. Oh my goodness. OK. Let us say that this last one is the actual tiebreaker. And it is  - I am laughing before I even start. I am going to read what this like inspirational sign actually reads and you got to tell me what they were trying to say on the inspirational sign. The sign read  she be so - she liev she - could ed did.  She be so?  Say it again.  Yes she be so - she liev she - could ed did.  I do not know. And I used to be a writing teacher. I pride myself on being able to find meaning in the most poorly written thing and I do not know what that is trying to say .  It sounds like a popular saying but chopped up.  OK so it is - so it has been broken up. It is a quote that should read a certain way but the way that it was put on the poster board signage it is broken up and confusing. I actually want to see if someone from my team can chat a link to the tweet.  Oh my gosh .  You see it?  Yes. She believed so she could - wait - she believed she could so she did.   Wow. And somebody really thought they were doing something with this.  It is so bad. Every time I look at it I start laughing all over again. How do we describe this for people that cannot see this sign? Ashley take a crack at it.  It is those signs - you know when you go to somebody's house and - the person who cuts their children's snacks into stars and heart shapes - and then when you go to her house she has a bunch of inspirational signs all over her walls? It is one of those signs.  Live love laugh all in like separate - what is the thing that is called? It goes on the...  A triptych. It is a triptych but they broke it up in all the wrong places. Of all the places you could have broken it up they made the wrong choice every time.  Who thought this was a good idea?  Is this for sale on Etsy or something?  It is in the Etsy font.  .  So on that note I am going to let someone else declare the winner of this game 'ecause I really was doing bad at keeping track. You all can actually pick. Who do you want to win?  I say you won by bringing us the fun and enlightening us with new educational information that we can add to our toolbox of conversations on topics for the week.  Oh my God. I have never ever...  Is this your first time winning ?  ...Won Who Said That.  Congratulations.  Congratulations.  Thank you. Thank you both for making a new season of A Black Lady Sketch Show. Folks you can watch it this weekend and see and hear my guests and their jokes and their sketches on that show. Thank you both so much. I really appreciate it.  Thanks Sam.  Thanks for having us.  That is Ashley Nicole Black and Gabrielle Dennis. They are two of the Black ladies from HBO's Black Lady Sketch Show.   Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.   Hi Sam. It is Abby  from Olympia Wash. The best thing that happened to me this week was that my family finally got to meet up with my cousin's family for our delayed beach trip. It was great and a much-needed break.  Hi Sam. This is Saul Lopez  calling in from just outside of Portland Ore. Best thing that happened to me this week is I started a dream job on Monday. While it is not ideal to start a job in the era of ot wait to join my teammates in the office over the next few months.  Hey Sam. It is Tracy  from Louisville. The best thing that happened to me this week is we found out one of our COVID ECMO patients that had been on ECMO for over 90 days finally got transferred to a rehab facility. We are over the moon.  Hey Sam. My name's Rachel  and the best thing that happened to me this week was getting my final approval to become a gestational carrier for a couple who has survived and beaten breast cancer.  Hi Sam. Best thing that happened to me this week is after six years I continue to get another great checkup at my cancer doctor. In these six years I have been able to see my son and daughter both graduate from college. And this week I realized that the wish I made at the Trevi Fountain over 10 years ago - was to see them live their dreams - was in fact true because they both have. Thanks so much Sam. Have a great week.  Thanks Sam for your show and all that you do. We love listening to you.  Have a great week Sam.  Thank you. Love your show.  All right thanks to all those listeners you heard there - Nisha  Rachel Tracy Saul and Abby. I want to take a moment right now to share the best part of my week. I got my second dose of the coronavirus vaccine and I am oh so grateful. Second dose of Moderna - Moderna the sequel - kind of knocked me out for a day but I got to say folks it was worth it. I am thankful for the miracle of science for all the first responders that got us through this year and to the doctors and scientists and epidemiologists who make miracles every day. All right listeners do not forget you can be a part of this segment too. To share the best part of your week with the show just record yourself and send that voice memo to me via email. Our email address is samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org.   All right this week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Andrea Gutierrez Sylvie Douglis and Liam McBain. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. Listeners till next time be well. Stay safe. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  