 All right. Before we get to the show - here at NPR we want to better understand who is listening to these podcasts and what role podcasts like this one play in your life. So help us out and take a short anonymous survey at npr.orgpodcastsurvey - all one word. This takes less than 10 minutes. It really helps support this show - npr.orgpodcastsurvey - all one word. Thank you so much. OK. Here's the show.   From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today I am bringing you one of the most uplifting conversations we have had on this show in a while. And it is a conversation with a guy you may know whose actual job is to help people live their best lives. His name is Karamo Brown one of the Fab Five on the hit show Queer Eye. That is the Netflix reboot of the hit Bravo makeover show. Netflix's Queer Eye just launched its third season. But also Karamo's out with a new memoir. That book is about his path to Queer Eye after doing social work and psychotherapy and struggling with addiction and drug abuse. Heads up listeners - we cover all those heavy themes in this chat so some parts may not be the best for kids. Anywho the Karamo Brown and I spoke in front of a live audience at Sixth  I - that is a historic synagogue and event space in Washington D.C. I give him a proper intro onstage.   This is so cool. I love going to church.   So a big ol' hey you all to all of you guys. Thanks for being here. I am Sam Sanders. And I should be clear right away I am not Karamo Brown.   I know what you are thinking. He is black. He is bald.   He is wearing a bomber jacket.   But no friends I am not Karamo Brown. I actually brought this bomber jacket today. I bought it today at Zara down the street...   ...In Karamo's honor and also in hopes for just one selfie with Mr. Brown that I could caption - twins.   Fingers crossed.  Yeah yeah yeah. I want to talk more about the man of the hour Karamo Brown. Where to start? We all know him as one of the Fab Five on the Netflix show Queer Eye. Yes. Again...   ...Again again. Yeah yeah yeah. So in a show that makes me ugly cry but happy cry...   ...Every time Karamo is the mental health expert and psychotherapist on Queer Eye. So while there are others on the show - who I also love - teaching people how to cook better or take care of their hair and skin or dress well and organize their closet Karamo is out here trying to help folks live better lives trying to unpack some trauma in the process and give them a big boost of self-help. I would argue it is the hardest job on the show. So before this - years before I first saw Karamo actually as the first openly gay black man on reality TV.   Yes - when he starred in season 15 of The Real World - where was it?  Philly.  Philly. Yes yes yes. He was not the Karamo that we see now. And over the course of his life we have seen him come to embody many of the principles of uplift self-love and optimism that he now preaches on Queer Eye. It has been beautiful to watch. Karamo's new book is called Karamo My Story Of Embracing Purpose Healing And Hope. We will talk about the book. We will talk about the show. We will talk about bomber jackets. I am so excited. Karamo come on up.   Hey friends.   Hi. I am about to get emotional. Thank you all for showing up for this conversation. It means the world to me. You have no idea. I do not take any of these moments lightly because there was a time where I did not feel seen where I did not feel like I was good enough. And so to have you all be here be part of my dream and make me feel seen - I just want to say thank you friends. I appreciate you so much.   I love it. Take a sit.  Yes.  That is you. OK. How are you?  I am really good. Are you kidding me? I almost started crying already.  .  I feel good.  This is how many days after book launch?  The book launched yesterday.  Oh my God.  Oh yeah.   I know. Just yesterday - I am super excited.  I talked to a lot of authors. And like the thing that I always realize talking with them - it is like the writing of the book is probably half of the work. Like once it is done getting out there to market it and push it and be - and I have seen and heard you everywhere these last few days and weeks.  .  I heard on Marketplace yesterday or the day before. You were...  I was.  ...Just doing - everywhere.  Yes.  What is the craziness of your life right now?  It is just one blessing after another. I mean what I said at the beginning of this is my truth of like - I am telling you. This is such a blessing to be in a space with people who I want to send love to and I feel your love. And so touring and - the whole experience of writing the book has been exceptional because it took - it did not take me that long. They were like...  How long did it take you?  Two months.  Wow. OK.  Yeah. I shot - I know right? See the reason...  Teach everyone your ways.  Well to be honest with you it is because I was honest and transparent. So they were like well it is going to take you longer because you are going to want to figure out what to censor and what not to say. And I was like nope not a problem.   I am like no I am just going to tell the truth.  Yeah.  And once you do that and you just open yourself up it just makes it so much easier. So really the hardest part was like me sitting in my kitchen one day with a Coca-Cola some gummy bears and Bobby was on my couch. And I was like well what is the format going to be? And then once I figured out the format I was like bluh  and it just came out you know?  Yeah yeah.  It was just done.  Well - and it is like this is the thing about being confessional and being truthful and being honest - as soon as you say the thing that you were afraid to say you realize everyone else or most of everyone else is dealing with the same stuff.  Oh my gosh.  I am sitting here reading your book like me too.   OK.  Me too.  It is the truth. All of us experience these same universal truths that make us feel as if we are separate from the world yet every single one of us in here are going through it. Let us try right now. How many people in here have ever had a sad day?   OK there we go. How many people have ever had a dream but have been scared to go after that dream? OK. How many people have had a family member a boyfriend a girlfriend say something to you that affected you deep like told you you did not look good enough - people - I did not even finish and people are raising their hands. You all already know what I am about to say.   You all already know what I am about to say. It is all of us. And the thing is is that when we talk about these issues we do not feel so alone. One of the things that I learned early on which helped me with writing this book was - when I was young I used to lie a lot. I loved it you know because it was easy but then I realized it is not easy because the thing about lying is remembering it.  And you have got to keep lying.  You have got to keep on lying but that memory part really got me.  Yeah.  I was like my memory's not good enough to lie because you know I am like - I will tell somebody on Tuesday well listen you know whatever the lie is and then on Wednesday they come back and I am like what was the lie again?   That is just too much energy. When you know the truth you just say the truth and then two days later it is still the truth. And so that allowed me just to be free in writing this book.  Yeah. Yeah. You open with the story of your name.  Yes.  You did not like your name...  No.  ...And it was a process to get through that and learn to love it.  Yes.  Why did not you like that name?  Well you know my parents are from Jamaica. My sister's here. Hi sis .   That is my baby sister right there. So our father is a very unique man. And...  You write about him in the book a lot.  I do write about that man in the book. But he literally decide - you know he came to a space where he decided that he was going to start following the Rastafarian faith. And a lot people when they think of Rastas they think of Bob Marley smoking weed on the beach like life is good. You all going to lie. You know that is what you think. You know that is what you think. But there is a lot more to Rastafarian faith. And one of the things that he really came up with is that he wanted his son to have a name that had meaning and it was part of like the African culture and that could sort of shape the way I went. And in the bubble of our home it was great. It was like...  Yeah - well - because the translation - so it is - the full - it was Karamo Karega.  So my name is - yeah. My name is Karamo Karega which means educated rebel in Swahili.  Beautiful.  Thanks. I mean it is cute now.   Try saying that five times when you are 5 years old in Houston Texas and - no.  Whoo.  Yeah OK shout out to Houston. But nobody has ever seen someone who looks like you or has ever heard a name like that.  Because you were going to schools where there were a lot of white students there that...  Yeah. I went to predominately white high schools. One of the thing that my father wanted to do for his children was put us in schools that he thought were better. I am doing air quotations for people who cannot see me. And the unfortunate part is that schools that were better are the schools that were more funded had a better student-to-teacher ratio.  Yeah.  And those are predominately in white neighborhoods because of the systemic issues we have in this country. And so me I am now young and I am going into these schools where I am the only African-American kid. And I walk into a classroom and I am like hi I am Karamo and they are like Kakoowho ?   Ka-what ?  Yeah.  You know in the book I describe this sort of - this scene that is very vivid of - before I was in school my father would protect me with my name. So if someone said something whether they are in our race or out he would say you got to love this name. This name is prideful. And it made me feel prideful and I would stand there like yeah yeah you better learn my name. And then the first day of school he was not there with me to protect me. And what I realized is that when he was protecting me he never gave me the language to protect myself. And I think a lot of times just as human beings we want to support and protect other people. But really to support and help them is to give them the language so they can support themselves.  Yeah.  And so when I walked into that first day the teacher who innocently - you know I do not think - and I write this...  He was trying.  Yeah. I do not think he was being malicious. You know it was like Sarah here John here Kakoo  Ka  and I was like Karamo and the - there was a question that I still get to this name. I do not - it does not have the trauma it had then but was what kind of name is that? And that stuck like a dagger to me. And I remember just shrinking in my seat and feeling like I do not want to be different. I do not want - there is nothing special about my name anymore. But when I got to Florida AM University it was the first time - I remember walking into freshman orientation and there was a girl by the name of Karima  and I was like oh my gosh your name is like mine. And she was like oh your name's Karamo? She was like cool. What is your meaning? And it was the opposite of what I experienced. And then I walked in and was just like everyone you know was like embracing of the name. There was no issue. And so I immediately just was like I am falling in love with my name and my identity again.  Yeah.  And it was beautiful. That is what started that whole transition of me saying I can be honest about who I am and love all parts of my identity.  Support HBCUs.  Oh yes support HBCUs.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders talking with Karamo Brown star of the hit TV show Queer Eye.  We will be right back.   That was a good one.   So you mentioned your father in that story and he is a constant theme throughout the book.  Yes.  And you are extremely candid about your relationship with your father and there are so many positive values that he instilled in you - education hard work et cetera the name that he chose for you - but you talk about him being abusive not accepting of every part of who you are. All relationships with parents are complicated but you put all of the complications out there. Was there any pause?  There was not one piece of a pause for me. Again I wanted to make sure that I laid it all out so that I can say yes this relationship was challenging in many ways. And I want to do a fair picture of painting my father in a way to say he is not just a bad guy.  No I liked him you know? I am reading the book and I am like I like this guy but there is obviously stuff.  Yeah because we all have stuff. We are all likable. We are all lovable. But there are days when we are challenged by the narratives that have been fed to us. You know if you have a mother or a father or a cousin or a sister or a brother or a friend telling you that certain people who look a certain way or do something is wrong after a while you believe that and that becomes part of your subconscious and the way you approach the world. And so it does not take away the good parts of you. It just means that you have an ability to grow through those negative parts and those negative messages that you have learned. But how do you do that? And that is why I shared these stories with my father and did not have any issue with it. I wanted to show that he is a good guy. He tried to put us in the best schools. He tried what he could do but he also was conflicted in a lot of ways. And what happens is that when we get hysterical about something - you all going to be with me real quick OK? When you get hysterical about something it is usually historical. Say that with me. When you get hysterical it is usually historical. Say it with me 'ecause I am dropping some knowledge. Listen we going to do this a couple of times. I grew up in the black church. And so in the black church you turn to your neighbor and you repeat what the pastor has said. I am not calling myself a pastor but in this context.  It is fine. You are in a - you are in a place of worship .  So Pastor Brown today - God forgive me. So you are going to turn to your neighbor and say neighbor...  Neighbor...  ...If it is hysterical...  ...If it is hysterical...  ...It is historical.  ...It is historical.  So think about that. Anytime you get to a place where you start feeling yourself being full of angst or reacting in a way that you normally do not react there is probably some root trauma that you had. And what I realized with my father is that he had a lot of that root trauma from his parents from his childhood that he never dealt with. So though he was a good guy in many areas when he would hit my mother and abuse her that was part of the trauma he experienced when he saw his father hitting his mother. And when he would drink into a stupor or you know use drugs it was because he could not deal with that trauma. And so now he was trying to medicate himself into a space. And so I - when I was younger I did not have that knowledge. But as an older man I can look at that and say oh something is wrong. You are hurting. And that is how I approach a lot of people and I encourage most of you to do that. When someone is doing something that you do not agree with it is not just because they want to be a quote-unquote bad person. It is because a lot of times they are hurting and they do not know how to express it. That is how I healed from that trauma with him.  What is the status of your relationship with him right now?  It is still conflicted because he says things like he loves me. But that love is really conditional - really conditional. So he will talk to me when he more so needs something. He says that is not the only time he calls me but my phone record says different...   ...And so does my bank account.  Yeah. Is he comfortable with who you are?  Not at all. So that is the second part. He will - because I - healing the trauma...  Yeah.  ...My children have a great relationship with him. They can call him.  Two sons.  Yeah my two sons. And I set a clear boundary with him. You can speak to my family but you cannot influence them with your trauma. So none of the negative things that you grew up with can you now try to put on them because I am equipped to help them heal but...  Yeah.  ...You are not allowed to do that. So when he speaks to them he will never ask about me or my partner - my fiance.  Yeah.  We were at a funeral recently and my fiance was there because we went to the funeral as a family.  Yeah.  And he literally stayed on the opposite side of the room. Yet a week prior he told through a sibling - because he likes to do that whole telephone chain where he do not call too much. Am I right little sister? She as not going to tell me anyway.  Spill it.   He did not speak to me the entire time. And so actually when we were shooting season three I wrote a three-page letter to him. Now that I just said that out loud I should have did it like a 4 Page Letter like Aaliyah - made it cute.   You all know that song from Aaliyah?  Oh yeah.   I am sending him a four-page letter.   But that was like a - that was a different kind of letter.  I know that was a different kind of letter.  That was a different kind of letter .  So it is probably better that I did a three-page letter.   But I wrote him a three-page letter. It just was on my heart.  Yeah.  And I just said listen. I know we are healing through this. I know that you are going to have to come to a space and find the language to accept who I am...  Yeah.  ...Unconditionally. But as you are going through it I want you to know that I forgive you I forgive every action you have ever done I love myself enough to love you as you are growing...  All right.  ...And I hope one day we can get to a space. And I am not expecting a reply but I would love one. He told my sisters he was going to write me and I have never gotten a letter.  Well that is maybe the first step - maybe a little bit. But whatever it is is fine. It is healing.  Again whatever it is I am loving him through his healing process.  Yeah yeah.  And that is all that matters.  You are also very open and honest in this book about the good and bad in your past.  Yes.  You talk about being involved in relationships in which you were abusive. You talk about your struggles with addiction. You talk about struggles with suicide - like a attempt. What of the stuff of your life that you shared in this book are you still having to work on the most?  None of it yeah.  OK.   I mean I am not going to be arrogant enough to believe that I do not have to constantly do work on myself every single day. But those major issues of domestic violence drug abuse - those things I do not have issues with anymore - depression suicidal ideations. I have gotten to a place now where I am able to understand what I am feeling in the moment. You know in the book I talk about how before addiction started for me from food and porn - because a lot of times when people hear addiction they just think drugs and alcohol. But addiction comes in many forms. There was even a period of my life where I was addicted to exercising. You know not anymore - whoo thank God.   I do not like the gym.  Were you a CrossFitter ? They are the worst.  Say it again.  Were you a CrossFitter person?  Yes. It was like four times a day.  No no.  It was like I am going to go. And I realized anytime you are doing something in excess it is unhealthy. And I realized that the reason my addictive personality went from these things to then even drugs and drinking was because first of all I was not dealing with the issues and emotional turmoil I had. But secondly it was because there was a trigger in me. And I think when we can realize those triggers we will start to realize why we have the same behavior pattern in different parts of our life. So for me I realized that addiction comes up anytime I feel pressured. And so once I understood pressure will cause me to feel as if I need to do and engage in behavior that becomes addictive I can check myself. So prime example - I used to use a lot of cocaine after The Real World - a lot a lot. And I was so careless with my life and was so embarrassed. I detail a story in the book where we were going to a New Year's Eve party - it was me my best friend Tre one of my girlfriends. We were in the back of a cab. And my mother had flown in and she was in the front seat. Now me being a little bit arrogant always being truthful my mother and family members knew that I was using. But because they did not have the language to support my father of course they did not have the language to support me. So I sort of got away - quote unquote - with the bad behavior. But we are in the back of the car and I took out a bag of cocaine. And my mother's in the front seat and my friends are gasping. They are like - what are you doing? I am like - oh she knows. And I am like doing bumps of cocaine as my mother's in the front seat. And she turned around and I just saw the pain and hurt and sadness in her eyes of like not again. Really? I am dealing with this. I am looking at this. I cannot believe it. And that was one of those like rock-bottom moments for me as I reflect. In the moment at that time I was like - oh look at me. I am being honest. I am living my life.  I am living my best life.   But I was not. It was not my best life at all.  Yeah.  And so when you talk about like - what are the issues I am still dealing with? - I do not deal with that anymore because I realize in that moment I was feeling pressured about what is going to be my next step in my career.  Yeah.  I was feeling pressured about - from - everyone else in my family were buying homes and doing things. I was feeling that pressure of like I am not living up. So since I am not living up I am going to escape. And I finally did get clean. But at the Emmys - 'ecause the guys and I we won three Emmys. Thank you everybody for supporting.   That was a little humble-brag I as not gon'  lie but we are happy about it.  You should be happy about it.  Thank you. We are happy about it.  Congratulations.  But at the Emmys we were getting dressed in separate hotel - well me and Jonathan got dressed in the same hotel room. And one of my friends came. And he was like oh do you want a bump? And for half a second I was like - ooh - because we were on a whirlwind. And I was like no. I am feeling pressured by getting on that stage and performing. Will we win? Will we do well? And I was like the pressure is triggering me to believe that I might want to engage in this behavior. And so I was able to say it out loud and say pressure - not today Satan. And...   Like I do that all the time. I say the emotion I am feeling and then I say - not today Satan.   And so I was like pressure - not today Satan. And I asked that friend kindly to leave. I said a boundary for me and you is that right now if you are going to still be engaging in that we cannot really hang out.  Yeah.  And so I do work on it in that sense of acknowledging...  Yeah.  ...And making sure I do not fall back. But there is no real like me dealing with those issues.  Yeah. Well - and what I really appreciate in the book and what I think is so healthy about the way you present your life in this book is that when people reach a place where they think they are healthy clean responsible feeling good there is sometimes - and I will see in people that I am even close with - they want to ignore the versions of their selves that were not where they wanted them to be. They want to ignore the hot mess of 10 years ago. They want to ignore the person who was just not all the way there. And what I like about your book and your journey and your story is that you are taking every version of yourself to the party.  Yes.  And I think you know there is...  Can I tell you why though?  Yes.  Part of that is because I realized very early on that failure is not the opposite of success it is part of it. And so the reason that I bring all pieces of myself - the hot mess part the good guy here...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...Is because I needed those moments so that I could be here today. If I would not have went through those moments...  Yes.  ...Then I would not be here. So I am proud of it.  And also when you think of the moments in your life where you can most celebrate your growth the version of you that would most enjoy the party is the hot mess version of you.  Exactly.  Let them come. Like let them be part of your success.  But let me tell you. It is not our fault that we all like to leave the hot-messing behind. It is Instagram's fault.  .  Let me tell you all right now.   Instagram got us all fooled to post only the best moments of our lives. And...  Oh yeah.  And so we are like - oh of course I am not going to show you that I had an argument with my husband or my wife before. Of course I am not going to show you that I was crying in my pillow yesterday. I am going to show you the car that I just got. It is like look at what you can get if you just like my post. And we are all guilty of it every single one of us. We put only the best moments. So that is sometimes when I see myself or other people post like four years ago and they throw - you know the throwback. I am like girl I know four years ago that might have happened. But four years ago and two days you was not in that space.   And it is OK for us to admit that. It is OK because being in that other space allowed you to get to that space where you did have a good day.  Exactly exactly. I want to talk about one of the reviews of your book. Folks are...  I have not been reading reviews so this could be bad .  It is not bad.  OK OK.  It is not bad but I found it quite interesting.  OK.  So I wanted to bring it up.  OK.  A friend of mine who works for Out magazine - his name is Tre'vell Anderson - he wrote of your book the following. Quote there is the countless explanatory commas on aspects of blackness and black queerness strewn throughout the book like noting how black people call light-skinned folk high yella or how clocked means I see that you are gay or part of the community even if you have not expressed it. And though no one necessarily writes a book to only be consumed by a particular group of people such inclusions - perhaps at the insistence of an editor - signal a capitulation to a general - read white - audience. I did not think that reading your book. But when I read that I said oh I am - we got to ask about that.  Yeah.  As someone who is of color...  Yes.  ...As someone who is gay in a world that is still mostly straight what are the pressures you feel to explain who you are and the community you come from to people that do not know that in your book and also on your show. Like I know from my show for instance like the majority of our audience is white. And so there is things that I have to think about differently in explaining for that reason. And I do not know if it is good or bad but I know it is a thing that I think about. And so I wonder how you work with that.  Well I first of all think that education is important in any way it is coming. So we did an episode with our first trans hero - Skyler who we love. And you know Jonathan and I have many trans friends. We understand the trans experience. We have never lived it but we have - we get it...  Yeah.  ...Where Antoni and Tan boldly said I have never met a trans person. And so with me in this book you know sharing you know what the language means - it was not just to say - oh if you are outside of being black or gay let me explain to you. I also was understanding that there is people who could be black or gay...  And still not know the language.  ...Who also might not know it.  Yeah.  And I think that we get sometimes caught up in this place of thinking like - oh for this shady reviewer...   I really brought this from a place of love. I am sorry.  Yeah we get to - I am OK with it you know what I mean? There - we get to this place where I think we get to - we start saying like oh do not pander to someone else. Do not like have to explain yourself. But why is it bad to educate someone who does not know? I mean I think that is part of the divide in our country right now is that people are afraid to ask the questions because they do not want to seem like they are - fill in the blank - racist homophobic sexist. So we are all walking around with questions in our head. And we are scared to ask someone else. And I am like go ahead and ask me because I can see the difference between intention. And I think intention is really important. And so when someone is saying something to me I understand that their intention is to be malicious or if it is just to grow and learn. And if their intention is to grow and learn I am going to explain it. And if their intention is to be malicious I am going to ask them why they feel the need to be malicious. And then I am going to still teach them because education is paramount.  Yeah. Well - and it is also at this time - yeah. That was a good one.   See? That negative 'graph  brought some really reflective constructive comment.  Yeah.  You know?   It did.  But I do think it is a particularly important time perhaps for over-explanation of where people are coming from in this moment for the LGBTQ community 'ecause things are changing so fast.  Yes.  The language that I was thinking about using when I was experiencing whatever 10 20 years ago - some of it is irrelevant now.  Yeah.  And the language that young people are using today is going to be different a year or two from now.  Yeah.  And so to that I say it does not hurt to over-explain or make sure you can bring folks along with you.  And that is really what I try to accomplish. So like some of those examples he says in the book of like - in the chapter I talk about - there is a chapter in my book where I talk about colorism. You know I come from a Caribbean background. And my granny used to say to me all the time when I was younger do not darken up my family anymore. And it caused me many times as a child to not go outside and not play outside because I did not want to embarrass my family by darkening up the family. And as I got older I started to realize that colorism played into so many things you know even today like the jokes about light skin versus dark skin in the African-American community. You know they will - there would be memes about Drake you know versus - who is a rapper if you all do not know...   See? I am explaining.  .  See? 'ecause somebody in here might not know who Drake is. And I do not want you to walk out and not get this context going to be like who is Drake? You know what I mean?  He is a fair-skinned black rapper.  Yes he is.   Who I used to have a crush on until I saw his knees.   I know. He was on Saturday Night Live - you all look up Drake leaves  later. You all goin' to see his knees.  What is wrong with his knees?  I do not know why - I do not - listen I love everybody who loves themselves. But for some reason I was like Drake I cannot do you with them knees.  I am sitting here rubbing my knees now...  I know exactly.  ...Like are they OK?  I mean my knees might not be cute but Drake's knees in that one day was like mm-mm. So...   The knees.  The knees. It was just his knees.  .  Knees. So you know even like with Drake people talk about him being light-skinned and being more sensitive. And then you know we see sort of like darker men - they say they are rougher and they are like stronger. You know what I mean? And then I also look at the media. And I would looked at the media that I was consuming that I loved. You know when it came to like The Jeffersons - that played in my house. For there to be a powerful African-American couple there had to be a light-skin person who was married to a darker-skin person to balance them out. Then the Huxtables came along and there was a light skin dark skin. Today Black-ish is around. There was a light skin dark skin. There was Martin. There was light skin dark skin. And you see these repetitive behaviors and how colorism is still playing a part. And I subscribed to those - that for many years I thought the men that I need to date to be an ideal couple needed to be lighter than me.  Oh.  And the reason in the book I explain those nuances is because if you are white you might not...  You do not...  ...Understand what it is to have experienced colorism or have had your grandmother tell you do not darken up my family and the trauma and the pain that causes you. And I wanted them to u