 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show reporter for NPR member station KUT in Austin Texas Ashley Lopez and Dallas Morning News reporter Lauren McGaughy. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners and to my guests who are here in Texas with me because I am in Texas this week in Austin...  Woohoo.  ...In one of my favorite public radio stations KUT. I am joined by Ashley Lopez reporter at KUT covering politics and health care. Thanks for being here.  Hey thanks for having me.  Also here with Lauren McGaughy Dallas Morning News reporter covering Texas politics. Your bio says Dallas but you live in Austin.  I do yes.  Thanks for joining me today.  Yeah I am really excited to be here - kind of nervous but excited.  Oh my God nothing to be nervous about. I mean how can you be nervous when there is a little Billy Joel in the background for you to listen to?   It does help.  Let us pump it up.  Yeah.    Eisenhower vaccine England's got a new queen. Marciano Liberace Santayana Goodbye. We did not start the fire...  Never need a reason to play this song but I am playing this song for a reason. This is Billy Joel's We Did not Start The Fire. I do not know. Can you guess why I am playing this song this week? It is part of a big cultural event happening this weekend across the country.  Oh Game Of Thrones.  No.   Another...  Yeah.  ...Thing that everyone's going to watch this weekend though.  Oh is it sports related?  No.  OK.  I have - what are you talking about?  Oh my gosh.  There is a movie out this weekend.  Oh Avengers.  Yes.  OK.  .  Oh I have given up on superhero movies.  Yes.  I have not watched a single one of those movies.  So because everything in the universe has to be caught up in the Avengers Endgame cultural vortex this week the cast of the Avengers they released an Avenger's version of We Did not Start The Fire On The Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon .    Tony Stark Iron Man Nick Fury has a plan. Big shot Pepper Potts arc reactor core.  So you have got Robert Downey Jr. and the crew singing Billy Joel.    Brother Thor. Bruce Banner radiation transformation.  I mean it is not that bad.   OK. OK - which is what I say about these movies.   So this is part of the marketing blitz for this movie that is probably going to be one of the biggest movies of all time. There are these stories about theaters pushing other movies off of their screens just to give as much of their screens as possible to this film. It is a big deal. Are you all going to watch it?  No.  No.  I mean I can say 100 I am not going to watch it.  I will probably watch it on an airplane a year from now. But what I have found myself feeling in the last few weeks is that like there are these big - there are these big events in whatever we have left of the monoculture that I just keep missing. I do not watch Game Of Thrones. I do not watch these comic book movies. I am not into Star Wars. So that trailer last week did not do anything for me. Am I missing out? Am I OK? I do not know.  I think you are OK.  Yeah.  I think you are fine.  Well you have to say that.  Well yeah. I know.    Thanos in Infinity War I cannot take it anymore. We did not start the fire.  All right. Time for the news. We are going to start the show as we always do asking each of my guests to describe their week of news in only three words. We are taping this Friday morning. So by the time you hear this stuff might have changed. Ashley you are up first.  My three words?  Yeah.  OK. High stakes voting.  OK.  The Texas Legislature among many other bills is considering one that when - and it already passed in the Texas Senate - that would raise criminal penalties for mistakes people make while voting or in the case of like legislators think there - it is voter fraud. Like it depends...  What is an example of a mistake?  So a good example is like filling out a voter registration form incorrectly saying you are a citizen when you are not or committing any sort of other kind of major error misrepresenting...  Yeah.  ...The facts about like who you are and all that. Right now something like that is a Class B misdemeanor. They want to make it a state jail felony which will...  A felony.  Yes.  So you will get locked up.  Yeah. You will face jail time possibly depending what happens.  And it is more than just Texas right? There are lawmakers across the country looking at laws like this.  Yeah. I mean this has been going on for - at least since Obama's first election. You know Republican legislatures have been - and that is his first election - have been cracking down on what they see as you know so-called voter fraud and creating bills aimed at either dissuading people from voting or creating penalties for people who do things that they consider to be voter fraud.  But what do we know about the actual existence of voter fraud in places like Texas or Arizona or Tennessee where these laws are getting passed or about to be passed?  Yeah this is a great question because there is not data on both sides. There is not good data on both sides. I mean like let us start with voter suppression efforts. Like that is the way that Democrats frame these laws.  Yes.  Like how can you prove that someone did not do a thing because of a thing right? Like that is hard to suss out in data.  Yeah.  Proving a negative.  Yeah proving a negative is really hard. And then in voter fraud like you know there have been a lot of studies. And there is not evidence that this is a widespread problem. So - and people forget that this is a relatively new situation we are in because in Texas we used to be part of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. You know in 2013 the Supreme Court basically gutted a really important part of that law. And Texas was part of this group of states and counties that had to clear anything they did related to voting and elections. Before...  They had to ask the feds...  They had asked permission because...  Before they did it.  Right - because they have a - there is a history here of racial discrimination especially when it comes to voting. And then in 2013 that changed. And so now the only way - like those things do not get vetted on the front end. It has to be worked through the courts. And courts take a long time.  So before there was like a federal clearinghouse for new measures like these.  Yeah.  That is kind of been stripped. And so now you just have to wait until some harm or damage happens that you can take to court.  Yeah. And now the courts have changed. So who knows like you know...  Yeah.  ...Under the Trump administration the courts have gotten more conservative.  I mean Lauren question for you. So seeing these type of bills percolating across the country it makes me wonder if in 2020 as a - like as it was in 2016 are we going to see the issue of voter fraud or voter suppression be as big as it was then?  Well I think it depends on who wins right?   I mean if Trump gets reelected you know what is he going to say about it? If a Democrat gets reelected what is the you know the right going to come back and say? So yeah I mean it is popular political fodder. So why...  Yeah.  ...Stop talking about it? Because it gets people...  Motivated.  It gets people riled up. Yeah.  Yeah. Lauren you have three words?  I do.  OK.  It is a question. It is not a ban?  I like the little neck tilt on the ban.  Oh thank you.   Yeah no one got to see that except you guys.   Yeah. So April 12 a new policy for transgender service members in the military went into effect - a new Trump administration policy. And there has been a lot of confusion about what it actually means for real people who either want to enter the military or who are currently serving in the military. And I have covered LGBTQ issues for a while and transgender issues specifically. But this one entered kind of like sideways for me because there was a student here on campus at the University of Texas at Austin who you know came out and said I am trans. I had an ROTC scholarship. And this new...  And ROTC this is a program that college students...  Right.  ...And high school students take part in to get ready to go into the military.  Yeah it is like officer training.  Got you.  And this trans student said you know I am going to lose my scholarship to enter this officer training program because of this new policy. And really what I am hearing is the policy seems very clear. Like you know it is been written about as this is a ban on transgender troops in the military. You just - you cannot become a service member if you are trans. But it all comes down to a couple of factors. If you are a trans person and you have had any transitioning medical procedure - so that is like - you are automatically disqualified from entering the military. So cannot...  But what if you are already there?  So if you are already there and you have transitioned and you have gotten the OK from the military to do so you can stay.  So there is going to be thousands of actively serving trans service members who are going to be allowed to stay.  Yes. But new people cannot enlist.  So the numbers might stagnate.  Yeah. And there is this gray area too about people like the ROTC student I mentioned. So if you have got like one foot in the door and you are like...  Yeah.  ...On your way there is a lot of questions about whether that person would have to follow or pass some kind of a new medical test when they enlist. So there is like multiple levels. Basically it is really confusing for the new people.  And also there is waivers. Like certain...  Yes.  ...Portions of the military have just said nope.  Yeah. Well any service - so the services are like Army Navy - all the ones you are familiar with. Any of those services can give someone a total waiver from this program. So they can say hey you are a trans person. You do not qualify under our guidelines anymore but we think you are so great that we are going to enlist you anyway. We just do not know if they are going to end up doing that because it is so new.  It is so weird to hear you talk about this because I could never imagine what it feels like to have to constantly litigate your gender with your employer with the government. Like I walk through the world and I am just a dude. And like what do people going through this feel?  Yeah the trans service members who are serving and those that are interested they feel like they are - we are going to lose our best and brightest unless they get this waiver that you know may not even be available to them and is questionable. And so I think what people are faced with now is there is some gray areas about whether they would actually be able to enlist. But you know we just do not know.  Thank you. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests Lauren McGaughy Dallas Morning News reporter covering Texas politics and Ashley Lopez reporter at NPR member station KUT covering politics and health care. Politics politics politics.  All politics all day.  I love it. I have three words.  OK.   Was I supposed to respond?  It is fine. My three words are whose national conversation. You know the phrase national conversation is thrown about all the time about all the stuff. But there was a new study out from Pew that made me ask the question whose national conversation is leading the national conversation? So Pew the Pew Research Center looked at who uses Twitter and who uses Twitter the most. And their findings kind of confirmed what we always knew anyway. They found that Twitter users are younger than the rest of the country. They found that Twitter users are more likely to ID as Democrats. They found that Twitter users are more highly educated. And they found that Twitter users have higher incomes than most Americans overall. And the top 10 percent of Twitter users generate 80 percent of all American tweets. And so that just leads me asking this question in this period in which all news cycles seem to be driven by Twitter whose national conversation is that?  Well I am definitely one of those...   ...Uber-users. So...  Yeah. I wonder how many of these people are journalists like ...  Oh a ton. Yeah.  Like what is the contingency of like journalist Twitter? Yeah I mean I would say like I think there was like a news organization that put this challenge out to their reporters. Like do not use Twitter for a month. Like if you are like a politics reporter getting like - trying to get themes and like threads of like the national conversation through Twitter you are basically doing it wrong. So let us just stop doing that altogether.  Yeah.  And you know I - there is a conversation going on about this in the Democratic Party too. I heard like a couple of candidates mention like Twitter's more woke than the Democratic Party. Like Twitter Democrats are like very different. Yeah.  Twitter be too woke.   Yeah. Right. Yeah. So like if you are preaching to the choir of Twitter like you are...  It is not the real world.  It is not the real world.  Well and it has some really interesting implications I think for the 2020 campaign. You have all these candidates - Democratic candidates - who do not know which conversation to follow. You know there is a conversation around Joe Biden and who he is on the Internet that is entirely different than the national conversation in the real world quote unquote about Joe Biden.  Yeah.  And so like for him he is already a frontrunner. Does he tack to the left to make the Twitter base happy? Or does he appeal to - I do not know - what some folks might consider a realer more moderate national conversation? It is hard. But it is also complicated by the fact that we have a president who governs through Twitter.  Yeah.  We cannot not follow that.  Someone responded to that Pew study with a really interesting tweet. They said - so you know the whole idea like Twitter is not America. And then someone responded to that and said well neither is any large city. You know neither is...  Yeah.  ...Houston and neither is LA and neither...  Yeah.  ...Is New York. Like...  The only America is all of America.  Yeah. There is no way to take like a pure litmus test on what it means to be American because that is the beauty of being an American - it can mean anything.  But I also felt like before Twitter the thing that a political journalist used to do - and it was their bread and butter. You would go to a Midwestern state sit down in a diner and talk with someone drinking coffee. And that was your American heartland conversation. But that is also on its own one certain subset...  Exactly.  ...Of America too.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  You got to do it all man.  You go to do it all.  Yeah.  .  Yeah I mean I think maybe that is the problem with the question is you know there is no way to define it you know? I mean what were your three words again? Who is...  Who is national conversation?  Who is national conversation?  Yeah.  I mean that - maybe the national conversation needs to be that there is no one conversation.  Whoa that is too complicated Lauren.  I am getting meta. I am getting meta.   OK.  No. But I mean you know everyone's voice is valid.  It is. This is another story where it is going to be a thing for a while. Like Twitter as a driver of the national conversation is not going to - that is not going to stop. Just this week we saw Jack Dorsey one of the higher-ups at Twitter have a sit-down closed-door meeting with the president. I mean like this is not going away.  Yeah.  This is our reality.  Cannot it though please?   Oh I know.  All right it is time for a break. Coming up we are going to talk about the strange fashion trend that will not quit - those clunky oversized dare I say ugly sneakers. I ask an expert why they are all the rage and how long I will have to keep seeing them. That is after the break. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.    Hello listeners. That was my best British accent. In other news before we get back to the show I want to let you know about what is coming up next week. On Tuesday I am in conversation with the comedian Shane Torres. You might not know him but you should definitely know about his joke about celebrity chef Guy Fieri. Patton Oswalt called that joke the one joke that he wishes he could steal scot-free. Hear the story and the man behind that joke on Tuesday in your podcast feed. All right back to the weekly wrap from Austin.  Back to the weekly wrap from Austin. That was bad too .   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests as this Avengers - what is the name of the movie? - Endgame - as this...  I do not know.  ...Avengers Endgame...  We are like...  ...Weekend...  ...The only three...  ...Takes us over.  ...People in the country not watching that movie.  Well...  I know. Please do not send us hate mail.  Yeah.   You are hearing the voices of Ashley Lopez reporter at NPR member station KUT covering politics and health care. Thanks for being here.  Thanks.  Also Lauren McGaughy Dallas Morning News reporter covering Texas politics based in Austin.  Yes.  Dallas or Austin? Tell us.  I like them both.  Oh...  I like Dallas because - I like Dallas because what you see is what you get. And it is like we are what we are - same with Houston. Austin is like that kid that really wants to be cool and is like...  .  ...Always trying to convince the cool...  .  ...Crowd that it is...  Yeah.  ...Cool.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Dallas is not ashamed of the big hair.  Oh absolutely not.  So I am here for it.  Yeah.  Although I would take Fort Worth any day. I like it there. It is funky.  Yeah.  Oh Houston...  Anyway...  ...All the way.  ...Lauren Ashley...  Yes.  ...It is springtime about to be summertime which means it is that time of year where I look at all of the people younger than me walking down the streets. And I see their spring and summer fashion choices. And I sigh deeply.  Yeah.  One of the things that I am seeing that is - that I think is going to be big this summer as it was last summer are the so-called dad sneakers or ugly tennis shoes or clunky tennis shoes. Have you all seen them?  Yeah. I did not even know this was a thing.  Oh come on.  I did not.  You have not seen it?  Well now I have seen it. And I want to like burn my eyes out.   They are terrible.  I mean have you not seen the Yeezy tweets?  .  You just like want to gouge your eyes out.  Yeah. Yeah.  It is a lot. It is a lot for the eyeball to take in.  It is a lot for the eyeball to take in. And like I try to not be that old millennial who is...  I know.  ...Just finger-wagging. I want to understand the clunky tennis shoes. I want to see what it - see where it is coming from. I want to try to find some beauty in them. So I decided to devote an entire segment of this show to the question of clunky tennis shoes with a segment that we call I Have So Many Questions.   What? What? What? What?  This is a lot. This is a lot.   So I called Washington Post fashion critic and fashion expert Robin Givhan to talk me through the big ugly sneaker craze. Here's our chat.   Hello Robin. How are you?  Hi.  So we are here to talk about quote unquote ugly sneakers. But I want us Robin to just describe as accurately as we can for radio listeners exactly what we mean when we say ugly sneakers. Like is there a way to describe them without seeing them that works?  Well I think using the term ugly is...  .  ...A judgment...  Yes it is.  ...Because one of the key designers behind this trend says that he does not consider them ugly at all. And that is Demna Gvasalia who is the designer for Balenciaga. And you know he started creating these sneakers which kind of look like they have about three or four layers of sole...  Yeah.  ...Instead of just one simple layer.  Yeah. And I mean just to underscore how big these shoes are it is called the Triple S.  The Triple S.  It is called the Triple S because they took parts of three different shoes and like put them together to make one omnishoe .  Yes it looks a little bit like if a Napoleon dessert was a shoe.   Yes. Yes. Yeah.  It is just - you know it is sort of - it is a layer cake of a shoe.  What I find so interesting about what the clunky shoe represents - and I love what you have written about this. You have said that it is kind of a quote giant middle finger to fashion that we are used to for women where it is you know heels and legs and like pain you know? What women also say when they wear these clunky tennis shoes is like I can be beautiful and my feet do not have to hurt .  Yeah. I mean there is definitely a lot of pragmatism that is connected to it. And I think it also comes from you know a new generation of women who are coming into sort of the so-called luxury market. I am not going to use the M word.  What is the M word?  I am just going to say - millennial.   It is OK.  I am just going to say...  I am one of them.  ...That it is a new generation.  .  It is a different mindset...  Yes yes.  ...Sort of stepping into the world of luxury that essentially says that the height of luxury is being comfortable.  Exactly. Snaps for that.  And the other thing is that you know offices today do not require the kind of formality that they did in the past. And a lot of people do not even go into offices. So the extension of your off-time clothing sort of your play clothes now sort of merges into work clothing.  Yeah. I am really intrigued about the way that class plays out in different spaces. So when you look at like the rise of the clunky tennis shoe you can have designers at places like Balenciaga make expensive versions of things that we could assume our dad may have worn years ago. But when that kind of thing happens in the food world it is very different. Like when chefs take inexpensive dishes from certain communities and then make them fancier and more expensive there is a bit of finger-wagging. I do not have an answer...  Yeah.  ...To this thing that I am saying. It is just a thought .  No you are right. And I mean - but I think it happens in fashion as well. I think it sort of depends on designer's intent.  Oh.  But mostly I just think...  Yeah.  It also depends on the attitude with which it is worn and embraced.  Yeah. What I hear you saying is do not let the clothes wear you. You wear the clothes.   So here's my biggest question and a thing that I have actually gotten into small debates about with members of my team - my editor Jordana she thinks that the rise of the clunky tennis shoe is all a throwback to the tennis shoes our dads used to wear you know decades ago. But my thesis is that actually the extreme clunky tennis shoe is something different because there are some of these shoes like the Balenciaga Triple S that have gotten so big and so clunky and so garish it is actually not a shoe that my dad or my mom or my uncle or my auntie would wear. Who is right - Jordana my editor or me?  You are right Sam.  Yes .  And the reason that you are right is because even when fashion reaches back to revive something it is never exactly the same because otherwise there would be no impetus to buy the new thing.  Yeah.  If you want the exact same thing well then just go to a vintage store.  .  And your dad - my dad certainly would never spend 800 on a pair of sneakers. I mean he looks askance at 100 on a pair of sneakers.  Yeah. I remember my dad wearing these clunky Velcro tennis shoes back in the day and I think they cost 20.  Exactly.  So part of why I wanted to talk about the clunky shoe now is because I am interested in how long it stays a trend. So like the Triple S kind of helped the rise of the clunky shoe in 2017. In 2018 they kind of peaked. But it is beginning to be summer. I am seeing the kids out and about. They are still wearing these shoes. How long do I have to see these shoes Robin?  Well it is really hard to put an expiration date on a trend but the pendulum has really swung to the point where they cannot get bigger.  .  And...  Good.  The only way to go is towards a sleeker sneaker or some other modification. I mean sort of paralleling the rise of the big sneaker there is also - I mean there was also the rise of the Birkenstock as a fashion shoe.  Oh yeah.  That is still going strong because there is so many different collaborations and variations that you could have on it. But with the sneaker I do think that that is going to start to fade.  Oh this makes my heart happy because I have a pair of Birkenstocks which I love...  .  ...Which I wear with socks and no shame. And I also have a pair of quote unquote ugly shoes that are rising again - Crocs. Yes I do. I have a pair of Crocs and I like them.  You know I can fully support you on the Birkenstocks situation.  .  I cannot get behind the Crocs.  OK - all right.  You know what? Crocs at one point were also on the Balenciaga runway. And...  Really?  Yeah.  Did you like those?  No.   Robin thank you so so much.  You are very welcome.  All right.  Take care.   Thanks again to Robin Givhan of The Washington Post. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. And I am Sam Sanders here with Ashley Lopez from NPR member station KUT and Lauren McGaughy Dallas Morning News reporter. So we just heard a very smart person make a very strong defense of the idea at least of the clunky tennis shoe. Question for you after that - would either of you actually wear these shoes?  No man. I like to dress like on the default setting of a person. You know what I mean?  .  Well that is real...  You know?  That is really...  Like the factory setting.  I love that.  Love your self-esteem.  Yeah. No. I just like...  It is - own it man.  Yeah. Like were not millennials really into the minimalist aesthetic for a while? Like I really - I do not know. And they also kind of look like flotation devices.  .  It is just too much going on. I just do not - I do not know. That is not my - it is not my scene.  Lauren.  So I do not personally like how they look. But I am known to wear those big platform sneakers like circa 1995.  Really?  Yeah. I have a pair that actually matches the shirt I am wearing right now.  Are you a club kid?  I am not. I just really love them.   And they make me tall. And I - you know they feel bouncy. So I feel like people should be able to wear what they want to wear. If they want to wear those ugly shoes - I think they are ugly but...  I mean I obviously will pick bigger battles than items of clothing.   But I will say I think what I like is the rub for me is that it reminds me of the '90s that were so tacky.  I loved the '90s.  Oh see. I dress...  I...  Yes. Embrace.  Everything about the '90s - I was like we are good.  I am going to say that M.C. Hammer pants - I do not think they look good on anyone.  They are so comfortable though.  But like I said I will pick bigger battles than that.  Time for a break. When we come back my favorite game - Who Said That? BRB.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two Texas guests this weekend - Lauren McGaughy Dallas Morning News reporter covering Texas politics in Austin the state's capital and Ashley Lopez reporter at member station KUT covering politics and health care also in Austin. I am saying Austin a lot because I am here in Austin right now. And it is always good to be back in Texas.  Yeah.  Yeah. Welcome back.  Except for the allergies.  Well you know such is life. You push through. You power through. It is now time for an Austin Texas-based edition of my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  The game is simple. I share a quote from the week. You have to guess who said that or at least get the story that I am talking about. The winner gets nothing. Shall we?  Let us do it.  First quote - ready? That is because one of you all threw a lemon at me. Who said that?  Oh Ariana Grande.   Yes. Ariana Grande...  Whoa.  ...One of the biggest pop stars of the moment - she headlined Coachella this year in the Southern California desert. While she was playing her set someone threw a lemon at her. And she walked off stage and then had to come back on later to finish her song and her set. I think we have tape of her saying do not throw lemons at me.   That is because one of you all threw a lemon at me. .  I feel bad for her. Stop doing that. I also thought that that was a thing that died decades ago the throwing of the fruit. You still do that?  Was that like a Lemonade diss? Like you are not as good as Beyonce.  Oh.  That is what I thought. That is what I thought.  Lemonade being the Beyonce album.  Yeah.  And Beyonce even though she was not at Coachella kind of still had like Coachella...  Yeah.  ...Because she released...  Homecoming.  ...The Netflix special...  For sure.  ...About her Coachella set from the previous year.  Yeah.  So I mean Ariana got upstaged.  By a lemon.  I mean the Beyhive is you know - it is a force.  But do not throw - I am sure that Beyonce likes Ariana Grande.  Sure. Yeah. And that last album from Ariana Grande - I did not like her before. But I really really dug that album.  Ariana we are rooting for you.  Yeah same.  Gosh. All right. You are up one Ashley.  Yeah. I am...  Congratulations.  I am never going to win this game .  Well let us see what happens.  Next quote - an extremely or excessively enthusiastic and devoted fan - tell me either who said that or what that definition is of. What does a culture call those kind of people? It rhymes with fan.  It rhymes with fan.  Just start throwing out.  Can dan man nan pan tan san.  It is close to san but add a letter.  Wan stan.   Stan.  Stan. See. I am like - right over my head.  Whoa. And I actually knew this word.  You did.  The word stan which for years on the Internet has meant like a super fan - stan was officially added to the Merriam-Webster dictionary this week. A bunch of other words were added as well. But stan officially means an extremely or excessively enthusiastic and devoted fan.  Do I get that point because I went through the alphabet?  Sure .  Thank you. Yay.  Same.  But this is what is so weird. Like everyone loves to use the word stand on the Internet to talk about themselves. But the word stan comes from an Eminem song called Stan which is all about a super fan of Eminen's called Stan...  Oh my gosh.  ...Who becomes a stalker. I am not going to ask us to pull up that Eminem song. But if it was there I would listen to it for a second.    Anyways I hope you get this man. Hit me back just to chat. Truly yours your biggest fan. This is Stan.  I should know that.  I did not know that was the origin of that.  Yes.  I should know that.  So the origins of the word stand are not at all uplifting.  No.  No.  And now we love the word stan? I say no Merriam-Webster. Take it back.  Words change over time.  They do but I do not know. Anyway the game is tied.  Uh-oh.  Tied kind of I think.   I am going to let you have it.  Thank you.  Final quote just tell me - get a keyword. As soon as I get control of the board in the first game I am going for the 1000 clues whenever I have the opportunity.  Jeopardy guy.   Yes.  There is an ice - OK I heard this because I heard it on NPR...  .  Oh man.  ...About a Jeopardy guy who has now like won more money than anyone has ever won - like a crazy amount like a million dollars.  His name is James Holzhauer. He is a Jeopardy contestant who recently won more than 1 million in just 14 games. His day job is sports betting. And so he had an interview with The New York Times recently and talked about his strategy. He was like I apply a bunch of my sports betting techniques to this game. But he said my clutch rule for myself is always go for the big clues first.  That is right. He said he takes big risks...  Yeah.  ...For big reward which is like not what you do in Jeopardy I guess.  But he does.  Yeah but he does.  And it works.  And he wins big.  Look at that - helping out a bunch of nerds on like the Jeopardy set.  Yeah.  I love that that is the one I got. I am like Ariana Grande.  .  All right that concludes Who Said That? Congratulations Lauren. You get nothing. How does it feel?  I feel amazing. Can I get a pair of those ugly shoes?  Not from me.   All right. It is time to end the show as we do every week. We ask our listeners to share with us the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. Brent hit th