 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show the host of NPR's Embedded Kelly McEvers and Washington Post reporter Wesley Lowery. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am broadcasting from Culver City Calif. Each week there is a different song to start the show. I will talk about this one in a bit. But first I want to welcome again our distinguished guests today. Right here in studio bopping to James Brown with me is Kelly McEvers. Hey Kelly.  Hey.  Host of NPR's Embedded an investigative journalism podcast that I enjoy. Also in D.C. Wesley Lowery national correspondent for The Washington Post. Thanks for being here man.  Of course.  Yeah. Your bio officially says that your beat is law enforcement justice and their intersection with politics and policy.  So very uplifting things to talk about.  Yeah.   So I am glad you both are here. And I am really glad this week that we are playing this song by a guy you may have heard of named James Brown.    Cannot stand your love. Cannot stand it - cannot stand your love.  So this song is called I Cannot Stand Myself When You Touch Me. This week this song is really important to me. As we know this week marked the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. And after his assassination there were riots and protests across the country in major cities all throughout America. But Boston stayed relatively calm in large part because of James Brown.  Really?  So James Brown had previously scheduled a concert in Boston for the night after Dr. King was killed and the fear was that there were going to be riots all over. So the mayor of Boston at the time asked Brown to also televise the show. He is doing the concert performing this song - I Cannot Stand Myself When You Touch Me - and all of a sudden some young dudes try to rush the stage.   Wait a minute.  I will be all right. I will be fine.  Police officer there - they think it is going to be a riot. And James Brown is like stop stop. Wait a minute. Wait a minute.   Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. They are all right. That is all right. It is all right. It is all right.  He eventually says we are black. We are black. Do not make us all look bad.   Get off that  do the show together. We are black. Do not make us all look bad.  doing this show. Get off the stage.  And then as he is talking these guys down he is talking the police down too because they are ready to move in.   Now I asked the police to step back because I thought I could get some respect from my own people.  He says are we together?   Now are we together or as not we?   He picks the song back up the party goes on. And he is credited with keeping Boston from burning. So people have written about this at length. But Renee Brown  in the Boston Globe this week said that that moment marked a shift for James Brown. Before that he was not political. She said he was more Bruno Mars than Kendrick Lamar.  Wow.  And this was the beginning of a change for him. And then you end up with James Brown a bit later writing songs like I am black and I am proud.  Yeah. Wow.  James...  What does that make you - I do not know. I just like when I hear you tell that story like I want to ask you like what would you feel like if you had been there and he was like saying this is not who we are. You know be this way.  I mean...  I do not know.  I think it is just this reminder. Like none of this stuff exists in a vacuum. Activism is not divorced from music and popular culture is not divorced from you know local politics and the mayor. Like...  What about you Wesley? I do not know. What do you think about that story?  So - no I definitely - so I would heard that story before because I - when I used to work at the Boston Globe covering local politics one of the first books they have you read is Common Ground by J. Anthony Lukas.  Yes.  Ah yes.  And it starts with this part of the scene - and actually a young Barney Frank who goes on to be the congressman is one of the leading aides to the mayor at the time.  Really?  And so the scene opens with like a 20-something Barney Frank like trying to find James Brown and make sure he is still going to have this concert the next day because they are worried that the streets are going to burn. You know similar to what Sam said like you know I do think that it is fascinating basically how local governments in these moments of tension and specifically that moment of tension after King was killed did basically anything they could try to do whether it be getting you know a concert and making sure it still happens or walking the streets themselves. You know it speaks to - like you guys were saying - when we have a moment of crisis how that crisis does touch everyone.  Yeah. It is also a really good song.   Yeah exactly.  Great song.    Baby.  All right. Let us get into it. We are each going to describe how the week of news felt in only three words. Wesley you are going to go first.  All right. I will go first. So for me my words were been here before. And the reason it felt that way...  Evergreen tweet.  .  Right. Exactly right? Was - I felt like a lot of these headlines were headlines that if you swapped a few - it was like a Mad Libs almost right? If you swapped a few things out we would been there before right? So first of all you have this cabinet secretary and the whole week is will he be fired? Will he not be fired? Does Trump love him? Does Trump hate him? What is going to happen? Oh wait - here's a bunch of new reporting about how perhaps maybe he is a little corrupt. And so the Scott Pruitt storyline seemed like something that we had gone through perhaps before.  Scott Pruitt who is the current head of the EPA.  Exactly.  Yeah.  Beyond that there was this shooting at YouTube headquarters early in the week. And it was something that captured all of our attention for a day and then we kind of moved on. And that certainly is a story that very often happens with mass shootings or public shootings where once we realize that OK not a billion people are dead or it is not a terrorist the way we might you know word a terrorist we move on. And so I felt like we would gone through that story before. And as you were alluding to earlier so much of this week was kind of commemorating the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination. And we had a lot of kind of looking back at both the unrest in so many American cities after that the politics of that moment the civil rights movement. And now as this week kind of comes to a close we are seeing protests in New York after a police shooting of an unarmed black man. And so the news of this week has kind have been like a song stuck on repeat right? That it is the same thing over and over and over again.  I also wonder like would Dr. King be at that protest in New York? What would he be saying on cable news today? I just wonder.  Of course. It is really interesting to think about. I mean it is hard to imagine he would not be but in the same way like I said it is so interesting because so many of the things we grapple with now are so similar to the types of things they were talking about then.  Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Kelly do you have three words?  I have three words.  OK.  And it is kind of - I think goes along the same theme as Wesley in a way because we have been here before with this feeling which is everybody slow down.   I just feel like - and I do not want to laugh because the news - the things that are happening in the news are serious and important. But when they happen and the way we receive the information about them makes everyone freak out. And when you are freaking out...  Yes.  ...Like you are not dealing in the world of facts. And I feel like there is a couple of stories that really stuck with me. I am - was also struck by the YouTube shooting and mostly just the way people immediately started talking about it of course on social media. This woman who police now say was the person who came in and did the shooting - you know she had all these videos on YouTube but she was also of Persian descent. And so immediately...  So then they were like oh what does that mean?  Yeah yeah yeah. And there were certain you know websites that she had that had the Farsi language which is you know written in Arabic script. So like all of a sudden you have people just going completely crazy saying she is a terrorist and they are scrubbing her account. The reason they are scrubbing her account is because they do not want us to know that she is a terrorist.  But then you come to find out she was kind of mad because the pay structure for her videos changed?  Right yeah.  It was not this bigger thing.  Yeah exactly. But I think the other story was President Trump's decree to deploy the National Guard at the border. People got really freaked out right away about this story.  Yeah. And he was announcing this because there is belief that there is an uptick in caravans of people coming to the southern border from Central America right now.  Well there is a caravan of people coming from Central America.  One big caravan.  Yeah. And it is you know led by activists people - they are mostly women and children. They are people who are fleeing violence in El Salvador and Honduras where gangs rule certain neighborhoods completely and people are you know terrorized by them. But what I think people just got really upset - they are like oh my God. He is militarizing. What is going to happen?  Also because we forget Obama sent National Guard to the border.  Yes right.  George W. Bush did.  Right.  This is not a new thing.  Ostensibly for you know drug enforcement right?  Yeah.  That was the reasons for George W. Bush and Obama's decisions.  Yeah.  And I am not saying this is right or wrong. I am just saying slow down.  Slow down.  Get some facts. Like here's - we have laws in this country that said after the Civil War you cannot just deploy the National Guard at your whim to do whatever you want at the border. They are going to be charged with doing very specific things that do not involve search seizure or arrest.  Yeah.  Now it is our job as citizens to keep them to that and you know to talk about it and to hold them accountable. But it is just like know the laws.  Slow down.  Slow down.  Yeah. You guys I have three words.  OK.  They are - and it must be delivered with sarcasm irony and vocal fry - yeah but no.   There are two stories this week that I was following where you see the initial coverage of it. You see the initial social media response to it. And everyone's like oh it is this thing. And I am like yeah but no. First was Spotify's public offering. Spotify the biggest music streaming company on the planet went public this week. But it was not quite public. It was not your regular IPO. It was what is called a direct listing. So that means that rather than selling shares to institutional investors in advance of this first day of trading as it is normally done for IPOS Spotify is not selling new shares. They instead allowed existing shareholders to directly offer their stuff to the market. They also were not priced by experts before they went out there. They kind of bypassed a lot of the Wall Street infrastructure to get public. And the big message from that for me and for others was basically big tech is increasingly showing that it does not really need Wall Street itself to succeed right? My second yeah but no story is the ongoing hullabaloo about a  trade war.  Oh yeah.  It is just fever fever fever fever pitch. So now we do know that Donald Trump has already instituted some tariffs on aluminum and steel. That happened a few weeks ago. China instituted some other tariffs after that. But they have both been relatively small. This week we saw the U.S. come out and say well we are going to tax these dozens of things that China makes. And then China came back and said we are going to put tariffs on these dozens of things the U.S. does. And all week we heard that means it is a trade war. And the stock markets are going crazy. And it is getting really funky. But neither side has actually put those tariffs into effect yet. Neither side has said when they would do it. You know like it is not a trade war until it is a trade war.  Yeah. No. I think so too. I mean I do think - the thing about this president is that - you know and this - and I think this goes back to what we are talking about with the border and the National Guard as well right? Like there are laws. And there is reality. And then there is President Donald Trump. And so like I like the idea that the National Guard cannot do immigration enforcement. But like I do not really know what they are going to do down there.  Right.  I do not really know what Trump's going to tell them to do.  Yeah.  And so I kind of see that with a trade war - with kind of this rhetoric around what is happening with trade as well. You know like my logical rational side of me wants to be like all right. Let us slow this down. We will see what is going to happen. And the other part of me is like this could really go off the rails really quickly.  Yeah. Right now to me it still feels like China's president and Donald Trump are like two high school seniors in a parking lot...   ...In a park revving the car.  .  ...But no one's started driving yet.  My car's louder than your car.  Exactly.  Yeah. But I do not know. See. That is the thing. It is like when you are the guy in the high school parking lot you know that other guy. Like you know what is street he grow up on.  Yeah.  You know like what - you know who his family is.  You know his car stalls out 3 miles in.  I just do not know if President Trump knows who he is dealing with. And I do not know if you want to provoke China in this way.  Got to go to a quick break - coming up we are going to talk about the latest on when police officers can use their guns in the field. And we will play my favorite game Who Said That? You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders and we will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am here with two guests. Say hi guys.  Hi.  What is going on?  Kelly McEvers host of NPR's Embedded Wesley Lowery national correspondent covering law enforcement justice and their intersection with politics and policy for the Washington Post - you guys I have a quick question for you both before we hop back into the news. There was a really quirky Washington Post story our colleague Anjuli found this week all about edible glitter.  .  No. I am already saying no.   You do not have to ask me the question.  Let me tell you what they are putting glitter on and in - glitter on pizza glitter in coffee glitter in prosecco glitter gravy glitter bagels. So my question to you all is what food would you most want to glitter-fy?  The only thing that you just said - listed there that glitter would be OK maybe in or around would be the prosecco right? - because it is already like - because it is already kind of like - it is bubbly to begin with right? Like I do not want glitter on a bagel. That sounds disgusting.  I hate to be you know a really serious curmudgeon. I have a kid. There is like glitter on everything. Do you know how insidious that stuff is?   She is like glitter birthday party and glitter princess and glitter coloring book. No.  I want glitter on like a porterhouse steak just to screw with gender norms.   Yes please.  Right? Anyway now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance...   ...Where we call someone out in the country or the world and talk to them about what is happening in their neck of the woods - wanted to keep the call light and fun this week. So we wanted to go back to a listener we heard from last week. He sent us a voice memo last week for our Best Things segment. Here's what he said.   It is Joe from Greenfield Mass. But I am - right now I am in Brooklyn N.Y. because after many months of not getting any work as a makeup artist or makeup designer I found out about a month ago that I would be designing Jesus Christ Superstar Live on NBC.  Yeah. So he did.  What?  We wanted to talk to him a few days after and be like how does it feel? I mean the show was a success. It was broadcast live on NBC Easter Sunday in front of a live audience - great ratings amazing reviews. So we called up Joe to be like ay how is it feel? And also what is John Legend like in a makeup chair? Hey Joe?  Hey Sam. How are you?  I am good. How are you?  I am doing really good. I am doing really good.  Good good good - so we are calling you because you called into us last week right before you were about to do the makeup for this amazing live NBC production of the musical Jesus Christ Superstar. How you feeling about that one week out?  I feel amazing. I am still sort of riding on a high. This is the first time I have designed for television. I have been designing for Broadway for 15 years. But this is the first time for television. And just the entire experience was incredible from like the production itself to the performers that we worked with to my incredible team of 15 artists who made my life so much easier.  Fifteen - that is a lot.  Yeah. Well the cast was I think 46 altogether. And then there were six musicians also that we had to do makeup on.  Oh. So Sara Bareilles played Mary Magdalene.  She did.  John Legend played Jesus Christ. Which of those two is better in the makeup chair?   Actually everybody was amazing in the makeup chair.  You are so diplomatic.  Well yeah. I have to be.  .  But even if I did not have to be diplomatic I have to say like all of our performers were wonderful. And you know some of them came from theater. Some of them come - like they are hip-hop dancers or they you know come from different worlds. But everybody was there to put on the best production. And when you have that like it just makes it...  Yeah - definitely definitely. So everything that I have read about the show and friends that I have talked to that have watched the show - I am still working my way through it. I do not have a TV right now. Long story - but...  .  ...The response has been great. What do you think made this live TV musical work where others have not? Was it the live audience? Was it something else or what?  I think it is a combination of a lot of things. I think NBC gave us the freedom to make something and did not second-guess us. And I think their thought of making it into like a live rock show and having a mosh pit...  That was so cool.  ...With the audience underneath like you know having you know John Legend be able to like just go and like...  Touch the hands of the people...  Yeah which is something that like...  ...Which is beautiful to watch.  And it is something that - if you think about that and the story of Jesus - like that is what would have happened because he was a celebrity of the time. And you do not see it during the commercial breaks. But like the actors the performers especially in the ensemble would you know hype up the audience.  Really?  They would interact with them. Yeah. They would interact with them and hype them up. So they were breaking down that fourth wall. And I think that allowed the home audience to feel like they were part of it.  Oh yeah. So I am guessing that makeup for TV is different than makeup for like a Broadway stage musical. This show was a little bit of both. How did you manage that? Like did you have to meld two styles?  Actually no.  OK.  I always tell my students - I am like I do not design Broadway for like the back of the house. I design for the first 20 rows. After that no one's going to see anything anyway. They are just going to see these blobs onstage. And I am not going to make someone look crazy for the people up front just so that the person in the back can see eyeliner.  .  There are some things that you have to adjust and things that you have to do differently from stage. But for this - because I knew that they were going to be doing a lot of close-ups I watched the - you know sort of the rehearsals and saw the camera shots. I am not designing for the audience necessarily that is there watching it. But I am designing for the audience at home.  Yeah. So what is life like? - work life? What is that like for a makeup artist to Broadway and shows like that? I mean are you always working? It would be easier to think that you are just doing the show - you are set.  Yeah. No. Sadly that is not how it works especially in Broadway because there are not a lot of shows that will need a makeup designer. And a lot of productions will not feel like it is an important part of it. It is a struggle that - as makeup artists and makeup designers that we go through all the time. Makeup is usually the lowest rung of the ladder unless you do special effects. It tends to be what people think about last...  Which is crazy because like you see makeup the whole show.  Exactly. But if you are good at what you do people do not see it. And you know there are times when there is no work at all.  Really?  There was a point where I had zero money in my checking and my savings which has never happened in my life...  Oh no - yeah.  ...Especially now at 46 like to have no money at all...  So has this show helped in that regard?  Oh yeah - totally. But sometimes it goes through these periods that - you know it is still a struggle. Like it - that never ends.  Yeah. That is the thing I always realize in all of my conversations with creatives. It is always a hustle. It is always a struggle.  Yeah.  It is always gig to gig to gig job to job to job.  Yeah. And you could be like on top of the world. Like I am on top of the world right now. And then I could - in a couple of months I might not have any work you know and then have to really push and find something. So...  Yeah. Hey well I thank you so much for talking with me. Thanks for being part of a great show.  Thank you Sam.  I really appreciate you being honest and open about how not all days are good days. But you fight for the good days.  Yeah.  I appreciate that.  You are welcome. And thank you for your show because I love it.  Thank you.  All right. Thanks Sam.  Bye.  Bye.   It is a crazy show .  Also did you see when John Legend walks out and everyone's like  Jesus?  I just watched it unfold on Twitter which was kind of more fun than watching the actual thing I have to say - just like watching people react.  Wes did you watch it?  I definitely watched it. And watching Chrissy Teigen live tweet John Legend...  Yes.  Yes.  It was amazing.  It was everything.  It was beautiful.  Get you someone that loves you like Chrissy Teigen loves John Legend. Special thanks to Joe Dulude for talking with us. All right listeners we want to talk to you for this segment. If you want us to call you for Long Distance just drop me a note. Tell me what is going on. Hit me up - samsandersnpr.org samsandersnpr.org.    Jesus Christ Jesus Christ. Who are you? What have you sacrificed?  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am here with two great guests today Wesley Lowery national correspondent for The Washington Post and Kelly McEvers host of NPR's investigative journalism podcast Embedded. You guys it is time for our main story. I brought you both here because you have covered extensively an issue that I want to talk about this week. I am talking about police shootings of unarmed people. There is still unrest in Sacramento over the shooting of Stephon Clark by police. The details are well-known now. Clark was shot in the back several times in his grandparent's backyard after police responded to some reports of someone breaking car windows. Officers say he was coming toward them holding the weapon but he was shot in the back. He was also unarmed. That was one shooting story this week. There is another as well in Brooklyn. Saheed Vassell - he was shot by police fatally after he was found roaming the streets pointing a metal pipe with a knob on the end of it - kind of looked like a gun. NPR and other outlets have reported that he had mental health issues and that was well-known in the neighborhood. But the police saw him and fatally shot him. And so I want to talk this week with both of you about where things stand when it comes to any change...  Right.  ...When it comes to officers shooting civilians.  Yeah. I think it is one of those things that when you see this week you are like wait a second. What? Why is this still happening? And I think that is a question that you had and I had both. Like...  Oh yeah. I mean because...  What is different? Why is this still happening?  Because we are several years into body cameras all over police officers. We are several years into the Black Lives Matter movement. And in weeks like these it is easy to say well has anything changed?  Right.  Well there are more cameras now.  Yeah.  Right? So the Sacramento shooting for example of Stephon Clark we see that because it was captured on body camera. And the reason the Sacramento police have body cameras is because they bought body cameras after another bad shooting of Joseph Mann in 2016 of another kind of - I believe he was armed with a knife - a young black man in the midst of a mental health crisis. And so one of the things that is changing is we are starting to see more of what is going on. But in terms of people being killed what we know is that you know police shootings are happening just as often today as they were two or three years ago.  Right.  Really?  Yeah really. The numbers bear that out. Like...  You were saying it is like...  ...Because you guys keep a tally at The Washington Post right?  Yeah. So we did this - yeah. So The Washington Post - we do this project where we record police shootings both armed victims unarmed victims white people black people. And the pace has been three fatal shootings a day ever since we started recording. And that was in January 2015. And so we are on that pace currently for this year where that will end up by the end of the year having about 1000 people shot and killed by police. And that is going to be the same as 2015 and the same as 2016 and the same is 2017.  Wow.  And in fact last month was the deadliest month for police shootings since we started recording.  What?  And so just because perhaps it is not in the headlines as much does not mean these shootings are not still happening.  Does increased video footage mean ever that there is more police officers being charged for this stuff or is that changing?  I mean that is the interesting thing right? - is I think you hear police departments say we are getting more body cams. We are getting more body cams as if that is a way to solve the problem.  Yeah.  And what we see is like Wesley - and correct me if I am wrong - but like we are seeing a few - just a few - more officers actually getting charged in these instances. But then the thing is once they get to court they are not necessarily getting convicted.  And Wesley you were telling me before this talk today every video of every shooting that we see involving a police officer - it is basically technically legal right?  Yeah almost all of them right? The way the law works right - so from jump right? Police are allowed to kill people right? It is part of their job. They give them guns. And they are allowed to if they get scared kill people. And so it creates a difference. Versus - right? - there are many fewer instances in which you or I are allowed to kill someone.  And lots of folks could see the logic to that.  Sure.  They have a different job than we do.  Yeah. No fundamentally there is a difference right? Police officers have different legal latitude than you or I do walking on the street. That said the way it works once you get into these courtrooms - and I am like stat guy on this. Like everything Kelly just said was correct. Prior to - in a pre-Ferguson world there would be like six - around five or six police officers a year would be charged in connection to a fatal shooting. And again that is out of about 1000 shootings a year. In a post-Ferguson world that number jumps up to 10 or 12. And so almost double the number of officers being charged. But it is still less than one half of one percent of the shootings...  Right.  Wow.  ...Prompting a charge. You know and so yes in raw number more officers are being charged. But it is still so...  But it is still so small right.  It is so statistically insignificant right?  And it underscores that if there is really going to be any significant change on how officers that shoot people are treated it is going to be a legal change. And there are actually two interesting legal tidbits in the news around this issue. One in California this week a new law was proposed to change the standard by which police are judged in these kind of incidents. It would change the standard from reasonable force to necessary force. That basically means that in California should this law go through officers could only shoot if there were no other alternatives to the use of deadly force. And then secondly the Supreme Court issued a ruling on officers using their guns. This was a case in Arizona. An officer shot a woman who was holding a knife outside of her home in Tucson. And the court basically said that because there was no clear precedent that would have alerted this officer that opening fire would have been unconstitutional and would have been excessive. He was OK to do it.  I mean underpinning all of this is the United States Supreme Court right? It is this case Graham v. Connor and it establishes this reasonableness clause.  Explain that to folks that have not heard about it before.  Yeah. It is this case and the reasonableness clause is this right? It is exactly what Wesley was talking about what gives officers this legal right to shoot. And the idea is what would a reasonable officer do in that situation when their life is threatened right? You are asking - basically you are asking the jury to put themselves in the officer's shoes at that moment. And if you are a good defense attorney you can take a handful of circumstances and say these are all life-threatening things or this officer reasonably thought these were all life-threatening things.  Or is justified in feeling threats.  Yes. When somebody had pulled out a pipe and guess what?  What year was that ruling?  Graham v. Connor it is in the '80s.  OK. And that is been the standard since.  Yep.  So when you see things pop up like this new California proposal...  Right.  In all likelihood...  I wonder if it will be challenged on Supreme Court grounds 'ecause you know it is challenging the very...  One it has to pass right?  Yeah.  And two it seems as if legal jurisprudence has been in one direction for the last few decades.  It is what it is. Yeah.  What is the possibility of change Wesley on that?  I think you are right. It would totally change the direction. Like you were saying the legal standards have moved to be more permissive towards police officers consistently over and over and over again in recent decades. This would be one of the first steps towards a state legislature a state government walking that back. I do think it would result in some of these cases that the public sees as terrible shootings that we watch on video resulting in some type of legal ramifications or justice for those families. You know what is interesting in policing is they use this phrase lawful but awful right? Because the police also understand that the vast majority of police shootings are unquestionably legal. But some of these shootings where you watch them on video of Tamir Rice or John Crawford or Alton Sterling they would call that a lawful but awful shooting where sure when you watch this this is awful but that cop should not go to prison.  Yeah.  And so changing that standard from the reasonableness standard to the necessary standard right? That would open a door to mean that many of these shootings might in fact...  Be awful and not lawful.  Correct.  So we discussed the like legal standard for these shootings. It is been pretty much the same for a long time. The rates of these shootings have been pretty much the same for a long time. But what I have felt that has changed in the last year or so is that these shootings are less top of mind in the daily news cycle. I mean like Wesley like you write about this. Is it harder for you to get your stories on these topics on like the A-one?  Yeah. I mean a little bit. Now I a