  From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today we are talking to Meg Wolitzer. She is a fiction writer out with a new book. The book is called The Female Persuasion. And the hype for this book has been spectacular. The Washington Post called Meg quote the novelist we need right now. This book is on virtually every 2018 must-read list. And already Nicole Kidman has announced that she will be in the film adaptation of this book. So here's the thing. I read the book. It is seriously worth all the hype. I will tell you a bit about it. The Female Persuasion tells a story of a young woman named Greer who was sexually assaulted in college. And while she is dealing with that on campus Greer meets an older famous feminist who was giving a talk at Greer's college. Her name is Faith Frank. And this opening scene becomes a start of this relationship between the two of them that ends up lasting for years. Greer ends up working for Faith Frank at a feminist organization she runs. And the book goes on to reveal how the relationship changes and ultimately falls apart over time. The book deals with these really fascinating ideas - what it means to have a true cross-generational relationship what it means to be a woman and help other women what it means to make compromises for success and why sometimes relationships just have to end badly. But even besides the book Meg said she wants to quote wear the sandwich board for fiction. And she does. She offers this really strong argument for why in times like these when the speed of the news can drive you crazy - why now we need fiction more than ever. All right here's Meg Wolitzer and me in our Culver City studio. Enjoy.   So you are - OK so you came here from - what? - KCRW?  Yes.  You are busy on book tour. Which hosts are you talking...  I am in the middle of it. I was on All Things Considered.  Yeah.  I was on Amanpour...  Oh OK.  ...On TV. That was scary.  Yeah.  And I do not even - like you know I am just going from thing to thing doing a lot of readings.  Do you like it?  Yeah you know I do actually. This time it is very - there is a lot of energy around it. And yeah I do. Yeah.  Yeah. So this is going to be so weird but go with me.  OK.  I was on vacation last week so I was finishing up your book while on vacation. I was at a friend's wedding on a ranch in the middle of the hill country in Texas. It is one of those weddings where they tell everyone come out like Wednesday Thursday. We have a series of activities and events planned before the wedding on Saturday night. I brought your book to read because I did not want to hang out with folks that long . I was like I will sit in the cabin and read. But the bride asked me one of the days where were you? We did not see you today for field day. And I was like I was reading a book. And she said well which book? And I said The Female Persuasion. And she goes it is on my list. I want to read it. I said well I will give it to you next. But I am going to give it to you after you - her after you sign it.  All right.  So before we leave here...  I promise.  ...I am going to have you sign this book. It will be my wedding gift to my friend.  A set of flatware and The Female Persuasion.   That is all you need.   Yeah.  And it was also weird reading a book that is in so many ways about how people without fail eventually let you down. It was weird to read that at a wedding .  Yeah I know. Well we will have to give that couple a chance. They might be different from everybody else. They are going to be different.   Yeah.  I can just feel it.  Yeah yeah. So I want you I guess to describe this book if you could in 30 seconds for people hearing this conversation that have not read it yet.  Sure. It is a book about female power and making meaning in the world and also about the person you might meet who changes your life forever. It is about the relationship between a young woman who meets a famous feminist who kind of takes her under her wing and it goes from there. It is just sort of looking at how we live how people live their lives.  Yeah yeah.  Was that 30 seconds?  That was even better. You have a career in radio.  Excellent.  Some have called your book this new book a MeToo book. Would you agree with that?  You know the book has come out in a moment where a lot of the themes in it are being talked about in a very new way. And the MeToo movement is happening and all of this is happening. But of course I have been thinking about these for a long time. I mean it took me over three years to write the book. So I think these are old ancient ideas - misogyny and female power and assault that...  Yeah.  ...You know exploring some of those things.  Yeah.  They are there.  Well yeah. And it is funny. Like I had a question written for you where I wanted to ask about how like - in the book a lot of the conversation is about generational and other divisions...  Yeah.  ...Within the feminist movement.  Right.  And my first crack at the question was like well how was Twitter exacerbated these things? Because there are little nods in the book where these critics of the foundation in the book use the hashtag fingersandwichfeminism. And I thought oh that is so of the moment. But then I stepped back and I was like those divisions have probably been there from the start - before social media. We just see them in a different way now.  Yeah. I mean the thing about writing about two generations...  Yeah.  ...As I do - because the relationship between this young woman who is groped by a frat brother on campus and meets a famous feminist and then goes to work for her which I should have used during my 30 seconds - did not add that.  No it is OK. It is good.  These two women who are - you know Faith the older famous feminist is 63 when they meet. And Greer Kadetsky the young woman is 18. They grew up in different worlds.  Yeah.  That is the thing about different generations. They saw - the world that they came of age in - which I think really really matters - is a different world. So of course there is going to be a divide. We understand that. And you know to some degree there is a sense of the-media-likes-to-heighten-a-catfight idea. But there of course are real differences and real mistakes and real things that can be corrected in all generations. But I think the idea of the desire for equality runs through the generations here and out there in the world.  Yeah. I mean 'ecause by the end of the book a new younger...  Yeah.  ...Character is introduced. And her whole thing is like none of the old ones get it.  No right.  None of the old ones get it.  No.  And it is like everyone feels that way when they are that young.  Yeah. Everybody does and feels like you have thoughts for the first time. And it is just sort of like...  No one else ever had this idea.  Nope no. And I love that about - you know writing about young people allows you to be young yourself - for about a minute.  .  But you can really think about idealism that you might have had. But it is not that all young people are idealists. I mean there is different kinds of people within social justice movements. People approach things differently. And I am trying to kind of give a panoply of - what is it like for these different characters?  Yeah yeah. And you know I was thinking a lot after I read the book about you know this older feminist that takes a younger woman under her wing.  Yeah.  And I wanted to ask you first off the bat - was there a person like that for you?  There were a few people like that for me. I think that I have been very very fortunate that when I was young a series of older women were very very generous to me. One of them was the writer Nora Ephron who was you know as you know just a wonderful interesting accomplished woman. But she was just very very kind and interested. I mean I guess that is the thing. So I had written this book and she turned it into her first film that she directed called This Is My Life. And very few people saw it. And we should put them all in one room and have a focus group and talk about it...  .  ...Although when you start telling people what it is they remember it. They did not remember the name. It was about a stand-up comic Julie Kavner and her two daughters. And it was really for her a very personal story about the sort of tensions between work and motherhood. And she saw something in it. And then over time we became friends. And she always asked about my work wanted to see it. And I would write novels and send them to her and like wait by the phone like waiting for a date you know.  Really?  No because it - the idea of someone you admire somehow admiring you is like a - whoa did that really happen? That is kind of amazing. And she was very very supportive if she was sort of you know felt interested. And she had lunch with people. We played Scrabble. I just really loved her. And it meant a lot to me because it made you want to see - sort of it made you want to be better I think when someone is waiting for something that you have done.  Yeah. Do you think that that kind of thing - someone in an older generation taking a youth and helping to guide them - is that happening more or less in the time we find ourselves in now?  I think right now so many things are going on that I have seen - I do not have any quantification for this. But I have seen a lot of acts of generosity among people. And you know sometimes - often - it is older people saying here's what I know. You know 'ecause like without thinking I might say - oh call this editor at this magazine. That piece sounds good. I do not want to get anything out of it. Or people have said that to me because you do at least remember when you were young and starting out...  Yeah.  ...And did not know anything. And how did you get a way in? It required that somebody took the time to not say hey I am busy I am busy you know get out of my way kid - but just sort of said oh right. Yeah that is funny what you did or I like what you did. Call this person.  Yeah.  And I think right now where our tensions have been so fractured and we are frightened about a lot of things going on it may feel extra good to do that to somebody. It may feel like you are doing something. You are helping in some way.  Oh yeah. Yeah. And like I have found in my career it is never just a meritocracy. It is never just how good you are. Someone has to like you. Someone has to want...  Absolutely.  ...You to go to that next step.  And some of it is luck. Some of it is being there with that person who likes you at that moment.  Yeah yeah.  It is a whole range of things. So as much as you can sort of be there in some way and see different things - even - you know you meet people who say that thing you said to me meant something. It is not that you help them but then they saw something in themselves and maybe did something were a little braver to do something else. So it is like a weird range. You do not know how - we do not know how our lives are affected by other people. It is like a weird interconnecting system.  It is. It is.  In fact I am going to hit you up today for some references yeah.   That is fine. I will offer you whatever I have.  Slip my resume across the table right now.  As long as you sign this book for Angela  we are fine.  As long as you look at my resume.   So a friend of mine who covers books for NPR - had a chat with her months ago about what things should be on my radar for the show. And before she would even read your new book she said you got to do this one. It is going to be great. I feel like the expectations for this book have been so high because of your previous work. How does it feel to be a writer at this phase where we are all waiting for the next thing you write as opposed to earlier?  I do not think anybody ever forgets the earlier. I do not think you ever forget when you were sort of waiting to find out - did you sell your first novel? Did anybody like it? You know I sold my first novel for 5000. And...  In what year?  In 1981.  Not bad money.  Not bad. And I thought that money was going to last a long time. And in fact I am almost out now you know.   So - but I remember that sort of uncertain self - excited uncertain cocky but really like afraid. Like - and then you know I have to sell it. Will anyone like it? Will anyone read it? Can I keep doing this? You do not lose that. I think that you keep these selves inside you like one of those Russian nesting dolls.  Yeah yeah yeah yeah.  You know so there is that sense in me. But then of course if you have a readership - look I am incredibly grateful. I think fiction writers we are grateful for readerships because we live in a nonfiction world where you know things are happening so fast and people are afraid and looking at the news. What can fiction writers give? I mean I ask myself that. Like you have to make it that fiction is not a luxury item but is another place to go for truth. And I think that that is always something incumbent upon us. Like I want to wear the sandwich board for fiction because I believe in it. The way I think about it is imagine if it were taken away. You know if you lived in a world where people - no one read novels like what would that be like? I get so much from it. I mean there was a study that The New York Times ran years ago about how fiction teaches empathy or gives people the capacity for empathy. We all knew that but we finally had the science to back it up and that makes sense to me. But I think that when you do have a readership and there is an expectation the danger there is well what am I giving them? Do I give them the thing that I did last time but with different names?  Yeah.  ...You know same but different - or will they still be my readers if this new one is about an asteroid hitting those kids who went to summer camp? You know and I think finally what I - the way I approach it is that I want to kind of wipe all of that away and say what is the book that I want to find on the shelf? And that is ultimately the thing that I think you really have to do that - look it is wonderful to have readers. You do not know how long they are going to be around for. Writers want to be read and the conversations around one's book are very heartening because people are talking about your characters. They use their first names as if they are co-workers.  Oh yeah.  You know hey Greer.  I was straight up talking to Zee this morning.  Oh excellent. How is she doing?  She is doing good.  I have not spoke to her for a while.  .  Yeah it is a little demented right? But I think that that is really the way it is sort of ideally supposed to be - but I think finally just sort of kind of saying I am clearing the decks and I am thinking about the next book that I am passionate about because if that is not what it is it is not going to be good.  Yeah. You mentioned earlier in your response fiction helping us find truth.  Yeah.  What is the biggest truth in this new book?  I think that the path to making meaning can be helped by other people but ultimately it is never going to be the path that you thought it was going to be. Novels are not - they should not be polemics. They probably follow a twisty road and I think again and again I am surprised by where people end up. But it really is about people who sort of want to make meaning in the world but it is never going to be - it is never going to wind you up at the place that you thought it was.  Yeah. Yeah. I mean there were so many truths I found in this that I am still thinking of. You open this book with a young woman who is very driven and wants things and is let down in a certain way by her parents. And as her career blossoms and her life becomes a full one what I saw happening for her and for all of the other major characters in the book is that like I said earlier everyone you love given enough time will let you down.  Oh yeah. I am just waiting for that to happen here.  .  I am just like sticking around .  So you are admitting you love me .  No I mean everyone. Not everyone you love - everyone. I am broadening it to everyone. Sorry. Forgive me.   No I will accept it.  I - no I am teasing you.  I know I know.  I think that if you follow an arc of characters you are going to be surprised you are going to be disappointed. One of the things that I have to do as a writer is allow my characters to essentially disappoint each other and tolerate readers kind of saying wait a minute that is annoying to me and writing to you on the various platforms at which they can reach you. But you have to let people be disappointing. You have to let that happen. I guess...  Because that is human nature.  That is really human nature yeah. It is. I mean it absolutely is because this idea of perfection does not happen. Closure even does not happen. You have to leave characters sort of dangling off a cliff and you have to let readers know that what you are trying to get at - you are trying to grapple with how we strive how we disappoint all of those things. And what novels can do I think - I mean they are snapshots of a moment in time or a bunch of moments in time. There is no way into a novel. Novels to me are kind of like Advent calendars. There are a lot of doors that you can enter.  Yeah.  And I think that the ones that I have chosen here are I hope ones that show us who these people are because in a novel I think the ideas - at least for me the ideas could never be bigger than the characters. They really need to work in concert with each other. And I want to write a novel with ideas in it but - big ideas in it. But I want it to come through the characters because I think what you remember of the novels you love is character finally. And that is - these characters I am haunted by them.  And you do this wonderful thing several times throughout the book where you tell the same story through different characters' eyes.  I love to do that. I love to do that.  How long have you been doing that?  I am Rasho-Meg .  .  Oh I think that I have often done that because there is no one truth about what an experience is like. And as you reprocess it you see little details that you did not see the first time. And I just - I am thrilled by the small details and how revealing they are of a person. You know because novels do not take place on any day. They take place on the concentrate of a day. So these are heightened moments that you are writing about and they are going to look really really different from different perspectives - female perspective male perspectives. So I...  The Cory and Greer courtship told through both of them...  Yeah yeah I...  I was like whoa.  Well especially in that case the boyfriend and girlfriend who were experiencing sex together as teenagers they have very very different ways that they have approached it and we only learn it when we keep filtering it around. I think that fiction writers have to let themselves be really really open to the way a story is revealed. And then I mean one of the greatest weapons I think in a writer's arsenal is revision because I can just make horrible mistakes again and again and you still have a chance to sort of repair them when you see them anew when you print them out. What I like to do is I sort of go and I print out what I have written and I go sit somewhere and I look at it. A friend says put your prose in a different font and then it looks like a whole new book.  Really? .  It is very exciting yeah - tip to your writer listeners. But you seem - you see things that were like overkill or really overdetermined and then you can pull back and you have a chance to do it because you cannot do everything as you are writing but you try to do a lot. And then you just continue to sort of fix fix fix to get to what you - what is most important that you want to get across.  When you are doing that thing where you are speaking through the eyes of so many different types of people in this book will you ever say all right I am writing this scene as a 17-year-old boy do I need to consult a 17-year-old boy?  You know I like to show things to people to make sure I got things right later as opposed to having them have input early on because I want it to be a real invented experience. I want the characters to just not be Everyboy or Everygirl  but to really be who they are very much. So I try to kind of let it go through that. I mean I was a teenager once. And you know that is the thing. It is like we are writing about different generations. I mean I will call young people sometimes. Like when I was doing some of the intense scenes on college campus in 2006 I would call my editor and her assistant would answer and I would be hey before you patch me through when you were at college what kind of a feminist were you? OK great thanks now patch me through. You know you are looking - it is - you are looking for help getting things right making sure that nothing seems wrong so that it stops the whole narrative. But I kind of want to be as free as I can to have invention early on.   All right time for a quick break. When we come back why you will not read the names Obama or Trump in Meg's book. BRB.   So much about this book feels perfectly situated in the here and now. But then at some moments when I was reading the book I was like oh she is not trying to be totally in the today. For instance this book is about this modern era but you do not mention Trump by name. You do not mention Obama by name.  Right.  Why not?  You know again people read your books in the way that they do.  Yeah.  I would just say that while it is come out in this Me Too movement time what I want in fiction is something that feels like these are things that we have been wrestling with and that we will wrestle with and you can continue to wrestle with them. Unfortunately some of them we have been wrestling with forever - some things about men and women misogyny some of these ideas about female power and a country's ambivalence toward that. The minute you mention people by name - like leaders by name - the reader knows and can picture them perfectly. Everyone has the same view in their mind.  And their focus is taken away.  And their focus is taken away from the characters of Faith and Greer and Cory and Zee and moved into these - you know funnily enough public figures are like the characters in the novel that we all share. We do not know Hillary but look I am calling her Hillary. Hi Hillary.  Yeah.  I do not know you. Why am I call you Hillary? You know...  And if you were - and like if someone asked you to write a Hillary short story you could do it right now.  Yes exactly. You could. And there are certain tropes and there are certain things that we feel we understand about them because they have become the characters in our lives and in our dreams in a way.  Yeah. Everyone can imagine a conversation with Donald Trump or Barack Obama.  That is right. That is right.  You can do it. Yeah.  And I think that I want the characters in my novel to dominate the novel and the narrative in the novel. And I want the idea of what is going on in the culture and what is going on politically to be there sort of unnervingly. I mean at the end of the book the one thing that I did do was go back into the novel after I would finished it - after the election. I did not - I never planned for this book to be up-to-date. I mean it is sort of like writing about technology when suddenly it is dated in about one second - hey put on Napster or whatever you are going to say. You know it sort of cheapens it. It makes it be like - the other things that might be truths in the book are then thrown away with the eight-track tape deck.  Yes.  And no writer wants that. But I did go back into the book after I would finished it because the election happened and I was pacing my house feeling - my apartment. That is a short pace. I live in New York City. I was pacing the house kind of like a bull like on election night thinking what does this mean? What is going to happen? Is this real? And I started thinking in the sort of days and weeks after that - I was editing Best American Short Stories as well at the time and I was thinking about fiction and what we want fiction to do. And with regard to this book in the last chapter I thought I want to dip back into my characters thrusting them forward into what someone calls the big terribleness because it is not always that things are going to maybe be a little better for women and a little worse but you keep going. What if things really sharply darkly change? So I took a moment to go back into the novel and speak to a world that was still whirling and unfinished and I did not even know what it would look like a few years into the future. And I was very very glad to do that because no one knows. So I really wanted to sort of thrust forward and keep out the names. I mean I am saying the big terribleness but we know what that means. But I am going to show what it feels like rather than naming names.  Do you think this current political moment real life real time represents for you and for others a quote unquote big terribleness?  It does. Yeah I think it does. And one of the ways that it does for me is that it is so dominant it is so present you cannot turn it down. I remember there was a - do you remember the short story by Vonnegut in that collection Welcome To The Monkey House Harrison Bergeron where they had to wear headphones? And I think when they had a thought or an interesting thought like loud sounds would come in.  .  That is how I feel all the time...  With our politics right now?  With our politics - loud booming narcissism that is coming to our heads makes it so hard to traffic in nuance. And I think what novels can do and what I hope to do in a novel is to sort of be an antidote not to politics and not to the current moment but to things that feel un-nuanced. And that is I mean...  And to the constant stream of yuck.  Yeah the constant stream of that - to control the stream. When you read a novel - I mean what I love about fiction I mean among the many things I love about it is the idea that this book is sort of waiting for you when you need it when you are there. It is the...  At the cabin in the hill country at the wedding.  At the cabin at the wedding. Yes this is all leading back to your wedding that you went to.  .  But the book by the bedside at night for instance to me is a source of great solace.  It is a friend.  It is a friend whereas Donald Trump is not my friend. And the politics of this moment upset me...  Are not friendly...  They are not friendly politics. They are sharp-elbowed politics.  And if you like the current president or not...  It does not matter.  ...There still is a certain level of frenzy that has not stopped since Election Day.  It goes beyond where you stand politically. It is that it is very very loud and it is dissonant and it is relentless. And I think the relentlessness also makes it hard for fiction writers to think where do we fit in? Because remember these people have become these inflated characters they have become as big as like Macy's Day Parade floats floating through our dreamscape floating through our daily life. He is you know - the characters in fiction ask something different of us. They ask us to think about nuance and about moral ambiguities.  And then like it makes you stop. It makes you stop and think. Like there were moments reading the book where I had to stop reading and think about moments in my life or people in my life that were like trigger - like those thoughts were triggered to me by this text. And then you - I found myself mentally working through some stuff while reading the book.  Oh I am glad to hear that.  And that is not a thing you do when you are watching cable news.  No. You are passive before the scroll of stuff that comes out there. Fiction - there is a collaborative nature to fiction really in that what you just described. When you are reading I cannot control what experiences you have had and therefore you bring to the book whatever things interest you what things do not interest you. I am just putting out there what interests me the most. I mean people say to writers write what you know. I have always felt for me what is more germane is write what obsesses you. What are the things that you think about all the time? And I say to students when I teach what are those things because if you are keeping them out of your work I wonder why because that is where like the heat is. But you know in this moment that is the thing it is - Mary Gordon the novelist who is a great friend of mine said that the novel is the opposite of a tweet. And I think that is really true. You know look the novel sometimes is called you know a 19th century thing the story told. But I love another - to quote another writer I love Emily Dickinson who had that great line tell all the truth but tell it slant. I think novels are tell the truth slant. They do tell the truth. They show what is it like? What is it like out there or in here? But they do it in a way - what art does is not give it to you straight on but give it to you in a sly way kind of curving showing us something say as you brought up through one character's point of view. But now wait a minute we are seeing it through someone else's point of view and it does not look like that at all.  And a good one you finish it and you say to yourself I did not know this one book was going to give me so much you know?  It feels like a gift when a novel does do that.  Yeah.  I mean you get very excited. You kind of jump around for a while.  Yeah.  And I just love that about fiction. A good novel to me is you know it is not a place of escape. But it is sometimes you escape but sometimes it is about diving into things that are happening anyway.  Yeah you explore.  You explore yeah.  The book made me think a lot about the politics of all these people. It is inherently personal.  Yeah.  Everything that Greer is doing at that place and then after that it is informed by her personal life. It is informed by the attention she lacked as a kid and what Faith gave her. It is informed by the college snafu. Like and just thinking back today about the state of our politics - I feel like we as Americans are not seeing the personal in others' politics. We are very good - and this is everybody on all the sides saying if you voted that way...  You are...  ...If you did that thing if you like that one you are bad or you are good. And that is it.  Right. I think that you know in this time of hot takes...  Yeah.  ...I have a desire to be a master of the warm take. And that is really...  .  ...What I try to do here because these characters are not meant to be representative of all young feminists or older feminists. They certainly - they could not be. And I would not want them to be either because then it is not a novel. But that is right. You know look this time of Twitter and saying what you feel people who can do it well it is incredible. There are powerful things being said. I mean it is not only novels or tweets. They are important.  Yeah.  There are - of course. I mean it goes without saying. But to slow down to write about the intimate ways that people interact and how that informs their politics how that informs the decisions they make that are really really important for the rest of their lives that is something that I want more of especially in this moment.  Yes. Yeah. Did writing a book that seems to speak so much to feminism make you think anything differently about feminism or lead you to a new realization about the current state of the feminist movement or not really?  I think talking to people on - I have you know been on book tour - talking to young women and older women and hearing stories of just this kind of urgency and desire for things to be better.  More than usual?  Well there - I talked - I cannot say because I am talking to them now in a way that usually I am at home in my bathrobe you know going what is a word for whirlpool you know?  .  You know what is - 'ecause I used that word twice in that paragraph. I cannot use it a third time. But when I am out I do not know. I mean...  More than last book tour maybe even?  It is different certainly. The last book The Interestings you know dealt with issues about talent over time. And I had a very personal connection to that book because the characters meet at summer camp when they are young and it follows them over almost 40 years. In this case with The Female Persuasion it was instead of the characters all being the same age there was really a relationship between two generations in the boo