 Hello.  Hey.  Hi.  Tell folks who you are.  Hey. This is Sam's aunt Betty.  And this is Betty's nephew Sam. How are you Betty?  I am good. Thanks Sam. How are you?  I am pretty good. You know so usually we have you introduce the show and the themes and the guests but for the second time now we are going to mix it up because we are doing a special coronavirus episode this week.  OK. Sounds good.  Yeah yeah yeah. You know coronavirus has changed everything and it is changing the show right now. And we wanted to take some time this week just to see how coronavirus is affecting people differently.  Right.  So in this episode we are going to dig into that which made me wonder like what has coronavirus been like for you in Delaware?  Well I am working from home which is really great because I am in a classification that makes me at high risk. So I do not have to go out in it but I do get out a couple of times a week just to run errands. And I am noticing that while there is still traffic out there is not nearly the traffic that it was a few months ago. I think overall I have seen a difference in how people are reacting.  So what do you miss most as you are having to just spend so much more time at home?  I really miss my church. I miss the getting together with the people at church because that was my circle - my friends and you know my squad and all of that. You know I just feel kind of isolated sometimes. I can be at home. I am OK being in my house. But I do miss the congregation meeting - getting with the people at church.  Yeah. I think we found the biggest difference in our coronavirus experiences. You miss church. I do not  because I have not been going.  Why am I not surprised ?  All right. You can do the thing you always do now where you say let us start the show.  All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend. In this episode we are going to focus on how coronavirus is playing out differently all across the country and differently for different types of people. To do that we are going to start by talking with two friends and colleagues Kirk Siegler and Leila Fadel. They are both correspondents on NPR's National Desk. And Leila is covering coronavirus from Los Angeles. Kirk is covering it from Boise Idaho. They are both here with me through the magic of technology. Hello to you both.  Hey Sam.  Hi.  How are you all?  Holding up. Holding up. Every day's the same.   What day is today? Who knows?  What she said.  Yeah yeah yeah. So I want to talk about the lay of the land where you all are but first I want to just get personal and just have you describe what coronavirus looks like for you. Like is there a scene a visual something where you are that you see every day that kind of just sums up what coronavirus is in your place?  Well Sam Boise Idaho has marketed itself over the last decade - lots of people moving here to be able to telecommute and the easy access to the outdoors. And with almost everything closed including on my street just a few blocks behind me - you go up to the trails and they are a zoo. And a lot of people kind of live in fear that the mayor and other leaders will shut them down because there is not a lot of social distancing but it is the one thing to do right now...  Wow.  ...Especially in a mid-sized city like this where you have not yet seen the high volume of known cases or the ERs being overwhelmed with COVID patients.  And so Leila you are in Los Angeles. What are you seeing that really sums up what it is like here?  Well here the parks and beaches are closed so we definitely see the people parked with the longing look at the beach that they are not allowed to go to. But for me more it is the grocery store. So you go to the grocery store. There are these very long lines where people are trying to socially distance. And then everybody's let in a few people at a time. And then sometimes one of the employees will come out and just announce what is not inside.  Really?  So last time it was a woman being like no beans no rice no toilet paper no paper towels no hand sanitizer - like all the essentials that you can think of.  Wow. It is so weird to think of anything approaching food scarcity in Los Angeles which is like - I do not know. We make so much food that the whole world eats. It is crazy.  Yeah.  So I want to dig into the rural-urban divide with coronavirus. And Kirk let us start with you. You were telling me this week that probably the best way to see how coronavirus plays out in rural areas is to look at how coronavirus is affecting rural hospitals.  That is right. I have been tracking one here in rural Idaho. It is a 15-bed hospital. And these hospitals really had to ramp up to prepare for this coronavirus which has been slow to arrive and in some cases fortunately has not. But at the same time they are you know hemorrhaging money because they are not making any money on clinic visits outpatient procedures all the other routine medical stuff. So it is kind of a great irony and it is felt even more acutely I think in a small town where a hospital tends to be one of the largest employers and a lot of people do not have much to fall back on.  Yeah. So then if you are in a small town like that where the hospital - which might be the biggest employer in your town - is laying off people and you are sitting at home not seeing too many new coronavirus cases in your town that probably makes you feel a certain kind of way huh ?  Right. And I want to say it is not - you know you cannot lump all of rural America into one monolith.  Exactly yeah.  But you know there are - the virus has been slower to get here with the exception of some ski resort counties and some reservations here in the West. And so when it is not right there in your face and you are also seeing headline after headline about economic despair and a looming depression you know it is human nature to start to question and wonder if this was an overreaction which I think is what you are seeing which is just so much different than being in New York. I mean I talked to a lot of people who have said look we are not New York. We are not Los Angeles. We need to reopen - maybe not all at once. But this is not as bad out here as it is in the coastal cities.  Yeah. You know it is hard to prognosticate on how any part of the country will really end up economically through all of this but I could imagine that rural communities are being hit really really hard. What does it look like in some of those small towns where it is not just the hospital laying off staff it is every other business too?  That is right. And people in rural America presumably could be you know more isolated from this disease. However on the other hand most people have to go to work in other settings - like a manufacturing facility a lumber mill plant a pork processing plant - where they have to work around other people and a lot of those plants are still going. And so we are seeing reports of Latino farm workers still working in the fields potentially at risk. But you know they have to.  Yeah. Leila you and I are both in Los Angeles. And I mean you tell me how it feels for you but whenever I am out on the streets...  Yeah.  ...Going to the grocery store or going for a jog walking the dog - coronavirus feels very present. The streets are empty. There is no traffic here which is strange. Everyone's wearing a mask. Lots of things are closed. I feel like in a big city coronavirus just feels more present. Has that been your experience here in Los Angeles?  Yeah. I mean even on sort of the walks that you will take whether it is the isolated walk on your own or the walk to the grocery store you see the signs in the windows - we will survive this closed for COVID-19 the graffiti that is now referencing stay-at-home orders - this idea of surviving but also fully isolation. And cities are often lonelier places so people might be suffering in silence. And so this sense of isolation where you live in an apartment building and you probably do not know your neighbor because people keep their doors closed - and so that loneliness might be deeper even though there are more people. But also the spread might be faster because it is more densely populated.  Yeah. Yeah yeah. I want to ask you both about a parallel between cities and rural areas and really everywhere across the country. Perhaps the biggest division with coronavirus is the rich and poor divide right? I mean I think we have been seeing stories for weeks now about how this disease can affect you and your life based on your income.  Yeah. I guess that is the thing that is come into the most sharp focus when reporting on this pandemic. If you have and if you have a lot you can do a lot right? And so I think of that story early on about the Utah Jazz team being able to get a bunch of tests while the rest of Utah could not get a test. And the divide is deepened now because more people are falling into poverty every single day with this. And so I was at a testing site actually recently - an antibody testing site where three doctors are trying to get telehealth and tests to communities that usually do not get those services. And I was talking to this doctor - an ER doctor here in Los Angeles Nanaefua Afoh-Manin and she is done a lot of work in Haiti and other places. And she said we have to get services to the underserved. Those are the communities that are going to have the outsized impact. And that is already shown itself right? There is a racial inequity - African Americans getting sicker dying more than white Americans - and that is showed nationally. And here in Los Angeles 16 of deaths are African American. Only 9 of the population is African American. And this doctor said well that is the thing that always happens with health.  Got you.  But it is not just the poor. It is also the people who are becoming poor. And so you talk to these small business owners and one business owner I spoke to told me you know what is going to happen once we are out of this? What does post-pandemic look like? Is it the 1 and then the fully desolate? Does the middle class and even the upper middle...  Yeah.  ...Class disappear?  Yes.  And so those are questions on people's minds.  I have been thinking about this so much Leila. Just to get really local in LA here...  Yeah.  A thing that I have been doing in social distancing is like picking a new neighborhood every weekend to have a long walk with the dog. And I like to go to rich fancy neighborhoods and look at all the houses I cannot afford. So I was in San Marino a few days ago and then I went to Hancock Park. I walk through there and it looks like everyone's on staycation. The windows are open. Everyone's cooking dinner together in their big kitchens. You hear music. You see parents with their kids on bicycles on the street. Everyone seems really happy and like this is not hurting them at all. And then you compare that to other parts of this city - you know I live not too far from Skid Row - and it is an entirely different story. You know...  Right.  This disparity is on such big display. And it is hard to overstate how for some people who have enough money coronavirus is not a problem for them at all.  It is interesting. One of the tensions that is played out here in more rural areas is the people of means who have second third fourth homes in Jackson Hole Wyo. Sun Valley Aspen are flying in from - or have been flying in or traveling in from California from Seattle from New York and...  Possibly bringing cases with them of coronavirus.  Exactly. Exactly. And we do not have a real handle on that yet because we have not tested. But there is just a lot of inequities even in...  Yeah.  ...Rural areas.  Oh yeah.  Also just the people who have to work...  Oh yeah.  You know there is a luxury to working from home. All three of us can work from home. And there is a lot of people talking about our heroes on the frontlines but a lot of people did not sign up to risk their lives and die on the frontlines to deliver groceries or to provide medical care.  Yeah.  And so it is a lot about protection and protection for everyone and who gets to have protection. And those are big questions that you are hearing among regular people among politicians. And a lot of that is also about socioeconomics. A lot of that is also about race.  I think it is fair to say that everyone should stop saying about coronavirus we are all in this together. Maybe we are but we are all in this together in very different ways. And people are experiencing this thing differently based on their circumstances. And any comprehensive coverage of this thing has to take those things into account. All right. Kirk Siegler and Leila Fadel thank you for giving us a perspective on coronavirus from across the country. We are going to take a break now. And after the break we will hear from a bunch of listeners telling us firsthand how they experience coronavirus where they live. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. Thanks Kirk and Leila.  Thank you.  Is that it?  Well say goodbye Kirk.  Oh sorry.  Jesus Christ. I do not need you to say is that it? Go on a break.  Is that it? Am I done?   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. In this episode we are talking about how coronavirus is different for different people based on who you are where you live how much money you make a lot of different things. So we got an email earlier this week from a listener who wanted to share her story a story that maybe a lot of folks have not dealt with yet but one they might deal with soon with this pandemic. She gave us a voice memo.  The thing that I am dealing with is that I found out on Friday night that I in all likelihood gave someone the virus who went on to die from the virus.  Her co-worker - she cannot know for sure but it is a real worry. And it happened in mid-March she told us days before a lot of the country went into total lockdown mode. At that time folks were still going to work and she says she and her colleague were working closely together before she even began to feel symptoms. After that she tested positive for COVID-19. And then last week in a work email she found out that her colleague had died from the virus.  So obviously we do not know that I gave it to him but - and that email sent to two or 300 people in my office means that everybody reading that probably has come to the same conclusion. And I was very public about being sick with my office because I wanted people to know. I know that there are a million systemic issues that are to blame. I know that I could not have known I was sick. But it is something that I am dealing with that if things had been different if I had not worked that shift if I would worn a mask - which nobody was really doing at that time - maybe this person would still be alive.  So we are not going to use her name to respect her privacy and the privacy of her late colleague and his family but we did call her up this week just to see how she is doing since she heard the news. When you read the email what are the first things going through your head? How do you feel in those first moments?  I felt really guilty I think. I also felt a little scared about how people might react. And I felt sad for this person and for their family. And I do not know. I just sort of felt like shocked you know because I had no idea that there was even a possibility that I had infected this person. And then to kind of find out all these things at once was very shocking.  Yeah. How close were you with your colleague who passed? Did you know him very well?  Not very - he was somebody that I worked with maybe two or three days a month. But he was very quiet very kind. And he would always give me a hard time about my handwriting - which is terrible so that is very fair - but in like a funny way not in a mean way. He was one of the people - when you walked in the shift and saw him sitting there you are glad that it was him.  How long has it been now since you found out about his death?  That was just Friday night so...  So less than a week still.  ...Not that long. Yeah yeah.  Yeah. What was the lowest moment?  Definitely Friday night.  What happened Friday night?  I think I just felt really shocked and sad. And then I got so many emails and text messages and phone calls from co-workers who had read the same email and said oh are you OK or do not blame yourself. And it was obviously so nice and so kind but it also was just overwhelming to have all of these people reaching out sort of in that moment. And I did not know how I was supposed to feel. Like I think so many of the other parts of this whole thing - it is like there is a roadmap for how you are supposed to feel or - and there just was not for this.  Yeah. You know there is the potential though that you did not infect him. I suppose...  Yes.  ...That might...  Yes.  ...Make it even harder. It is like you know if you have a car accident and the other person dies you know it was you.  Yeah.  But this you will never really know.  Yeah so the thing that has been - that has made me feel better in a way is for me to just be able to say out loud like the most likely scenario is that I was the reason he got sick. And there is nothing I can do to change that. I did not know I was sick. I could not have known I was sick. I cannot blame myself. So accepting it as true is almost the easiest thing for me.  I am really intrigued as to why you reached out. I think there probably are a lot of people who might be going through the same situation either now or later. They are not going to call an NPR show and ask to tell their story. This is very brave of you. Why did you do it?   Well I think that if we can all figure out ways to process these things and to be kind to each other and to know that it is OK to talk about these parts of it that maybe it will be easier for other people too.   Thanks again to that listener for sharing her story. It is time for a break. When we come back we are going to hear from more listeners around the country and the world talking about how coronavirus is affecting them. BRB. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. For the last few weeks we have asked you all to tell us in voice memos how you are holding up what you have been up to what brings you joy what you are missing - basically how you are living through coronavirus. So in place of our Best Thing segment this week we are going to just take a listen to all those recordings those coronavirus time capsules you all sent us. OK let us hear it.   My name is Addy . I live in Juneau Ala. And right now I am walking on an island just across the channel from Juneau called Portland Island.   Those birds you hear are apparently called oystercatchers and they are pretty annoying. They have been yelling all morning.  Hey. This is Brent  from Orlando. I am currently in the postpartum room in the hospital. My wife and I were so fortunate. We had a little baby boy on April 13 which was also my birthday. Unfortunately he has been in the NICU since Monday as well. The NICU is only allowing one visitor at a time. You know these rules are not my favorite but I totally get why they are in place. They are for the greater good - just you know not the most fun situation to go through right now.  This is Emily  from Illinois. What is your name?  I am Livy .  Livy - and what do you want to play?  Hide-and-seek.  Hide-and-seek? All right go hide.  One hundred 100 come.  I am Anne Rodeman. I am in Washington Heights. And Damian just sent me a Zoom from his premier account because he is my friend who pays for things. Bless him.  I am Damian Bellino. I am in Harlem N.Y.  We are about 60 blocks away but we have not seen each other in exactly a month.  A month to the day - what I want to watch when this is all over...  Yeah.  I want to watch Jumpin' Jack Flash directed by...  Penny Marshall.  Oh come on. But like also I know there are ways for us to watch it together over Netflix Party or whatever. I do not want to partake in that. It is not the same visceral experience of you and I like having seven martinis each and then like going to town screaming at each other and freeze-framing Whoopi Goldberg.  I know.   Hi. This is Amy. I live Marina Del Rey Calif. I am currently standing on the beach. I am right at the shore as the water's coming in. It is quite a windy day so you will probably hear a lot of wind. But hopefully you can also hear the rhythm of the waves as they come in.   That was some of the sounds of me slicing my homemade sourdough because like so many other people during this pandemic quarantine time I decided it would be a good idea to get into sourdough bread baking. It makes me feel satisfied and fulfilled in a way that I am not really able to get otherwise during quarantine.   Where is Spot? That is Spot. He has not eaten his supper. Where can he be? Is he behind the door?  .   No that is a bear. Is he inside the clock?  .   No that is a snake.  I am trying to be happy and pretend it is a normal day and it is just a weekend or summer break. But I just cannot. I have schoolwork to do. I have to deal with my backyard. I have to deal with my baby cousin Maddie .  I really miss travel. And I really miss being outside and going out for long walks and being with other people.  I am missing the reward of an Icee and a nice large popcorn with butter and jalapenos and...  And something I really miss is just hearing all the people in my neighborhood walking around. And I am just excited for there to be life again.   I am sitting here in my backyard taking a rest after working all day here on my lawn in Nampa Idaho. And I am just taking a minute or two to think about a hospital that is being torn down. It is probably 50 years old. But I pause to think about all the folks that I knew that started life there including my daughters. And then unfortunately and all too sad I recall the folks that finished their journey there. So I think it is important to remember these things - the beginnings and the conclusions. That is my thought do not mean to be too depressing but that is my thought.   Hi. This is Katie Heinen  from Long Beach Calif. I had to be in isolation for six days to rule out COVID. And thankfully I am healthy. But I am sitting outside right now in the sunshine listening to my kids laugh and bounce on the trampoline. And I am just feeling really grateful.    You came along to...  Hey Sam. It is Ashley  from OKC. And I am listening to You Make Me Feel Like A Natural Woman with my mom her favorite song. Say hi Mom.  Hello. How are you doing today?  We are here working in our house. And I make sure she stays good. She makes sure I stay good. And right now we are listening to a little Aretha. You want to give it to them Mom?  I do not need to do more because...   You make me feel...  Yeah.   You make me feel you make me feel like a natural woman.  Oh give them a baritone.  Oh with my soul.  Thanks Sam.    You make me feel so good inside. And I just want to be...   This is Danny  in Baltimore. I have been working from home for I think four weeks now. And every day around noon I take what I have been calling a sanity walk. I just kind of walk around a block and try to clear my head. And today it is a little windy and rainy but this is the sound of that.   Hey Sam. This is Erin  in Boise Idaho. I have been self-isolating for about five weeks now just me and my cat. And this  this is the sound of her snoring.   She is having a good dream.  My name's Peter. I live in Newaygo Mich. And I am watching the sunset over a sphagnum bog.   Hello Sam. This is Karina  from the Galapagos Islands. And I am sending you the noises from my farm at night. Due to the pandemic my workers can no longer come so the work has been left for only my husband and me to do. It is been a lot of work. And we also have to care for the children clean the house and try to rest in between. So we have had to work at night. And the beauty of all this is that it is made me reconnect with my skies my constellations that I am a bit embarrassed to recognize that I did not appreciate or see or understand. And now I am admiring them every night. And also the noises and the wildlife and the different bugs that I have discovered it is like becoming a kid again.   Hey Sam. This is Susan  from Wisconsin. Last week I had the privilege of sitting with a patient who was at end of life as a hospice chaplain and singing Somewhere Over The Rainbow. And as I sang she sang along with me and smiled broadly. Her daughter said it was one of the last times she related to the outside world. I love my work. And in these days of the pandemic I rarely get to be with my patients in person. So it touches my heart those times I am able to be with them and see them and look in their eyes.  Hi it is Dr. Jeff  calling from New York. I was driving home from my shift in the ER last week when I heard the segment where listeners are encouraged to share the best things that have happened to them during the past week.   The best part of my week was getting a FaceTime call from my mom who is been in the hospital for 12 days with COVID-19.  There have been so many teary moments over the past few weeks mostly from sadness stories of health care workers who have passed stories of family members of friends and colleagues who have passed. Each life lost calls for a moment of reflection and tears of sadness.   And this morning at 30 a.m. she felt good enough to talk to me on FaceTime so I gladly took that call.  Still when I heard that one woman's story of how her mother called her after getting off the ventilator I started to cry because each life saved also calls for a moment of celebration and tears of joy.   Hey Sam. This is Isabella . During these times of solitude and reflection I have really been thinking a lot on my past year. I lost my dad exactly seven months ago today. And it has been a really tough time for me and my family. Days following his death I remember wanting the world to stop even if just for a week. And here we are a global arbitrary halt with nothing to do with me or my grief. I have used this time to heal try to come to terms with my loss and being extremely grateful for my resilient family my health and above all all the love I am surrounded with.  This is Erica  in Boulder Colo. And at 8 oclock at night people in Boulder are going outside and howling. And I came out onto my balcony to see if I could hear anybody. I can hear a few people. I do not know if you can hear them. They are really far away. But I am going to join it.   Thank you thank you thank you to everyone who sent in that audio. And of course thanks again to producer Jinae West who put it all together. Listeners as you can tell we love to hear from you all the time. You can reach out to us in many different ways. I am on social media at SamSanders. And you can email the show whenever you want with audio video pet photos baby photos anything at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. This week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Andrea Gutierrez and Hafsa Fathima. Thanks to our engineers for this episode Patrick Murray and Gilly Moon. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. Listeners until next time thank you for listening. Thank you for being a part of this show. Stay safe. Keep your head up. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon. 