 Hi there. This is Sarah's Great-Aunt Nancy. This week on the show NPR political reporter Asma Khalid and All Things Considered host Mary Louise Kelly. All right. Let us start the show.  ST.   People turn the TV on. It looks just like a window.  From NPR I am Sarah McCammon in for Sam Sanders. He is on vacation somewhere. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Each week we start with a different song. And before we explain this one I want to say hi to our guests today. As my Great Aunt Nancy said here in the studio with me in Washington D.C. All Things Considered host Mary Louise Kelly.  Hey Sarah.  Thanks so much for coming in.  Great.  Hi.  It is my pleasure.  And on the line from Boston my old friend from the Washington Desk here at NPR political correspondent Asma Khalid. Hi Asma.  Hey Sarah.  So to explain the song that we are hearing this is Digital Witness by St. Vincent.  ST.   Digital witnesses what is the point of even sleeping?  She is one of the headliners at the Coachella music festival taking place in Indio Calif. this weekend. It is good stuff. But the festival is in the news this week though for an interesting reason. The organizers behind it are being sued by another music festival called the Soul'd Out Music Festival in Portland Ore. over something known as a radius clause which honestly I had never heard of until this week.  No.  No.  So a radius clause is something that is apparently common with big music festivals. If you are an artist and you sign up to play Coachella for instance you have to agree that you will not appear at any other live concert within about 1300 miles of Indio Calif. And that is for a five-month period that started back in December and goes until May. And apparently that area includes like five states so feels like kind of a lot. But this...  It is a very specific number too 1300 miles.  Right.  I wonder how they got to that.  Yeah. But this festival in Portland wanted some of the same acts this month. And as a result they filed this federal lawsuit. It is been making some of the music news. So we will see what happens. But if you are within that radius and you want to see St. Vincent or First Aid Kit or David Byrne or The Weeknd or a bunch of other bands playing at Coachella Coachella is your only option.  ST.   Oh. Oh I want all of your mind.  OK. To begin we are each going to describe how the week of news felt to us in three words. Asma you are first.  OK. So my three words are do not log in...   Wise words.  ...Which I would say describes how you literally could have avoided any data privacy problems with Facebook if you just did not log in quite literally. But it is also how I felt about kind of the news madness this week right? It is like every time I opened up my Twitter or I logged into email I was inundated with crazy news. And so I had a sense that you know like one day it was Paul Ryan resigning. The next day it is James Comey's book - that when the news gets so crazy if you really just do not want to deal when you cannot deal with it because it becomes so much you just really just do not log in.  Sounds like a great option Asma unless you know like...  .  ...You happen to be a journalist.  Unless we are journalists.  Exactly. So it is sort of comical. It is like my aspiration.  So that brings me to something else. You know besides the really big important issues at stake here like privacy and the future of tech and the future of you know democracy it was really kind of entertaining to watch some of these members of Congress this week during the hearings with Mark Zuckerberg...  Oh yeah.  ...On Capitol Hill you know grappling with this platform that honestly my 93-year-old grandfather is using and my Great Aunt Nancy - I am not going to mention her age but she is using it too. It was clear that not everyone though was totally up to speed.  Well here's my take on that. I have been interviewing members of Congress all week you know who have been in these hearings and who were going to be questioning Mark Zuckerberg. And like every single one of them I asked do you use Facebook? Have you gone on and changed your privacy settings or disconnected your account? And I must have interviewed half a dozen or more. None of them are on Facebook.  Wow.  They have maybe a staff account that is posting you know pictures from the district but none of them were on it. And boy could you hear that in all of the questioning.  Do they not have grandchildren?  Yeah. You know my favorite moment guys was when - I think it was Senator Orrin Hatch asked Mark Zuckerberg how they make money.   How do you sustain a business model in which users do not pay for your service?  Senator we run ads.  I see.  Oh.  And it was sort of his first time realizing how the business model of not just Facebook but other you know Internet search giants and social media companies work. And there is this profound like naivete I almost feel in sort of the responses to how senators were dealing with this that made it feel like as much as Mark Zuckerberg ought to be really dealing with big questions about you know sort of algorithms and data privacy in some ways he really had a home court advantage because a lot of the senators questioning him just do not understand how his platform works.  Right which again seem kind of surprising because I feel like Facebook has not been a thing just for young people for a really long time. But maybe that is less true for senators. I do not know. Mary Louise you are next. Your three words for how the news felt?  So I struggled with this one because every time I thought I had come up with a brilliant three words as Asma noted it is been a crazy news week and I kept getting overtaken by events. I was emailing back and forth with a source on Tuesday or Wednesday saying it is another crazy news day between you know Facebook and Syria. And he said yeah you did not even mention Michael Cohen. And I thought this is true. We are living through a news environment where the president's personal attorney has his office raided by the FBI in part in search of records to do with the president's alleged affair with an adult film actress. And that is not even making my top headlines today.  Right.  This is bonkers. Anyway so I did finally settle on a three words for you. And my three words are tipping your hand which I first thought of in the context of Syria because the president always says I am not going to tell you what I am going to do. I am unpredictable. I am not going to telegraph my next move particularly when it comes to military action. And then we get this tweet this week. Get ready. Missiles are coming. Nice and new and smart. And we saw that thread run through so many things this week - the Facebook hearings where Mark Zuckerberg has resisted appearing for so long and finally came. And we can go back and forth about the level of questioning he faced but he did sit there for eight hours. And we learned a lot about Facebook we did not know before. The other thing as I was - as I was just walking up here today I was thinking about tipping your hand and what other stories might fit into that. And I - can we just note for a moment on the Jim Comey book - some A-plus trolling coming out. And Comey among other things cannot resist mentioning the size of a certain president's hands. So we will just leave that there.  I was intrigued to see kind of the focus also on him I would say kind of you know re-explaining everything he did with Hillary Clinton. You know Sarah you covered the campaign right? I felt like that was such a pivotal moment in the campaign...  Yeah.  ...That - I was curious what you all thought. It almost felt like part of the book is about Trump. At least this is sort of the excerpts that I saw. And then part of it is almost about clearing his name in history. The sort of fixation with explaining why he did what he did which you know at this point feels like old news. And I was - I do not know.  Yeah but it is - I mean he is been - you know in the last couple of years he is made enemies across the political spectrum because of - you know because of his handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton. And now obviously he is tangled with Trump quite a bit. On the topic of tipping your hand in the discussion of Syria let us note that we are taping on Friday. As the president tweeted this week - he said a U.S. missile attack on Syria could happen very soon or not soon at all.  We do not know. This is one of these watch this space. I have been watching. For the record all of the Pentagon press corps is tweeting out pictures of the Pentagon parking lot which is as good a measure as any of trying to figure out if military strikes are imminent. They keep walking outside the Pentagon parking lot you know say last night was pretty empty by 8 oclock. They are like OK I think we can go home.  It does not look imminent. So watch the live cams of the Pentagon parking lot. When it fills up get ready.  That is so interesting.  I never knew that yeah.  It is like Google searches for flu...  Yeah.  ...As a leading indicator. Only we are talking about something really major here...  Something yeah quite serious.  I now have my three words. And they are on the edge.  On the edge.  Yeah because I feel like we have been on the edge of maybe attacking Syria Trump maybe thinking of firing Mueller Congress maybe cracking down on Facebook Ryan - Paul Ryan - maybe leaving as speaker of the House. Then he did of course. And it just feels like a week where a lot of really big things hang in the balance. You know you could probably say that a lot of weeks. But I feel like it feels more true this week. And that maybe has some of us feeling a little bit on edge ourselves. I do not know. Do you guys feel that way?  I mean it does because every time you open up any sort of news source it is just constant right? You are constantly inundated with news. But to your point Sarah like I also think it is interesting because the time we sort of feel like we are on the edge of a change or in the edge of maybe taking military action with Syria - right? - like these things you just - you never know.  And what we know this week may not be where we are next week or a few months from now. I mean to nod to one of the other stories in the news this week the TPP the Trans-Pacific Partnership which Trump campaigned he was going to do away with it. He hated it. He got rid of it as soon as he came into the presidency. And now...  Maybe it is back.  Maybe it is back. Who knows? The point being was this all -  why did we spend so much time talking about it last year? And here we are back again. And it just keeps coming.  And of course the White House says that is no big change. We have always been up for a better deal. But yeah...  It is a change. Hold up...  It is a change. Things just shift really fast right now. And you just kind of have to hold onto your hats. But that is like five-fourths not three.   So on that note it is time for a break. And when we come back a call to a listener in Oklahoma who says kids this week were more than ready to get back to school believe it or not after a statewide teacher walkout there. Later the best things that happened to our listeners all week. I am Sarah McCammon. And you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   And we are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sarah McCammon in for Sam Sanders. Here this week with me one of the hosts of NPR's All Things Considered Mary Louise Kelly. Hi Mary Louise.  Hello.  And in Boston we have got NPR political correspondent Asma Khalid on the line. Hey Asma.  Hey Sarah.  Hey so time for a quick question from the week's news for both of you. Credit card signatures - would you miss them or would you even notice if they went away?  OK. So my two cents if you do not actually purchase a certain dollar amount I feel that I hardly am asked for signatures anymore.  But it looks like things are moving more and more in that direction. So it was just announced that starting very soon four major credit card companies - Visa Discover MasterCard American Express - will no longer require you to sign when you use your card. The New York Times says it is up to retailers whether or not they want to collect those signatures or not but they will not have to with those companies. But you know it seems like we do not really - you know signing your name used to be such a - I mean - for generations - right? - it is been sort of like your official legal stamp. And now I mean other than places where you do have to sign for your credit card I mean where do you even sign? I mean...  It is funny. I mean my boys who are in middle school - they do not even teach cursive at their school anymore.  Yeah.  So their signature looks like you know pigeon block print. That is what it is because they never learned to write any other way. So I do not know. It will be really interesting to see 10 20 years from now when and where you are ever asked to sign anything.  Will we all just be doing our fingerprints and iris scans?  I think so yeah.  Yeah.  All right. Now it is time for a segment we call Long Distance...   ...Where we call up someone out in the country or the world and talk to them about what is happening in their neck of the woods. A couple of weeks back Sam talked with a teacher in Oklahoma when a teacher walkout was about to begin in many districts across the state. Two weeks later that walkout has ended. As for students many are back in school now. And this week we talked to a listener who spent a lot of time with students over the last few weeks of the walkout helping to make sure that they stayed fed. So here's my call recorded on Thursday we should say just before the walkout ended with Kassandra Johnston in Chickasha Okla. She worked for a company that contracts with the local school district there to offer things like cooking classes and health education in the schools.  I go into classrooms doing lessons on mental resiliency nutrition physical fitness all of that fun stuff. And then I am also in charge of a food pantry there at the high school - at - in Chickasha High School. But during the walkout I knew that I was not really going to have access to the food pantry at the high school so I teamed up with a local college at USAO University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma and we have been feeding the children breakfast and lunch since last Monday all the way through today.  What is the day-to-day been like with the kids there? They are at the college eating since they cannot eat at school but what is your day-to-day like?  It is been a hit and miss but what I have been hearing from the kids is like yeah the first couple of days they you know were happy to be out of school. Like what kid would not you know? But as the days progressed like they miss school. And some of the seniors you know they want to - they are getting excited to graduate and you know are going to have prom soon. And so - but we are not the only organization that has been serving food. There is like local churches and the public library has been doing daycare for the little ones. You know the community has really came together to still take care of the kids even though school's been out.  What would happen if that was not there?  There would be a lot of angry parents. I mean there are still angry parents now but it would be really tough. A lot of these kids depend on - my school that I have - we - it is 100 percent free reduced lunch. And that is the same for the middle school and most elementary schools and so a lot of these kids depend on that breakfast and lunch and because of the community that we serve - it is really low socio-economic - it would probably really hurt them.  You say the parents are mad. What are the parents mad about? Who are they mad at?  They are - I do not think they understand what the teachers go through every day. And then too I mean these are parents that in their day-to-day life their main focus is to put food on the table right? Some of them do not have the means to hire a babysitter or maybe do not have family that could take care of them on a daily basis.  Sure.  And then two some school districts already have Fridays off because they cannot - they do not have enough money to run the electricity and just basic utilities for that day. So they have already cut...  Wait. Some school districts are just closed on Fridays as a rule because they cannot afford to stay open?  Right because of the utilities and things like that.  Wow.  So then they add time Monday through Thursday to make up that time for that Friday if that makes sense. But I think throughout this whole process being able to go home and knowing that one kid at least got fed today - that has probably been a blessing - is knowing that I am able to do that.  And one unrelated thing I want to ask you that we like to ask people during this segment - what are you doing for fun this weekend?   That is a funny question. I am actually going to be helping out with a prom this weekend on Saturday . I am volunteering my time. And coincidentally it is on my birthday. So somewhere I will squeeze in maybe some dinner time on Sunday with my family in Norman Okla.  Well happy birthday. I hope you have a lot of fun. And are prom plans still on then? You know even with all the sort of uncertainty kids are still expecting to go to prom?  Yeah. They are definitely expecting to go to prom. And a lot of my kids are expecting me to be there to chaperone. So they keep asking me - are you going to be there? - and emailing me. And so yes. Prom is definitely on .  All right. Well thanks so much for talking with us Kassandra.  Thank you so much.  Buh-bye.  Have a good one. Bye.   Thanks so much to Kassandra for that call. And in Chickasha Okla. students are back in school. They went back to school on Friday. Listeners if you have a story to tell us for this segment email the show - samsandersnpr.org. Tell us what is happening where you are and we might call you too.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sarah McCammon in for Sam Sanders here with All Things Considered host Mary Louise Kelly and NPR political correspondent Asma Khalid. Hello to both of you.  Hello hello.  Hello.  So it is time for our main story and we are talking about voters. We have got just about six months to go until the 2018 midterms something that is taking a lot of Asma's time and the rest of ours. And we are going to be hearing a lot of stories about voters in the months to come. And we want to kind of do a deep dive this week give you some ways to think about voters who they are what motivates them and what we as reporters sometimes get wrong when we talk about them. Asma one question I have about voters this year and how they are going to react to what is happening in the news is this narrative that there is a blue wave building fueled by opposition to President Trump. You spent some time recently in places where President Trump has been really popular. And I want to know from what you are hearing from voters and what you are seeing in polling what is your sense of how vulnerable Republicans really are and why?  Yeah. I mean I think there are definitely a couple of key signs that suggest this election cycle will be a sort of blue wave you know? And you can see this in anecdotal enthusiasm. But you know you also do see this in poll numbers. I would argue you even see this in the sheer number of candidates running right? You see Democrats running in districts that are usually very very Republican. I just got back from West Virginia which folks do not know is actually the most pro-Trump state in the country. Trump carried this state with I believe 69 percent of the vote. And I specifically went down to the West Virginia 3rd Congressional District. And when I was down there I was really intrigued by this Democrat who is running for office. His name is Richard Ojeda. He is kind of a loud-mouthed progressive military man. He is a populist Democrat. And I got rumblings that this is a guy who thinks he is got a shot. But I mention him because I think that he is indicative of something we are seeing across the country which is we have seen a surge of Democrats running. We have seen a surge in the number of people of color running and women running in seats that maybe you would not have seen before.  I was really interested in your reporting Asma because you - been reporting for my show for All Things Considered this week from West Virginia on the other side of the aisle in the GOP Senate primary that is playing out...  Yeah.  ...In West Virginia how tying yourself to Trump is still very much seen as the path to victory there.  Very much so. You know in some parts of the country we kind of get the assumption that candidates are trying to distance themselves from President Trump - right? - that he is a bit of a liability. Not so in West Virginia. You know the other thing I want to highlight - and I think polls got kind of a bad rap in the last election cycle. But I also do still think polls are kind of a helpful measure in kind of understanding macro trends right? And the reason I mention that is like you know I can go out and talk to voters. But we always call that anecdata right? I talk to...  Right.  ...Voters. I kind of think what they are telling me is reliable. But when polls are done well they are really insightful in sort of understanding public opinion. And one poll I saw recently really intrigued me. And that is from the Harvard Institute of Politics. They have been polling young folks - so these would be people 18 to 29 years old - since the year 2000. And they just came out with numbers this past week that said the percent of young folks who say they will vote in the midterms is higher than they have ever seen in the history of their poll. They have 37 percent of people saying that they will definitely be voting in the upcoming midterm elections. That compares to 23 percent who said the same thing in 2014.  One more thing about that. And then I want to talk about voters beyond the United States. But you know one question I have about this democratic wave idea Asma and speaking of anecdata when I talked to Republican voters you know down in Virginia Beach area where I live a pretty red part of the state of Virginia - and when I talked to them last year covering the gubernatorial campaign a lot of Republican voters told me that while they had their misgivings about Trump they really were frustrated with Congress. They really were - felt that you know Congress was not working with the president was not getting things done the way that they had hoped which makes me wonder if Republicans lose control of one or both chambers of Congress in the fall how much of that is on them and how much of it is on President Trump?  Gosh that is - I mean - now that is such a confusing question to me in this election cycle because the president's approval rating nationally has not been good right?  Right.  It is been hovering around 40 41 percent. And you know I was speaking with a political science historian the other day who mentioned that we kind of think things like the economy matter a lot in elections. But in midterm elections it is actually been things like the president's popularity that tends to be a predictor of how a midterm is going to go or things like the generic ballot which - you know the generic ballot is just the idea of you know if you ask voters - are you going to vote for a Democrat or Republican? - it does not matter who the name is - they will choose the ballot that they are more inclined to. And so that makes me feel a lot of people at this moment in time if you look at the president's approval rating are tilting are suggesting that they are going to likely vote Democratic this election cycle regardless perhaps of who that individual member is.  And the polling backs it up right? I mean famously people really do not like Congress but they like their Congress member quite often.  Exactly.  Yeah. So Mary Louise you have done a lot of reporting especially on voters in other parts of the world. You recently spent some time in Russia covering the election there. I am so curious. What similarities and differences do you see between Russian voters and voters in other parts of the world and here in the U.S.?  More similarities than you would think - certainly more similarities than I would have thought going in. We had about 10 days in Russia in the runup to the election and I am going to put the word election in quotes. But it is fascinating. You know there are very few moments in life where you get to sit down with say a Putin youth leader. And you know we went to Putin youth headquarters and sat down with one of the leaders - this guy Makar who is 33 now - and pushed him on why Putin? Why is this a good thing? And is this a free election? And he said look there is no KGB agent outside telling me what to say to you. I can access any website you can access. You know this idea that Putin controls the entire media and I have no access to alternative information is not true. And I said OK but just on Putin himself what do you think of him as a man? And there was a pause. And then he said well you know the show Sex And The City?  I thought what? I did not see that one coming. Like where are we going to go with this? And he said I - you know I have watched the show Sex And The City and I think for young women trying to look for role models this is like a girl's guide to behavior. And I thought OK I am just going to let that one go...  .  Because I - where are we going here?  There is a lot to unpack there but OK.  And he said I watch Putin and I feel the same. He said this is a role model for how a man can carry himself in the world and he has restored my sense of pride in this country. And it is so fascinating to travel and to see just a really different narrative than you can get if you are sitting here inside the Beltway judging from afar what must be going on with voters there.  Yeah that really - I do not know if - Asma if that resonates for you too but just having you know covered the 2016 campaign and other campaigns you meet people who are absolutely dumbfounded and bamboozled by how anybody could vote for the person they do not support.  Exactly.  ...You know how any thinking person could possibly come to a different conclusion. And yet there are many thoughtful intelligent people who come to extremely different political conclusions about what makes sense and what their priorities should be.  Yep. One related story just to throw into the mix - you know one of the key things I think we do as journalists is shine a light on stories that otherwise would get you know lost in the fray of all the other craziness we have been talking about that unfolds this week. And a story that really captured my attention about voters in Hungary - Hungary held elections this past weekend. They re-elected their prime minister - again to no one's surprise. Viktor Orban was tipped to win. But here's what interests me. Their last independent daily-printed newspaper which has been printing every day in Hungary for 80 years folded on Wednesday - last edition ever was printed. And we interviewed one of the journalists on All Things Considered this week who was in the newsroom when that announcement was made and she talked about how the free press in Hungary is slowly dying. And it is really important to see how that common set of facts on which we base our voting decisions is eroded in the U.S. and in other countries around the world. People watch what they are going to watch they read what they are going to read online and you may be getting a completely different set of facts on which you are going to base your vote than your next-door neighbor.  I mean do not you wonder too though if that also just leads to disengagement writ large? I mean I have been really fascinated and hoping to do some more reporting this election cycle on what I would call the nonvoters. So these are all like you know the countless people who actually just do not vote whether that is over apathy or anger or you know busyness whatever the cause is. And you know it is interesting because we always assume that kind of when we talk about voters like that is the plurality of people. And I was looking the other day just at a comparison of how many people voted in 2014 in the midterms and a majority of people did not vote. One estimate suggested that 36 percent of eligible voters showed up in 2014. I mean you can look at certain districts where the percent of young people who voted was 4 percent in the last midterm. So a lot of people just - they are not voting. And I find that somewhat maybe tied you know to the conversations we are having around civic engagement and facts and democracy.  You know listening to you Asma is making me think about the record number of women running. And I wonder what impact that will have on turnout and engagement among female voters.  Yep.  ...Because it is - it is really fascinating across the country. One more point just on the young voters theme which is something we really had in our heads when we were covering the Russian election because Vladimir Putin first came to power in 2000 - people - the babies being born in Russia in that year are now turning 18. And some of them were able to vote in this presidential election.  That is amazing.  ...For the very first time - people who - Russians who have never known any leader except Vladimir Putin - fascinating. And you look at that in the American context. And I think about - we are about to see voters who were born you know after 911 coming to vote for the first time who have never known a world that is not awash in technology and getting all their news online. So it is a really interesting generation on the cusp of going to the polls for the first time.   Time for one more break and when we come back we are going to play Who Said That. And we will be hearing from you with the best things that happened to our listeners all week. Be right back.   Now it is time for a game we call Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  This is where I share a clip from the week. You guys have to guess who said it.  Oh boy.  ...Or at least the story it refers to. Are we nervous Asma?  Yes.  I am a little nervous guys. I have been traveling for work. All I was doing was just reading all things West Virginia.  Well it is pretty high-stakes. The winner gets nothing.   Here's the first quote OK? Marley is excited but I am embarrassed. I am 40 and these people are my age.  Oh that is hard.  This is about a textbook in a certain state in the news this week. And this is a hard one.  Oh this is Blake Shelton.  Yes.   Oh yeah.  The Blake Shelton textbook - the little girl who looked and his name was written in her textbook which is really really cool except it means her textbook...  ...Is so old.  ...Is really old .  Yes. And it was Oklahoma mom Shelly Bryan Parker. That was the quote. It was her daughter Marley who brought home the book. And Marley was excited because that little you know checkout chart at the front - do you remember those?  I do remember that.  I cannot believe they even still have those in textbooks. Yeah - had Blake Shelton's name on it from when he attended the school - guys 1982.  Time to get some new textbooks.  Yeah.  And if you heard the show - just a disclaimer - if you heard the show last time I sat in for Sam you may recall that we talked about Blake Shelton then too. He had just been named the sexiest man alive. But this is a coincidence.   This is not an obsession of mine. I just want to say that. So the next quote - I thought wow. I feel like I am living in the 19th century instead of the 21st.  Oh that could go so many ways.  Right?  Yeah.  Can you give us a clue?  Clue.  Just put it on your wall right? Yeah. Someone who became a mom - again this week.  Tammy Duckworth?   Illinois Senator Democrat Tammy Duckworth.  Oh my gosh.  All right.  This really is bad. You knew who the only person I could think of who became a mom this week was the Kardashians?  Oh that is right - Khloe right?  Now you are going to judge me. Sorry.  I am happy for you Asma actually that your first thought goes to the Kardashians and not to politics. This makes me feel reassured.  Oh my gosh.  Yeah. So Senator Tammy Duckworth Democrat of Illinois became the first sitting U.S. senator to give birth. And in that quote she was