 From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. My guest for this episode she was really curious whether I would seen her newest project.  Did you watch the movie?  Yeah. I did.  You did?  Of course I did.  Oh my God. I am so excited.  Yeah.  Thank you.  She was excited because for a while now a lot of us have not seen that much of her at all.  My name is Kathy Griffin and...  .  ...I have been involved in a little scandal coming up on two years. So I am...  Wait. It is been that long?  May 30 2017.  So you count the days?  The night the changed my life forever.  OK. Let us back up talk about how we got there.  What I have found...  In 2017 a scandal almost killed Kathy Griffin's career. And it actually started during some downtime for her.  In between like gigs I will just do a million crazy things to try to make you laugh. And on that day no joke I had done a photo shoot. We had no paperwork. There was no publicist.  Where were the photos supposed to go?  Anywhere.  Kathy says the whole photo shoot took about 20 minutes and it was pretty nonsensical except for one photo.  I did say I want to do some kind of a picture to shame Trump.  Kathy said she was mad at Donald Trump for what he said about Megyn Kelly the former Fox News host. This is after Kelly grilled him in the presidential debate in 2015.   You know you could see there was blood coming out of her eyes blood coming out of her wherever. But she was...  So Kathy Griffin wanted a photo of a bloody Trump.  No joke. Like I sent a friend of mine out to like a party store - like a Halloween store or something. And I said just bring back anything like AmericaTrump-y.  In the picture Kathy holds up this Trump mask over a Styrofoam wig head covered in ketchup. She puts it online. And then the backlash.   Kathy Griffin fired by CNN over that photo of her holding a bloody Trump head.  You might recall this whole story. After that photo came out the president tweeted about it. Kathy lost work immediately even after she apologized. And there was more fallout. Federal officials threatened to charge Kathy Griffin with conspiracy to assassinate the president.  I could not fly for two months.  OK.  I mean...  At all?  The no-fly list. Like a terrorist.  People accused her of joining ISIS. She got death threats. Her tour got canceled. Fast-forward to now. Kathy Griffin is ready for her comeback. She is out with a comedy feature all about her experience over the last few years. It is called Kathy Griffin A Hell Of A Story. We are going to talk about that movie and more in this chat. And we will start with Kathy telling us why she still stands by that now-infamous photo.   No. 1 I want to clear up one thing. I did consult my attorneys before I posted that picture.  Really?  Yes.  So your lawyers may have said it was legal. Did they say maybe do not do it?  No.  They were like go ahead?  First it is covered.  OK.  It is covered. And by the way that is all I need to hear. 'ecause I know that I enjoy pushing the boundaries of the First Amendment but I also am not crazy. I do not want to violate it.  Yeah.  I certainly do not want to break the law like anybody. So...  So then you knew that it was OK.  I knew it was - I knew it was covered.  And then in the whole...  I did not know it would blow up the way it did.  But in the whole span of the investigation all this stuff did anyone in DOJ any authorities say that you broke the law?  No. They would not say anything directly to me. But they were just telling my lawyers during the whole investigation - they really made it sound like this big investigation. And after the interrogation under oath - because I simply kept refusing to go downtown in an orange jumpsuit in cuffs because my lawyer said that is the video that they want. Like they wanted like the Whitey Bulger like aerial shot of like comedian Kathy Griffin. I mean I am assuming.  In the feature you really walk us through a wonderful tick-tock of how that day played out...  Yeah.  ...When you found out and how you began to like process all of this.  Breaking news.  And you go through which people you talked to first. It was such an interesting assortment. On the day that it breaks you talked to Rosie O'Donnell and then you have - is it Kris Jenner over for a dinner party? Like...  Yeah.  Who all was in your life that day?  It was such a crazy day. I mean now upon reflection I want to think the stars aligned because I do talk about getting a cold call from Jim Carrey who I have only met like twice. And I do not have his number. And I just love that he tracked me down.  What did he say?  He had - Jamie Foxx also tracked me down.  Really?  Yes.  What did both of them say?  First of all I can almost cry just even recounting that because I also got - you know 95 of the calls were the other direction people calling me going what have you done? Blah blah blah. But Jim Carrey said Kathy today you are the most famous comedian in the world. And I was crying. And I go for all the wrong reasons. Because I get it. I see the death threats. And so did Jamie. He is like you are under heat girl. You are under real heat. He is like this as not Hollywood heat. This is like...  Yeah.  ...Government heat.  Did Jamie think that you were going to survive it too?  Yes.  And then Rosie. She called you too. What'd she say?  Rosie and Katt Williams called first.  Katt? Whoa whoa whoa. Katt Williams? What'd he say?  Katt said the best thing of all.  What'd he say?  Katt said take out a piece of paper and pen. He said write down the names of the people that call you and support you today. And by the end of the day look at that list and that is your list of real friends. And I was like wow.  Which three?  Huh?  Which three besides the comics that you have listed now?  You know what? I have to say I am going to throw Katt in there as four. But yeah I would say it was like you know...  Katt Jamie Rosie and Jim.  Yeah. And you know let me just say like I love all four of them. But like I said I am going to be honest. I do not like hang with Jamie and Jim.  Totally. Totally.  Like I said I do not have their numbers. I think Katt is a genius but sometimes I go a year without seeing him in person.  Yeah yeah yeah. In the special you do a really good job of laughing about all of this. You - there is a little bit of tears once but you are mostly laughing about this. And I wonder - and I wondered the whole time getting ready for this - how much time did it take from the day of the incident for you to start crying and start laughing again? Like how long was that process?  Well first of all I am pretty dark. And so there were things I laughed at that day. Like just the over-the-top nature of the accusations. But the other line that I remember Jim Carrey telling me which was a high compliment is he said take as much time as you need to process the story put it through your Kathy Griffin comedy prism. Find a way to tell it and make it funny and relatable and tell it.  You talked on the special about you know having some regrets. But I wondered like if you could go back to that day would you do the effigy in the photo again?  I would. I think I need to stand by the photo because it is - people need to know I did not break the law. And more importantly if you or your kid put that photo up on their Twitter they should not have to go through what I did.  I think though - and what I was mulling over in my mind - it is like this is definitely allowable legally and you have a right to do this and this is your right to make such a photo should you want.  Yeah.  But I think like do you think that making that image and putting it out there was like good overall for the culture?  Yes. And here's why.  I think that - because I feel like everything is so heated up right now.  It is far. It went far. I get it. Colbert had the same issue. He is like it went too far it went too far.  Like you could do it. You can do it.  That is right. Does not mean you should.  But like does it help?  That is right. There is a long history which - and I talk about this in the film - which I did not realize until how Hillary Clinton herself put it in her audio book where she said it was obvious to me it was a send-up of Perseus And Medusa.  .  So of course I am like...  So there is a long history of this kind of image.  Of this kind of image. Look at Der Spiegel. Look at Charlie Hebdo. And honestly when I did that photo shoot I truly thought the shooter the photographer I really thought he was going to try to send it to like Paper or like I said Der Spiegel. And do I think it is necessary? Yes. And I will tell you why. This - you know I was not a W. fan right? And I am not going to rewrite history and act like he was this saint. But I have been doing standup since H.W. Bill Clinton W. I have never seen anything like this where if you make a joke about the president of the United States - who works for us - you may die...  FBI is at your house.  ...Or go to prison forever or be stigmatized and not - I am not insurable. I have had so many publications say that I have lupus that I am bald. I love that those AMI guys turned. 'ecause people do not know. They do not just own the Enquirer which did a million hit pieces on me.  Say what AMI is for folks.  AMI is American Media and they own the Enquirer but they have also been able to do an acquisition where they now also own OK! Magazine In Touch Life  Style. In my industry these are called weeklies. I did not know that they were in bed with the administration. I just thought they were guilty pleasure magazines. And now those magazines which I am sure agents read and network people read well there is an article saying Kathy Griffin has lupus. No. I do not. But that person might go I cannot hire her. She is uninsurable. The president should not be able to do that to any citizen public or private.  Could you have seen yourself making the same imagery under another president besides Trump? You did not before.  No. No. And that is the reason is at 58 years old I have never seen anything like this. And I have traveled the country for so many years. Prior to the tour the 50-city tour that was canceled 'ecause of the photo halfway through I had done an 80-city tour the year before. I mean I have been to everywhere in America.  But this gets to the part B of my question and like what I feel like I have been observing. In the time since Trump began to run for office and into his presidency he has escalated the rhetoric of everyone.  Right.  So Trump is this combative bombastic figure. He ascends. And then before we know it we have all ratcheted up our volume as well.  Yes.  And we can.  Yeah.  But overall if all of the culture-makers in the world or like in America ratchet up as much as he ratchets up does it get us to a good place as a society?  No. You are absolutely right. And I feel just like you know when I go in for jobs over and over again - and whether it is a network or studio - and they say like you are really funny it is great to meet you but we already have a female comedian or we already have a comedy person for our channel whether it is male or female I am that person that goes yeah we are not all monolithic.  Yeah.  So I feel really strongly. First of all I am not a comedy snob. I think it is great that Jerry Seinfeld does not swear. I think it is awesome that Jim Gaffigan is so clean he can do stand-up for the pope.  I think Kevin Hart's funny.  I think Kevin Hart's hilarious.  .  And I also think there is a space...  OK.  ...For the type of comics like myself that are the edgy...  Pushing some boundaries.  ...Whistleblower naughty. I mean you know we call it tea. And this is really me spilling the tea but about the government. And it is also a guy I have known for 25 years.  'ecause you were on The Celebrity Apprentice.  I was not on The Apprentice.  Wait. You were...  I was on part of two challenges.  I am sorry. OK.  But I know him from everything from - when you are a female comic you get to know a lot of these people because you know everyone always needs a comedian toast. So that is my dirty little secret is the way I actually know so many A-listers is not 'ecause they like me or invite me to their house. It is because I get the call and they always need a comedian to host whether it is a - you know I have hosted the Billboard Music Awards but I have also hosted you know the Race to Erase MS et cetera.  So you have met Donald a few times.  Many times.  What was he like?  He was a joke. And believe it or not when I knew him he was the type of guy that I got along with OK because I could make a joke right to his face and he would just kind of - you know 'ecause he does not really...  He does not have shame.  He is so myopic.  Also there is no shame.  He does - I do not think he would really even hear it. Like I actually - like no joke. The last time I saw him he hired me to roast him on an episode of The Apprentice. So he knows my gig back and forth. He is actually - I actually sat next to him one time for four hours at a roast of Larry King. And he was like in my ear the whole time. And I am like thinking this went - like so for all the...  What did he say to you?  He is super nonsensical. Like it is worse now than when I knew him. And I obviously have not seen him now in a few years. But it is - he would just say really weird stuff. Like he turned to me and he goes so you are a female comedian? And by the way I had known him for at least 10 years. And I go yeah next thing you know we are going to want to vote.   Kathy.  And he just had literally no reaction to that no reaction. So that - I mean you know then my little horns come out and I am like oh this is the type of guy that I can kind of like mess with him because he is not listening.  So then - it is interesting because like...  So he seemed like a harmless fool. So that is what I was saying.  It is also the kind of thing where he could have called you after that image came up because he had met you several times and knew you.  Yes. He - it was. He knew he was - in my opinion he was activating the army. Honestly anybody can track this.  Yeah.  You know all my comments are flooded on my social media platforms with robots and they are all like ISIS lady be bad you know . It is not pretty. I have to warn my friends if they post a picture - like if we take a photo and post it...  Yeah.  ...I am just - know that the comments are from...  I will be ready for it.  ...Robots.  I will be ready for it.  They are not going to be pretty.  OK.  And then occasionally you are going to get like love that fierce diva.  Yeah OK.  But there will be people accusing you of maybe joining ISIS with me which my joke is when people still think I am in ISIS I always go like this - I worked at the gift shop for like a week calm down.  .  And then I just watch their faces like turn gray 'ecause they think it is real.  All right time for a break. When we come back Kathy talks about her friendship with the Kardashians. Also heads up - we use some strong language in this next section. BRB.   I want to talk about celebrity culture which is still a good part of the special and which is the way that I came to love you.  Thank you.  I can recall as a kid watching your specials and I will never forget whichever one it was where you spent a good amount of time calling Renee Zellweger a puffy coke whore .  Renee Zellweger called me that day. She actually texted me and she was like hang in there girl. And that is what...  So she was OK with that.  Not only that. It was such an affirming thing because one of the things that I do admire about like I said those whose shoulders I stand on is it would be so gratifying for me when I would hear - I mean you know I mean he is no longer with us but Rickles or somebody like Don Rickles saying you know after a certain amount of time these people I made fun of for all these years they would actually say...  They like you.  Oh I get it. You are just kidding.  Yeah yeah.  So...  Yeah.  Zellweger obviously you know when she texted me a supportive text I was like oh thank you. Like thank you. I really was just kidding and I think you are great. And guess how I met her. I was hosting a charity gig she did this really cool dramatic reading and we became buds...  Oh I love it.  ...And then she ended up going oh you are just kidding.  Yeah.  So...  I do not think I have ever seen a comic get into like the metaphysics of being a celebrity in the way that you have for so long.  I am fascinated by it.  What is like - in your - what? - 20 30 years of like mocking celebrity what is your big takeaway about the celebrity industrial complex?  I think the takeaway that people find the most fascinating is when they feel like No. 1 they are in their living room with one of their best friends.  Yeah.  Like that is my highest compliment...  Yeah.  ...When people say this just does not feel like a regular comedy show with one-liners. I feel like oh my gosh I was led into this person's living room and they do not know anyone's here and they are just spouting off with impunity. So the other thing is I - I have learned people really like when someone pulls back the curtain.  Yeah.  And honestly that is what made My Life On The D-List a success...  Yeah.  ...Is that they did all these like focus grouping and all this other stuff and people said their favorite part was watching her go through something in real life - and that was a real show nothing was scripted no writers - and then at the end of the show seeing it hit the stage and seeing how she took that incident and then went oh I can make this a funny quote chunk. And so I like - oh people - I am just someone who is truly not afraid to pull back the curtain. And what I have learned about celebrity that I find the most conducive to comedy is it is a very two-faced industry.  Yeah.  I mean...  But yeah...  ...That is what I find humorous is these celebrities that appear to be one way and we really think and we believe it. And if I have an experience with them that shows that they are different then I love to go you know...  Actually look and see this.  That is right and if it is funny. Honestly believe it or not I really do not just go out there and go so-and-so is ugly. Good night. Like if it is not funny...  Yeah.  I do not want to...  And usually it is funny because I like that you point out that celebrities in a certain way....  There is a lot of hypocrisy. Let us just use the word.  Yeah and they will do anything it takes to stay a celebrity.  Yeah yeah.  There is this moment in the special where you talk about - not on purpose - the night in which the photo breaks and you are the biggest story in the world is also a night that you have a dinner party scheduled with Kris Jenner.  With Kris Jenner - Kris Jenner. And I am sobbing and I am a wreck and also Academy Award nominee Melanie Griffith who is different. She is more like bohemian.  Yeah yeah.  And I am saying...  But Kris gives you advice.  Kris gives me advice. And I am saying I should not have apologized because now all my comedian friends are mad at me because I apologized. And then she just is like - she is like cutting a steak. And God love her. She is cold as ice. And I do think she is killed people. Now I cannot prove it but would you cross her?  Hell no.  Thank you. Anyway so  so anyway she is cutting her steak and she is like no it was a good idea. We do it all the time.  Apologizing.  And then people just start laughing because they know it is true.  She is like they apologize all the time.  Because they know it is real...  They apologize for everything.  And I am quoting her. And they go you know one of the kids takes a trademark by mistake and then you know they get sued and we just apologize. And I was like oh. It was - yes I was laughing that very night.  When you are seeing that layer of celebrity peeled back and you see these real celebrities in these real moments...  Yeah.  ...Do you respect these celebrities more or less? Because they are shrewd.  Both. And you know what is interesting? The Kardashians are an example. Like the fact that during this whole thing I lived right next door to of all people Kim and Kanye.  Which is cray cray.  Cray cray - all caps. And I was so happy and grateful. And truly that when I bought the house I foolishly believed a tabloid that had said oh they moved back to Balas  or Basas  or wherever their country is because I believe they have - I think Kris made wherever they live its own country. I cannot prove it but I think she is done it. Or she could in one phone call.  She definitely could.  And so you know when I first moved there I honestly did want to assure Kim who I do know like I am really not like stalking you. And I know this must look weird because I have called you guys every names in the book for 10 years. And what was so delightful - they are so loaded and like when I first met them I think they did kind of stress me. And it was so lovely to hear Kim be like oh my God you are like the least of our problems. Like we are like mad at Taylor Swift right now so like we really literally do not care about your jokes. Like welcome. And I was like oh my gosh. And I want to tell the audience that too.  Yeah.  So after years of going like oh the Kardashians blah blah blah I want to go guess who turned out to be like there for me. Freaking Kim Kardashian.  What did Kim say after all of it?  First of all she said - after all the stuff that we have been through she is like I got your back and nobody's going to come for you. And we made this really sweet deal which I am very proud of which is she is obsessed with Elizabeth Taylor and I was friends with Joan Rivers.  It shows .  Right? Oh yeah I know. And she did not know that they were best friends. And I said did you know that they had a deal? And she is like literally? I go no figuratively. But anyway I said the deal - and this - Joan told me this and I believe it. I never met Liz Taylor but I am just believing Joan Rivers because I do. Anyway she said that their deal was they really became friends and first Liz would be offended by the jokes and after a while she just started laughing about them. And the deal was you can make whatever jokes about me if I have the freedom to just like call you when I feel like I need a laugh from the great Joan Rivers. And Joan's like done. And so I go to Kim. We are going to make a deal. And she is like what? I go we are making a deal. She is like OK what? I go I get to call you guys dirty whores as long as I want on or off TV and whenever you are feeling like you need a laugh I will literally as she would say literally either come to your house or you call me and I will give you a private Kathy Griffin concert until you are laughing.  Has it happened?  Three times.  Stop it.  No I will not. I went over there twice. You - I would sit on her couch and you know we talked after the robbery and I had...  Oh wow.  I have been held up at gunpoint twice so we talked about that and I said I am not going to leave till your laughing. So we talked about it and then Kanye walks in and then I had to start because you know he thinks he is Pablo Picasso and he makes them all wear shirts that say Pablo. So I am trying to make Kim laugh.  Yeah.  So he comes downstairs and she is like oh my God I did not even know you were home. And then she is like you know Kathy. And he is just - you know how he gives that like empty stare.  Yeah.  And besides I had met him one time I am like I get it. I am just you know he is not a big talker.  Yeah.  So of course I have to push it and I go like this Pabs.  Like Pablo Picasso.  Short for Pablo. And I put my arms out and it was the hug where like his body like stiffed.  Oh no.  And I am like rocking him because I am thinking oh no I am not letting go now.  I got him.  I got him.  I got him.  And he is so uncomfortable and Kim's laughing and she is like honey you know her. And he - and then he - for real he walks out of the room almost like river dance style and he goes like this this never happened. I was not here. This never happened. OK. Now if you think I am not going to honor the deal with Kim which is I am allowed to talk about them - like I cannot keep that story inside me. I am only human.  And I am so glad you shared it.   In a minute Kathy tells us about her struggles searching for a distributor. Right now that film that we talked about earlier her newest project it is only been shown at South by Southwest. Coming up we talk about why it is been so tough for her to find a distributor for her latest project.  Is it a Trump thing? Is it that people are afraid of getting quote the tweet?  More after the break.   What is next for you? You are going to try to shop this movie still.  Try to shop the movie. And I am going to just say look I do not know how these things get done because like I said I do not even have an agent. I am still persona non grata.  Wait. You still do not have an - you do not have an agent right now.  No. I have a lawyer. I have a great publicist. Everybody in town knows where to find me. They all know how to get to Kathy Griffin. Yeah. I talk about myself in the third person now. I am that person.  I like it. Yeah.  But...  Yeah.  ...I am hoping that the people will somehow want to see it. And honestly I will say that the response in South by Southwest was lit - was the polar opposite of my sort of current Hollywood bad girl status.  So you got love there?  I got love but also I got real interest. And the questions were different. They were not just like what is so-and-so like? They were going OK wait talk to me about this process and what should I be worried about and how did you get through this part? Or people would say I had this difficult experience and laughing got me through it. And like it was a bigger conversation.  Would you self-distribute this film?  If I have to I sure will.  When do you know if you have to?  I will know if I have to if I do not get an offer where I feel like - well No. 1 I have to retain ownership. So that is No. 1. So I got my entire library back from NBC Universal. It has no value now but who knows - someday. And that is another message to people going like oh OK you know ownership is where - what it is really about. Like I learned that from the music industry.  Oh yeah.  People - that is how all those singers go broke. It is the licensing and the publishing that is where...  TLC was broke.  That is right. And yet probably some executive who said yes to Waterfalls got more money than Kandi Burruss or TLC.  Yes.  And so you know I was like - oh. And it took me a while to learn that you know. And I always talk about like - the first two years I did New Year's Eve on CNN it did not even occur to me to ask to get paid anything.  What - you did the first CNN New Year's for free?  The first two years.  Madam.  Yeah. That is right.  Wow.  And then when I asked for a raise my eighth year - when the show went from 90 minutes to 4 12 hours - Jeff Zucker was so offended that I even asked for a raise he docked me 30. And I still did it.  While paying Anderson more?  Well of course. Of course.  And you have not spoken.  No and that one just hurts. Like I just am honest with people. I go there is no punchline for that one. It just hurts. I - and the reason I talk about it is I really do think everyone knows that feeling of like you thought this was the person you could count on and then sometimes you are wrong.  And there is also a way - this is what puzzles me about him. There is a way to say I do not like that she did this one thing but she is my friend.  Right.  How close were you all?  I thought very close. I loved him. I really loved him.  Do you still love him?  I - yeah. I mean yeah. I will always love him because I am that type of person. I am like nostalgic and I tend to look at my history with someone. I do not see a future for us as friends frankly but you know.  Yeah. Well I got to let you go soon. But I - a thing that I noticed in your story and in the experiences of comedians period right now - it is a hard time to be a comic because you have to walk on eggshells.  Like nothing I have ever seen.  Yeah.  It is really different out there.  But the folks that get the worst and harshest pushback when they step over whatever line is imagined - it is always women comics.  Yeah.  I mean we can go through the list. You know Samantha Bee...  Oh yes.  ...What is her - Michelle Wolf.  I mean they tried to ruin Michelle Wolf and Samantha Bee - ruin.  I mean but then there are men like I do not know Bill Maher who it does not matter what they say or do.  Oh...  They are there.  There are men that have - are you kidding? - first of all been arrested five times tanked shows...  Beat their spouses.  ...OD'd on sets where their shows are 2 million an episode and they are OD'ing on coke. Like do not even start me.  So then...  .  ...Given that landscape seeing how much harder it is still especially now for the women doing the stuff that you are doing...  Right.  ...What do you want to say to the young women who might hear this who know that they are funny and might say - I want to do what Kathy does one day I want to be a comic I want to be a funny person? What is your advice to them? Especially...  I love when people ask me that because I always - No. 1 I am very honest. And I go look I do not know if everyone's going to tell you this but I am just going to tell you my experience. It is almost as bad as the day I started regarding sexism and misogyny so just accept it. You are going to have to work harder than the guys and jump 10 times higher.  Like they say twice as hard for half as much.  Absolutely. That is my experience. And maybe it is not someone else's but I am telling you I have lived it. Also I always say you are going to have to figure out a way to do it all within the system. So as much as it seems like I do crazy things and stuff I am still - believe it or not...  There is a system.  ...Doing it within...  Certain parameters.  ...The framework of whether it is a film festival or you know a wacky picture I put online that is not offensive - you know trying to keep motivating in whatever way possible. And I always tell - like I said - certainly young people of color gay folks or women - and maybe - by the way this is any industry in this environment in my humble opinion - you know be aware. And be aware of what is going on. It is important that you have a broad base of interests. So if you are a comedian I think that it is OK that it is expected of you to be up on stuff you know. And by the way it will make you better it will make you more interesting whether you are a comedy writer or comedy performer or writing a script. And the ones I know that have been successful the most important thing is - if you love it you just do not stop no matter what. And by the way I do not mean - if you are bombing for five years then I got bad news for you.  Yeah let it go.  You are not cut out for this. But if you - like me if you have had some success and you have had more yeses than no in the long run you are onto something. And if you really love it - and you have to have what I consider to call - to be a burning desire 'ecause if you are a - in a marginalized community - and once again I am saying 58-year-old woman even though I have white privilege - 58 trust me. They - I might as well be 158...  .  ...In Hollywood. But you know I think the most important thing that I - the only example I am trying to set is - I am not high and mighty obviously - it is just important that people see I did not go down. This is also a business where like I said you can make a ton of money one year and make nothing the other.  So save some.  Honey.  Listen.  I just did an interview with the Economist. I was so excited because I am all about save save save. And my joke is save for a rainy day like I did because I had a monsoon.  .  And thank God I saved it. So yeah if you get a little success...  Save it.  Save it. There is no rush.  Monsoon.  It is like those shows like on TLC like The Curse Of The Lotto  'ecause they all go crazy and buy 10 Lamborghinis.  Yeah do not do that.  I am like all right Bieber. Calm down.  Do not do that yeah.  That is right.  Last question - you said that you had a monsoon. Is the sun back out yet for you?  The sun's coming back out. And the part that I am - the part that I have made peace with is I am going to have to do this one myself. Like nobody's got a shovel for me and is going to help me dig my way out of it. So I am going to just have to keep - like I said 