 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show from Southern California Public Radio reporter Priska Neely and NPR reporter Kirk Siegler. All right. Here's the show.   So official.   Hey you all. Sam Sanders here. It is BEEN A MINUTE. No theme music. Each week we start with a different song. I will explain this one in a second. Today as Aunt Betty said two of my favorites...  Aw.  Whoop whoop.  ...NPR's Kirk Siegler Priska Neely of Southern California Public Radio because we are in Southern California...  Yeah.  ...Taping the show today at NPR West in Culver City.  Welcome back Sam.  It is so good to be back. And we are all together now.  Aw. This is beautiful.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Should we hold hands? No?  No .  Whoa...  You are definitely the best dressed Priska...  And I am wearing...  Priska dressed up for the show today.  I am wearing a blazer...   And a very nice new skirt.  I do not - I am wearing a new skirt.  I am wearing what I wear every day. I am glad you guys are here. We are here to talk about what happened this week in the news and the culture. And of course Charlottesville was the big story of the week. But there is some other stories you might not have heard about that we will talk about here today. But before we go any further this song. I love it. Do you guys know who this band is?  No.    I can go with the flow.  I do not. Do you Kirk?  I feel like I should but I do not.  You should - you know. It is Queens Of The Stone Age.  Oh.  This is a song called Go With The Flow from their album Songs For The Deaf. And I picked this song AND this album because the trajectory of the album is kind of this mockup of radio you might hear driving from LA to Palm Springs or like Joshua Tree.  Cool.  Do they mockup public radio deejays too?   No.  No?  They should though. And I love them because like they just have riffs for days. They are really good guitar players and this gets you moving.    I can go with the flow.  But you guys are not moving.  Yeah no...  Woo  woo woo.  ...I feel it. I feel it. I feel it. I feel it.   All right. Let us take a quick moment to explain this show for any newcomers we might have. There might be some new listeners today that found us from our Tuesday episode.  Ooh yeah.  If so hi. Welcome. Tell them hi.  That is a great episode on Tuesday.  Hello folks...  Hello. Hello new people.  We are glad you are here. The show works like this. Every Friday I get together with two guests to talk - you are breathing really loud Kirk.   It is OK. It is OK.  Let me just step back.  Just a sidebar both of you guys were like kind of nervous about doing this today which is so funny to me.  What do you mean? What do you mean? Not me.  .  Maybe Kirk...  Whoa. We have a lot of thoughts. We have a lot of thoughts we want to get out so we are excited. It is more...  You are going to have a lot of anxiety. And that is why we are friends.  I am super chill.   I am super chill. Super chill calm...  I am fine. I drank some calming tea before this.  .  That is true. She put it on Instagram. I just saw it.  .  The notes you have - did you like prep with your editor yesterday?  I am - it is not important.  I am actually a little nervous because I have no notes and you guys have notes and scripts. I do not want to give it all away but...  I just like to write. I am not going to - anyway.  If it gets too bad we will just kick you out.  OK. That is fine.  Cool?  That is fine.  All right.  I was told I was an alternate.   You are not an alternate Priska. You are always first in my heart.  Wow.  Come on.  OK.  All right. Let us explain the show. Every Friday I get together with two guests to talk about the week of news everything - high and low culture all the stuff - have a lot of fun. And then we end the show by hearing from our listeners who share the best things that have happened to them all week. That is every Friday. So every Tuesday morning the show is different. You get a different kind of episode. We call them deep dives an interview with one person or a conversation on one topic. So this week we had a whole episode Tuesday on Charlottesville. And we only talked to white people wanted to see how white America can include itself in this national conversation on race. We got some good feedback on the episode thus far. It is still there. You can check it out in the feed. And there is also a lot of other great stuff too. We have been doing the show now for a few months. We have some great convos with folks like Sasheer Zamata from SNL Lena Waithe from Master Of None and that great Thanksgiving episode record producer Jeff Bhasker who is made hits for the likes of Kanye West and Harry Styles. There is a lot more.  I loved those. I texted you about...  You did.  ...You know just went live texting as I was listening...  Appreciate it. But even if...  I am a listener.  ...You did not give me compliments about the show we would still have you on.  Oh. OK.   But keep it up...  Good to know because now...  .  ...Do not know if that is going away.  So check out those episodes if you have not Kirk.   I do need some guidance possibly.  All right. I know what Kirk and Priska do very well because they are very near and dear to me. But I want you both to tell our listeners what your beats are what you cover.  So I work for member station KPCC and I cover early childhood education and development. So I am looking at kids 0 to 5 and the people who care for them.  Cool.  And I cover rural America for NPR's national desk specifically focused on the urban-rural divide in this country looking at every single facet - the cultural divide the income inequality divide and all kinds of things that contribute to this sort of rancorous political atmosphere we find ourselves in.  All right. Let us start the show. First thing we always do on Fridays after the intro and Betty and the music - we describe how this week of news and stuff felt in only three words. I am going to make Kirk go first.  OK. Well my three words are on many sides.  I have heard that before.  Have you?  Yeah.  These are of course the seen-as-inflammatory remarks by the president after Charlottesville. And of course there was the dial-it-back and then the double down. It is almost hard to keep track of at this point.  Oh yeah. Well and then since the double downing there is been these weird tweets from him kind of attempting to give these impromptu history lessons to his Twitter followers. It is like he will not let the story die because he keeps grappling with it.  Yeah. And this is sort of - it would seem to fit a pattern of the strategy of - I would call it like poking the bear on many sides. Try to create controversy. I think some of the neo-Nazi sympathizers and the white supremacists and white nationalists who descended on Charlottesville were protesting the removal of the Confederate statues but they were also there to...  They were also chanting words like Jews will not replace us. They were also making the Nazi salute. They were also wearing swastikas you know? Like...  It is difficult to make a comparison that - and I think this was probably overwhelmingly seen in the reaction. It is difficult to argue that it is sort of similar...  That they are same thing.  Exactly. Exactly...  Yeah.  And the fallout continues...  Oh it continues. I mean this felt eerily like that week in the campaign cycle towards the end when the Access Hollywood video came out. And everyone said it is over.  Yeah.  It is over. It is over. And then he won the election.  Yeah.  But out in the country how closely are people watching this? How closely is his base watching this? Is the politics in this country so tribal right now that it almost does not matter what he says? We are either on one side or the other. We are in the city. We are in the rural area. We are you know...  Yeah. And from what I have seen a majority of Republicans are OK with his response to Charlottesville.  The Republicans in Congress the Republicans in the House or...  I am talking about...  ...General?  ...The GOP voters.  Yeah. OK.  Yeah. So riffing off of that on many sides my three words are pick a side because we have seen all this week in the aftermath of Charlottesville and of President Trump's comments - a lot of leaders in the country and big businesses have to make a clear stance about where they stand on issues like the ones that were raised this past weekend. And one of the most interesting things I saw in this idea of people picking a side this week is that there seemed to be at least for a day or so a rift in the ACLU the American Civil Liberties Union over their stance on free speech for all. I mean for years now from the alt-right to the hard left everywhere in between they have been going to court to fight for free speech rights writ large for everyone. They most recently defended the likes of Milo Yiannopoulos the alt-right provocateur. They said we do not care what your politics are. Free speech is free speech is free speech. But this week three California chapters of the ACLU which constitute the ACLU of California - they seemed to break ranks. They said in a statement if white supremacists march into our towns armed to the teeth and with the intent to harm people they are not engaging in activity protected by the U.S. Constitution. The First Amendment should never be used as a shield or sword to justify violence. And that was a big deal. So after the ACLU of California said this the national ACLU was kind of quiet. But the next day they came out and basically said yep. We are with you guys. And I think that just underscores how this week in particular so many folks have been having to pick a side.  And that is sort of the remarkable moment of all this - that we are in this sort of fever pitch of fury right now.  And not even the fury. Like underneath the fury there is this like - all of the news and the various stances and comments and statements just kind of like make you second-guess everything. Like well what is right? What is free speech? What is a hate group? What does this all mean? And it is confusing - and things that we thought were set in stone for so long. I feel like a lot of Americans this week are just like more confused about it.  Yeah. I actually - I have not talked to my dad about this yet. But I need to call him because he grew up in Jim Crow South you know whites only water fountains...  As a black man. Yeah.  ...You know as a black man. He is 70 now. And I just wonder what he is thinking you know? Because it must be so weird for people of that generation to be hearing all this coming up again.  Because I mean like I...  He fought this fight.  Yeah. And like I wonder if they felt like well that chapter's done or if they felt like I have seen it happen before. It could happen again. I do not know.  Right.  Wow. Are your three words going to perk us up Priska?  No not really. My three words are a question.  Can we do that?  What?  I am kidding. We could do that.   Oh my goodness.  He is trolling you.  This is why I had the anxiety. Anyway no. Was 2016 awful?  Wait was 2016 awful. OK. Three words.  Yeah. That is...  Wow.  OK.  I thought about...  Tough crowd here .  Kirk there are rules.  ...This type of...  .  So if I had four words I would say was 2016 the worst?  Ah. Yeah.  Because it was around this time last year and last summer - you know we started the year of David Bowie dying then Prince...  Prince died.  ...Muhammad Ali. And then you know there was also Zika...  The election was a hot mess.  ...You know the election. Brexit was happening.  Oh yeah.  And it was at that point that you know there were all those headlines that like worst year ever you know...  I remember. I wrote a piece being like...  Is it?  ...Is it the worst...  Yeah.  ...Year ever?  But especially here we are one year later where so many things are happening. In just this week alone there have been so many moments where I am just like...  Oh my goodness.  ...Whoa. Whoa. And I just feel like branding any year as the worst - like all of that stuff...  Does that just invite...  ...Is really dangerous.  Does it invite it as like 2017's the worst?  I...  Or 2018?  That is not what I said Kirk.   But those are my words just because this week alone I have just been thinking about where we were last year. And yeah the election was rough and we were having a lot of really tense conversations. But we are having even more intense conversations now.  Oh yeah. And at the end of this week full of this awful news from Charlottesville there is a terror attack in Barcelona...  Right.  ...That killed - what? - at least 13 people?  Right.  It is just like one hit after the other.  Yeah. And since I cover education - just thinking about the types of stories that we do in response to different hate scenarios. When the election was ramping up we were doing stories about you know hate in schools and you know different tolerance classes...  Yeah.  ...That teachers were getting and all that stuff. And it is like are we just supposed to do those stories again? You know...  Yeah .  ...Do we just do them again this year because...  Yeah.  ...School just started you know?  Yeah.  As a reporter it is weird to just see things happening over and over again.  Well the next segment of this show will be happier.  Yay.  I promise. All right. First segment in the books. You guys are rock stars. Feeling loose? Feeling good...  Is that a thing?  Yeah. Yeah.  . We needed a little...  Are we still on?  Yes we are still on...  Oh yeah. Yeah.  Are you guys OK? Are you all nervous...  Is this live?  No.  Have we gone to commercial?  .  This narrative that we are nervous is you know really something that is being pushed.   It is fake news...  The media.  The media...  The media.  The news media....  The news media.  ...The fake news media.  All right. Time for a quick break. We will be right back with Long Distance where we will call a listener and see what is up in their neck of the woods. B-R-B.   We are back. I want to try a thing that we do occasionally when I have some things to get off my chest. My producer Brent calls it the Sam 15. He says that every day when I come into work I have something new to complain about which is usually true. So I am going to complain now. But the challenge is Brent says I can only do it in 15 seconds. And then he cuts the mic. The clock starts when we hear Lil Jon.  OK.  So now it is time. My pet peeve this week is people not minding their roller bags. I have been in lots of airports.   And no one pays attention to the space these bags take up. And they are flopping around like a boat with no pilot.   Like everyone forgets. You know you are walking with your roller bag and it is behind you. There is a thing that is like 30 or 40 pounds behind you that can knock somebody out. And they never care about it. And then if you hit that roller bag that is rolling behind them they get mad at you.  This is a lot longer than 15 seconds.  If we continue discussing the 15 seconds for a minute then what does that mean ?  I do not care. I am mad about it.  OK.  I as a personal belief...  Do you have good roller bag etiquette?  I do not have a roller bag 'ecause I do not believe in them.  Oh you do not even have one.  I have a large duffel that is carry-on size that I use. You guys do not seem as mad about this as I am.  You know what I love? - is the inane airport stories that everybody has. I feel like this may be one of them.  Whoa.   You know people are always so loudly complaining on their cellphones about their sort of inane airport travel stories.  .  OK we are moving on.  Moving on.  Now it is time for the thing we do every week. It is called Long Distance.   Nice moves. We call a listener out in the country and ask them what is happening in their neck of the woods. Today on the line from Colorado Kirk's old stomping grounds...  That is right. Hi Colorado.  Well her name is Ryan .  Hi Ryan.   Hi.  You there?  Hi Ryan.  Hello.  So where in Colorado are you?  I am in Durango Colo.  That sounds fun.  That is basically New Mexico.  It is about as far away from Denver as you can get and be in the same state...  Wow.  ...Which is not a slight to Denver. It is just we are in the middle of the nowhere.  .  It does not sound like the worst thing.  Yeah.  .  So you are on the phone with me and my good friends and colleagues Priska and Kirk. Say hi guys.  Hello.  Hi Ryan.  So you wrote to us. You talked about being a woman who was also big into hunting. What is that like for you?   It is great because the elk do not care if you are a man or a woman.   That is the words for the week elk do not care.  Elk do not care.  . Yep. It is been really interesting. I mean it is something I love to do. And it - I got into it because I felt like if I was going to eat meat I should be able to kill it myself.  All right.  But it turns out like I love hunting I love it. Like when you are spooking around the woods looking for an animal and you are on this tiny little scraggly game trail and you are going step by step trying not to step on anything. And then like bam the smell of one hits you. And like you stop dead in your tracks. Like your nose hairs are tingling.  Oh my goodness.  You are looking around everywhere.  This is amazing storytelling.   I have had to explain why hunting's fun a lot of times.  What a scene-setter.  But you are just - like you know your ears are perking up you are trying to echolocate. And everything just comes back to something that feels so human. And like we were built to do this like regardless if you are male or female. And I just - I tried to convey that to other people. It is like this something that you put your identity aside and you just are.  Wow. Do you hunt with like a gun or what?  I have had some success rifle hunting in the last few years. But this is going to be my first season archery hunting.  What?  Whoa.  Which is starting soon right?  It is. It is. I got about eight more days.  That is...  Yeah.  ...So exciting.  Sam I - like do you like use a gun and stuff?  Well how else do you ask the question?   What do you use to hunt?  I am not some city slicker kiddoes.  .  So you got in touch with us because of a story that is important to you where you live but one that we are not hearing a lot about right now. And it is the ongoing debate between citizens and the federal government over public lands. There is a lot of public land out where you live right?  There is. It is - I mean it is everywhere you look. It is part of everybody's identity. All of our jobs and livelihoods are tied to it one way or another. So it is not really just people that like to hunt or just people that like to hike. It is everywhere out where we are.  Yeah.  So...  And just to underscore the everywhereness  of it like when we say public land most people think like national parks. But there is land that is public that is owned by the Defense Department the Bureau of Land Management Forest Service all kinds of federal groups. And in lots of Western states public land is sometimes the majority of the state right?  Yeah it is - and it is an amazing thing. Like you know even if you live in a crappy apartment with tenants on four sides of you like you still have land. Like it is everywhere and everybody can access it.  Everyone can access it. But the sticking point is what you can do on it once you are there.  What kind of things can you not do?  Well it depends on where you are.  Yeah.  The public lands issue is such a sticking point in states like Colorado Nevada for sportsmen in particular right now because they feel as if they are being squeezed - that they feel as if the access may go away especially if you consider some of the big private places that hunters used to be able to have access to. They do not anymore. But I was also going to say that I think...  And as sportsmen they want these lands to stay public.  Exactly.  OK.  I mean I think that is a pretty uniform view among most all sportsmen right Ryan?  Yes one of the more uniting issues on both sides of the aisle yeah.  I was just going to say that I think land is the new commodity throughout much of the West if not the whole country because they are just - our population is growing and growing and growing and certain forces see land as the sort of - the moneymaker. And the values are going up and up and up so we are just going to get more and more attention and pressure on these large tracts of public land that is pretty remarkable that have been protected for years and years and years - not - and not totally protected. There are many many uses being developed on all the lands but they are all of our lands. And I think that sometimes gets lost in the debate. And I think some people in cities and other places do not quite understand that when you go out to Nevada Priska Neely you can go hiking pretty much anywhere because something like 90 percent of Nevada is open to all...  Ninety percent...  Wow.  ...Just do not forget that.  Are you...  Just bring water.  Priska likes...  Are you...  ...To hike.  .  Are you telling me that I - OK am I going to Nevada? I am confused...  Yes...  ...Now. OK.  ...As soon as we finish the show.  I should go.  You should go...  I am going.  ...To Nevada...  I am going.  Yes.  ...After this show.  I am going to go OK.  Yeah and bring water.  Could we wrap this up?  Bring water.  Because I need to go to Nevada right now.  And you have a pretty good example of that in your backyard right? - the Bears Ears National Monument not too...  Yeah.  ...Far away from Durango.  Oh my God Bears Ears is so amazing.  Describe it for those that have not heard of it before.  Oh it is so hard to describe but it is you know a vast area of semi-desert. And the archaeological resources - like you feel like Indiana Jones. You are like - you feel like you are walking into this area and finding things and seeing things that nobody's seen before even though people have because it is just an open landscape that you have access to - and can go find archaeological sites and see the history of how people lived there. And it is this massive area that people lived in that you can explore.  Yeah. So the thing with public lands - one a lot of this public land - private citizens can use it. Farmers can lease like parts of it. It is not just the government's. You know it is shared with its communities. But I am wondering what has changed with the new administration? How has Donald Trump changed this debate? Is he pushing for change in the use of these lands? And this is for you and for Kirk.  Well I brought up the Bears Ears National Monument because I think a lot of us who have covered the controversy around it - Bears Ears National Monument was designated in the late hour of the Obama administration as was another monument called Gold Butte. And so when Trump was elected he ordered interior secretary Ryan Zinke once Zinke was confirmed to review a number of national monuments that...  So by review - what do you mean review? - like...  They are reviewing...  ...Determine if they should not be public lands anymore.  National monuments yeah. The Republicans in particular and critics of the Obama administration say these should have been done by Congress. The other side will come in and say well Congress is so gridlocked we cannot get any public lands bills through so we designated national monuments to protect that land. But I think a lot of that review was spurred on by the Bears Ears National Monument. It is just hugely controversial and...  How big is it?  1.3 million acres. Do I have that right?  Sure.   It is big. It is one of the big ones.  I love seeing Kirk get worked up.  .  He is tapping the table.  .  He loves this stuff.   I live and breathe it.  Yeah he and I could talk all day.  Yeah yeah. So Ryan what are you going to do for fun this weekend?  Oh man well I have a friend in town visiting so we are probably going to do some hiking. She is going to show me how it is done on a mountain bike. And if the - stays sunny go tubing on the river.  You are living the dream out there.  Nice.  Not kidding. Come visit.   I want to. Hey well Ryan thank you so much. If you make any elk jerky send it my way.  Oooh.  Oooh.  Elk do not care.  .  elkdontcare.  I do have a good jerky recipe from my father-in-law so that could happen.  Oh snap.  Nice.  Good to know. Hey well thank you so much. And have a great great weekend.  Thank you guys.  All righty bye.  Bye Ryan.  Bye.  Bye.  Listeners we want to talk to you for this segment. If you want us to give you a call and talk about literally anything drop us a note. Tell me what is happening - samsandersnpr.org. Cannot guarantee we will get the drop of knowledge like we just had from Kirk every week but we will give you something. I just love that Kirk - and here's the thing about natural lands.   Public lands not natural lands.  OK whoa public lands.  Unnatural lands.  Unnatural. OK now it is time for the meat of the show - when we swap some news stories from the week that was. I am going to go first. I - it always feels weird to say that.  I mean you are...  You are the host.  This is your podcast.  No...  Yeah.  ...It is our podcast guys. But just for the structure of the show I am going to go first.  OK.  And what I have really been into this week is these growing numbers of - or this growing number of major brands that have kind of had to very clearly denounce the alt-right because members of the alt-right have tried to co-opt these brands. There was a really interesting tweet from the folks behind the Got Milk campaign this week. Some journalist kind of half-jokingly alluded to the fact that some members of the alt-right had begun to use white milk as a symbol of white supremacy. And the Got Milk campaign had to tweet out and say as milk processors we share values of unity respect and equality. We will not leverage recent incidents to promote ourselves or our products. Like even milk is not safe.  Is this where we really are right now?  This is where we are.  Well we saw the same thing with the tiki torches...  Yes.  ...This week.  They had to come out and be like...  There is so many...  ...We denounce.  Like any product's songs - you know...  Yeah.  ...During the campaign there were songs.  Exactly. And so like this has been happening more and more and more. This week the Detroit Red Wings an NHL hockey team had to denounce the alt-right and white supremacists because their logo had been co-opted by these men. New Balance the shoemaker a few months ago had to denounce white supremacy. Fred Perry polo shirts. The list goes on and on and on. And what I wondered this week is like how do you handle this as a business as a brand when it happens right? So I called up several marketing experts throughout the week and I talked to one guy. His name is Daniel Durbin. He is a professor at USC University of Southern California. And he basically said really there is only one thing to do. Like you have to denounce it and you have to denounce it quickly. He said it is better to denounce ideas and not people. So it is better to say we oppose racism than like we oppose that group because you do not want to amplify who they are. But you want to say we stand against these things. But I also asked him - I was like has this ever happened before?  There have been marginalized groups that have identified with brands. For instance early rap artists identified with the brand the - what was then the Los Angeles Raiders.  And then he talked about this one that I had never thought about - Levi's.  Back in the 1960s when Levi's jeans were co-opted by the popular new left hippie movement counterculture.  But what Durbin told me about this - when you think about the Raiders and hip-hop or Levi's and hippie left folks in the '60s these were marginalized groups that later on became very mainstream. And the difference today with the alt-right is that it is very likely that the alt-right and these white supremacists will never become mainstream.  Here you have a group that knows it is on the extremes. It knows it is on the fringe. It wants to continue to be on the fringe.  And so in that regard it is in no brand's interest to ever be tied to them. So they just got to wait it out basically and hope that once you denounce it it kind of just goes away. And it seemed as if like the internet forgets pretty quickly.  But I wonder - I mean the big question is - like you say the internet forgets. But also the internet inflames and brings...  Oh yeah.  ...Voices into the mainstream almost that were not ever considered you know anything - they were fringe. And now they are suddenly - the national debate is about you have to condemn these things.  Yeah and like what I have also been fascinated by is besides these brands that the right is trying to co-opt there are other brands just associated with people in the alt-right and white nationalist groups that have taken very forceful steps to separate themselves. This week Spotify the streaming service took a lot of racist bands and songs off of their site. OkCupid banned a white nationalist and said they will ban all white nationalists. A lot of the...  I think Airbnb...  Yeah...  ...Did something too.  ...They canceled reservations for people that were affiliated with the alt-right.  Yeah.  And then some of the companies that host web traffic and host websites have refused to host websites like the Daily Stormer which is a leading publication of the alt-right.  I - you know I would say we are drawing a lot of attention this in the news media but I do not know that anybody has a real sense for how big this movement really is. And in the end...  Yes.  Yeah...  ...How much...  ...Right.  How much attention does it deserve versus so many other things? It is very serious - the rhetoric the violence. It is all very serious. But how big is it and how much are we pushing the agenda and pushing their narrative even more by covering it and talking about it? And we have got to staff you know upcoming rallies and protests from the antifa the anti-fascists and on the other side the pro-Trump supporters and the white nationalists. But is this sort of made for TV and are we giving it too much attention? - I think is a big question going forward.  I mean also just to even like question myself in this whole conversation I have been using the phrase alt-right interchangeably with white supremacists and white nationalists. But there is a belief that we should not use that phrase alt-right anymore because it just masks what these groups truly are.  We saw the AP this week said they were not going to use the...  Exactly.  Associated Press saying no more alt-right.  Yeah yeah. You know I want to segue now to your story Kirk because you have spent some time looking into protest movements and fringe movements on the direct opposite side - the rise of groups such as antifa and the anti-fascists. And like there is questions now this week after Donald Trump's on-many-sides comments about just how big these antifa-style movements are. And you have done some reporting into that right?  Right. If you listen to right-wing TV hosts and far-right personalities they will talk as if the radical left is just on the same par as the radical right. That is not the case when you look at the numbers. Something like three-quarters according to the Anti-Defamation League - three-quarters of all examples of domestic extremist violence in the last couple of decades have come from right-wing extremists.  Got you.  Very tiny fraction - the bulk of the rest is Muslim extremism and then a small tiny fraction of the left.  So how many - like what percentage point is like from these far-left groups?  Something like 2 to 3 percent.  Huh.  Now that is not to say that...  That is there.  ...There is not potential. That is there.  Yeah.  That is there but a lot of the experts I talked to and people who watch extremism track domestic extremism will say that that does not mean that there is not a potential for growth of the so-called radical left. You mentioned antifa the anti-fascist movement. That has been going on particularly here on the West Coast for years and years and years. And only recently in the past few months have we seen a real organized spread of antifa across the country to the East Coast to the South. Antifa was of course present in...  In...  Charlottesville.  There are also other groups. There is this whole notion that the left may need to arm itself to combat the right that is so armed. And there is so much attention to that. There is another group called the Redneck