 Hey all just a quick heads-up before the show. This episode contains discussion of a court case involving - and you can cover your kids' ears right now if you want - involving a sex tape. We do not go into details of the tape but we do discuss the tape's existence. And we refer to it throughout the episode. All right that is all. Here's the show.   Hey all. Sam Sanders here. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Before we get to the episode today if you were listening in Texas or have relatives in Texas I hope you guys are all safe and making it OK through the storm out there. Hope you are safe and dry. We are hearing and seeing so many reports of people displaced by Harvey. So I am sending good vibes that way. That is my home state. And I am hoping that my friends and loved ones they are safe as well. If you were affected by the storm this week we definitely want to talk to you. Drop us a line at samsandersnpr.org. We will love to have folks from Texas on this Friday show and just let listeners hear what you are going through. OK. So today in our deep dive we are going to have a conversation about journalism and the power of wealthy individuals to shape journalism - talking to filmmaker Brian Knappenberger and NPR media correspondent David Folkenflik. So I will set it up like this. These days you hear a lot about President Trump making comments like this...   These are sick people. You know the thing I do not understand? You would think - you would think they would want to make our country great again. And I honestly believe they do not. I honestly believe it.  Trump last week in Arizona was talking about journalists or what he calls the fake news.   If you want to discover the source of the division in our country look no further than the fake news and the crooked media...   ...Which would rather get ratings and clicks than tell the truth.  Most people agree that language like that does not help the cause of journalism. But there is another threat to journalism that is talked about much less. But it cannot be entirely separated from Trump or his rhetoric. Director Brian Knappenberger lays out this threat in his new Netflix documentary. It came out this summer. It is called Nobody Speak Trials Of The Free Press. This documentary tells the story of the news and gossip website Gawker. You might know that Gawker went bankrupt about a year ago after the company lost a lawsuit brought by Terry Bollea - probably know Bollea better as Hulk Hogan the wrestler.   Gawker was ordered by a Florida jury to pay Hogan 140 million in damages after the gossip website published a small portion of a sex tape.  Gawker appealed the ruling. They eventually settled the case for 31 million and they shut down. Now I got to point out some people cheered Gawker's collapse. They saw it as a victory against trashy tabloid journalism. But there is a wrinkle in this story that had a lot of people who cover the media raising alarms. One of those people is NPR's own media correspondent David Folkenflik. David's in the Netflix documentary so we also asked him to be part of this episode. And the reason that folks like David were alarmed is because after Gawker lost the suit people found out that the case against the company had been funded in secret by a Silicon Valley multi-billionaire who was also a very prominent Donald Trump supporter during the campaign.   Billionaire Peter Thiel - the man who recently revealed he bankrolled Hogan's case - apparent payback after gawker.com wrote an article exposing his sexuality.  So yes this story it is something. And there are similar cases like this in the news right now - stories of wealthy individuals basically going to legal war with media outlets. There is a billionaire coal magnate who is currently suing John Oliver of HBO. Former FOX News host Eric Bolling is trying to sue a Huffington Post reporter for 50 million. And there is a case being brought against the tech website Techdirt by the same lawyer who repped Hulk Hogan against Gawker. We cover that in this episode. So these stories and Brian Knappenberger's documentary raise all kinds of questions about the future of journalism and the role of wealthy individuals in controlling that future. That is all in this conversation. And of course we also talk about the president and journalism too. With that here's me talking to filmmaker Brian Knappenberger and NPR's David Folkenflik about the film Nobody Speak Trials Of The Free Press. It is on Netflix now.   So before we start I want to distinguish voices because there are three dudes in this booth. So we are all going to talk a bit to let our listeners know what we sound like. David Folkenflik media correspondent for NPR say a few words.  I am just so glad to be down here...  OK from New York.  ...In the temple of journalism that is NPR's headquarters. It is open. It is beautiful. And it is a delight to see you in person this time.  All right. I have never heard it called the temple but I will take that . And Brian Knappenberger welcome to D.C. Do you have big plans this weekend in D.C.?  Yeah. We are showing the film. We are screening the film. Very excited to be here back in the temple from Los Angeles.  Why would you ever leave LA?   Right.  How did you guys connect?  Well we reached out to David. We were kind of you know admiring the way he was covering the trial and looked for a voice to help us kind of tell the story. And he became a big part of the film.  So for those that have not seen the film they have probably heard about the case. I am going to try to run through it briefly. But you fill in the details both of you guys. Basically it is a very important First Amendment case. And the short version is Gawker the online news and gossip site they published a sex tape featuring the wrestler Hulk Hogan whose real name is Terry Bollea. Bollea's lawyer asked Gawker to take the video down. They did not. Then they were sued. The case gets bigger and bigger. And there is a lot of twists and turns along the way. Explain the nuts and bolts of this case for people.  Yeah. I mean I was really really interested in the Hulk Hogan Gawker case just by itself. I thought it was by itself really fascinating. This is the first time a sex tape case like this had ever gone to trial. And you know as kind of salacious and as tabloidy  as that sounded it was pretty clear that there was some big picture First Amendment versus privacy issues at stake. And I - you know I have to admit I had some degree of sympathy for Hogan's case.  Do you still have that?  I still do actually. Yeah so I just thought this was a really complex - it is not an easy case. But you know these cases that are at the edges of freedom of speech are not always easy. But they are compelling maybe for that reason. But you know what happened after that was really fascinating. I mean first of all you had the 140 million verdict against Gawker.  Which shut them down.  Yeah and the requirement to pay almost immediately 50 million. And that was effectively the death sentence for Gawker. And then right on the heels of that you had this revelation that Peter Thiel the sort of famous Silicon Valley billionaire - first outside investor of Facebook - was actually funding Hogan's case which was just weird at first. And then you know the story changed. It became about big money and its ability to kind of silence critical voices.  Yeah. Now David I know Gawker very well. They have actually written about me before - not too nicely. But for people that probably have never seen the site because they have been gone now for a little bit what is Gawker? What were they about? And what did they represent in the culture? Because they were very specific and unique in what they did.  So the founder Nick Denton always would say when asked what drives you guys he said you know it always seemed to me - he had been a reporter for Financial Times and a savvy smart guy. He said it always seems to me journalists talk more interestingly at the bar with a drink after they have filed their stories after they have been on the air than they ever do on the air or much more interesting than they ever do in print and therefore the kinds of stories that journalists find important and the insights they find important should be the things that they are sharing with the public. And it was - in some ways there is a tabloid element to it. In some ways for those who might remember it is a little bit like Spy magazine where they are focusing on the obsessions of New York particularly finance media fashion publishing you know real estate. And they are also focusing on the nexus of news and gossip.  Yes. But it also has a really snarky sometimes a mean-spirited voice.  Let us get there because the gossip - you know if the New York Post which can be venal and snarky enough we are only page 6 that would give you a feel of what Gawker could be like. It was very much saying if we know about it and we are interested in it you should too. You know they used to do something called Gawker Stalker where people would say hey I saw Alec Baldwin at this bar downtown. And they would put a little arrow on a map in Google Maps. And suddenly over time they would sort of overlay and say well where is that Alec Baldwin likes to go? This is where you can go see him. Well suddenly that becomes very invasive. It is not only paparazzi who could do it. It is some kid visiting from out of town who wants to obsess about this celebrity or that celebrity. They really went after the sexuality of a lot of New York famous people.  They outed some people.  So they went after Anderson Cooper who later you know attested he was gay but did it kind of quietly I think in a very you know dignified way. On the other hand they also did a lot of real reporting.  Oh they totally did. They broke some stories.  What I liked was they did it from the outside in. They were never going to be the people with the great access to the top executives to the handlers to this and that. So they just kind of blew through that. And as a result they did real reporting. Some of their stuff on Bill O'Reilly and his personal life turned out to in some ways shed a certain light on what we have learned about him or believe we have learned about him in recent months about his attitudes toward women.  And also Bill Cosby.   Absolutely.  So then - OK we have an outlet like Gawker which in some ways is not the most upstanding of newsrooms. But over the case of - throughout the course of your documentary you say that their publication of a washed out wrestler's sex tape is actually the newest and latest frontier testing the First Amendment.  Well I think that where it gets really disturbing to me is later when you have the kind of secretive maneuverings of Peter Thiel. As I said before that you know I have some sympathy for Hogan's case. And I think that you know he has a legitimate case. I think without the Peter Thiel money this probably settles. So I think that is the point it gets kind of disturbing to me...  And how much did he pour into this case?  Well we do not know. Nick Denton says they spent - their side spent between something like 12 to 15 million in this case. So you can assume the same or a bit more on the Thiel side. So you know again I did not sort of pick this because it was an easy case.  Yeah.  OK. This is a tough one. And I think that is one of the reasons why I found it so compelling. And it just gets clearer to me when you have this sort of secretive element. The second story that we have in the film is the story of Sheldon Adelson secretly purchasing the Las Vegas Review-Journal.  Tell folks who he is.  So Sheldon Adelson is the casino magnate owner of the Bellagio and the Venetian and plenty of casinos in Macau - 17th I believe richest person in the world. The Las Vegas Review-Journal is an important paper in Las Vegas and in the West was purchased by somebody. The - all of the employees were called together for this announcement. And they naturally asked who is our new owner like you would do if you were in any business really but particularly in the newspaper business. And they were told do not worry about it.  By some guy who totally looks like he was just there as like...  He looked like a front man yeah.  Yeah.   He was clearly not the person who bought it. So it was this strange situation. They wanted to find out more. They got to work and figured it out.  The other big plot point that we should mention here was that a longtime reporter at the Las Vegas Review-Journal hearing a lot of stuff critical of Sheldon Adelson and his business dealings in Vegas. That reporter named Robert Smith he had actually been sued by Adelson for libel in the past which is its own crazy story. But anyway Smith was told after Adelson bought the paper that he could not write about Adelson anymore.  I mean it seems to me there are interesting distinctions and commonalities in these two first chapters of three that appear in the documentary. And I say this as somebody who did not participate in the creation of it just you know talked to you for it. But you know with Gawker it is not an easy case because it is a problematic website and yet you are - there are times you are really rooting for it. And there are times they do some terrific stuff. And you have to in your mind figure out how to best to disaggregate that. Really in some ways the question becomes on that one does this deserve a death sentence? And do we allow somebody with such celebrity as Terry Bollea to be able to deploy a sympathetic circumstance to destroy another news organization? And then I mean - and let us not forget you know folks at Gawker are very much of the belief that Bollea was much less concerned about the invasion of his privacy and his personal hurt which I think from a human level would be very understandable and more about disclosures of things he had said on some of these tapes and videotapes.  Some of these tapes of bleeped words.  He would used the N-word. He had done other things you know that came out. And then on top of that this you know this very secretive billionaire is orchestrating this from a continent away. That is a thing. When you go to Las Vegas you have a guy who is all of the things that Brian said. He is also one of the top handful of donors to the National Republican Party. He is the most essentially powerful and influential person in the home state of this news organization in Nevada. There are a lot of wrinkles to this. And he is a guy that they have had to cover for years for a paper whose editorial page has always been somewhat sympathetic to his interests. So it is - how do you say it? It is you know Democracy dies in darkness we are told by the Washington Post these days right? Well this is a complete lack of light.  I want to unpack Peter Thiel. He is such an interesting character. And I thought I knew all about him. I see your movie and there is even more layers to this guy.  Yeah. I mean he is you know I think he is always been - for people who have seen the show Silicon Valley he was portrayed as Peter Gregory was the sort of fictionalized version of him on that show. He is a hugely successful venture capitalist one of the co-founders of Pay-Pal one of - the first outside investor of Facebook. He is had some eccentric beliefs. One is that college is not necessarily a useful thing for...  Any funds scholarships for kids to not go to college.  So he funds scholarships for kids not to go to college and to sort of start which has some interesting - maybe it has some interesting positive aspects of it but he clearly has a belief that college is...  Well all of this seems to me - like forgive me for stepping in here - but if you look at it as its unpacked in the movie and as we learn more over time he is a guy who seems to believe in things that will allow elite figures to live on a higher plane at a longer time for better health than the rest of the world. Like that is what he is interested in.  A few examples. He was rumored to believe that older people should be infused with younger people's blood. He wanted to start a colony of islands away from any government intervention or oversight. He is a little bit out there.  Even for a time where we have public people who say yeah I believe in what Ayn Rand had to say he is at a - sort of like you have taken a centrifuge of these folks whipped it around and he is in the purest version right? Like he has a really strong belief in this stuff.  And he is also a strong believer in the idea of strongmen. And he ends up being a Donald Trump supporter. And that is another layer of Peter Thiel.  Yeah.  He speaks at the RNC in favor and support of Donald Trump.  Yeah. He is not sure democracy is the right way to govern - typically. And a lot of his writings have disparaged the notion of democracy.  Yeah. So he ends up secretly funding Hulk Hogan in this trial. And the big question is why is he mad at Gawker? Gawker's written about him a lot. But the question is is he mad because Gawker has written unfavorably about his business interests or is he mad because Gawker outed him?  Yeah. You are asking me?  Do we know?  Well presumably one of the things he said publicly is that they - and they famously outed him on their pages eight or nine years ago in an article that said Peter Thiel Is Totally Gay People - which is actually...  That is a crazy headline.  That is a crazy headline.  That is such a Gawker headline my friend.  That is such - that is just...  That is a Gawker headline.  I mean it was not on gawker.com but it was a Gawker headline.  It was on Valleywag which is what - their blog for Silicon Valley.  For Silicon Valley yeah. But as crazy as that headline is you know that it was a substantive article. That article was about bias in venture capital in Silicon Valley.  And if you are to out someone it is one of the most thoughtful essays and pieces that I have seen in doing that.  Absolutely.  Even as he was a guy who like Anderson Cooper and Shep Smith who I mentioned earlier you know I am of the belief that you have to have a really high bar to pass if you are doing something without their acquiescence. I just - as a society I just think it is still a thing where people you know it is a private part of who they are. And they were couching it in terms of how it could affect the business interests of major you know - they had reasons to do it. It was thoughtfully done. And it was not vicious. And it was done by a guy who is very thoughtful - is very sympathetic to these issues.  Yeah Owen Thomas the writer who is also gay basically said more power to you. And I think that is Nick Denton's position on this is that you know look if the most powerful venture capitalist in Silicon Valley is gay then young gay kids should know that. They should have role models. You know when you talk to Nick about this you know I think he is angry that if you see a profile in The New York Times or Bloomberg Businessweek or something the first thing the reporter will do will say well tell me about your family. Tell me about your spouse.  Let us talk about their wife and their kids.  If that person's gay and the interviewer knows that they are gay somehow it is off limits. I think that - I think there is a genuine part of Nick Denton that is angry about that.  Yeah.  You know there is also by the way just to be clear a case - and there are some as I understand it former Gawker writers who believe this - that he was actually less upset about being outed which is you know things that we were able to report on and more concerned about certain...  Coverage of his business.  ...Reporting about his business that had nothing to do with his sexuality.  Totally.  Now that may be true but nonetheless at the time that they outed him he effectively said you know I am going to be after you. You know I am going to come after you guys. It just - he did not telegraph that it would come in this form or that it would be a existential threat to their existence.  Yeah. All right. Time for a quick break. We will have more with Brian Knappenberger and David Folkenflik right after this.   You know I watched this case like everyone else did listened to David's reporting on it. And when the verdict came out and Gawker was forced to pay out and they were forced to shut down I thought it was over. It was like OK Hulk Hogan gets his money. Gawker's gone. Oh well. But your film makes the case that there are a lot of other issues at play here that could affect the rest of the industry. Talk briefly about how what happened in this Gawker case could affect places like NPR or the Times or whoever else.  Well I think that the tactics that you see Peter Thiel using here to go after Gawker do not have to - they can be used for any organization - right? - any news organization. There is no reason that they could not. There is nothing specific to Gawker here. And so what we have seen is other cases where very rich people have gone after news organizations. And you know news organizations are vulnerable. You know a lot of them have found their funding and their financial backing gone and are struggling in that way. So even if those lawsuits do not win they still could be a drain - enough of a drain on their resources.  On their resources.  And you are seeing this now. In fact the attorney that Peter Thiel was using Charles Harder is now going after Techdirt. Techdirt is another Silicon Valley site does great reporting. And they are being sued by Charles Harder on behalf of another gentleman named Shiva Ayyadurai who claims to have invented email.  Did he?  Both Gawker - well both Gawker and Techdirt have written articles saying no he did not. And a Washington Post article that profiled him as the inventor of email had to be almost entirely redacted.  It was one incredible correction.  It was an incredible correction. So yeah so that case settled against Gawker at the same time as the Hulk Hogan case. But Charles Harder's still going after Techdirt. Techdirt as great as they are they are small. And they are being sued for 15 million so they are fighting for their existence right now.  You know Gawker was actually an interesting case of a midsize media company where they had figured out a way not to be tiny like not a five-person outfit but also not be the size of the Boston Globe New York Times NPR or anything like that. And they had succeeded financially basically in writing things out. They were never going to be huge but they had figured out how to make this work. Some of it was on the backs of paying their workers for a long time very little.  Very low wages.  But nonetheless like they were figuring this out. This became existential. One of the - you know this is not only about whether the most honorable news organizations are at stake because places evolve and things have worth even in their imperfection right?  Yeah.  The New York Times effectively got WMD's wrong you know? And that...  They are still around.  They are still around. And I think that is good you know? They are mortal endeavors. We are all human beings in here. You know I think also news organizations get to be held accountable. That is OK. Thiel and his folks decided to make this existential. One of the things they did - I mean they hid the fact that they had a multi-billionaire behind them.  Yes.  So that meant that they had a guy who could just play it out forever.  And they also dropped a certain charge. Talk about that.  So there was a key moment - and it seems minor and it is enormous it seems to me - where they dropped one of the charges filed in the civil suit - Bollea's team financed by Thiel against Gawker. And the reason that they did that was it allowed the insurance companies who would stand behind you for libel and certain other kinds of journalistic cases...  They got to walk away.  ...To take a walk. And so when they take a walk that is a problem. Well let us think about a case involving a guy who is at the center of the third chapter of Brian's film which is Donald J. Trump. As a private citizen he sued Timothy O'Brien - then with The New York Times - for a book that O'Brien had written about him in which he talked about Trump's essentially wildly inflated claims of his personal wealth. And he sued O'Brien for billions - that is right - billions of dollars which O'Brien as a reporter for The New York Times did not happen to have.  Did not have it.  Right. So The New York Times takes on the case and the insurance company takes on the case. And under oath during depositions Trump admits that he sued him because he wanted to make it hurt for O'Brien. That is basically why he sued him. In essence actually Trump ended up not only losing but having to pay O'Brien's costs and you know other fees and other things. But he just wanted to cause pain to O'Brien. If he had figured out a way to drop a charge that meant that the insurers were not on the hook and those insurers decided to take a walk - and if The Times decided to say you know what? He is suing him for a book he wrote. That is not something he did on our imprimatur. We are not responsible for - you know he could have either taken down The Times for billions or taken the reporter out forever you know? That is a threat. And it is not just well one guy went after one place that is published some things that we think is seedy and therefore we do not like it. We can turn our heads away from it. We have to say this is an unusual case. It may not - it is in a Florida court. It is not binding for the country. And it may have some very unusual wrinkles in it. But we have to be conscious of these things because they have implications of how people are going to operate.  You know it is an interesting time because the threats that you both are speaking about clearly exist. Donald Trump has changed the way that the entire country looks at the media. But it is also in some ways a good time for journalism. You have seen outlets like The Washington Post and The New York Times have record web traffic and subscriptions. NPR's ratings have never been higher. A lot of national news outlets are thriving in the era of Trump decrying us as fake news right? And so for people that see that and say well I do not really see a threat to journalism. They are all still there. How do you import the severity of this threat against journalism to folks that might not be inclined to think it exists?  Well you are right that there is a - you know if there is - there is a kind of a silver lining on what is going on with Trump and the media. I do think that a number of news organizations have kind of stepped up to the challenge. You know there is legitimate criticism of the media that perhaps it is gotten to corporatized too cozy with power that - for too long and traded softball stories for access to power and celebrity. And you know something about Trump has woken it up.  And put a fire under us.  And put a fire under us. But you know look why is it still of concern? I mean if you think about communities across the United States - you know I think about this in local communities across the United States who have lost a lot of their sort of local newspapers that would cover their local elections and city council meetings and all.  But that is a different issue right? They just do not have people buying enough papers. And they are losing money.  It is the same - yes. I think what is happening is you have journalism in a very vulnerable state. It is being attacked in all of these ways including now by the president of the United States who - and by billionaires. There is a lot to be concerned about. There is a famous line from the - Tom Stoppard who says you know people do terrible things to each other but it is worse in places where everybody's in the dark.  You know I think most journalists do not even think of Trump as the enemy at all. I think they think of it as the key player in the current times in a completely unexpected way of course. But it is a completely - we are in a time of crisis. And it is a completely fabricated or conjured up crisis. Like there is no need to be in a state of crisis and running around all the time now. The economy is doing decently. We are not ramping up our wars. Like we do not have to be in this state of absolute tumult. And it is really - the locus is really in the White House. And it is a guy who is inherently given off explicit and implicit signs that he does not believe in the role of accountability the press plays. He does it in the way that he disdains practices like releasing information like his tax forms. He does it in a way in which he routinely undercuts his own previous statements and the credibility of everyone who works for him including very senior officials like the attorney general the vice president and others. And he does it by in his rallies - the ones that you attended Sam - you know basically saying hey if anybody beats up a protester beats up a reporter those guys are our enemies. And I will pay for your legal bills.  But also he is the same guy that frequently throughout the entire campaign would call up reporters at the Times and the Post and give them scoops.  I do not - I totally get that. Even people like Jake Tapper who I think really emerged as one of the brightest figures in television journalism for doing good journalism he will say that and it is true. You have got to give Trump credit. He sat there and he took questions. That is fine but he did that because it served his purpose. And he did that right until just before if you remember the convention. And then he became a much more Republican figure. He became a much more Fox figure. And you know he also basically - he stopped pretending that he was going to be giving out all this stuff he was going to give.  But you know the day that Republicans pulled their first big attempt to repeal Obamacare he called a Post reporter with that scoop before the GOP made it public. I cannot wrap my head around how he continues to do the song and dance around the media.  The only way that we can think about Donald Trump is to think about him - it is it is like the prom date theory where...  What is the prom date theory? It is the be home by midnight because my mom is really strict?  No. This is this is my theory about so many things is that you find something appealing if somebody else has gotten it or wants. You know so you want to ask so-and-so to the prom as long as somebody else has expressed a desire or asked first because that validates that. In this case he wants the validation. He wants to be asked. He wants to be the center of attention. I mean he trashes the Times and the Post but nobody more desires the ability to be on the front page of the Times the Post the morning Today show 60 Minutes - he wants all of those things. He wants that validation. So he wants to attack the independence of the press which is what Brian gets at and what we have seen play out around us. And at the same time he wants to bask in its adulation. That is not a guy affirming its accountability role that is a guy saying I want you to give me your light and let me seem like I am the chief player here.  Yeah. Yeah. We got few more minutes. My big question for you guys. So you lay out a lot of threats that the press is facing right now from inside the White House from rich and powerful people across the country all kinds of threats that we face. What are some fixes for that? Specifically in these crazy legal waters that outfits like Gawker find themselves in.  Well I think there is a lot that can be changed in terms of accountability and the secrecy behind these kinds of things like litigation finance. I think there is a...  So you are saying make that public.  Yeah.  OK.  There is a discussion to be had about shield laws. There is - you know I think that the main thing I think is you know journalism has to find a kind of new model. So you know support journalism that you love that you think is doing a great job and stand up for the concept of it. You know both stand up for the people that are doing it - doing well and realize that there is an important role for journalism and that we have to kind of preserve the concept itself.  Yeah. How do we fix it David?  How do we fix it? Well we are in an interesting moment right now because as we are talking you are seeing growing apprehension in Washington even among figures who have been sympathetic and supportive of the president for how he is conducting himself. Now that basically does not have to deal with the press per se it is just literally - he is slashing through every norm