 Hey you all This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show Texas Public Radio reporter Joey Palacios and NPR political correspondent Asma Khalid. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am so excited to be coming to you this week from my hometown San Antonio Texas at the studios of Texas Public Radio. Speaking of Texas Public Radio one of my guests is a city hall reporter for TPR in San Antonio - Joey Palacios - sitting here right next to me. Thanks for being here man.  I am very happy to be here.  Also joining us through the miracle of technology from the Boston-Cambridge metro area is my friend Asma Khalid national political correspondent for NPR. Hey.  Hey Sam.  Thanks for being here today.  And Joey nice to meet you.  Nice to meet you too.  Yeah yeah. Also joining me in studio right now are the sounds of one of my favorite bands and one of my favorite songs from one of my favorite bands. This is Aerosmith's Pink.    Pink - it was love at first sight. I yell pink when I turn out the light.  You guys know Aerosmith.  Who does not know Aerosmith?    And pink gets me high as a kite.  So I am playing this song for a reason this week you guys. I am playing it because Aerosmith ended up in a reality show episode recently. There is this show called American Pickers where these two guys travel across America searching for rare artifacts and national treasures and they buy them up. These two guys found the original tour van of Aerosmith in the woods in Massachusetts. It had been there since the '70s. It was like painted green rusted out. There is a Persian rug hanging from like the ceiling in the roof of the car - a 1964 International Harvester Metro. Guess how much these guys - these two American Picker guys Mike Wolfe and Frank Fritz - guess how much they paid for that tour bus?  Seven hundred fifty thousand dollars.   You really like Aerosmith.  OK.  Asma how much do you think they paid?  Two hundred fifty thousand dollars.  Both of you all should really lowball. They paid 25000 for it.  Oh wow.  It was in very bad condition. It was a funky looking van though.    Pink - it was love at first sight. I yell pink when I turn out the light.  So Asma and Joey are here with me to look back on the week of news culture and everything else. We have a lot to cover this week. Melania Trump's parents are now U.S. citizens through a process that her husband likes to call chain migration - a process that he rails against. We are going to talk with Joey about the view on immigration from San Antonio - a place just a few hours drive from the southern border and later a very special segment all about race specifically how to talk about race with your kids. It is a thing that I have been thinking about a lot as we mark the one year anniversary of the tragedy in Charlottesville. We will answer listener questions on the topic with some expert help. With that said let us get into it. As we always do I am going to have the show start by my guests describing their week of news in only three words. Asma you are up first.  Oh OK. So my three words are are you surprised?  OK. Explain.  So this week there were two stories in particular that caught my eye. And my initial reaction was just a bit of side eye and like really? Are you surprised?  Yeah. OK.  And so there is a Fox News host Laura Ingraham who got a lot of attention this week for basically taking what I would argue were kind of fringe ideas among white nationalists - the type of stuff we heard you know in Charlottesville last year - and kind of giving them a mainstream platform on Fox News. And - do we have a bit of tape of actually what she said?  We actually have a tape of that. We can play it. Yeah.  OK.   In some parts of the country it does seem like the America that we know and love does not exist anymore. Massive demographic changes have been foisted upon the American people and they are changes that none of us ever voted for and most of us do not like. From Virginia to California we see stark examples of how radically in some ways the country has changed. Now much of this is related to both illegal and in some cases legal immigration that of course progressives love.  You know Asma the three words that she says in that statement that really make me wonder what she is talking about are massive demographic change.  I know.  I mean she is basically saying America is becoming too brown.  And you know there was a lot of ruckus about this. And then she came out - she is since come out to clarify that her commentary had nothing to do with race which you know at this point Sam I feel like this is just getting so old. It is like you know you whistle - you make that dog whistle and then you come out and say no no no I had nothing. This had...  It is a dog air horn.  ...Nothing to do with race.  This was a...  Exactly .  ...Dog air horn. I mean like how much more explicit could she be you know? What I find interesting Asma with all of this you know the way that she says we are you know upset by these changes who is the we that she is talking about? There is this one study from Pew that came out in June of 2018 and they found that a majority of Americans are OK with immigration. More people than not are OK with legal immigration staying at current levels. And it just feels as if the world view that she is spouting does not actually speak for the majority of Americans.  A lot of it just to me seems really reactionary or they are trying to get a reaction to it I should say. It just seems like they are trying to see what they can say to get them to call in or make a Facebook post about it or to continue the debate about the changing demographic in this country.  Yeah. You know and - so Laura Ingraham is a Trump supporter and it is a very interesting week to be a Trump supporter - on immigration at least - because at the same time that the Trump White House has been cracking down on immigration the parents of Donald Trump's wife Melania...  Oh yes. This is my second story. Yes.  ...Became...  Go ahead.  ...Citizens through a process that Donald Trump calls chain migration where one family member comes over and helps the others gain their status. This is a process that Trump himself has criticized and said is wrong. His wife this week seems to have used that process to help her parents become citizens.  Exactly. And what I find so interesting about this - again Sam my reaction was like are you surprised? I mean really ?  What do you mean?  It is sort of like this idea - of course there is different rules for different people right? I mean like to your point the Trump administration has really been hitting hard at this idea of family-based immigration - what he calls chain migration. And every year you know based on sort of the pool of immigrants that gain legal permanent status in this country from the data I have seen about two-thirds of those people that come through are family-based immigration. And so the Trump administration wants to kind of narrow down who would be allowed. And so in theory the sort of legislation that they foresee would not allow you to sponsor your parents. You would only be allowed to sponsor your spouse or minor children under the age of 18.  So you are saying that if Donald Trump's policy proposal on chain migration quote-unquote was approved and went through his wife would have had a much harder time helping her parents become citizens.  In theory.  All right. Joey your three words are also about immigration.  They are. It is rough immigration year.  Rough immigration year - why that?  I wanted to give a profile of what San Antonio has seen over the past - even more than a year maybe year and a half...  Yeah.  ...Because San Antonio has been at the center of this law that the state passed last year commonly known as SB4. It is also an anti-sanctuary cities law. So...  So it basically tells any city in the state you cannot be a sanctuary city.  More or less.  OK.  And it blocks police departments from putting in a policy that forbids its officers from asking about someone's immigration status. SAPDs had a policy on the books like this where officers cannot ask or could not ask rather about somebody's immigration status. It also required jails to comply with immigration detainers. And it had other provisions too where public officials could not endorse policies that would benefit a sanctuary city.  So - but the thing that is really interesting about this - San Antonio and other cities have challenged this anti-sanctuary city law. And a U.S. court of appeals though they have ruled that most of this law can go into effect while challenges proceed. So while San Antonio is still challenging this law it does not call itself a sanctuary city.  Right. And the city has actually said you know we are not a sanctuary city. But what is a sanctuary city? Because there is never really been anything on paper or any law or anything that defines what a sanctuary city is. That is one of the things that cities found challenging when the state put in its anti-sanctuary cities law.  I also feel - I also want you to talk about - you know there are certain flashpoints that really speak to the challenges that local officials in San Antonio face when it comes to what to do with immigrants. There have been a few instances now of immigrants in the back of trucks ended up in San Antonio. What is going on with that?  Right. So I mean San Antonio has been kind of like this centerpoint this nexus of like what can happen when - with immigration enforcement. And by that I mean shortly after the city filed suit against the state last year in July of 2017 towards the middle of the month there was a trailer found in a Walmart parking lot about 4 oclock in the morning. And when the trailer was opened they found about 40 migrants in there...  Wow.  Oh wow.  ...Eight of whom were dead and two more would die in the following days.  I remember hearing about this case.  Right. And so here's where things get really interesting because in December there was another trailer found. This one thankfully was a lot less tragic. Twelve people were found two days before Christmas in a trailer on San Antonio's east side. Now what is different about this case is that rather than the 12 people found in the trailer being turned over to immigration authorities the chief decided to charge it at a state level. That kind of allowed the police to - instead of releasing the migrants to immigration authorities they were allowed to go with a refugee agency and it was Catholic Charities.  Now that is the kind of thing that you hear and say that is what a sanctuary city would do.  Oh it could be interpreted that way.  Yes. Yes. San Antonio still says we are not a sanctuary city.  You know what this reminds me of though guys? I feel like there is been a widespread kind of divide between city governments and state governments in a lot of places particularly places where the legislature is quite Republican and the urban cores are - of cities are really Democratic. And to me you know this particular issue is immigration but I recall hearing a story maybe a year and a half ago or so in Arizona where some cities were banning plastic bags and then the state government of Arizona put a ban on ban of plastic bags. And so it is this kind of constant struggle between a Republican legislature and a Democratic city government in places where they do not really look alike you know in terms of...  Yeah.  ...Political partisanship.  Yeah.  It is very much the same thing here too. I mean the state has tried to intervene in quite a few of San Antonio's initiatives. There is one happening right now with paid sick leave where it could be passed by the council it could be passed by voters. It is a bit of a complex issue. Austin has already passed paid sick leave and the state is intervening saying that it would violate the Texas Minimum Wage Act.  Wow.  So yeah. So the state likes to extend its authority into the cities.  And it is so interesting too because I feel like the old conservative mantra was local government. Local government is best right? And so where does that fall apart?  Exactly.  Is local government best only at the state level?  It is all really confusing. More confusion to come. You guys I have three words for you all. They are we are done. And you could even let me add a question mark after done because it is not sure that we are done yet but I am thinking this could be the beginning of the end of a thing. Let me explain. Snapchat announced recently - this is the social media platform for the youths - they lost 3 million users last quarter...  Oh wow.  ...First time the company has ever lost users - this is daily active users. Facebook users are flat in the U.S. actually down in Europe. Twitter users are down by like a million. We should point out that you know Instagram is still on the up. And I am wondering this week specifically is like is this the beginning of the end of at least Americans' obsession and love affair with social media?  Would that be a good thing you think?   Maybe. Maybe.  No seriously.  I find social media overwhelming sometimes. Like I...  Sometimes? All the time Joey.  I am very addicted to Facebook. It is like my main way of communicating with people.  I see you on Facebook Joey.  Yeah so...  .  And I use Twitter mostly for work. But you know there is an old mantra that journalists have - or maybe not old since it is - just do not read the comments. So I...   ...Try to avoid as many comments sections as I can now.  But what is Twitter if just one big flaming comment section?  Right right.  So the numbers behind this are really interesting. But there was one thing I saw this week that really really caught me off guard. There are medical professionals who have coined a term called Snapchat dysmorphia. Have you guys heard of this?  No.  I have not.  Basically plastic surgeons are saying they are seeing more people more patients come in who are wanting to look like those augmented Snapchat selfies.  Oh OK. I did...  What?  ...Hear about this. Yeah.  Is not it crazy? So basically these people want to come in...  So they want like really big lips and like...  Exactly.  ...Like cat eyes?  Bigger eyes fuller lips thinner noses - all of those things that you can tweak through Snapchat the app people are coming into the plastic surgeon's office saying I want that in real life.  I mean do not you - I am kind of curious too that you were saying Snapchat's numbers have dropped off because there is this generation of kids who have grown up - like before they even had a say-so their moms were putting pictures of them constantly on Instagram. And so  it is like they have just grown up with their entire lives in public view which - I do not know. I feel bad for them sometimes because you know Sam like we got to make our mistakes in private kind of .  Oh totally totally. I did not get Facebook on my campus 'til maybe like the end of my sophomore year of college. And it was not like a force for years after that. And the only like record of me as a youth are like those weird Lifetouch band photos from middle school.   Thankfully it is just that. All right you guys. It is time for a break. Coming up we are going to check in on Amazon which is in the midst of choosing a location for its second headquarters. The search has seemed to be very public but we are going to talk about the parts of the process that have been very very private. Also our chat on race and how to talk about race with your kids - your questions and some expert answers in just a bit. I am Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am so happy to be broadcasting to you all from San Antonio Texas this week at the studios of Texas Public Radio. Here with two guests - Joey Palacios who covers San Antonio City Hall for TPR. How are you?  I am pretty good Sam.  And my friend Asma Khalid political correspondent for NPR joining me today from the Cambridge-Boston metro area surviving that heat wave.  I know . We have been having...  .  ...A heat wave - Boston - a relative heat wave.  So before our next segment I want to talk a little bit about some Texas news that has had me giggling this week. You guys all know who Beto O'Rourke is. He is running for the U.S. Senate. He is challenging U.S. Senator Ted Cruz. He is gotten a lot of buzz. But this week the buzz has not been about the words Beto speaks but the signage that he uses. A lot of people are comparing his campaign signs with the logo and lettering on Whataburger's Spicy Ketchup. We should say Whataburger is a Texas institution our burger chain of note and they make their own ketchup. They have their own classic ketchup. It is a little bit sweeter than usual which I love. They also make spicy ketchup and these packets have their own logo and labeling. People are saying that Beto O'Rourke's signs look like the labels on Whataburger Spicy Ketchup of all things.  .  Asma as I tell you this story Google Whataburger Beto.  Yeah. I should look this up so that I understand the similarities.  I want you see it. But because Ted Cruz going to Ted Cruz he has responded to this entire story. And his spokesperson when asked about this whole Beto spicy ketchup situation said quote unlike the spicy ketchup when Texans unwrap the O'Rourke packaging they are definitely not going to like what they see underneath. He is like a triple-meat Whataburger liberal who is out of touch with Texas values. Ted Cruz...  I guess I do not see the negative in a triple-meat Whataburger so...  Also I just looked this up guys. It looks like it is the same color same font. But you know...  I can totally see the font comparison right now so...  You see it?  I see it.  The font comparison I see.  OK.  I would not immediately make that connection. But I mean I can see where people are getting it from.  OK. Spicy ketchup - who knew?  Which is pretty good by the way.  It is very good - Whataburger for the win all the time. Anyways let us move on. Asma Joey I have a number for you all. The number is 2 billion as in 2 billion. That number is in the news this week because it is the amount of money that the city council in Newark N.J. is offering to Amazon as they try to entice Amazon to bring its HQ2 to Newark. So this 2 billion - its tax breaks and tax exemptions and land use and permit deals. Lots of other cities are doing the same thing or have been offering deals like this. Right now Amazon is still looking at 20 cities for its possible HQ2. And some parts of the process seem very public. Like we are hearing about this Newark deal. But the actual deals being offered - a lot of it - a lot of those deals are surprisingly secretive. So I asked NPR business and tech reporter Alina Selyukh to tell me why.   Alina hey how are you?  Hello. Hello.  So I am talking with you this week because I have been hearing a bunch of news about HQ2. I mentioned earlier this 2 billion incentive from Newark N.J. And then another thing that I saw is that earlier this year Montgomery County in Maryland which is bidding for HQ2 as well they were forced to release text of their bid to show everyone what is going on. They released 10 pages. And all of it was redacted...  Completely.  ...Like all of it blacked out. What is that about?  Yeah. So that is just one of the examples of reporters essentially trying to force governments around the country to disclose what exactly they are offering Amazon in quote unquote corporate incentives - sort of tax breaks free land. Virginia for example refuses to say what they are offering. Washington D.C. did release a series of documents most of which were similarly blacked out crossed out undisclosed. And then Maryland as the state had to actually publicly approve - vote and approve on an incentive package.  Gotcha.  So we do have some information about the amounts that they are offering. But then Montgomery County for its own part did what it did and said here's 10 pages related to your Freedom of Information request. Unfortunately it is all trade secret.  Yeah. So my big question when I saw these 10 pages of blacked-out text is why is it redacted? I assumed I guess naively that when cities are making bids for an Amazon headquarter or whatever they are going through local government and city council and the mayor. And because of that it has to be public. And I can go to a city council meeting and hear all about it. It is much more private and closed-door than I thought. Why is that?  It is a really fascinating and complicated web of public and private entities that negotiate these kinds of deals. It is so-called economic development councils various economic development partnerships. It entirely depends on your location. In some cases it might be the governor's office or the mayor's office. In some cases it is the chamber of commerce or some kind of private group that is local. Usually it is actually a huge sum of you know all of these entities. They come together and organize some kind of bid. But in a lot of cases the governments can argue and do argue that the details cannot be disclosed. One of the major arguments they present is it is trade secrets. It is corporate information. And kind of the fundamental worry that they have is that they are tipping their hand to whoever else is bidding for the same thing. So it is essentially gamesmanship.  So besides just liking the attention what does Amazon hope to get out of this drawn-out public fighting? Is it just a push to get all of these cities to go to the lowest common denominator and offer the most in incentives to get Amazon?  So here is the thing that everyone in economic development will acknowledge which is tax incentives are never what actually makes the decision for the company. It is sort of cherry on top. It is kind of a known factor. If you are a good business you would not really make your decision where you want to be based purely on what kind of tax cuts you are getting in that area. You are going to look at various other elements that Amazon has publicly disclosed. They are looking for a good transit hub. They are looking for high-quality education a workforce that is ready to go a variety variety of factors that are going to be considered. In one of my stories I quoted - I dug up this archival tape of former CEO of Alcoa the industrial giant Paul O'Neill who was treasury secretary for a short period of time. And he was testifying in Congress. And lawmakers were asking him you know what kind of tax inducements attract businesses? And he honestly said you know what kind of - you know I would not be a good businessman if I base my decisions on tax inducements...  Wow.  If you are going to get some extra cash for a decision that I was going to make anyway of course I am going to take that cash.  You know speaking of money.   What are these cities going to get? What are the estimates about the kind of economic growth that HQ2 could bring to a city? Because that is what they want right? They want the growth.  They want the growth and they want wealthy people to - wealthy workers to arrive and start spending locally start you know shopping at local businesses. Amazon says they will invest in development of the city. It is - you know the critics of this whole corporate subsidy thing will say where do you get the money for the roads and the schools for all these new people who are going to be living in your area if you just gave up all the taxes that you would have collected from this corporate expansion to begin with?  Yeah. Last question for you - what does this entire circus of a bid process for Amazon HQ2 say about Amazon? What does it say about what kind of company Amazon is?  Amazon really knows how to cash in on its high profile  is what I think it says to me.  Yeah.  They are savvy. They knew that this was going to be a big deal. And they knew that there was going to be interest in it. So we know enough to keep the hype up but not enough to actually dig into the details. It is kind of been really fascinating to watch everybody sort of scrambling for little bits of information and only sort of hyping up this process.  Amazon is as quiet about HQ2 is - as Beyonce is about a new album.   I do not know if Beyonce wants to be part of this comparison but OK.   Alina thank you so much. I am going to check in with you again soon about Amazon because I am fascinated.  Thank you.   Thanks again to Alina Selyukh. She covers biz and tech for NPR. Asma Joey how would you feel if Amazon HQ2 came to your town to Boston or San Antonio?  Well San Antonio actually - rather than putting in a bid they sent a letter to Amazon saying that they would not bid.  .  So some experts said San Antonio really would not be able to handle 50000 jobs or that you know we did not necessarily have the infrastructure yet. But there were people who were just like why not? So it was an interesting decision by the city.  Asma what about Boston?  So you probably know Sam in my former life I was actually a biz-tech reporter here in Boston between the elections. So I covered this story. Boston put in a bid. And Boston sees itself as a pretty competitive choice among the cities. And we did not get any guidance in terms of financial offers made to the company. They keep talking about the fact that you know look it is the talent and all the universities here in Boston but not a real good sense of what kind of money if any money is on the table.  It feels like this weird tech version of like The Bachelor or The Bachelorette except instead of going on dates and like having one-on-ones you just offer money. So it feels even more transactional and sad.   All right time for a quick break. When we come back my favorite game Who Said That? BRB.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined here at Texas Public Radio - one of my guests Joey Palacios is right here next to me in San Antonio. Hey there.  Hi.  Joey covers San Antonio City Hall for TPR.  And the city council and all their fun antics.  And through the miracle of technology joining us from Boston is my friend and NPR political correspondent Asma Khalid. Hey there.  Hey.  You guys it is time for my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  So the game is quite simple. I share a quote from the week. You guys have to guess who said that or the story - or the story it refers to. We say reefers in the script.   Sorry guys.   The script said reefers that is why I stumbled over it.   Today on reefers - OK get a keyword just get close. Of course per always the winner gets absolutely nothing. You guys ready?  All right.  First quote we are committed to producing an entertaining show in three hours. Who said that?  That was with - about the Oscars. But I do not know who.   Yes.  Wait who said this?  The Academy of Arts - the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences basically the Oscars this week said we are going to have a shorter Oscars.  Oh OK. That'ill be good.   That will be good.  Are not they adding a new category for...  I am going to tell you all of it.  ...Most popular - OK.  Yeah.  OK. OK.  Yeah. So the Oscars are kind of in trouble. The last broadcast of the award show was down 20 percent from the previous year. So they are doing two big things and they announced it in a letter this week. And that quote was from that letter. The first thing they announced is the show will be shorter as in only three hours now .   How is that shorter?  We actually have an office pool to guess how long the Oscars is going to be.  Seventeen hours.  .  The second thing they announced this week is that there is going to be a new category at the Oscars. It will honor achievement and quote popular film. I am calling this award the Marvel award because it seems like it is just made to be able to have some airtime in the Oscars for big blockbuster superhero movies.  Oh.  All right. Second quote you ready? I truly believe I was used to drive up the price of the home. Who said that?  Used to drive up the price of the home.  Oh Lance Bass.  Wow.   .  Joey came to win .  Oh man. OK so I feel - like my heart breaks for Lance Bass.  Why would your heart break for Lance Bass?  Because he wanted The Brady Bunch house and then got...  Outbid.  ...Outbid post-deadline by a big unnamed company which...  Turned out to be HGTV.  ...Yes.  We should back this up...  I did hear that HGTV got the house.  ...With the whole backstory.  I did not realize that there was another bidder. I missed out on that part.  Yeah. So HGTV Home and Garden Television purchased the iconic Brady Bunch house in Studio City Calif. But before they got the final purchase they were in a bidding war it seems with former 'N Sync member Lance Bass. So Lance Bass was apparently told this week he would won the house. But then he wrote on Instagram quote the next day due to unforeseen circumstances the same agent informed us that there is another corporate buyer who wants the house at any cost. To all of this I say my biggest question is how in the world does Lance Bass have enough money to buy The Brady Bunch house? What has he been doing?  .  Is he working? I do not see him anywhere.  Does he get royalties still?  That is what I was going to say - royalties.  Oh from 'N Sync. Maybe.  I mean it does kind of break my heart that he had to say Bye Bye Bye to that.  Oh...  .  ...That was great.   Lance Bass should be happy we are still talking about him.   Joey you are up two zip. I am not gonna say you won the game already but you - we are still going to do the third quote.  OK.  How many questions do we have?  Three .  Oh my God. He won the game already. All right...  Hey now...  ...That is cool.  ...Do not say that. Do not say that. We are still going to keep listeners on the edge of their seats.   OK. Final quote - our campaign will be selling a new line of gear. But first we have to make a final decision on the design we will use. Who said that?  Gear? I feel like this is something that - I have no idea who said this. I feel like it is something the Trump administration would be talking about.  I am going to give it to you.   Thank you.  So not exactly the Trump administration. This is the Trump campaign.  The Trump...  Trump PAC.  ...Campaign I am sorry. That is what I meant. Yes .  They this week in an email to supporters were asking supporters to choose a logo for Donald Trump's proposed...  Yes. Yes. OK.  ...Space Force.  Space Force.  I liked that.  .  We need to add some sound effects in post for that.  Well like when I was a kid there was a video game that I would play on my Nintendo called Space Megaforce. And it would - as soon as you turned it on the first thing that it would say was Space Megaforce. And so every time I hear them talk about the space force that soundbite comes into my head.  I love it.    Space Megaforce.  I love it.   So those that have been following this for a while now the Trump administration has been saying that it wants to create a Space Force which would be a new branch of the military dedicated to space. There are big big questions about whether or not Trump can just do this by decree or if it is going to happen at all. But in the meantime the Trump PAC is wasting no time in asking for help to pick a logo. There are six logos to choose from one of which says Mars awaits. I will say my favorite quote about all this Space Force stuff this week was a tweet from Donald Trump that just said Space Force all the way which is what I say whenever the plane takes off.   Space Force all the way. We are in the air.  .  Asma.  Joey congratulations.  I still think you are swell.  Thank you.  I would still join you on any Space Force.  .  Congratulations Joey.   I appreciate that.  What does he win?  He...  A high-five.  ...Wins nothing. Yeah he...  Yeah.  ... A handshake is what he got here...  A high-five.  ...In studio.  A handshake.  Yeah...  You know.  ...Exactly.  .  But that is it. All right. Asma Joey you are almost out of here. Listeners stick around after this because the show is a bit different today. In just a bit we are going to have a conversation about how to talk to your kids about race. And we are going to have answers to your questions from experts who really know this stuff. But first as we do every week we ask our listeners to share with us the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage