 Hey you all. Sam Sanders - here in my apartment going through all of the streaming whatever services I pay for every month. I pay for Hulu. I pay for the extra Hulu thing where you get like live TV on it. I pay for Amazon Prime Video. I pay for Netflix. I pay for the fastest high-speed Internet to watch all of those things. But you know what? When I add it all up I realize I listen to public radio more than I watch any of those streaming platforms combined. And here's the thing. Public radio unlike all those other things we do not send you a bill every month. All we do is every now and then ask you to give. So I am doing that now. If you go right now to donate.npr.orgsam you can give and support the original streaming service - public radio. Your donation helps local stations across the country also help shows like this keep coming at it with fresh new hot content. Go to donate.npr.orgsam. Thank you.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy happy holidays. In honor of the holiday season and the holiday spirit we are going to give you perhaps the most festive interview in It is BEEN A MINUTE history. It is a conversation full of good Christmas music and full of good cheer - talking about my interview with Grammy Award-winner PJ Morton. You may know PJ Morton as the keyboard player from Maroon 5 but he is an amazing solo RB artist in his own right. Last year around this time PJ put out a really well-done Christmas album - Christmas classics with the soul of Stevie Wonder and Donny Hathaway and a sprinkle of New Orleans bounce on top - really really good stuff. This album is called Christmas With PJ Morton. We here on the show thought that my chat with PJ about that album would be the perfect thing to share with you all here on this Christmas Eve. So here it is - my chat with PJ Morton full of Christmas goodness. Happy holidays.   What is your like tour regimen? Like what do you have in your trailer? What is your routine? All touring artists I feel like have their own little thing.  Yeah. We are pretty chill. I mean we play a lot of cards. That is how we pass time on the road. That is a big...  What games?  We play spades.  OK.  .   OK.  Multiple games. We just play a bunch of spades games. And you know I am happy to announce that I am three-time international champion right now.  International?  Yeah yeah. We have played all over the world. We played in Australia. We played all over Europe all over Asia. So yeah...  I love it.  ...Yeah it is a real thing .  So I want to talk about everything you have done but we are going to talk about your holiday album. And I have got to say for starters I have a very high bar for holiday albums and for holiday classics and people trying to mess with holiday classics.  Sure.  But I am going to tell you PJ the first track of the album it kind of showcased how you are preserving the soul of these classic tunes but finding ways to reimagine them...  Sure.  ...In some pretty lovely ways.    Oh we are walking yeah in a winter...  Like for instance this first song on the album...    Oh we are walking...  ...It is a reggae version of Winter Wonderland.    Sleigh bells ring. Are you listening? In the lane snow is glistening. Beautiful sight - we are happy tonight walking in a winter wonderland. Gone away is the bluebird. Here to stay...  I like it.   Thank you.  What made you want to do it that way?  You know it was really important to me. So I like you am a hard critic of Christmas albums because I love the classics...  Yeah.  ...And the reason those songs have been around so long is because they are just so well-written and...  Exactly.  ...The melodies are already perfect. So I definitely wanted to keep the essence of these songs but also wanted to make it exciting to listen to. I mean they have been done a million times now.    Plans we have made walking in a winter wonderland. In the meadow we can build a snowman. So I did not know which song I wanted to be reggae but I knew I wanted to do a reggae version of a Christmas song. And actually my drummer mentioned Winter Wonderland. And as soon as we started we were like yep...  Really?  ...That is it.  You just knew?  Yep. That was the one. We did not try another one. We went straight to that one and it just flowed.    To face unafraid the plans we have made walking in the winter wonderland. Oh we are walking in the winter - oh my - oh we are walking...  Yeah. Well and then there is this like little vamp you throw in there that I have not heard done with that song before.  Yeah.  Where you kind of vamp on like walking.    Walking oh my in a winter - oh...  It is real cool.  Yeah. Yeah. That is kind of - it is kind of a church thing. You know?  Oh totally.  It is probably me - it is probably me growing up in church where I just wanted to vamp it a little bit. .  Well I mean 'ecause church folks can make any song last as long as it needs to and a vamp will do that for you.  You are absolutely right. Yeah.  . Another question I have for you is like what songs you choose to cover - 'ecause with these classics some of them are so classic that when people cover them they only embarrass themselves. You know what I am saying?  Sure. Yeah.  And you made a big gamble in covering Mariah Carey's All I Want For Christmas Is You. Big shoes to fill. But I think you filled them. We are going to play some right now.    I do not want a lot for Christmas. There is just one thing I need. I do not care about presents underneath the Christmas tree.  So you slowed it down made it even more soulful - giving me some Stevie vibes.  Yeah.    More than you could ever know.  But like were you afraid to tackle this song?    Make my wish come true. My plan for that was to just not compete with Mariah. You know?  .    Ooh baby. Ooh baby. I do not want a lot for Christmas. You know it is like let me get out of the way totally. Let me make this whole other thing you know where it is like - we are just apples and oranges. You know?  Yeah.  I think - first of all it is hard to create a modern Christmas classic. So like I said I stayed true to that melody. Hers is classic and it always will be. But yeah that was my - my strategy was just to get out of the way altogether.    See I just want you for my own more than you could ever know. Make my wish come true. Baby all I want for Christmas is you.  Why do you think it is so hard to make a modern-day Christmas classic? Because there really has not been like a new classic since that song which is - what? - 20 years old now.  Exactly. I do not know. It is a perfect combination of things. It is got to be like repeatable you know? Like replay-able. Like you have got to want to hear it over and over. But you have also got to say something kind of fresh but also not really. You know? You have got to talk about the things that have always been talked about. You know? They are talking about the mistletoes and they are talking about presents under the tree.  Yeah.  So I think it is just - there is got to be a perfect little combination that I think if people actually knew the chemistry of that they would be doing it over and over. But I do not think anybody knows. You just kind of fall on that.    And everyone is singing. I hear those sleigh bells ringing. Santa will not you bring me back the one I need? Will not you bring my baby back to me? I do not want a lot for Christmas...  Perhaps the biggest influence I am hearing on the album and on honestly all of your albums is the church - the black church the Southern black church. And like it is most evident for me in this album - there is this like good 30 seconds or so at the end of one of the original songs that you have for the album. It is called Do You Believe?. And like the last 40 seconds or so it is just straight-up church organ.  Yeah B3.  It is beautiful.  Thanks man.   And it takes me right back to church Sunday morning when the organist is filling that time between the offering and the announcements. You know?  That is right.  And the organist just gets to go up.  Yeah we call it talking music. That is right.  Yeah.  That is right. That is right.  Yeah I love it.  .   So that is just really me being me.  Yeah.  And I could never get away from my upbringing. You know I thought about a transition going from that song to I will Be Home For Christmas. And I am like you know let us do a church thing going into the next song. And it felt right.    I will be home for Christmas. You can plan on me.  Did you play in your church growing up?  Oh yeah - big time. I wrote a lot of songs just like that sitting on the organ while my dad was talking  during church.    ...And presents on the tree. Christmas Eve will find me. And a lot of melodies and songs would come to me right there. I would veer off into my own world blending talk and music and...  Talk and music  ...Work on new songs. Yeah.  Speaking of I will Be Home For Christmas I want to play a bit to showcase the wonderful horn and string arrangements you have all through this album.    If only in my dreams. .  That is beautiful. Who is doing those arrangements for you?  Matt freaking Jones .  OK .  Yeah Matt Jones. He is kind of you know my partner right now since Gumbo. He just gets me. I just think he is the perfect partner. I have watched a bunch of Frank Sinatra things and how he...  Really?  ...Became - I mean that is what made me bring on Matt. You know I was listening to a lot of Frank before I did - before I worked on Gumbo and I knew I wanted a lot of orchestration. But when I think back to his and Quincy Jones' relationship you know and how the orchestrator was just so important to what he was trying to do in that era - I think of Matt Jones that way where it is like - those arrangements are just...  They are luscious.  ...Insane.    I will be home for Christmas if only in my dreams - my dreams.  I miss - I mean it is like you hear Top 40 music nowadays - God I sound old...  .  ...And you never hear this anymore.  Yeah.    If only in my dreams. And I know that sound. I have heard that sound my whole life you know?  Yeah.  It is almost like magic.   So I did not know this until I was prepping for this interview but you are the son of the Paul S. Morton who I grew up listening to.  Wow.  I had no idea.  That is cool for me.  Yeah?  We joke with each other because his shadow was so huge growing up you know?  I am sure.  But now he jokes around and says people walk up to him and say hey you are PJ Morton's dad you know?  .  I used to get you are Bishop Morton's son.  Yeah.  But now he gets it more than me. So...  Yeah.  ...It is working out.  I have got to play a little bit of your dad just to show our listeners how this man...  Sure.  ...Can bring it. There is this song Your Tears that my mom used to play in the car for probably two or three years straight. And your dad was wailing on that song.    Your tears are expressions that cannot be controlled.  He is a crooner.  Yeah he is .    Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh.   Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh - I remember that.   I know right? Yeah it sticks with you. Yeah.  Yes.  It is crazy. My dad could have took a much different path. They wanted him to be like Al Green's competition back then.  Really?  Atlantic Records wanted to sign him. And...  Really?  ...He just knew that he wanted to be a preacher and that was his calling. But it was not because he could not hang. You know he is a bad man.    I will not have to cry no more. Oh yeah I will not have to cry no more.  Are you ever on your dad's album?  Yeah. Well that one I was too young. I was in the youth...  .  ...Choir on one song .  OK. OK .  But yeah. No I have - I have worked with my dad and recorded with him in written form and whatnot so we stay close.  Did he trip out when you were like I am not only going to do gospel music?  Yeah. Yeah initially for sure.  .  Yeah for sure. There was some pushback from my family initially. Mostly I think in the beginning they felt like it was just a rebellion you know? - a preacher's kid just rebelling.  Yeah.  I mean once...  Was it?  No I do not think so. I just felt like I genuinely wanted to talk about more than just God you know? I just felt like there was so much more in creativity to talk about. Life you know - all the things - if you believe he is the creator of all things then let us talk about all those things he created not just...  Yeah.  ...Him you know? So it was not a rebellion for me. It was just me feeling a need to talk about more. And I think when he saw that my purpose was you know as potent you know and as important you know he let go of that and just got behind me like a great father. He is been my biggest support system. But yeah I would be lying if I said that he did not have a dream of me like you know following his footsteps for sure.  Yeah. So you know I was in New Orleans one summer for an internship. And while I was there I was like I got to go to Paul S. Morton's church.  Yeah.  And I did. And it was amazing because he does this thing where he understands very well the theatrics and the timing you need to make a church service and to make a song at a church service pop. And so there is some song the choir's singing. And he is like still sitting down because he has not gotten up yet. But the choir sings the song. You think the song is done. The band brings it back up. Your dad gets up from his seat goes to like the lead singer takes the lead singer's mic and starts singing the song again. He is like bring it back.  Yeah.  And he just has this - such a precise read of timing and pacing that is just impeccable.  Sure.  It is impeccable.  You know I think part of that is just instinct. Part of that is just he is been doing it for a long time man you know? And for me he was the greatest teacher. Just being able to watch him you know lead over people and you know control a room and be sensitive to a room that is really what it comes down to - being sensitive and being open.  Yeah.  So I could not help but become a studied performer. You know I got to watch him for years and years - and not just watch him but play behind him - you know...  Yeah.  ...So be connected to that same process.  What is a thing that you find yourself always bringing to your live shows your performances that you learned directly from him or saw him do all the time?  You know I think the involving people. You know I have watched - I have been a part of things and watched things where people just perform to the audience you know?  Yeah.  But for me church was - and what my dad did was involve the people - talk back to me sing with me. I always say - I mean I am not exaggerating - that I have the best-sounding audience...  Yeah.  ...Of any artist.  Yeah.  My audience can sing man - always. Any city they are harmonizing without me asking you know? But I think the call and response is definitely the biggest thing I took from him.   Hey you all. Before we get back to the show I want to remind you one more time of how you can keep this show coming to you every week - by supporting the work of your local NPR member station. To do that go to donate.npr.orgsam. Or just text the word Sam to the number 49648. We will send you a text message with a link where you can find your local station and make your contribution. Message and data rates may apply. You can visit npr.orgsmsterms for privacy and text message terms.   I want to talk about another influence of yours which anyone listening can hear - Stevie Wonder. We actually asked you ahead of this chat to share with us a few of the songs that you like to hear during the holidays. You sent us a Stevie Wonder song called Someday At Christmas. I want to post a little bit of it right now.    Someday at Christmas men will not be boys playing with bombs like kids play with toys. One warm December our hearts will see a world where men are free. Someday at Christmas...  How old was he on this song?  He had to be young man.  This was like young Stevie.  He was born in '50 I think - so yeah like early 20s.    When we have found what life's really worth there'ill be peace on Earth. Someday all our dreams will come...  What about him is so influential to you?  It is so many things you know? It is so crazy. I tell people that I was not a fanatic in that way where I was like listening to every word. It was more - I internalized it in a way. It spoke to me deeper than what was being said or played. It was kind of like a connection of like oh this is the way I want to say things.    One happy morning people will share a world where people care.  And his voicings you know his changes...    Someday all our dreams will come to be someday in a world...  The melodies are just something we still have not heard you know...  Oh totally.  ...At that level.  Like his chord changes were weird. They were strange.  Yeah.  They were like out there.  Yeah. But his genius was - they were weird but then he put a simple melody on top of it.  Yeah.  And you do not even realize it is weird. Or me as a musician - right? - I would not even realize they were weird till I tried to go play it. Then I am like...  .  ...Wait. He changed keys right there? I did not even - I thought we were in the same key right now you know?  Yeah.  The genius is when you can be complex and serve it in a way that is like - feels simple.  Yeah.    But someday at Christmastime someday at Christmastime.  Now we cannot get away from Stevie without pointing out that you had the honor of working with him. You all did a song together.  Yes.  What song?  Absolutely. It is a song called Only One on this album I did called New Orleans. We were nominated for a Grammy for that song actually - 2013 best RB song yeah. So...  And he played the harmonica right?  He played the harmonica on it yeah. That is right.  Wow.  And you know to me still my greatest accomplishment for me personally in my career is to be able to work with Stevie. And so yeah I still do not get used to it. We have sort of a relationship now you know...  Oh snap.  ...Where I can call him if I need to. But I...  Wait. When does one need to call Stevie Wonder? What is...  That is what I am saying.  ...The circumstance?  I do not even take advantage of that. I am like - man I am not bothering Stevie Wonder. You know?  .  It is still - like he still - I hold him in such high esteem. It is like hey man - I know I can but I am going to just chill. You know?  Yeah. Favorite Stevie song?  Whoo - there is this song called Summer Soft...  OK.  ...That is my favorite. I go deep cut with Stevie .  I am going to say Golden Lady...  That is great.  ...From Innervisions.  The greatest Moog bass performance ever is on Golden Lady.  It is so good.  Yeah.  Well also like - I like came to Innervisions at this really - like so I - we grew up in a gospel music-only household. Like we could not have any secular music in the house.  Sure.  And I remember buying Innervisions at like a Half Price Books or whatever when I was in like eighth grade. But I would have to sneak to the bathroom to listen to it.  Wow. Yeah.  And so I would be holed up in the bathroom with the door locked for hours just playing Innervisions over and over.  That sounds very similar to me.  Really?  I - it was probably 8th grade. I was 13. Yeah. And I - well we - so somebody gave me a cassette tape with Never Dreamed You would Leave In Summer. And that sparked my curiosity about Stevie. So there was a Circuit City...  .  ...Around...  RIP.  ...My house. Yeah RIP Circuit City . And so I started to buy Stevie Wonder CDs in chronological order. I started with like Music Of My Mind.  Oh wow.  And I literally went into like a Stevie stupor. And I would not listen to anything else...  Wow.  ...But like Stevie albums. And so...  Yeah.  ...I was not writing songs then yet or anything you know? But the influence came I think because I just was in Stevie school for - I do not know - it could have been a whole year.  Yeah.  I do not remember. I just remember my friends being into whatever was out currently. And I would be like - man you got to hear this from 1968.   You know what I am saying? You have got to hear...  Stevie school.  ...This Music Of My Mind from 1969.  Yeah.  And my drummer who is still my drummer now - I would make him listen to Stevie all day if he came to my house. So - but he is still rocking with me so I guess it worked out.  Stevie school.  Yeah.  Back to you having Stevie's number basically - what would rise to the occasion of you saying I am calling Stevie?  I do not know. But I am doing...  .  I am doing something with him actually before the end of the year. I do not think I can announce it yet. But...  Oh.  ...We are doing something together before this year is out.  All right.  Yeah.  Well you got less than a month...  That is my boy.  ...To put it out there.  That is my boy. That is my boy Stevie. Yeah it should be out. It should be out today or tomorrow actually.  Oh. Well then just say it because this is going to run next week.  I do not even  - I do not even want to.   OK OK OK OK.  I do not even want to. Yeah yeah.  I am not going to pressure you.  It is Stevie man. I just told you. I just told you.  Yeah. You cannot mess with that. That is...  No I am not messing...  That is bad juju.  I am not messing up my relationship.  That is bad juju.  Yeah.  You do not want that.  Yeah. Yeah.  All right.  I am holding it.    Chestnuts roasting on an open fire...  Hey - thank you so much for your music for your time. I am a really really big fan.  My pleasure man. Thank you for having me. It was a good talk.  Of course. All right man. Take care.  All right.    ...Being sung by a choir and folks dressed up like Eskimos. Everybody knows...  Thanks again to PJ Morton for that chat last year. His album is called Christmas With PJ Morton. It is full of good cheer. Listeners stay tuned this Friday episode for a special episode of the show featuring a few of my favorite writers from 2019. Some amazing books and amazing conversations - good stuff to end the year on. That is on Friday. Until then thank you for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Happy holidays everyone. Talk soon.    And he is loading lots of toys and goodies on his sleigh. And every mother's child is going to spy to see if reindeer really know how to fly. And so I am offering this simple phrase... 