 A little over a year ago we did an episode of It is BEEN A MINUTE all about Coming Out Day and the history of the gay rights movement and the big 1987 gay rights march in D.C. After the episode aired we heard from someone.  I am Cameron Lane  and I am currently living in Southern Florida.  Cameron heard us talk about that march.  You asked the woman that you were speaking with if she had been there. And she said oh yeah. And I was like I was there .  Yes she was. And she sent me this big beautiful scrapbook she made full of photos from that day.  I think I took something like nine rolls of pictures that day.  I called Cameron and had her talk me through some of those pictures. In one of them there is the cutest kid I have maybe ever seen in my life.  The young child is my daughter. And she is now 40 .  What is her name?  Her name is Talia . And...  Cameron and her scrapbook remind me of why I love public radio. I love it because we do not just tell you today's news. Public radio also helps preserve our shared history.  It is really important to have a place for broader conversation and a deeper look at our cultural history and who we are and where we come from and where we are going.  I truly believe this work is worth your support. Go to donate.npr.orgsam to get started with your donation to the public radio station of your choosing. That is donate.npr.orgsam. And sincerely thank you.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty - this week on the show senior editor and correspondent for NPR's Washington desk Ron Elving and host of NPR's Weekend Edition Sunday Lulu Garcia-Navarro. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners and to my guests Ron Elving senior editor and correspondent with NPR Politics and Lulu Garcia-Navarro host of NPR's Weekend Edition Sunday. How tired are you all?  .  So Ron and I did 12 hours of...  So I heard - so I heard.  ...Impeachment coverage.  .  I have to say I actually lay in bed after the impeachment vote and stared up at the ceiling...  .  ...In a kind of coma. My husband sort of tiptoed in and brought me a glass of wine but did not want to say anything...  .  ...Because I looked so traumatized.  Oh no.  Yeah. I said to myself you know what we really need tomorrow night? We really need a debate among the Democratic presidential candidates.  .  That would be good. Yeah.  Let us have that.  Put a cherry on this cake.  Yeah right.  Yes. Well I am going to cheer you both up. We are going to talk about the news of the year this episode which includes a lot of talk about politics. But first I want to play a little audio of what has been for me the biggest story not in my week but kind of in my year. It is the surprising dominance of a very old song.   You all know what this is right?  Of course.  This is a Mariah Carey Christmas classic All I Want For Christmas Is You. Fun fact Ron and Lulu - this week for the first time in 25 years it hit No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.   Yay.  It is crazy. You know there is a movie that that figures in - Love Actually which is...  Yes.  ...A greatly controversial movie. Some people love it. Some people hate it.  Oh yes - does not hold up well. So in the last several years Mariah Carey has become an Internet meme queen and her team has glommed onto that. And every year they have gotten bigger and bigger with their social media kind of outreach for this song. So two years ago it hit No. 7. Last year...  Wow.  ...It hit No. 3. And this year they went all out. They made a new video for the song. They put a new album out with the song just to bump it up those charts. And it worked. I am just really happy for Mariah.  I am team Mariah a hundred percent and I am super happy that this happened.  I love it. You know it is funny though. I was thinking about how this 25-year-old song hit No. 1 this week and it kind of confirmed this trend I have seen all year. Like a lot of the stuff that we have really enjoyed this year is old stuff. So I went back through the top-10-grossing movies of 2019 here in the States. Nine of the top-10-grossing films this year were either part of a comic book franchise or Disney reboots and sequels.  What do you think that is about? Do you think that is about nostalgia - that we are kind of looking at 2019 and going beam me back?  That is what I think it is. No one wants to be in this year.  That is all true. Plus there is of course the phenomenon of the proven the - whatever we know...  Oh yeah.  ...Sell us more of that.  Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah. Sell more of that old stuff. It feels better. Even on Netflix the top two shows on that platform are Friends and The Office. We like old stuff.  And there is so much good new stuff but...  Is there?  Yes.  .  Yes there is. Yes there is. We have discussed this before Sam.  We have.  We have very different tastes.  Oh we do. We do.  .  All right. Usually we kick off the show by having my panelists talk about the week of news. But I brought in the big guns this episode to help us recap the year of news. So this year both of my panelists Ron and Lulu - you all are going to have three words about the year. And Lulu you are up first.  My three words are ...  OK.  ...Which means no more. Basically this was the year where so many people across the globe said I am mad as hell and I am not going to take it anymore. This was a year of global protests mass movements of people in so many countries protesting a whole bunch of different things.  Yeah.  I am just going to tick through some of them. I mean...  I want it. Yeah.  ...India - they are protesting the Citizenship Amendment Act right now. But they had protests in Kashmir. That is that contested region between India and Pakistan. Hong Kong protesting more democratic autonomy from China. Australia protesting climate change. Latin America - huge protests. Chile Ecuador Bolivia Haiti - there is been protests. Nicaragua Lebanon - they have been protesting corruption. Iraq protesting corruption. Algeria...  Oh my goodness.  There is been a whole year of protests in Algeria that is gotten not a lot of coverage. But...  Yeah.  ...They - there have been like mass movements of people out there. Barcelona in Spain...  Oh my goodness.  ...Ethiopia - I mean it is gone on and on and on.  Lulu does not it - I am hearing you go through that list. I feel like a lot of Americans have not picked up on this trend and have not noticed it.  Well I think that is true for a number of reasons. First of all I think we have been kind of consumed with our own stuff.  There is that.  So we might have been looking a little bit inward. I do not know if that is true.  Yeah.  Call me crazy.  .  So I think there is that. I think the way that these protests have been covered by the news media have been pretty bitty. We have heard about Iraq. We might have heard about Lebanon Chile. But we did not sort of put it all together...  Yes.  ...And think why are all these people in different places all over the world taking to the streets and saying we want change?  Yeah. So why is that? Why - I mean...  Well I mean...  Tell me the reasons.  So I think personally - so this is just my personal opinion. I have talked to a few people about it. But when we look at these protests they fall into certain buckets.  OK.  So you first have this sort of bucket where you are looking at people asking for more democracy you know where they are saying this does not work. This system does not work and I want change.  Yeah.  And then you have sort of the other ones where they are looking at corruption. They are looking at the system of capitalism almost and saying there is massive global inequality. We want our fair share of the pie. That is you know a lot of people saying I look at people on social media. I know how rich people live. I see what they are experiencing. Why do not I have that? And so there is just an enormous amount of dissatisfaction. And I think underneath this all is that we are living in a time right now where we are not even aware of the forces that are shaping our lives. And certainly our governments are not able to respond to those forces. So if you think about climate change - in Australia you are having record temperatures wildfires. Chile - one of the reasons that the Chilean protests happened was because there was a massive drought. And so you might not connect Chile and Australia but they are connected. And the other thing that connects them is the fact that governments just do not know how to respond to these massive massive changes.  So Ron you will talk more about U.S. politics in a bit. But I do want to ask you do you see any of this trend of protests across the world being felt at all you know here in the States? I mean we have had a year full of unrest as well.  Absolutely. And this is really to completely adhere to and cohere with everything that Lulu just said. Populations are on the move. And some of the protests that you see in some of the more developed countries is the sense of encroachment that they are feeling...  That is right.  ...From those moving populations. So Brexit - yeah you can talk about the economic questions of whether the British want to be in the EU the European Union or not for trade purposes. But what drove the Brexit vote and what is still driving the big divide in the United Kingdom is this sudden influx of people from all around the world.  Yeah.  Now the British went out into the world for centuries and colonized. And now the world is coming back to Great Britain. And they need these people for labor purposes. They need labor force. And they do not have enough indigenous population. So they know they need these folks but they feel that they are being culturally displaced by the new arrivals. And we see the same thing in the United States in the Trump revolution.  I think about this a lot because obviously this is the era that we are living in. And one of the things - I want to bring up Chile and again Australia as a counterpoint to this. We talk about the fact that in Australia they voted a right-wing government. In Chile they did as well. These are governments that are ill-equipped to deal in many ways with the great challenge I believe of our time which is climate change. And so I think part of this is that - what you are saying. But I also think it is that people want simple answers to very very complicated questions. And they are harkening back to leaders that give them very very short answers to very complicated questions.  Yeah.  And they are being whipped up on immigration on these other issues. But that is also a very complicated issue that has perhaps a more simple answer - a wall Brexit. You know they have one-word answers to that particular question whereas climate change and all these other things do not. And I think that politicians that are giving quite simple answers I feel are gaining more traction in certain ways because of people's confusion about their lives.  Exactly.  And climate change is going to be with us. It is going to intensify. In this country it - perhaps it does collide with other forces that are going on. And the three words that I would bring up here...  Yeah.  ...Are town versus country.  OK.  We have had for a very long time...  That is very true.  ...Obviously a difference between people who experience the United States in small communities or on farms. And you know until about 1900 most of the people in the country lived on farms - not just in rural areas but lived on farms. That of course changed in the 20th century. The first census to show that it changed was 1920. So Congress ignored it for the entire decade of the 1920s. They just said well we will not reapportion because we do not like the results of the census. We do not like the reality that is being shown to us. We see something very similar a hundred years later. As we go into the 2020s you see people saying well wait a minute. Do we really want to just go strictly by population? And we see people coming out on the floor of the House in the debate on Wednesday showing a huge map with lots of red on it and saying look the country is hugely red...  But is it?  ...Measuring of course acreage measuring of course enormous states that vote Republican and are enormous states that...  As opposed to the population.  ...Do not have that many people. So here's one way to think of it. We have just passed a statistical sort of marker here a milestone.  Yeah.  We now have most of the people in the United States - 52 - living in just nine states. And that trend...  Wow.  ...Is going to continue. The big...  Wow.  ...States - you know California Texas Florida New York et cetera - are going to get more and more populous relative to the rest of the country. So we are already at a point where 52 live in just nine states. Meanwhile you take the least populous states - take say for example the half of the states that are least populous - 26 states roughly half - they have only 18 of the population.  Wow. So then half of the country only has 18 senators.  Exactly. Then when you take that into political terms go to the Senate - Kansas gets two senators. Wyoming gets two senators. New York Florida Texas...  Yeah.  ...Each get two senators. So here's how it works out - 18 senators - less than a fifth less than 1 in 5 - for most of the population of the country while just 18 of the country's population gets a majority of the Senate at 52.  So my question for you Ron though - if this year in American politics is a year of an exaggerated almost rural-urban divide how much worse did it get this year? - 'ecause that divide has been with us for a while. And I wonder you know - the numbers are changing. But also it seems that American politicians are more inclined to play up that divide right now it seems.  Well big population changes tend to be incremental take some time to happen. But they also have tipping points. So I bring this up now because we have got the population-based House of Representatives. We watched them on Wednesday impeach the president. And we have the Senate just shrugging its shoulders essentially and saying no way. So we are going to see more and more of that. We are going to see more and more fundamental splits between the population-based House and the well 1787 contract between the states that we call the Senate.  Yeah.  That was the compromise that said well every state gets two. We are going to see more conflicts going forward by the decades. And we will see if we can survive under that long-ago agreement - 232 years old.  Yeah.  And there was another tipping point that is taking place which is that the white majority is actually going to be no longer a white majority.  Yeah.  And we have already seen that in California.  Yeah.  I believe it is already the fact in Texas although not for the voting-age population. But...  I mean like the majority of kids in public schools right now - they are not white.  Nope.  You know the majority of kids born nowadays are not white.  And 50000 Hispanic or Spanish-speaking young people turn 18 every month in this country who were born in this country. I am not talking about immigrants. I am talking about people born in the United States. And that is every month and that is not going to stop.  Yeah. I cannot let you Ron talk about our year in American politics without asking you about the I-word - impeachment. It happened this week. And you know speaking of divides...  So it did.  ...My big feeling in American politics for this year is that as the story of the Trump White House and impeachment gets bigger and bigger and more and more important more people check out from that story. Why?  Some may want to check out even more and I certainly sympathize. But it is an election year in the United States. And there are going to be major events taking place in Great Britain and in Europe and all over the world. I think we are going to see more and more of a challenge to people to reprioritize a little bit public affairs in their lives come to grips with the fact that they are citizens and that that has certain requirements and that they do need to participate especially in an election year.  Yeah.  I will also say one word which is Russia. You know we saw in 2016 that Russia interfered in our elections. There is a lot of discussion about not only Russia but what other entities will try and interfere in the election in 2020. And those entities are certainly internal but some of them will be not from this country. And so I think that we will hear discussion about this. And the fact of the matter is that the president got impeached not on anything that happened here in the United States. He got impeached over a phone call with the president of Ukraine. And so what I always try and tell people as a longtime foreign correspondent which I was what happens elsewhere will land on your doorstep at one point or another.  After the break we talk China. This year has been full of headlines all about American corporations changing the ways they do business to maintain their foothold in the very very big Chinese marketplace. Hollywood the NBA Apple - they have all acquiesced in some way to the Chinese government. How should we feel about that? We will talk it out after the break. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am your host Sam Sanders. And this week we are catching up on the year that was. I am joined by two guests this weekend - Lulu Garcia-Navarro host of NPR's Weekend Edition Sunday and Ron Elving senior editor and correspondent for NPR Politics. I would not recap this year with any other two people.  Thank you.  Thank you. I would not repeat this year with any other two people.   I would not repeat this year with anyone.   All right.  So there you go.  Yeah. Yeah. So this week I saw a weird headline Ron and Lulu that kind of reaffirmed how big one storyline has been this year. So there is this soccer star from the Arsenal Football Club in England. His name is Mesut Ozil and he spoke out on Instagram this week about how the Chinese government treats Muslim Uighurs. After he posted this critique of China the Chinese state broadcaster pulled an Arsenal football game off Chinese TV...  Wow.  ...Just because of the post. And then of course the biggest headline in this regard was the NBA almost facing a blackout in China as well after a Houston Rockets executive expressed support for protesters in Hong Kong a few months ago. And I am wondering - for the next year how much bigger will this story get? So I called up a friend of the show Erich Schwartzel. He is a reporter for The Wall Street Journal who covers entertainment industry and American business. Erich Schwartzel thanks for coming back.  Hey. Thanks for having me again.  Always a pleasure. Always a pleasure. Erich told me this whole thing with China and the NBA. It taught the NBA a lesson that Hollywood has figured out a while back. And this is a lesson that more and more American companies and industries are grappling with now. And the lesson is dealing with China is always a trade-off.  Yeah. There have been some instances in Hollywood history that mirror the NBA situation remarkably. Any time Hollywood makes a movie that China has taken offense to China lets its displeasure known. There are state newspapers that will publish articles or editorials saying we are not happy about this and the studios need to get in line. And oftentimes the studios will respond. So we are not going to see a major studio make another movie about the Dalai Lama because 20 years ago they tried. And China threatened to kick out all of their business.  Wow.  I think there is an argument also that is made - it is oftentimes within the NBA and within Hollywood - that yes we might have to make compromises to access this market but getting this market a little bit of our product or you know a modified version of it is better than nothing at all. That is been an argument made by companies like Apple and Shutterstock and even Hollywood studios that yes we have to make compromises.  So then is a big takeaway in seeing how Hollywood's response compares to the NBA's response to China - is a big takeaway both of these big industries ultimately learn how to be quiet and keep that Chinese business?  They learn how to be quiet. I mean I think you saw that in - with the NBA's response where eventually coaches and players and executives - some of whom until this moment had had no compunction with talking about politics and talking about certainly U.S. politics and talking about Trump and various things like that - suddenly were very quiet on the issue saying that they had not studied it enough that it was not their place to remark on it. There was a bit of an about-face.  Yeah which is really interesting to see a league like the NBA say it is not our place to talk about XYZ when they have been outspoken on issues of things like racial justice here in the States you know?  Right. Right.  So I want to talk about this right now at the end of the year because it feels like it has not just been the NBA grappling with China in this way. You know we saw some headlines this past October about Apple telling some Apple TV show developers not to anger China. It seems like every few months we have been hearing about clashes between American big business and China. Does it feel like 2019 was a big year in this regard...  Oh absolutely.  ...Or am I just seeing stuff?  Absolutely. And I think a lot of what is been happening has been affecting U.S. businesses for many years. But it just seems like it has taken on a much more - there is been much more public awareness about it to begin with. And I think that when you have an issue that Ted Cruz and AOC are in agreement on it is going to catch fire...  Yeah.  ...Right?  Yeah.  And I think that this clash this tension between American values and international business is just getting more and more fraught especially as you have seen more and more attention drawn to Chinese politics themselves. And the Hong Kong protests have done that essentially more than anything in the past several years.  Wow.  And a lot of people in the U.S. are supportive of those protests or at least relate to them on some level. And so it is kind of thrown everything into the pot when it comes to if you are a business based in the U.S. what concessions are you making to get access to the China market? And is any of those concessions a step too far?  Yeah. As an American seeing this year of China headlines in this regard the question I ask to myself is should I be mad about this on principle? Should I be mad when these companies that in many ways feel intrinsically American are capitulating to values that in some ways seem to be not our own?  It is - it is a very tough question. And I think if you had the CEO of any of these companies in here there are any number of cases to be made for why working in China under these concessions is necessary. Some say they have a fiduciary duty to shareholders to you know maximize profits.  Yeah.  That is certainly an argument.  Yeah.  Others would say look if we do not work with China in these respects Chinese businesses will take business away from U.S. firms right?  Yeah.  So there are any number of cases to be made. But I think it is just going to come down to these case-by-case bases where it is going to either be is this a concession that we are willing to live with or is this feel like no now you are letting China set the rules?  Yeah. Some of what this feels like as well - like this year of headlines concerning American business in China and interaction a year of headlines about Hong Kong protests - I feel like every decade Americans need to have a boogeyman another country to worry about. And during the Cold War it was Russia. We were very afraid of Japan and their economy a few decades ago. Something about the American psyche feels a need to embrace storylines that act as if we have another country to fear.  Yeah I think so.  Do you ever feel that?  Yeah. I think that is smart. And I think that - yeah the context - the larger context that I think it is important to place this in is that there are larger existential questions being asked about the role of America...  In the world.  In the world...  Yeah.  ...Right? And certainly China has made no bones about its ambitions around the world. So yeah you are right. I think anytime we start to see these scenarios where it looks like for lack of a better word China won...  Yeah.  ...It kind of triggers all of those...  This really...  ...Larger concerns about...  ...Deep response.  Exactly. What are we doing? Yeah. And I think the...  Are we still on top of the world?  Exactly. And the other big - the big difference though I think - 'ecause this comes up whenever I have been - when I have been researching Hollywood and foreign investment into Hollywood - is that there have been these concerns before. Like yes is Japan taking over? When Japan bought a studio there was very similar headlines - right? - like to the kind of - the worst kind of alarmist response you might see to China coming into Hollywood. The difference though is that none of those countries before had 1.4 billion consumers...  Yeah.  ...To use as leverage.  Yeah.  And that is the case with the NBA now. That is the case with companies like Apple where they have to sell a lot of phones but also have to manufacture those phones in China. And it is the case in Hollywood where you can have a movie that flops here but still turns a profit because enough Chinese people go to see it.  Yeah. I do think the big moral of the story this year with China and the way companies like Apple and the NBA and big industries like Hollywood interact with China is the marketplace usually wins.  Right. Right.   Thanks again to Erich Schwartzel friend of this show and entertainment reporter at The Wall Street Journal. All right. Time for break. When we come back my favorite game - Who Said That year-end edition. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined in studio this weekend by two guests - Lulu Garcia-Navarro host of NPR's Weekend Edition Sunday and Ron Elving senior editor and correspondent with NPR Politics. My friends it is time for my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  The rules stay the same. I share a quote. You have got to tell me who said it or guess the story that I am talking about. But because it is our year-end episode these quotes could have come from any point during this whole year. And we are going to do not just three quotes but five.  Oh. Yay.   Do not sound so excited.  Yes yes.  There are no buzzers. We are on a public radio budget. Just scream out the answer if you think you have it. You ready?  Yep.  OK.  OK. First quote - how any woman does what they do is beyond comprehension. Who said that?  Oh I can think of so many people who might have said it under so many different circumstances.  Circumstances.  It was tied to a big birth this year.  Yeah I know.  Oh.  Oh it was - oh of course. It was Prince Harry.  Yes. Prince Harry became a father in May of this year. And I do not care how many times those royals have babies it always warms my heart each and every time.  I thought it was beautiful.  Was not it beautiful?  I love them. Yeah.  So he was singing the praises of his wife Meghan Markle Duchess of Sussex after she gave birth to their baby boy. This was the most awesome royal name. His name is Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor.  Prince Archie.  Prince Archie.  The royals - you know they are so cute when they are little.  They are cute...  I know right?  ...When they are little.  When they are little.   You got that point Lulu.  Woohoo .   Next quote - guess what we are talking about. The quote is it is what you drink when you are chilling at the beach partying at music festivals and of course earning enough money to live your best carefree life.  Yeah. I am not going to be able to tell you what that is. And I - this - you know when you go to those corners of the Internet and like this has some resonance? But I would not be able to actually you know...  This was an alcoholic beverage that had a big spike in popularity this year.  I am taking a wild stab here but Cristal.   Is that it?  Yeah of course.  That was the last decade.  That makes sense.  That was the last decade.  No. Yeah.  OK. I am just going to start spelling out the name of the beverage - W-H-I...  Keep going.  ...T...  White Russian?   Can I just tell you all?  Are we back to the dude? Are we back to the dude with the white Russian?  No this is not like - I am...  Second word - C-L-A-W.  Claw?  Yes. Have you...  White Claw - oh I heard about this. Yeah. Yeah. But no sorry. Yeah. Now I feel - you see? This is what I am saying. This is like embarrassing.  Oh my God. White Claw is the alcoholic beverage craze sweeping the nation.  OK. Why?  Spiked seltzer.  Oh.  So it is like a La Croix but they add a little vodka.  And it is got zero sugar right?  Exactly. Yes. So that quote comes from an article from the website Eater. It was written by Amy McCarthy trying to explain the appeal of White Claw. This was the year of White Claw and hard seltzer in general. Nielsen says sales of spiked seltzer surpassed 1 billion in the last year.  I mean it is clear that we are not living our best life because instead of being at the beach drinking White Claw we are in the studio for 12 hours drinking coffee.  We are in the studio for 12 hours drinking coffee. Yeah.  Anyway...  All right.  That point goes to the universe. All right. Next quote - so it is not so much what I personally think about books. The question you should be asking is what do you think about books? Who said that?  Oh of course. This is the woman who makes you throw everything away Marie Kondo.   Now now. She is more than that. That quote was...  No I - you - I mean no...  This is not the Swedish death cleaning woman.  You misunderstand me. I dream of Marie Kondo coming to my house and throwing everything away sometimes including my spouse and child. And I live in a pristine house by myself...  Oh my goodness.  ...With books.  So that quote comes from Marie Kondo. She is the Tidying Up guru Netflix star. She is had bestselling books about how to get your life tidier. And her whole thing is that if there are things in your house that do not bring you joy consider tossing them. But she got in trouble when on her show she seemed to suggest that maybe people do not need all those books in their house once they have read them.  So this is why my wife is in the closet saying does this bring me joy? Does this bring me joy?  Yes. Exactly.  Oh.  Has she touched your shoulders and said out loud does this bring me joy?  Not my shoulders but the shoulders of many garments.   All right. Next quote - we are going to play it for you. Guess who said this.   Order. Order. Order. Order.  This is obviously the British Parliament. I mean this is clearly...  Yeah but what is the guy's name? What is the guy's name?  Oh this is the...  Oh.  This is the guy.  Oh he was obviously the - I forget his name but he is obviously the...  Order.  ...Guy who does the gavel you know...  Order.  ...His version of that. What is his - and I - good Lord.  He is the speaker...  I am married to a Brit.  He is the speaker of the British House of Commons.  We will give it to you Ron. We will give it to you. Yes. Yes. That audio was from John Bercow. He held the speaker's chair in the U.K. Parliament for a very long time. And over the last year-plus he presided over some very contentious Brexit debates and he became famous for the way in which he wrangled that Parliament which we just heard there. I loved it.  It was fun.  Anyways this was a tough year for them over there. But John Bercow - he is winning. So he stepped down from his seat this year but now he is on the like speaker's circuit. So there was one report from Sky News recently. They said that for a night of election punditry he got paid 60000 pounds.  One guy for whom Brexit has been very very good.   The only right? All right fifth and final quote. Well you know I am worried about you all getting this one. I apologize in advance.  'ecause we did so badly with White Claw. All right.  Well yeah. Yeah. Yeah - because the two are co