 Hey you all. Sam here.   So as 2020 comes to a close I have been thinking a lot about all the things that helped me get through this crazy year - chocolate-covered almonds shorts and pants with elastic waistbands Netflix countless pints of ice cream. But when I really think about it one of the things that I absolutely could not have survived 2020 without is public radio. Every day this year through the protests and the pandemic and the recession I have listened to an NPR podcast or an NPR member station or I have watched a Tiny Desk Concert. So I give to multiple NPR member stations because I want public radio to be around next year as well. Listeners I am asking you right now to give to the NPR member station of your choosing because I bet that you relied on public radio a lot in 2020 just like me. When you give to your NPR member station that support flows through the entire public radio system to keep all of us including this little old show on the air. So go right now to this link - donate.npr.orgsam and we will get through the rest of this year and 2021 together. Thank you.   Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. So this week and next week we are stepping back to take in this dumpster fire of a year in all of its dumpster fire glory and take stock of how the pandemic has affected everything including the things that we created consumed and enjoyed throughout 2020. And you all it is more than just Netflix. Trust me. You know so many of us were stuck at home for much of this year but that did not mean that the Culture - capital C - came to a complete standstill. If anything a strange kind of Internet culture flourished in its own weird way and it came to reflect the horror and the absurdity of this year.  I think it is this digital hellscape that we all sort of entered in 2020.  My first guest this episode he calls the phenomenon quarantine culture and he says quarantine culture might have started way back on March 11 when the whole country was just on the cusp of a nationwide shutdown. And where else would quarantine culture start but on The View?    Gone crazy...  Whoopi Goldberg you know she is at her usual seat at the head of the table at The View and she says welcome to The View you all.   Hello hello hello and welcome to The View you all. Welcome to The View...  And then she just keeps saying welcome to The View welcome to The View welcome to The View welcome to The View like over and over again.   Welcome to The View - View View View.  And the camera just pans around to empty chairs in the studio audience.   No one was there.  No one was there.  Nobody was there.  Not a single soul.  That is E. Alex Jung. He is a writer at New York Magazine. He recently wrote a story all about quarantine or quar culture.  You know I think a lot of the seeds of quar culture were planted way before quarantine which is I think the same thing that you could say about the pandemic or the current state of our political institutions too. And so I think all that quarantine did was it sort of compressed and heightened that feeling and that kind of culture of how we were experiencing the Internet and how the Internet was creating this kind of collectivist for lack of a better word art-making.  What are the other I guess components or characteristics of Alex's quar culture?  It is partially this feeling of everything feeling kind of broken including yourself...   OK.  ...Right? Like your brain is a little broken. Everyone else's brain is a little broken. It is maybe a little grief-stricken too right? So I think there is a kind of coping mechanism aspect to all of it but it is like this sense that everything is absurd that nothing makes sense that the adults have left the room the house is on fire and no one is reacting apparently. And so we are all just like watching this catastrophe happen and unfold in real time and we are sort of trying to process it right? And I think the way that we process it is through this - like I think the language of the Internet has always skewed towards comedy surrealism absurdism. And so all of those things have just been really amped up in quarantine.  OK. Give me the top three examples of Internet quarantine culture in 2020.  Oh wow.  I mean I am not going to tell you what to say as your top three but I kind of want you to just unpack the whole Raven-Symone crying while eating peanut butter jelly thing 'ecause that is like peak quar culture .  OK. So Raven was in The Cheetah Girls...  And also in That is So Raven on Disney.  Yes. She is a child star and she and one of her co-stars from The Cheetah Girls Kiely Williams they are sort of like supposed to be addressing this like long-standing beef that they have right?  Through an Instagram Live.  Yeah on her Instagram Live.   OK Kiely.  What?  .  What?  The conversation ends. It seems fine right? Whatever. The camera is just continuing to record Raven and she is eating a sandwich. She kind of like rolls it up and then she just starts laughing to herself. Like it is like this...  While eating the sandwich...  Right .  ...Looking at I do not know what.   And it is kind of like a little maniacal a little like you know a touch of evil perhaps.   .  So then this tail end of an Instagram Live of a former child Disney star takes off on the Internet and becomes its own meme. So people...  Right.  ...Take this footage of Raven-Symone child star laughing on Instagram while eating peanut butter and jelly and began to use it in all kinds of funny weird ways online. And ultimately someone sets it to music.  Yes. So you know a very famous clip of classical music Mozart's unfinished Requiem In D Minor. And so like that little - whatever - 20-second clip of her laughing to herself gets shortened by another user. The backing track is added of Mozart. And then it just like takes this really perfect Platonic quality to it.   .  .  Whatever that feeling is is like perfectly captured in that little moment right? So everything kind of gets dissected and broken up and changed and manipulated and turned into a text that you can use which I think is really fascinating about memes.  So then when you write about quarantine culture and the ascendance of memes like that you point out that it is also kind of a business story. You know the Raven-Symone laughing meme set to classical music did not come from Netflix did not come from any major studio. It came from the Internet. And 2020 and quarantine culture in many ways prove that the old gatekeepers of entertainment are losing control of the culture. You know you point out these examples of I guess old-school entertainment culture feeling really dated this year - you know that video of Tom Cruise going by himself to see Tenet in a theater this summer. It is like ugh - that does not work now. Or like even these big networks trying to release television seasons all about COVID - most of them fell flat. The fact that like TikTok won when Quibi did not is a story of quarantine culture also just really the story of the old establishment becoming less relevant when it comes to entertainment.  Right right. And I think that something that was really funny is that you know Tom Cruise doing that promotional video of like go watch Tenet and like him like grinning his Tom Cruise grin and being like I love the movies or back to the movies.   Back to the movies.   Like that part does feel quarantine culture because it is like out of touch and weird...  .  ...And funny right? Like you watch that and you are - like you are thinking what are you doing?  Yeah.  That is the core brain core culture aspect of it is that you know like these extremely famous powerful people are incredibly out of touch. Right now they sort of do not get to dictate the terms of their portrayal in some ways.  Yeah. So then if we are seeing this year especially in pandemic where there are these ascendant social platforms - TikTok Twitch YouTube Instagram - that are creating the culture that feels the most of-this-year does that mean that we are entering a reality even post-pandemic that is a little bit more egalitarian that is a little bit less controlled by the traditional Hollywood players? Or do we all revert to form once a vaccine hits?  That is a great question. I do not know.   I do not know. I do feel like this has permanently changed us. I am not really sure like what that means. I know that what we are doing is creating free content for tech companies though.  Yeah. This is what I cannot make sense of when I am thinking about quar culture as you define it. Like on its face it is a little weird. It is a little sad. It is a lot absurd. And it seems to just creep out of the concrete of the Internet and just appears out of nowhere which seems cool you know? But also like you said like these places that seem egalitarian where anyone can make a TikTok or anyone can go on Twitch and play right next to AOC or anyone can make a YouTube video or Instagram it is still all feeding these large corporations controlled by very powerful rich men. And all those things work on algorithms. Like it is still controlled by a computer. Is - should I be sad about that or just say that is show biz baby?   Yeah. No I think you can do both.  OK.   And I think that that sadness mixed with cynicism and disillusionment is part of that attitude. Like you know when people were so surprised about like K-pop's fans...  Yeah.  ...Disrupting the...  White supremacy.  ...Dallas PD snitch cam - yeah exactly. Like they were so surprised that like this group would be politically active and mobilized to sort of mess up you know Trump's Tulsa rally or whatever. But it is like have you ever been to a K-pop concert?  .  You know like they are mostly women. They are mostly women of color. They are queer people. They are young. They are incredibly online. And they are more likely to have kind of like leftist views. So of course they are going to do all of this. Like I think that is something that kind of political activism that happens online that will only continue after we get out of or if we get out of quarantine.  Yeah. You know what I loved most about your essay was that you compared this cultural moment this moment of quarantine culture where absurdist art is flourishing everywhere - you compare it to the aftermath of World War I. Explain that for our listeners.  Yeah. Well I was trying to you know grapple with this idea of absurdist art. And of course the one that leapt to mind most specifically was dada. Like dada emerged among expats in Zurich and they were fed up. They were like the bourgeoisie and the establishment are so messed up. They have gotten us into this world war. There is also you know the 1918 pandemic that comes via U.S. soldiers to World War I. So there is literally a war happening on the continent an outbreak of a flu that is killing people and these artists are like what the eff is going on right? And so they wanted to create an artistic movement that would reflect that absurdism. And I think that that is - that to me is very much what quarantine culture is right? It is this reaction to the deterioration of our social institutions and kind of throwing up a middle finger to them and laughing at them.  You know what I find interesting though when we compare this moment of absurd almost dadaist art to the dada era you know about a hundred years ago? With dada back then you could point out the artists that spearheaded it. Oh that one that one. You could name them. With this era of absurd quarantine culture and art that seems to come out of every corner of the Internet it is harder to give credit where it is due. Like who first made the meme? Do we - you know the woman who is the star of the You About To Lose Yo' Job song.    You about to lose your job. Get this dance...  No one knows her name. Is there a problem when a quarantine culture is created throughout all of the Internet in giving credit?  That is a great question. I mean the interesting thing is that I think that this is a more dadaist moment in the sense that it is more egalitarian right? Like in the sense that dada - the dadaists always wanted everyone to be a dadaist. There was this kind of like real populist mentality was that like dada was a sensibility that anybody could do. And that is kind of like an organic - like the Internet has allowed for an organic manifestation of dada. The bad part of that is that it becomes kind of authorless in that sense. And it is more this like mass of everybody participating changing shifting. You know a meme is not just a moment. It is everyone iterating on that thing over and over and over and over and over again - right? - until it is like even more absurd than it was when it first started.  Yeah. What is been your personal favorite moment of quarantine culture this year...  Huh.  ...Personal pick?  I mean to me it is like if I am trying to specifically pick one thing like the -  like there are things that just make me laugh really really hard. And one of those is the Quibi show starring Rachel Brosnahan.  Oh that is a classic.  And she has a golden arm and she is dying of gold poisoning.    I cannot take off my golden arm ever.  And yet she keeps the arm on .  Yeah. Yeah. And her dying wish is that she is buried with her golden arm .    When I die bury me with my golden arm.  But then because quarantine culture the better show to come out of this whole thing is the show where a guy hate-watches the Rachel Brosnahan-with-a-golden-arm show.    I will bury you with your golden arm.  .  And it is so meta.  I do not think he was hate-watching it. I think he was really enjoying it.  .  Because I watched it - and I was like this is amazing.   Coming up we play my favorite game Who Said That with E. Alex Jung.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am your host Sam Sanders joined this weekend by New York Magazine writer E. Alex Jung. Alex are you ready to play a most low-stakes game?  No.   You are the first person who is actually said no they do not want to play.  I am ready to do it but I am terrible at games .  This game is quite simple. It is called Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  I am going to share three quotes from the week of news and pop culture.  OK.  And you just guess who said it.  OK.  And no matter what you are going to win 'ecause you are the only one playing.   Great. I am so glad that I have no competition.  None whatsoever. All right. Here's the first quote - For many we were there for a lot of your firsts - first baby first day of school first day of college first job first home. And while it is time to say goodbye to the catalog we are excited to embark on our next journey that will be filled with new firsts. What big corporation announced this week that they are ending publication of their iconic catalog?  I have no idea.  They have got great meatballs in the food court.  BP.   Oh OK. OK so it must be Ikea.   It is Ikea. Yes. That quote comes from Konrad Gruess. He is a managing director of Inter Ikea Systems a parent company of Ikea. And he was breaking the news this week that Ikea is discontinuing the Ikea catalog. This is what is so weird. When I saw this news I realized I do not think I have ever held an IKEA catalog in my hand. But I was sad seeing this headline.  .  Why do I feel that way?  Like nostalgia as the emotional lure of capitalism. That is what I am...   I am loving your optimism this episode.   But I am laughing about it so it is fine.   So you got a point. Here's the next quote. We have had a clear priority and this is to introduce sports which are particularly popular among the younger generations and also to take into account the urbanization of sport.  Is it like EA E-sports?   The most prestigious athletic competition in the world.  FIFA?   They light a torch when they...  Oh the Olympics .   Yes  the Olympics. So that quote comes from Thomas Bach. He is the International Olympic Committee president. He was announcing that break dancing or as they call it breaking is going to be included in the 2024 Paris Olympic Games. How do you feel about that?  I feel like Olympics are really about like someone doing something incredibly physical that I absolutely could not do. And break dancing 100 fulfills that so ...  All I know is I will not be satisfied until there is an Olympic sport category for the dudes on the New York subway who yell out what time is it? It is Showtime.  Showtime . You know what? Maybe that'ill happen in like 2040.  I mean let us be real. Those are true athletes.  Yeah.  All right. You got 2 points. Here's the last quote. I have to always stay ready. Street ready I always say. I have to keep my makeup on and keep my hair done. Like when I am in LA - I have told you about it - if it is going to earthquake if we get an earthquake I am not running out in the street looking like you look now. Who said that?  I have no idea.  All right. This quote comes from a celebrity who is beloved on both sides of the political aisle.  Oh Dolly Parton.   Dolly Parton. She was talking to RuPaul in an interview for Marie Claire magazine. So what I think happened Alex is that during this Zoom interview Dolly Parton kind of shaded RuPaul I guess for not being in full makeup.  .  I wonder like how long will Dolly Parton be on top of the world?  Like I think she does not give you enough right? You just sort of get just enough to kind of like love the image. And I think that that is like what is so brilliant about her.  She is everywhere but we never hear anything about her that she does not want us to hear.  Right exactly.  OK last question for you.  Yeah.  What is the first piece of real-life culture you are going to enjoy once a vaccine hits and we are allowed to go back to movies or concerts again?  I want to go to a dance party. And I want there to be like drag performers. That is a thing that I really would love to do.  Yeah. I want to go to a block party where they just play the latest Dua Lipa album on loop the whole night...    ...Because we should have been dancing to that thing in the streets all year but coronavirus ruined that.  Yeah. Instead we were in our rooms.  Yeah dancing alone to Dua Lipa - now that is quar culture.   Yeah it is.  Well Alex you won the game.  I feel like I did not but I really appreciate...  .  ...Your helping me through all of those questions.  Listen. Everyone's a winner on It is BEEN A MINUTE. Well Alex thank you so much for playing the game and for helping explain the weirdness of 2020 - at least how it played out online. I appreciate you.  No I appreciate you. Thank you so much.  Listeners coming up my next guest offers a takedown of a new Netflix series all about Selena.   Hey there. I am Andrea Gutierrez. I am a producer on It is BEEN A MINUTE. And before we get back to the show just a quick reminder - if you love what you are listening to if you appreciate how NPR has kept you informed in this bonkers year please support the show and NPR by giving to your local station. To give go to donate.npr.orgsam. That is donate.npr.orgsam. All right back to the show.  About a year ago a teaser trailer came out for an upcoming Netflix show. And it got people really excited including myself. That show finally dropped on Netflix last week.    When I think about being onstage and you on the bass and Suzette on the drums nothing else matters.  This show is called Selena The Series. It is all about the life of singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez before her murder in 1995 when she was only 23 - right at the height of her fame. And a lot of people got to know Selena when Jennifer Lopez played her in a movie in 1997. So this new Selena show not everyone is happy about it.  Do we really need another  Selena thing? Like our...  That is Alex Zaragoza. She is a senior staff writer covering culture for Vice and she wrote about that new series. Alex says she is a fan of Selena but she is still critical of the show because Selena's image in that show - and in a bunch of other places - it is exploited.  Same goes with like Frida Kahlo - we have our icons that they use over and over and over again.  Yeah.  It is sacrilegious to in any way...  .  ...Criticize anything directed even in the general area that is Selena - right? - because it is...  Alex knew she might get some flak for her opinion but she was ready for it. And she says her beef is not just with this one Selena series on Netflix. It is bigger than that.  Here's my laundry list of issues . It starts from small things just like - I mean the wigs are tragic.  .  I think I made a joke like they looked like they fell off Sheila E.'s tour bus and got run over.  Ooh.  They are just bad. Those are bad wigs.  I love a good Sheila E. reference my goodness.  You know what?  .  I was born in the '80s. I knew Sheila E. So I listened to...  Yeah. Yes. All right so bad costuming bad wigs.  It had like an overall very Lifetime movie feel. So you are watching it and you are like there is no real tension here. They portray Selena as this very meek very small girl. Like...  But she was not.  You know listen. You watch any clip of Selena onstage and that woman is a powerhouse. This is a woman...  Yes.  ...Who is got curves who is onstage and commands the audience.   .  She knows how to work the room from you know being you know the sweet girl next door and very charismatic to like a total diva to like letting you know what is up. Like she was...  Yeah.  ...Incredible in every single way. And when you think about her at that - at the age she commanded this level of confidence. She - I mean she died before she reached 24.   .  That just does not come across on this series. Like...  Yeah.  ...First you cast somebody - this is you know no disrespect to Christian Serratos who plays her but you know she is a much smaller person.  Well this is what you wrote that I found really interesting that the casting of Selena for this show and casting of her before has kind of almost Anglicized her taken away some of her curves taken away her darker skin even.  Right. And the quote that I attributed there is to like Mala Munoz 'ecause she really brought this to light too when she was - and this was just based on the trailer. But yeah like the sort of you know slimming down of her features making her more Eurocentric has been happening. I mean it started sort of with Jennifer Lopez you know who is a little lighter-skinned a little easier on the - and of course this is Hollywood. Hollywood always wants to do like the hotter version of whoever. Right? I am sure...  Or just like the lightest possible version of any person of color.  The lightest skin yeah. They are - they will run your skin through the wash and extra bleach it if they have to right?  .  Like - and they feel like they need to for some reason if - and so you get to the point where I said like often in watching Christian it felt like I was watching the Jennifer Lopez-playing-Selena story you know?  Oh yeah yeah yeah.  We want to see her features who is - you know this is a mestiza woman of - you know she is of Mexican Indigenous descent. You know we want to see her - we want to see that celebrated.  Get some color up in there.  Get some melanin in there you know?  Yes. You go on in your essay to say this is not just about one show that when it comes to the ways Latinos are portrayed in TV and movies these same types of stories are allowed to be told. What are the same types of stories?  I mean this is sort of old tread territory - right? - in terms of Latinx representation on screen. We are typically you know tragic figures. You know it is like the tragic immigration story or immigrant story. We are criminals. We are gangbangers. We are cartel drug lords whatever. We are housekeepers. We are always in service positions. Or we are these like sexy Latin lover types. You know you think of like Sofia Vergara. Like they also love to do a lot of like the tacky telenovela thing 'ecause it is like funny and it is tongue in cheek. We see a lot of that.  Oh it is loud and dramatic. They slap each other in the face. Oh my God.  We out here. We are rolling our tongues. We are throwing chanclas.  .  We are slapping our husbands as we do. We are just mad all the time. I mean if you watch any reality TV show like any time the like Latinx woman or man comes on screen without fail Spanish guitars. Oh sexy Spanish guitars.  Let me tell you something. Listen. Alex sometimes when NPR will do a story about Latino issues they will hit that same kind of music. And I am like you all we cannot do that.  Right.  We cannot do it.  And you know we notice that. We notice that.  Oh yeah.  It is just like come on man.  It is like come on you all. It is 2020. You know speaking of it being 2020 it is 2020 a year of racial reckoning. We have been having these conversations about representation for years now. And yet these stereotypes about Latinos in media still exist. And one of the problems is like there is still this industry the Hollywood ecosystem it is controlled by mostly white TV and movie executives. And so even if you want to make Latino content you have to make it palatable to them first.  Right.  You know? And so besides totally getting rid of the current leadership and getting some new folks in there which these studios have not done yet how do you overcome that problem the fact that there is just white gatekeepers for brown content still?  You know if I knew I would be the head of Paramount Pictures right now Sam maybe. I would be like please speak to my assistants. I do not have time for NPR today.   Yes.  I joke. I joke. But you know I think there is - it is a top-down thing because it is not just hiring more Latinos and hiring more Latinos of different backgrounds because as you and I very much know hiring more people does not necessarily change the structure.  There you go. Yeah.  And your skinfolk as not always your kinfolk as we also know.  Oop. Say it again.  Whoo. I am just saying. You know this requires also you know Latinx people that are in Hollywood to address their own biases to address their own blind spots to address how they may be perpetuating these stereotypes by just being thirsty and wanting to get things sold.  You know elsewhere in the show I talked with another Alex about how the pandemic is totally changing entertainment this year and like the old gatekeepers of Hollywood just have less power as the Internet and TikTok and the youths and the memes are winning. And when I think about the reception of this Selena series on Netflix that kind of maybe proves the point. Like maybe these big power players are not going to be leading the charge of the new content that actually appeals to these communities.  Right. But you know to that - I absolutely agree. But to that I also counter that they do not care. They want - it is about money. It is like they do not care 'ecause at the end of this - so this Selena The Series is a monster hit. It is in the top 10...  Really.  ...On Netflix. It is been a huge hit.  Oh wow.  There are people that love it. And fair play - if you love it go ahead. That does not mean it does not deserve to have you know very fair critiques lobbed at it. Like love it if you love it hate it if you hate it. But at the end of it like the studios care for a hit. They do not necessarily care for something that is doing a service to the people.  Yeah. So then on an up note what is your favorite Selena song?  OK it really depends on my mood. If I am...  OK.  ...You know if somebody got me real pissed off Si Una Vez is going to be the song that I bump 'ecause I am like talking straight to that person.  .  But when I am in my feelings and I just want to like sing it out No Me Queda Mas every time.   .  Thanks again to Alex Zaragoza. She is a senior staff writer covering culture for Vice. That new series all about Selena it is on Netflix right now. It is called Selena The Series. Watch it for yourself and see what you think.   .  Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.   Hey Sam. This is Akira  from San Antonio Texas. And the best thing that happened to me this week is that I passed my final certification exam which now qualifies me to be an ESL-certified elementary school teacher for the great state of Texas.  Hey Sam. This is Kim  from Bellevue Wash. The best thing that happened to me was on my 50th birthday. I largely boycotted celebrating until I can do so properly but my mom who lives about a half an hour away stopped by to wish me a happy birthday. We talked outside masked and distanced for about 30 minutes. When she went to leave she said I want to give you a hug. We decided that if we looked away from each other and kept our masks on a hug was reasonably low risk. Best birthday present ever.  Hi Sam. The best part of my week is that I have been cancer-free for a year and I was able to go give blood again.  Hi Sam. This is Amber from Seattle Wash. And the best thing that happened to me this week was getting the results of my latest PET scan which showed no evidence of metabolically active cancer and no new metastases which when you are stage 4 is the best news you can ever ever hope for. And I am so grateful to all my doctors just medicine everything. And I am never going to take my health for granted again. So thank you for listening to me and thank you for all that you do. Have a great day. Bye.  Anyway thanks for the show and thank you for doing what you do.  Thanks for your show and thanks for letting us share. Have a great day.  Oh that was a great one this week. Two stories of cancer-free listeners - we love to hear it. Thanks to all those listeners you heard right there - Amber Bruce Kim and Akira. Listeners do not forget you can be a part of this segment every week. Just record yourself sharing the best part of your week and send that voice file to me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org.   All right. This week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry and Andrea Gutierrez. Our intern is Star McCown and I want to pause right now to say Star thanks for everything. This is Star's last week with It is BEEN A  are very sad to see her go. Star is many things - good at all things journalism pretty funny great with the memes a good illustrator and just nice to be around. We are excited to see what Star does next. We will be watching and listening. All the best Star. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. And our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. Listeners till next time stay safe. Be good to yourselves. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  