 Hey listeners this is our last episode of 2017. And before we start the episode I just want to say thanks for everything. Thank you for listening. Thank you for being a part of something new in helping us launch this podcast this year. And thank you for sharing your best things all week every week. So this episode is pre-taped which means we will not be playing any Best Thing audio in this episode but it will be back in the new year. Also last thing thank you for supporting public media and this show with your donations. Yeah one more time - going to ask you to give. You can still donate to support your local NPR station and this show by going to this link - donate.npr.orgSam. That helps out local stations across the country and this show as well. All right here is someone I have been thankful for as long as I can remember Aunt Betty.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on a special year-end edition of the show the host of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour Linda Holmes NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis and playwright humorist and person on the Internet R. Eric Thomas. All right happy New Year. Let us start the show.   She is in the pocket now.  Yeah.  She is got it down.  Say my name Aunt Betty.  Oh my gosh.  Yeah. Hey you all from NPR I am Sam Sanders It is BEEN A ng you a special year-end edition of the show. It is so special that I have not one not two but three guests with me in studio today. Linda Holmes from the wonderful NPR podcast Pop Culture Happy Hour also runs NPR's Monkey See blog. Also I have seen you at a lot of holiday parties recently.  That is right.  We are in the same company and I like it.  That is right.  Hi thanks for being here.  Hi hi. Thank you.  NPR congressional correspondent - you must know her from the NPR Politics Podcast - Susan Davis. We are glad you are here today.  I am glad to be here Sam.  Thank you yeah. And we have been waiting to make this happen for a while. We quote you pretty frequently in our show. And now to have you in it actually is just a delight. Staff writer for Elle playwright self-described person on the Internet R. Eric Thomas.  Hello. I am so - I was so excited to hear Aunt Betty say my name. I can go home right now.  Is not it the best? It is the best.  It is like so great.  It makes the whole week.  Thank you for having me.  Yeah. So I am playing for you guys right now the most popular song in the country this year - Ed Sheeran's Shape Of You.    Oh-I-oh-I-oh-I I am in love with your body - oh-I-oh-I-oh-I.  Really? Not Despacito?  So Despacito probably should get more bragging rights though. The remix of that song featuring Justin Bieber was the No. 2 song of the year. And the original version of Despacito was the No. 3 most-streamed song of the year. But the No. 1 overall was Sheeran.  I feel like he is like the guy you went to high school with who was like you know fine. And then like he did well. And you are like OK you know?  So fun fact I was googling the lyrics of this song today in advance of this taping and I realized I would been mispronouncing a lyric to this song Shape Of You all year.    I am in love with the shape of you. We push and pull like a magnet do.  Push and pull like a magnitude. And I always was like that is wrong. That is not actually scientifically correct. Turns out he was saying we push and pull like a magnet do.  Yeah.  A magnet do?  Oh you knew?  Because you know what pushes and pulls Sam.  Yeah magnets do.  Magnets.   So anyways - the more you know.   About Ed Sheeran lyrics.  About Ed Sheeran lyrics yeah. So here's how the hour's going to go. This will be a bit different than our usual format. Usually we all describe the week of news in three words. Today each of us will describe the year in three words. And each of us kind of has a certain expertise so our three words will speak to that. Sue of course covers Congress and politics. Linda covers all things popular culture. R. Eric Thomas covers all things Internet and amazing. Also in between those conversations we will take two long-distance calls and check back in with some listeners who appeared on that segment earlier this year. We will also discuss some big trends in music in 2017. And - this is like an omnibus taping - we are going to have a special edition of Who Said That In 2017.  Really looking forward to that.  Nice. I have been studying.  Yeah anyway all right. So first things first - three words for 2017. Sue you have the honor of going first. What are your three words?  So my three words - and they all stand on their own but also work together - are remarkable Russia tweet. Unpack it a little bit.  Yeah.  So remarkable to me is the word that broke in 2017 because so many things in politics were described as being remarkable that somewhere around May I started saying that like that word just did not mean anything anymore right? When every single thing that happens is remarkable then nothing is remarkable. And I have joked that like at this point if Trump like reached down and pulled his face off and it was like Hillary Clinton underneath - that is when you can be like that was a remarkable day.   Russia just because Russia is still the thing that hangs over everything.  It is like the more and more that we unpack what they have done we still cannot tell whether they - it was a really synchronized organized effort or they just bumbled their way into the election. We still do not know.  Yeah. And it is - you know everything that is happened this year Russia is still this umbrella that covers our entire politics. And we still do not know where it is leading us. We do not know the final impact on this administration. But I just think Russia...  Yeah.  ...Touched on everything in our politics this year.  As a sidebar on Russia - Russia is also leading the conversation in Silicon Valley as tech companies like Facebook and Twitter have to figure out...  Oh yeah.  ...How to manage their platforms in light of Russian hacking of last year's election you know?  Yeah. And are they media companies or not right?  Yeah exactly.  Like Facebook right?  Exactly.  And tweet just because I do not think that anything - any random thing guided our national conversation our politics and our media coverage more than President Trump's tweets this year. I mean they just dominated everything. Every time he tweeted something it generated a news cycle. And so...  And he knew it.  And he knew it. And he knows how to use it. And in some ways it is been really exhausting right? Chasing the president's tweets all year has been an exhausting exercise. But he is also announced policy from Twitter. He has sparked you know ongoing culture wars over Twitter. And so just the president's tweets again I just think have just been such a dominant part of the political conversation.  Those are good three words.  Thanks.  I worked on them.   You have thought about this.  I was like brainstorming with the husband last night. I really wanted to deliver for you Sam.  You did.  I mean it is been a crazy...  I give you snaps.  It is been one of the craziest years in politics I have ever covered. And just trying to sum it up...  And remember how we summed it up last year?  Yeah.  Remember last year we we are like 2016 man that is the craziest year ever.  Yeah.  And then...  And never get crazier than this.  Yeah yeah.  So I am a little nervous what 2018 has in store.  2017 did a little of a hold my beer.   What political stories are you going to be watching next year or looking forward to next year?  2018's an election year.  That it is.  So I think just in terms of - you know the first midterm election year after any president is always a referendum on that president. You know they do not want it to be - they will shape it as other things. But in generally speaking midterm elections are referendums on the president. And so I just think 2018 is going to be a really combative year in politics on the state level in governors races and Senate races and House races. And just the churn we are going to see in the response to the Trump administration is going to be the dominant story of 2018.  All right. As part of our special year-end show we are each going to describe our year - 2017 - in three words. And we have each kind of focused those three words on the areas that we covered this year. And Eric you describe yourself as a person on the Internet. So we asked you to give us three words all about the Internet. You have three words for us?  I do yeah.  OK.  My three words are - do not at me and you can use the at symbol for at.  And for those who do not know Twitter that means...  Yeah so atting  is when you type the at symbol and then someone's screen name and that is when you tag them. It gives them a notification. It means you are talking either to them or about them.  You are saying this tweet is just for you.  This is just for you. And it is a way of communicating. So do not at me is like - well there is three ways of thinking about do not at me. The first is a joke form on Twitter. So you can say like something incendiary or something that is like clearly true and then the punchline is do not at me which means like I do not want to hear your hot take about this. I do not want to hear your bad opinion. So if I say Kelly Clarkson's Heat was the best song of the year do not at me you cannot tell me it is not one because that is true. It is the best song of the year.  Da-da-da-da-da-no .  No no. Oh no. I said do not at me.   That is my favorite use of that term is like a statement and you are like I do not even want to debate this.  Right? I said do not at me. I said do not at me.  I think - there is no more debate. I am sorry.  My truth is my truth.  Yeah yeah exactly. So like - and Twitter is the birthplace of so many new joke forms. And as somebody who writes humor on the Internet like that is a gift you know like to constantly be finding new ways to be funny.  Yeah.  I think also though it represents a sort of like our move toward like further tribalism and divisive. Like I do not want to hear your opinion. I want to hear the opinions that I like. And that was what the Internet was for I think most people this year.  Yeah.  You get the news that you want from the places that you trust either to tell you what you want to hear or that you actually trust depending on who you are and where you are as a person. And I think a lot of the conversations that we saw on Twitter were people who were firmly entrenched in their beliefs telling either relatives or strangers in comment sections and in Facebook and in articles do not at me. Do not tell me your opinion. I do not want to hear it. And that is a really interesting thing. So the at symbol is this really great distillation of who Americans are and who people are. It is you know this we want to be together. We want to push each other away.  Yeah.  Lastly I think a lot of the men in powerful positions who have been outed as sexual predators were whispering do not at me in their offices as allegation after allegation came out. I am sure there are - I mean you know a couple of weeks ago you saw Morgan Spurlock pre-emptively at himself you know.  Which was so weird.  Yes a very weird confession. All these confessions are so self-congratulatory also...  Yeah.  ...Which is just a...  What a bad apology.  Yeah yeah.  Yeah yeah. So a lot of guys I am sure were like do not at me. Do not talk about the behavior that I did. You know you saw John Oliver try to have a conversation with Dustin Hoffman about allegations during a panel. Dustin Hoffman and then Alec Baldwin who was not even there were both like whoa whoa whoa. Like this is not the place. Do not at him. Do not at him about this. Everything is the place on the Internet. Every - every time is the time. Every place is the place. And so like I think you know when I look back at this year on the Internet like this was a year of a lot of revelatory truth and a lot of beautiful clapbacks. And so you know when I think about 2017 which I hope to never do again...   ...I think about you know the way that the Internet brought people together and pushed people apart and then brought some people to justice. And I think that is - I mean that is a complicated history but I guess in the balance it is not terrible right?  Yeah.  Yeah that is - yeah.  I mean I think if I were picking another theme for 2017 like the year of the bad apology is...  Yes.  I mean it is not that they all are not. But like...  Most of them are.  A couple of years ago I was talking to somebody about like onomatopoeia which is the phenomenon of like a word like buzz or whatever that sounds...  Sizzle.  ...Sounds like itself and calling them onomatapologies ...   ...When it is not really an apology but it make apology noises.  I love that.  And like there were a lot of those this year where it is like you can tell that right behind the apology is like um sorry...  But.  ...Although.  Oh well then it is just like well obviously I misunderstood the dynamics of play in that interaction or whatever. It is like so this whole thing happened and you just thought it was cool. And you want to be OK with that?  Right.  Did you see Mario Batali's apology?  Oh my God he put like a recipe.  It was the best - to me it was the best worst of all of the apologies.  Oh at the end there was a recipe.  Because he has a mailing list for his recipes and his brand you know because he has restaurants and Eataly and all these things. And he sent out an email to his list that was like you know these allegations against me I apologize whatever. And here's one of my favorite holiday recipes.   I mean you know always get that paper. Like hustle - the hustle.   Like by the way sign up for my mailing list if you want more terrible apologies.  Yeah follow me back if you...  Such bad apologies.  Yeah. With that we are going to take a break from Three Words. Linda and I will do ours later. Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance...   ...Where we call up a listener somewhere in the world and talk to them about the news where they live. And this is our year-end show which means we are going to check back in with some folks that we called earlier in 2017. Today on the line from Refugio Texas Becky Wright. Becky you there?  Hey I am here.  How are you?  I am doing good.  Cool cool. Good to hear from you. And Refugio?  You said it right.  Yes. So you work for the Chamber of Commerce in Refugio Texas. How is it going down there?  We are doing good for almost three months after the hurricane. It is more clean. Our town is more cleaned up than expected.  And we should say that is what we are calling. We talked to you back in August because your town was in the center of where Hurricane Harvey hit. It made landfall August 25 as a Category 4 storm. And you told us back then what it was like in August. And you described this crazy scene - you know waiting out that storm with a bunch of your family and a few animals in the hallway of your house. Let us play some tape of that call.   We just asked God to protect us to die down the winds to keep my roof on my house just to make the storm pass quickly - and just kept asking him please do not take my roof. Please do not take my roof.  Wow.  We did have roof damage where water was pouring in till about 30 in the morning.   Just thinking about that - you are a few months out of that night - does it still - I mean does it haunts you still?  Yes it does especially when I hear that again and just when the weather gets bad when the wind picks up. Just any time anything having to do with that it brings back all the memories.  Yeah. And so you rode the storm out in your house with your parents your three kids your husband your dog your grandmother extended family. There were some 19 20 people there. You guys made it OK but the damage was pretty bad. Have all of you all come back?  We just recently got back into our house maybe like four days ago.  Wow. So it took months.  Yes.  What did you do in the meantime? Were you living somewhere else commuting or what?  And at the very beginning we were staying at a hotel in Raymondville. Then we needed to come back home. So the kids could get back into school and we could get back to work. And so we stayed with my parents in a one-bedroom that they had extra. So it was five of us trying to fit in in a one-bedroom until we were able to get back into our house just four days ago.  Yeah. How much more time and money and effort will it take for you to be totally back to where you were before the storm? Is there still work to be done on the house or other stuff?  Yes we do have one bedroom still that needs repaired. And it is actually my bedroom so I still am not able to be in a bedroom. I have a bed in our extra living room as of right now. So I mean there are still things that we have not unpacked. It is still not home yet.  Yeah.  I have a question. This is Linda. When I hear you tell this story and I imagine if this happened to me I would be so exhausted. My apartment flooded once and it was a much more minor experience. And yet it was so tiring. I am wondering how you take care of yourself and what has helped you kind of get through this experience and kind of keep going?  Well I have to keep the energy that I need to go to work and get the kids to school and then come home and try to unpack everything. And there is just never enough time in the day. And right now - I mean just last night I stayed out till midnight. We were trying to decorate the town for our Bobcats that are going to states...  Congrats.  ...For the state game on Wednesday.  Oh my gosh.  Is this football?  Yes.  Look at you all.  And we are the defending champs from last year. And we are going back to states this year.  Nice.  That must feel good for the whole town.  It does. It does. It kind of takes - puts the hurricane behind us just for a little bit.  Well I hope you have a relaxing New Year. I hope the rest of your recovery comes together nicely. I hope that football team wins that championship.  Yes.  Thank you so much for sharing your story with the show and our listeners this year. And I wish you a wonderful 2018.  Thank you.  All righty . Take care.  I will. Thank you.  Bye-bye.  Bye.  She just sounds sound so tired. I feel for her so much. You can just feel the - you can feel the toll that that has taken. Despite how you know incredibly resilient it sounds like she and her family have been you can really I think hear just how taxing that experience is not just in the immediate aftermath but often like after news has kind of moved on to other stories. And you know you multiply that story by all the people who are still in Puerto Rico and other places that have been affected by weather this year. And it is just - it is really - it is very moving to me.  Yeah. And you think of how people cope with trauma like that. For a few hours or a few days your body kind of goes into autopilot. And it is just functioning and you do not know how it is functioning but it is.  And the thing that is interesting to me that when you ask her like how she takes care of herself the answer in large part is like because I have to. I have to get up and go to work and get the kids off to school. And there is nothing - like I do not have another option so I just keep going. That is how I keep going is that I have no choice.  Listeners in the new year want to talk to you as well. Give us a call wherever you live and tell me about what is going on in your neck of the woods. You can drop me a note and tell me why I should call you back for long distance. Just send me a note at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org.   All right. Before we move on guys quick question - what are your plans for New Years?  Oh man. I am going to be exactly where I usually am on New Year's which is under a blanket watching television.  What do you watch though?  Movies usually.  You do not watch Anderson Cooper and - oh no longer Kathy Griffin.  No. I do not watch the whole like ball-dropping thing anymore. I just do not.  What are your plans for New Year's?  I do not know. Last year we were at a wedding for New Year's Eve which was...  Oh that is cool.  ...Perfect because you know for the price of a wedding gift you get an open bar a dance floor and a meal.  And book the flights too.  And - what is that?  The flights to get there.  Oh no it was local.  Maybe a photo booth?  Yeah. I have memories of the thing. And then I got a thank-you note for it like two weeks later.   So two weeks also. They did their thank-you notes in two weeks.  Oh they are on it.  Wow.  Oh it was wonderful.  Good friends.  And also I hated them. So I am going to be crashing a wedding. I do not know which one. So if you are getting married New Year's Eve let me know.  Looking for...  Tweet at him.  It is oureric. Let me know.  I feel like we need to have a national conversation about how everybody hates New Year's Eve. And it is like such a stressful thing that people always seem like they never really want to engage in the holiday although I - now it is better because I am older so I care less about going to parties or having like something cool to do. So we have friends that have a party every year and we always just go to that. And we have a dinner party with them. And then we also have a New Year's Eve eve tradition that we started a couple of years ago where my husband and a bunch of his guy friends they make timballo.  What is that?  Do you know what timballo is? It is an Italian dish that is like - it is like the pasta version of a turducken where it is like...  Oh is it the thing they make in Big Night?  Yes.  OK.  And that was the inspiration for it the movie Big Night starring Stanley Tucci and in it they make something called a timballo. And it is like a huge pasta casserole that has pasta in it but it has meat and eggs and all these different things. And it is like the men cook it and we have a New Year's Eve Eve party where we make the timballo.  Oh that sounds wonderful.  If you follow me on Instagram there is pictures of the timballo - timballo. So that is like the fun like annual tradition that we have. But my tip to people for New Year's Eve to have the best New Year's Eve is always just say yes to the first thing you are invited to because then it just eliminates the stress of like what you should do. And it establishes a plan and then you are just like fine. And the less you think about New Year's Eve the more fun you will have.  Yeah.  I like that.  All right. If you are like me one thing you could not keep up with this year was music. There is too much it is everywhere. I just cannot stream it all. So I talked to a few folks in the last week to try and make sense of the year in music. One conversation I had was with Veronica Flores. She is the cohost of a Latinx music podcast called Radio Menea. It was a big year for Latinx music and we talked through some trend lines. Let us play the tape. Veronica hey. How are you?  Hey. I am good. How are you?  I am good. So we - I am good. Thank you. So we asked you to talk about three big trends in Latinx music in 2017. And for listeners Latinx is a gender-neutral catchall - Latino and Latina and everything in between. So the first trend of this year we cannot escape it. It spent literally months on top of the Billboard 100 chart this year. You know this song.   .  Despacito.   .  This song is from two artists - Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee.    Despacito.  So full disclosure Veronica.  Yes.  I love this song. I have listened to it probably a thousand times this year. I never get tired of it. Every wedding reception every house party every grocery store I hear it in I start to move.   .  So interesting that Daddy Yankee you know was charting again almost 10 years later from when he was charting from Gasolina...  Oh that song was big when I was in college.  ...And that is the sound.  A lot of it gives me college vibes because of course Daddy Yankee but also it sounds like it is reggaeton which was having a moment...  Yeah.  ...Literally like 12 13 years ago.  I am with you. Anytime that any sort of dembow beat is on...  Yes.  ...Which is the main beat in reggaeton...  Like boom cha-boom cha boom cha-boom cha . You cannot help it.  My hips are moving. I am dancing. It does not even matter. I really liked the song when it was - before the Justin Bieber remix. It was huge in Latin America...  Yes.  ...In like February March April. And I had sort of like wore it out by the time they got the co-sign and that it came on the market. And also it sort of left me with a nasty taste in my mouth that...  Why is that?  ...This white guy can come on and sing a few verses.  You are talking about Justin Bieber. He really launched this song here in the states when he did a verse on the remix.  Right that guy.   .  It is a little bit frustrating to know that there is a whole world of creative and rich and really diverse musicalities and genres in Latinx music and that one co-sign by one white guy that that is what it takes.   .   Despacito.  So it is a little bit exciting but it is also a little bit frustrating.  So this kind of leads to our second point about Latinx music this year. How do you even define the genre?  Yeah yeah. I mean I think the reality is that Latin just is not a genre right?  Exactly.  It is an ethnic denomination of a wide category of music genres - right? - like whether we are talking reggaeton or you know merengue or cumbia eledos or any number of genres that are really very different from each other.   So give us another song by a Latinx artist in 2017 that maybe our audience has not heard yet.  I chose a song called The Reverie by Arca.   .  Wow. It is a little trippy and quite dramatic.  Yes. Arca I would say is one of the most innovative experimentalists of our time.   .  So he is from Venezuela and the ways that he is using his voice - and the lyrics even - are from a song called Caballo Viejo which is a folk song in Venezuela.   .  It really takes on Venezuelan folk music as an area from which to jump off to become this completely different and richly textured and experimental music that sounds nothing like what we think Latino music is.   .  And that is sort of why I chose it. There is so much of what this song and this record is that is about Latinidad and it is about Venezuelan folk genres. But most people never recognize this as Latino music.  It is giving me some like post-industrial vibes. I like it.  Yes post-industrial apocalyptic - all of that.    It is Cardi...  All right. Last point - last trend of the year in Latinx music would be someone and a song that I think a lot of Americans would not consider to be Latinx. I am talking about Cardi B...    You cannot - with me if you wanted to. These expensive these is red bottoms these is bloody shoes.  ...Who had a No. 1 song this year with her hit Bodak Yellow.    And I am quick cut a - so do not get comfortable. Look I do not dance now.  People forget she is black but she is also Latina.  That is right. I was at a party the other day where somebody was like oh Cardi B's Latina? I was like yes.  She is from the DR right?  Yes. Well her father's Dominican and her mom's Trini.  Gotcha.  And so - and yes I think that we are so used to having our Latinas look like Sofia Vergara right? Having this like you know very light-skinned dark-haired version of like that is the only person who a Latina is when actually other Latinas this year have been killing it - not just Cardi B but folks like Ibeyi. And it is really important to lift that up as well.    I might just chill in some Bape. I might just chill with your boo. I might just feel on your baby. My - feel like a lake.  Veronica Flores thank you so much. Happy New Year.  Thank you. Happy New Year.    He buy me Yves Saint Laurent and the new whip. When I go fast as a horse I got the trunk in the front. I am the hottest in the street.  That was me and Veronica Flores. She has a podcast called Radio Menea. Now it is time for a quick break. When we come back Linda and I will take our turns describing our year in just three words. Plus a 2017 ultra-extended edition of my favorite game - Who Said That. You are listening to a special year-end episode of It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. We will be right back.   We are back with a special year-end edition of It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders here with Linda Holmes who covers pop culture for NPR. Hello Linda.  Hi Sam.  Susan Davis who covers Congress for NPR. Hey hey.  Hey Sam.  And R. Eric Thomas senior staff writer at elle.com. Is this your first time at NPR?  This is. Yeah. This is like...  OK.  It is like making a pilgrimage to the mother ship. I was like oh - I have arms full of totes.   I was so excited to be here.  Well we will give you a full tour once we are done with this.  Please do. Thank you.  And we get a discount the gift shop. So if you see anything let us know.  I am going to run through there like it is Supermarket Sweep.   All right. As part of our special year-end show we are each going to describe our year 2017 in three words. And we have each kind of focused those three words on the areas that we covered this year. Linda you are up next. You have three words to describe 2017. What are they?  My three words are new voices please. For me almost everything that really delighted me in 2017 in some way reflected either a voice that was new to me or someone that I knew doing something different from what I had seen them do before. If I look back at the things that made the biggest impression on me it was things like Get Out which...  Yeah.  I knew Jordan Peele but this was his directorial debut. Lady Bird - I knew Greta Gerwig but this was her directorial debut. The episode of Master Of None that Lena Waithe wrote - you know I knew her somewhat. But it was such a wonderful piece. And it had so much to say that I had not seen on television before. So that is the first reason those are my three words. Nevertheless you see every day how much work there still has to do in those areas. If you look at the Oscars if you look at the Emmys if you look at new TV there still continues to be a tremendous amount of work to do - broadening the voices that people are hearing and reading and seeing. It is like you get excited by individual examples but when you pull back the institutional stuff still needs a tremendous amount of attention. So that is a second reason. The third reason is that the Hollywood stories that came out in these last couple of months about harassment and poor treatment of women if you look at the work that is lost when lots and lots of people are not able to flourish because of the environments in which they are working it is really stunning to look back on the movies that did not happen and the writing that did not happen and the television that did not happen and the performances you never saw and the directors who never flourished. So I think there are undoubtedly many many stories like that - not to mention the non-famous people...  Yup.  Not only other non-famous people in the content world but all the other people in the world.  Yeah. What about those who work in craft services?  Absolutely.  What about those doing like all the other jobs?  Gosh absolutely. Part of the reckoning with that and with race and other things that Hollywood has not had that moment about yet is looking at how to find voices that have not had those opportunities for all of these reasons kind of combined. So my three words are new voices please.  Yeah. What big pop culture and big pop culture stories are you looking forward to next year Linda?  That is a great question. I think everything is so up in the air right now because things that felt - you know the direction it felt like things were going feels like it is really shifted in the last couple of months. I think right now Hollywood and the way people are processing entertainment feels very dominated by these kind of harassment stories. What I am looking forward to in 2018 - and I am trying to kind of look outside of this story but it is very difficult because it is so dominant in my own mind right now. But as I said there is a lot of work still to do around race. If you imagine what the white women were describing in terms of sexual harassment there is no reason to believe that that was not compounded...  Yes.  ...For other people...  By race.  ...By race or you know sexual identity or a variety of other things. And as you said or craft services or you know...  Yeah.  So what I am anticipating in 2018 is that you are going to 