 Hey you all. Sam here. So as 2020 comes to a close I have been thinking a lot about all the things that helped me get through this crazy year - chocolate-covered almonds shorts and pants with elastic waistbands Netflix countless pints of ice cream. But when I really think about it one of the things that I absolutely could not have survived 2020 without is public radio. Every day this year through the protests and the pandemic and the recession I have listened to an NPR podcast or an NPR member station or I have watched a Tiny Desk concert. So I give to multiple NPR member stations because I want public radio to be around next year as well. Listeners I am asking you right now to give to the NPR member station of your choosing because I bet that you relied on public radio a lot in 2020 just like me. When you give to your NPR member station that support flows through the entire public radio system to keep all of us including this little old show on the air. So go right now to this link - donate.npr.orgsam - and we will get through the rest of this year and 2021 together. Thank you.   Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. And today for the holidays we are bringing you some joy - pure unadulterated uncomplicated joy - listeners sharing stories of good things happening to them.  Hi Sam. This is Quincy  in St. Petersburg Fla.  Hi Sam. This is Barbara  in Urbana Ill.  And the best part of my week...  The best part of my week happened...  Best part of my week was that...  The best part of my week was when I had my first hug since before March 13.  But I just finished an eight-mile run to celebrate passing the New Mexico bar exam.  The best part of my week was realizing after working from home for seven months that I can order pizza for lunch and no one can stop me. I mean...  You know most weeks on the show we close with a little audio montage of listeners sharing the best things that have happened to them all week. And for years people have been bugging us to do an entire episode of just that. So we are doing it now. To say that this year was rough is a bit of an understatement. But good things have still been happening to good people and it is important to remember that. So for this episode we are going to revisit three of our favorite Best Things submissions from 2020 starting with one that was just as touching as it was simple.   Hi Sam. Well the best thing that happened to me this week is that I made a new friend. At my age - I just reached 75 - you do not make new friends every day. So it is kind of special. I am lucky to live along a road where there is a small lake and many walkers enjoy it. And there is one guy I have seen for many years now walking regularly about my age. And I managed the courage to say hi and he stopped and we chatted very enjoyably. Then we sat in my lawn chairs and chatted more. Then he left and I had a new friend. So thanks for your show Sam.  That is Gary Hines . He lives near Mallalieu Lake in Hudson Wis. I called up Gary because something as easy as saying hi to a stranger it feels almost extraordinary in 2020.   Hi. Gary can you hear me?  I can Sam.  How are you?  I am just fine and honored to have your call.  Well I am really excited to talk with you. When we played your voice memo on the show we heard from so many listeners.   Really?  And they were very very very surprised by how affected they were by your story. Some folks said it brought them joyful tears. You know they got emotional about it.  Wow.  And I am wondering if it is just something to do with this year of pandemic and isolation. I mean...  Sure.  ...Stories like yours I am guessing they mean a little bit more to everyone in this year where we feel a bit perhaps more alone than usual.  I think that is right. I mean I - as you say it I feel that way as well. It is hard to go - sort of go through life without making contact with people. That is a lot to ask.  Yeah.  It is difficult. And I think - yes I think that this would - I can see where it would be touching to hear someone just you know reaching out and sort of touching a stranger and we have become friends kind of right at the moment.  Yeah yeah. You know there are going to be a lot of people hearing you talk with me right now who say I do not make new friends. I do not do that.  .  I have passed the age of that or I get nervous about it or I do not like to do that. What advice would you have for listeners hearing you talk about your new friend?  Oh boy.  Advice for them on how to make some new friends and just you know say hi to folks?  My advice - you know it is really a kind of - get over your trepidation and isolation. It is so easy to kind of keep within yourself. It is the easier safer - and of course now you have the added excuse of - it is dangerous. But you know danger is - there is dangers in being alone too much too. There is a lot of ways to kind of connect. And just right now connecting is especially important.  What is your new friend's name?  Paul .  Paul OK. Now when you see your new friend now walk in the lake what are the conversations look like now? Do you all walk together? Do you just say hi? I mean you mentioned that he came and sat on your lawn chair.  No I have only - I have really only said hi. But I will tell you that having this conversation is - I am going to relay it to him. And...  Oh my goodness yes .  Oh I am looking forward to it very much  - just to say hey hey Paul I actually did end up talking with Sam Sanders and - because I had said to him a thing about our meeting. And I am sure it will be quite welcome.  Yeah. Well when you talk with Paul tell him I said hello...  I will.  ...And that I appreciate the both of you. And Gary I am going to just go ahead and say that you are my friend too now.  All right. Boy that is an honor and I appreciate it. I will feel the same. And I do enjoy your show. I always listen to it.   Thanks again to Gary Hines. Coming up a listener reunites with his mother who ended up far from home - six months later.   For the show today we are revisiting some of the stories we heard from listeners sharing the best parts of their weeks with us in 2020. Hector Zaanoni sent us this voice memo earlier this year.   Hi Sam. This is Hector from Boston. What is making me happy this week is that after six months of being stranded alone in South America due to the pandemic my mom is finally returning back to the family tomorrow here in Boston. It took six months lots of failed attempts many video calls and many birthday celebrations together over the phone. And after two humanitarian flights she will be boarding a flight from Lima to Miami tonight and will be in Boston again with the family tomorrow Saturday. This is making me really happy this week and will keep our family really really happy for a long time. Thank you.   Wow. So you sent that to us back in September. Your mom ended up making it to Boston all right?  Yeah luckily everything worked out really really well.  OK. And so I mean I guess - to go back to the beginning how did she get stranded in Lima Peru all by herself?  Oh actually - so she actually got stranded in Caracas Venezuela to be specific.  Oh OK.  Yeah.  Walk me through that.  So it is - that is why it took six months to get her here .  Oh my goodness. That is crazy.  Yeah. So she - we are originally from Peru. So my mom and my dad were both in Lima February or so. And right before my dad came back to the States my mom decided to take a week to go to Venezuela which is where I grew up so we also have family ties there.  Gotcha.  And she was ready to come back on a Monday I remember. And then she called me on Saturday and she said hey I realized that the flights that are usually are - coming back to Peru have been canceled for Sunday. Can you look into Monday flights? And this was the weekend the middle of March weekend where the majority of the U.S. started to shut down. So she got stuck in Venezuela. And you know Venezuela and the U.S. do not have the best diplomatic relationship nowadays.  That is an understatement.   Yeah exactly. So because of it I - my dad and I had this sort of double approach to try to get - how to get her back. So I was coordinating the U.S. side through Colombia but there was no way to get to Colombia by car or by flight. So my dad worked on our Peruvian side. So he started to communicate with the Peruvian consulate. And after months - it took months and months and months to try to get any flights to happen because it was super limited and then they kept getting canceled last minute. And then also like I have to mention that my mom was alone in Venezuela except for her - one of her sisters who happened to be in Caracas also at the same time. So she - like my aunt - my tia Gloria  she - above and beyond. Like she took care of my mom. She helped her navigate through - like the other thing that happened that was really really sad is that my mom's birthday was April 13 and on her birthday her mom passed away in Peru.  Oh my goodness. And she could not be there for that - or could she?  She could not be there for that.  Oh my goodness.  Yeah. No she could not because she was in Venezuela.  I am so sorry.  So - yeah so it was really really sad to try to navigate through the loss and through communicating with my mom about it. And you know she was so far away.  Could you all call her during that time she was stuck down there?  Yeah. So we were lucky as far...  What were those calls like?  ...Oh it was wild because the other thing is that imagine - like my mom is super energetic super focused super driven.  Yeah yeah.  But I mean she is all by herself and she is like you know close to 70. And she is stuck in - we live in this tall apartment building in Caracas that is you know 16 stories high. And this is the other thing is Venezuela is Venezuela especially in 2020 so a lot of infrastructure things are not really there. So the elevator was not working. And then sometimes there was no power. And sometimes there was no water. So it was really - try to keep her engaged. This also goes back to my dad. My dad had like a daily call with her just to make sure she was OK. And then you know anything that could happen happened in the sense of you know her phone broke and we needed to find a way to get her a phone.  Oh my God.  Like how do you do that? And yeah so it was tough. And it was you know a solid six months of us trying to keep the family super engaged and then also making sure that she has everything that she needed.  Wow. What was the reunion like? Like did you all meet her at Boston Logan like at the airport? Like walk me through that moment when you see her again?  It was amazing. So it is funny So the - she is super cautious about it so she had like a jumpsuit and then her mask and then her like Plexiglas shield.  Oh my goodness.  And we just saw her come down the escalators. And it was just wonderful. Like my sisters were there. My nieces and nephews were there. So the twelve of us the big 12 were all together to greet her. And she was just so happy to see us and we were so happy to see her.  Please tell me you had a sign. Did you have a sign for her?   Oh my God. Oh my God. I have to share with you the photo. It is like all the little kids. All my nieces and nephews made signs. And there were so many cute little signs that they made.  Oh my goodness. What was your mom's reaction in that moment when she saw you all?  Oh my gosh. She was really happy. And she got a little teary and cried. But no but it was great. She knew that you know - that we were all together.  What is been the best thing that is happened to you and your family since she is been back?  It is been so many things. So on my mom's side of things it is great to have her back. She is back living with my dad which is good because they really like being with each other.  Yeah.   Yeah especially after such a long time of being apart. And then my dad had applied to become a U.S. citizen. That first few weeks of September a lot of things went down in a good way. Like so my mom came back. And then on the week after my dad had the citizenship test. And then two weeks later we had a you know COVID outdoor ceremony for his naturalization.  That is a big year. That is a big year for your family.  Yeah. And he voted for his first time in the U.S.  Whoa.  Yeah it is so many things. It is been you know - in the middle of everything that is been so tough especially those months apart with my mom it is good to see that the year's ending with us together which I think is...  On a high note with you all together yeah.  ...Yeah I think it is the most important values that my parents always impressed on us like the importance of us being together even through you know distance.   Well I am glad everything worked out. I am glad that your family is all together. And I hope that your 2021 is a lot less dramatic.  Here's to that - and everybody worldwide please.   Yes yes worldwide.  Let us have a very boring and safe 2021 please.  Yeah. Well tell your mom I said hi and that I really think she is a real one. She is a G...  She is absolutely.  ...For real.  She is the G of the family.   Thanks again to Hector Zaanoni. All right stay with us. Coming up a listener shares her story of giving a stranger a kidney during the pandemic.  Hey this is Hector Zaanoni here with my mom...  .  ...Wishing everybody a happy holiday this year.  .  Thank you.   I think it just sounds like wind. OK back to the show.  Hi Sam this is Deborah  in Walnut Creek Calif. On July 9 I donated a kidney to someone that I did not know. I would been on the donor list since January was delayed for a few months because of the pandemic. And then goodness overcame evil and a match was found. And my recipient is doing great. I am doing great. And I just wanted to share our three-month anniversary of new life for him - so just wanted to give a wahoo for a little bit of happy. Thanks Sam.  Wow. Wow.  .  It is just amazing. It gives me chills hearing it back. I remember when we played that on the show we came out of it and I gave a little wahoo on the radio as well.  I know. I loved that.   I just - I was like oh God. He said wahoo .  Oh I loved it all. Well you know what it was? I realized I have seen over the years stories on TV of people sharing a kidney with a stranger. You know I watch a bunch of Grey's Anatomy and I think that plot line's happened four or five times.   Yeah.  I have never talked with someone that did that in real life...  Yeah.  ...That gave a kidney to a stranger in real life. What made you want to do that?  Yeah. Boy that is such a loaded question. So guess how many times I have been asked that?  You know it is a combination of things. And I - it is the funniest thing - is that all roads in life seem to always go back to NPR because...  Oh.  ...Oh yeah. You say - I do not know maybe three years ago listening to Freakonomics Radio...  Yeah.  ...And my friend Stephen Dubner he had someone on - I cannot remember his name - Steve something or other I do not know - and his segment was about how many thousands of people are on the kidney waitlist. And it is just like not enough people can die to provide those kidneys and not enough living people are willing to do that. And so I listened and it caught me. And then it was over and life moved on. And I think it just - it stuck in my brain. And then lots of family members have died within a seemingly short period of time - two sisters a brother both parents within you know - I do not know - eight years or something. And it is like God. And you cannot...  That is a lot. I am sorry.  ...Well and - but you - you know what? And it was one of those things where it was not anything that anyone could fix. It was leukemia. It was dementia. It was whatever. And it occurred to me - and I do not know exactly when - this donation kept rising to the forefront of my heart and I could not let it go.  When did the procedure itself take place?  It was on July 9. So we are coming up on our fifth anniversary here fifth month.  Wow. So then that raises another question for me. The transplant itself - you going under the knife to give a kidney to a stranger - that happened in the midst of the pandemic you know?   I know. Is not that wild?  Well I could see a lot of people saying once the pandemic hits take me off that list...  .  Because I am not doing procedures like this in the midst of coronavirus. What made you say I am going to stay on?  Yeah I was so worried that it was not going to happen because...  Yeah.  ...Just because there is a pandemic does not mean that people waiting on the donor list are getting better. And so when the unit - the transplant unit did put a halt to everything for a few months...  Really? Oh wow.  ...Yeah it was like oh my gosh. I mean really I was sick. I just felt - I was like oh no - because it should have happened pretty quickly. And so then I got a call from my coordinator in June. And every step along the way - I do have to tell you the experience was magical. Oh my gosh. It was just - I am a science person. I am a science teacher and I believe in science. But I have to tell you that this was more than science. It was just magic.  Aw. How long is one under when they give a kidney? I do not know.   I do not - yeah why would you know that? It was probably - I want to say like maybe five hours from the time they rolled me in. And the funniest thing is the stuff that I do not remember actually...  .  ...Because apparently in the midst of the anesthetic I had asked the surgeon to take a picture of my kidney which I have no memory of.   I love it.  Yeah you know? What...  Listen. There are worse things you can ask while under anesthesia so it could be worse OK?   I was worried - yeah that is the only thing they told me. Who knows what else I said?  .  So now I have a picture of my kidney in my photo roll. It is just a kick.  I love it.  Oh my goodness.  I love it. Do you know who got your kidney?  I do. Now I do.  Tell me all about them.  Actually in the hospital I was looking for him because we were on the same floor obviously.  Stop it. You were like - you were walking around looking ...  I was totally stalking him...  Oh my goodness.  ...I eliminated all of the rooms I knew he was not in just thinking that I could get a peek even though I know it was against the rules. And I actually did stalk one guy for a while because I knew that the recipient was a 33-year-old fella. And I am thinking God OK I have gender-fluid organs. That No. 1 is really cool.  .  And so this guy walks past my room and - definitely 30-ish looking. And I thought oh my God what if that is him? I did not know.  Yeah.  So I - yeah I trailed him. And I struck up an odd conversation starting with hey you win the interesting bathrobe award for the day. And darn it no...  Where is your scar? .  Yeah.  There is your best pick up line ever. Why are you here?   And then it was like oh liver donor. Oh doggone it.  Ah rats.  OK rats.   So I sort of had to give up after I realized that a recipient would be down for the count for a few more days. Little did I know that my person also really wanted to meet me...  OK. That is good.  ...Which I did not know at the time. And our coordinator - we both had the same person shepherding us through this process - said that I could write him a letter. And if he chose to respond then that is how we would do this. And so of course my you know three-page sort of manifesto about ...  Yeah.  ...This is me and this is my - this was my intention. And I do not know. I guess I meant...  What line of the letter do you recall the most?  Oh that I think it was for him to have his life back. And so we started emailing and then texting. And I talked to him all the time.  Oh my goodness.  We have a one-year anniversary party planned all fingers crossed for next July.  Yeah yeah.  And it is just so lovely because he is just the nicest person. We have spoken quote-unquote deeply about how this has connected us and affected us.  Yeah.  And I mean it is just meant to be.  Yeah. Is not the human body such a wonderful miracle and gift?  It is crazy.  The things it can do you know?  Yes. Now see I could be a liver donor too because that will be...  OK now. OK now Deborah. OK. Slow down.  No no more. Take more.   Oh man. You are - you are just...  Jeez.  ...You are just pure of heart. You just pure of heart. I can just hear this giving spirit you have and I appreciate that. Last question for you...   Oh man. Yes. Oh no.  This has been such a hard year and such a weird year for so many people. And it has been such a year of great loss for so many folks in America and across the world for a number of reasons. But in this year of loss and suffering you have given this really big gift to a stranger who has now become a friend. And I think listeners hearing this story are going to be inspired to be more generous themselves. What do you hope the moral of this story...  .  ...Your kidney transplant story in the midst of this awful year - what do you hope the lesson is here for folks listening to this?  Oh man. You know it is - this was the bright and shining spark in my world. And I think that to be able to share something like this really does give someone their life back. The National Kidney Foundation has the sort of - it is sort of a phrase that they use. It is the big ask and it is the big give. And I did not get asked. But I did do...  But you gave.  ...But I gave because somebody was asking without asking. And it was the right thing to do. And if it had not been the right thing to do it would have felt uncomfortable. But again never once one moment on the path did I feel like I was faltering. And it was just lovely.   Thanks again to Deborah Walker. And thanks to all of our listeners who throughout this year and several other years send in voice memos every week sharing the best parts of their weeks. We appreciate all of them. All right listeners till Friday thank you for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Happy holidays. We will talk soon.  