 Is that Yamiche?  Oh my God Sam I might cry . I miss you so much.   It is so good to - I miss you too. Oh my God. So people listening on this call might not know but like you were my Bernie buddy. We...  Yes.  ...Were on that Bernie bus for months and I would not have survived that campaign without you .  Not at all . I would have withered...  We were...  ...And died .  ...In it. We were in it. I knew Yamiche was destined for greatness when I would see her in those Bernie gaggles. One he did not do too many gaggles. But when he would show up Yamiche was always like oh I got something for you.   You gonna hear this question sir.  Oh my gosh.  See and that is when you know it is good - when you like oh I got something for him. I got...  .  I got something for you today .  Right.  And it is...  And now...  ...Equal opportunity. It is going to be hard questions for all of them.  Oh for everybody.  Right and then...  No no no. It is for everybody. Whoever show up you gonna get it today.   Right. And now I am like in the briefing room watching Ayesha be like OK Ayesha what are we - what is going on? Are we gonna survive this...   ...Today?   Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week President Biden's year. All right. Let us start the show.  Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders.   Please raise your right hand and repeat after me.  It has been almost one year since this happened.   ...Solemnly swear.  I Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. do solemnly swear...  That we were all reminded that Joe Biden's middle name is Robinette also that he was sworn in as our 46th president of the United States.   And will to the best of my ability...  And will to the best of my ability...  That day marked an end to a tumultuous four years under Donald Trump - a four years that ended with an insurrection on the U.S. Capitol just a few weeks before Biden was sworn in. In contrast Joe Biden's inauguration was pretty quiet and heavily secured.   I have to tell you as we have been waiting here - it seems as if they deliberated whether or not he would get out of the car - I was struck by just how quiet it was. You know I have been along...  But this was the America Joe Biden had to work with an America that was hurt and divided and in the middle of an ongoing pandemic...   Tonight the delta variant is COVID's most serious threat.  ...An unsure economy...   The Build Back Better bill is passed.  ...And a looming deadline in a decades-long war.   The President defended his decision to end the war in Afghanistan August 31.  I judged that it was not in the national interest in the United States of America to continue fighting in this war indefinitely.  On the show we are taking some time at the end of 2021 to look back at some of the biggest stories of the year and this episode is Joe Biden's turn. Nearly one year into his presidency what has Biden accomplished so far? And what promises has not yet been able to keep? For this chat I invited two friends and rock stars - Yamiche Alcindor White House correspondent for the PBS NewsHour and moderator of Washington Week and Ayesha Rascoe who you hear a lot on this show. She is an NPR White House correspondent and frequent guest host on It is BEEN A MINUTE.   I want to  open this conversation about Joe Biden and his almost whole first year with a little game I used to play on the show but kind of stopped. So I used to have my guests - when they came on for the weekly wrap episodes I had them describe their week of news in three words. And we stopped doing it because everyone stressed out about it and they would like spend hours trying to find the perfect three words. And I was like it as not that serious.   But as a thought exercise on Joe Biden I want you both to just think for a second and tell me three words to describe Joe Biden's almost whole first year.  Yeah. Competently chaotic roller coaster.   Is roller coaster one word? I made that one word.  We gonna let it be one word today.  .  Tell me what you mean by this three words.  Well here's the thing. I think Biden came into office certainly with experience and competence. And he has like one of the most experienced White Houses of recent memory right? But then they also came in at this point of just chaos right? Like - and one big thing that I do want to point out is like Trump when he came in he came in at a point of relative prosperity. There were not like a lot of crises. Like for his first three years all the crises were made by him. So he was able to kind of glide in whereas you have Biden coming in in a chaotic moment. And then also everything's like a roller coaster. Everything's like up and down and all around. And so...  Yeah.  ...I think that is what he is been dealing with. Like it is very - it is a very different scenario than what you know say you know Trump came into.  It is almost the polar opposite. It is like...  It is.  ...Biden came in projecting efficiency and competence to a world that is kind of on fire.  Yes.  Whereas Donald Trump walked into a world that was much calmer but the chaos came from like...  From him.  ...Inside the house.   It was like...  Yeah.  It was like he was the bull in the china shop.  It is true. I like that. Yamiche three words?  It is such a great point by Ayesha. And it is I think not surprising that I also thought of chaos and big bills.  OK.  Because I think the thing that Democrats I think are very concerned about is the fact that they did get some really big bills through. They got the American rescue package. They got the bipartisan infrastructure bill. They might get the Build Back Better Act. These are transformational huge like just big big big bills. We cannot even talk about the idea that trillion-dollar bills were a thing that happened more than once a year more than once a generation. But here...  Yeah.  ...Is President Biden pushing all these big bills through. The problem is whether or not he is going to be able to get credit for some of the good that comes out of these big bills or if Republicans are going to be able to convince people that while they are struggling and while they are looking for a job that the federal government's wasting money.  Exactly. Well and also you know when I think of like what Joe Biden has faced this year and what all of America is facing this year - this past year - is just I guess my three words are lots of confusion. Just the economy by some metrics we are doing really well. You know unemployment is low again. The stock market is up. You know low-wage workers are making more money now. All of these things sound good right? But you ask the average American how they feel about the economy - they are scared. They do not know what is happening next and inflation is going up. And it is like literally best of times worst of times. And the same feeling I have with the pandemic. On the one hand I know it is getting better. But on the other hand I keep seeing the whole Greek alphabet with these variants. And I am like when does it stop? And so...  It keeps going. Yeah.  Yeah yeah. And so it just feels like especially when you are trying to make sense of how a president is doing it is hard to do that in this kind of upside down downside up moment that we are in. But I do want to take some time with both of you to unpack what is perhaps the biggest accomplishment of Joe Biden's almost first year so far. And that is those big bills that you all mentioned. Can both of you give our listeners a quick rundown of what the bills that he is passed as far as spending - what they are actually doing and how big they actually are?  Well I will take the American Rescue Plan if that is OK Yamiche .  Yeah of course.  I would say...  Go ahead Ayesha.  Yeah yeah.   OK I am going to go ahead. Now so the American Rescue Plan that was a lot of money out the door to try to help people in the midst of the pandemic. It was meant to be temporary relief. The big thing - one of the biggest things out of that was the child tax credit the expansion of it and that it is basically refundable. Starting in July up until this month families with children who make a certain amount of money have been able - or you know below the threshold - have been able to get money directly from the government. Like the IRS just puts that money into their accounts. That child tax credit has dramatically lowered child poverty in the U.S. especially for Black and brown children. So it did a lot of things but it is so big and so massive that we have polling out from NPR the NPRMarist Poll and most people do not credit Biden with the American Rescue Plan nor do they feel like these payments help them. People are saying they do not even know if they are getting the child tax payment and that they do not think...  Really?  ...It is helpful to them. Yes this is what...  And that is crazy because...  ...The poll is showing.  ...You compare it - well and like I am just hearing you say that and I am comparing that to what Trump did when he sent out the first round of COVID stimulus. He signed every check.  .  Remember that?  He sent...  He signed...  He sent letters...  ...Every check.  He sent letters to people and Biden did too. Biden sent some letters to people.  OK. OK.  But they are not crediting Biden or really Democrats with it. Like it is not like a...  Yeah.  ...Large amount of people. Like I think the wild thing is 17 of people credited Republicans with direct payments even though...  Wow.  ...No Republicans voted for it . And the same amount...   Oh my goodness.  ...Seventeen percent felt that Biden was most responsible so - for sending the cash. So that is not...  Oh my goodness.  ...That is not a good...  That is - wow.  That is - yeah.  Yeah. Not good for Joe Biden. So - all right so that is one big spending bill. What is the other one?  The other one is the trillion-dollar bipartisan infrastructure bill. And I should say - I call it...  The BIF.  It is - the BIF.   BIF - I cannot even.   And then there is the - I cannot with these acronyms. But then there is - and with the 1 trillion there is actually 550 billion of actual new funds. But this new spending is going to be for roads. It is bridges. It is expanding broadband access. So this is really I would say the hard infrastructure bill. It was also - I have to underscore again bipartisan Republicans voted for this. That was something that the president campaigned on. So this is a really really big bill. The issue of course is that there is also this second bill that Democrats are trying to get done. It is the B-B-B not the B-I-F. It is the Build Back Better Act which is Democrats wanting to focus more on what they call human infrastructure and that deals with climate change. It deals with all sorts of - sort of other issues home health aides and all sorts of things. But this is still this 1 trillion infrastructure bill. It is really really big. It is going to help Americans. Americans are going to be able to see this. And much like the American Rescue Act Republicans are already taking credit for it. Republicans are - and yes of course they voted for it. But they are taking credit for it and sort of not giving credit to the president. So it is in some ways very interesting. This is again another sort of challenge for this administration to really...  Yeah.  ...Take credit.  Yeah. You know and it is so fascinating to see Joe Biden not getting the credit that he wants for these big bills he and his party were able to get through. While on the other hand a lot of things that he has less control over he is getting heat for. And I want to kind of pivot and talk about the things that are seemingly outside of a president's control or not as much in his control as some might think. I am talking about inflation. I am talking about gas prices. I am talking about this recent few months of really weird COVID-related supply chain issues. All of those things Biden is getting some flak for but he really cannot control it as much as he wants to or folks think he can. How do those variables that are not under his control - how are they factoring into what his first year has been?  I mean they are factoring I think in a big way into how his first year has gone. And I would add to that list omicron the new Greek letter...  Yeah.  ...That we all had to learn. I am an Alpha...  Yeah.  ...Kappa Alpha Sorority incorporated sister so...   ...I knew...  Oh she had to throw that in there.  I knew the letter.  She had to throw that in there.  Just you know I was very...   I was very very familiar with omicron and how to say it and pronounce it. But other people were - you know had to learn. And - but what we got from that I would say is that he is having to also deal with the backlash of people being exhausted. Add to that as you said inflation and all these other things and really I think what you get is that he is sort of having to deal with the grief - the president that is - having to deal with the - sort of Americans just not feeling good about the world and not feeling certain about their futures. Inflation in particular - Nixon had to deal with it Jimmy Carter had to deal with it LBJ tried to deal with it. All of them really failed to deal with the issue of inflation. The president's trying his best. And when it comes to gas prices he released some barrels. Like I think it is 50 million barrels.  Fifty million. Yeah.  Fifty million...  Wow.  ...Barrels from this reserve to try to get gas prices down. But in some ways he is grasping at things and trying to make people essentially feel better about their lives. And that is a really hard thing to do.  Yeah yeah. Well and then when you see presidents of either party pass the kind of bills that might drastically reshape the economy you do not feel the effects for a while. You do not feel it for a few years you know? And so it is also though this larger issue of messaging for Democrats. You know there are the types of things and policies that Democrats have been talking about - infrastructure climate change et cetera. But then there are the big issues that Americans seem to be most into right now - gas prices inflation disruptions in buying stuff. And how much of this is a messaging problem and like a focus problem? Does it just feel like Joe Biden is not focusing enough on the stuff people think presidents should focus the most on?  I do think that part of it is absolutely a messaging issue. Like that second big bill that Yamiche talked about the BBB what is that bill? Is it - can we give three words for what that is?  Nobody can.  No.  Jen Psaki cannot do it.  .  Joe Biden cannot do it. Nobody can summarize that bill.  You cannot summarize it because it is so big and massive. And the problem with that is people do not - you cannot just quickly summarize it. It is universal pre-K. It is climate change. It is all of these investments - the care economy. I mean the same thing happened with Obamacare really right? Like...  Yeah.  ...People were all worked up about Obamacare. They did not like it duh duh duh duh . And then when states started putting up exchanges they were like oh I like this exchange where I can go get some health care...  Yep yep.  ...But I hate Obamacare. I do not want none of that. Like...  Yeah.  ...It is just like - it is really the same thing. But I also think there is a difference. When Democrats do certain things there is an idea that they are helping people but they may be helping the wrong people.  Explain.  There is an idea - and I think we saw this with health care - where health care was looked at as reparations right? People did not like Obamacare because they felt like it was reparations and helping people who were not deserving. And so sometimes when people are giving out checks and you are giving out child tax you are like oh but it helps everybody. But sometimes people look at that and go OK well I do not know that everyone deserves to be helped.  And it is such a great point. Only because we also - I mean what Ayesha's touching on is also that we live in this country where I think the biggest difference - as someone who is covered Bernie Sanders and then former President Donald Trump - that the biggest difference is not sort of what people think the problems are - it is that they do not have good access to health care or education or they want to make more money - but it is who do they blame for that?  Yes.  And on the one side you had Bernie Sanders who was blaming billionaires and saying that these are the people that you should really have an issue with. But on the Republican side and specifically when it comes to the former president you had Donald Trump saying well it is the immigrants. It is the Black people. And I think we have to also just think that - I think race plays a role in that because...  Yes.  ...When you - when Ayesha just mentioned that it is like of course there are some people who think like who are these people that are getting these checks? And of course it is the sort of ridiculous stereotype of Black people in particular being lazy given the fact that of course African Americans built this country for free. So I think that you know...  Yes.  For free.  You know...  Yeah.  ...For free.  Yes for free.  Yeah.  Yes.  So I just think that that is part of it too.   All right. Coming up more with Yamiche Alcindor and Ayesha Rascoe on President Joe Biden's year.   You know we cannot talk about Joe Biden's first year without talking about Afghanistan and America's withdrawal from that nation under his leadership. A large swath of Americans - Republicans and Democrats - felt that it was handled pretty badly. And some of the images you saw of that withdrawal they looked bad enough to ruin anyone's presidency. You know we are now months away from that withdrawal. Does it look in hindsight that Joe Biden handled it better or worse than people thought?  What stood out - I mean when you talk about those images - and Yamiche asked one of the key questions ahead of that withdrawal - and it was his answer - Biden in his answer to Yamiche where he said you will not have to worry about seeing people evacuated from the embassy in helicopters and that did not turn out to be true. Look what happened in Afghanistan was not just a President Biden issue right? This was years of...  Decades.  ...Issues - decades of issues. And then he decided to withdraw. Was there a way to withdraw in a - that was better or that was more helpful or that could have saved more people? There are arguments that there were. They certainly did not prepare the American people for what was going to happen and what it was going to look like.  Yeah I mean I think that the images - I mean who will ever forget the images of human beings clinging to airplanes and them dying because they fell off the airplane on the tarmac? I mean those were chilling images. And of course President Biden was saying you know we cannot stay here. The Afghans do not want to fight this war for themselves. But at the end of the day it was his decision. It was on his watch that these images came out and I think that it really did damage to his presidency. I also think it did damage his image because I think not only did it maybe do the momentary damage of people not liking the way he pulled out - even if in 20 years from now people will say well that was the right decision - there was also just a momentum issue. I think before Afghanistan there was this feeling like from the Biden administration they got this. They are doing this. We are doing the stuff that former President Trump did not do. Like the Democrats are feeling good about all the things that they are doing. Afghanistan happens and that sort of stalls. It sort of becomes like oh my gosh what are you guys doing? Why is this the best thing that you could have done as the most experienced White House as you build yourself out to be? So I think there became this credibility issue. And I think that he is still trying to shake that.  Yeah yeah. We are almost done here but I have to ask both of you veteran reporters covering politics...  Well veteran means old.  ...This first year...  I do not know about...  I do not know veteran. What are you trying to say?  Seasoned.  Oh we seasoned.  Experienced. Marinated.   My bad. My bad. OK the question is - forgive that. The question is - what has surprised both of you the most about Joe Biden's first year?  I think what is probably surprised me the most is that there is been so much chaos. Because I thought it would be boring and they sold it as being boring. But in reality we have...  They said that. They are like we are going to be boring. You can forget about us.  They like ran on boring.  We are going to be so quiet. That was the whole pitch.  And I think that I did not realize that it was going to be chaotic in a different way. Of course as Ayesha said smartly this was not sort of chaos a lot of times that they were creating for themselves but it was a lot of just like moments where you were like wait what? What is going on? And I also think you know I have to say you know the president said he would have Black people's backs. I think he is done a lot that African Americans have cheered on and feel very very comfortable continuing to support him. That being said there are some key issues that still have not had the sort of headway including voting rights including policing reform. And I would also add the Haitian migrant crisis. As someone who is Haitian American I can tell you that crisis and the image of border officials using horse reigns against Black people and using horses to run down Black people at the border it did real damage to this administration. And I think that was something that surprised me because I think - I talked to a lot of people who thought this is not what I expected under the Biden administration.  I would say what surprised me the most is like really - and I do not know whether it also - I feel like it has also surprised the administration - it is just like how COVID it has stuck around right? Like I think you went into the new year and there was that point where people stopped wearing masks. I know people do not - there is...  It was like a good month where you are like we are free.  Yeah.  And then they are like sike.  Yeah and I mean I know a lot of places they do not wear masks. Anyway but I am talking about at the White House like people stopped wearing masks. And it was like look go out. We are going to have Fourth of July. It is going to be fun. And then it all went - then delta hit and it was like oh this is not going away. And so - and I feel like this administration is still dealing with that. But he clearly thought they would be in a different place with the virus than they are now.  Yeah. You know I have been surprised and not surprised because this is a constant truth. But I have just noticed most this year how weird the presidency is and how much they actually cannot do. You know the president right now cannot control Congress. He cannot control that Supreme Court. He cannot control the economy. But he is tied to all of those things. And I think the story of Joe Biden's first year for me is just this master class of what you can and cannot do. And when I say master class what I am saying is life is going to teach every president how much they cannot control. And I want to say that the Biden administration came in kind of saying well actually no and global affairs and domestic affairs are like actually yes.   Yeah.  You cannot run everything Joe Biden...  No.  ...No president can - like that is the moral of the first Biden year for me.  And that is the thing is that it is like a lot of people will forever believe that presidents can create jobs. They really do not. They really do not have that much effect on the stock market or creating jobs. But they get the credit when things are good and they also get the blame when things are bad. And that is just the way it is.  That is just the way it - what a wonderful way to end the segment. And that is the way it is. Cue Celine.    That is the way it is. That is the way it is.  One of my favorite Celine songs.  It is what it is.  Yes. Yes.   On that note Yamiche Ayesha thank you all for breaking it down. Will you all stick around and play a game with me after this?  Yes. Thanks so much.  Thank you. And sure I am excited.    And that is the way it is.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders joined by two guests who have a lot of jobs and titles so I will just let the two of them introduce themselves.  Ayesha Rascoe White House correspondent for NPR.  Yamiche Alcindor White House correspondent for PBS NewsHour and moderator of PBS' Washington Week.  I love it. I love it. So I am going to ask both of you right now to take off your political reporting hats and put on your pop culture hats so we can play a game called Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  That sounds fun. I am ready.  I am ready to lose because I already know it is going to be rough.   And actually I should not have said that so quickly because the first quote is actually kind of political.  OK.  So you all might be able to get it really quickly. Here is a quote. It is from the news this week. It is should we just send a free COVID test to every American? Who said that?  Jen Psaki.   Yes.   Oh my goodness.  White House press secretary.  Yeah.  Tell our listeners what happened with that because it was a moment.  So it was our very own Mara Liasson national political correspondent who at the White House briefing was asking Jen basically why are not at-home tests more readily available. And then Jen she got a little - she can be a little snippy sometimes. I mean I can say that. She you know she answers the question...  Yeah yeah.  ...But she can get a little snippy.  Yeah .  And so she got a little testy and was like...   Should we just send one to every American?  ...And Mara was like...   Maybe.   Yeah. Well also I am like as an American sure go ahead you know. You all sent us all checks last year. Send us tests for COVID this year.  .  It was amazing to watch because Mara did not back down or blink an eye. She was like maybe. It is your job to figure it out.   Then what happens if every American has one test? How much does that cost? And then what happens after that?  All I know is that other countries seem to be making them available for - in greater quantities for less money.   It is like I am not the president.  Mara said I said what I said.  And they do in other countries send out tests.  Really?  And tests here as someone who has stockpiled them because you know with the kids and everything like that they are like 20 for two tests or 24 for two tests.  Yeah.  If you have a family of five and you are buying boxes and boxes that quickly adds up.  Mmm hmm.  Yeah. I remember last year at one point I paid for a COVID test that was like 200.  Oh Lord.  And I am just like what? How? What? Also I mean I guess for me the lesson here with this Jen Psaki quote is like there are moments to be snarky and sarcastic and there are moments to not be snarky and sarcastic. And when Mara Liasson is asking you a question do not be snarky and sarcastic with her.  No .  Mara do not play.  No.  She is not the one and today is not the day. Anyhoo  that first point goes to Ayesha. Here is the next quote. This is a famous pop star. Here's the quote. It was the only picture I ever posted myself and then they took my password away from me again.  Britney Spears?   Another pop star who just put out a really big album.  Adele.  Yes.   Yay. Oh my god.  Do you know what photo she is talking about?  I have no idea.  You got the point. You got the point Yamiche.  You gave me a hint of artist that got a big album. I have been listening to Adele on rotation so...  You know I love Adele but I cannot listen to her for too long because it just brings me the sad.  It makes you sad?  And I - it makes me sad. I think I got through half of this album and was like girl I feel you. This is beautiful music but I cannot do that right now. I cannot go to that place with you right now. Anyhoo...  I have been living in that place with her. I have been living...  .  And I am like oh my God I am happily married and I am still listening to this stuff. My husband's like are we good? And I am like yeah we are good I guess. But like I am going to go listen to Adele some more.  No you know it is bad when - because sometimes you know if I am singing like Beyonce or something like you know you get real into it. My husband will be like...  Yeah.  ...What is going on?   Right.  Like why are you singing it with that type of emotion? But it is like I feel it like...  I know. I know. It is tough. I have been having like Woman Like Me on rotation. My husband's just like I do not understand.    You as not never had as not never had a woman like me. It is so sad a man like you could be so lazy.   So this quote from Adele it came from a conversation she had on a YouTube influencer channel called NikkieTutorials. And in this conversation she was talking about a really controversial photo of her that was on her Instagram last year. If you will remember in August of 2020 she posted a photo which was meant to celebrate the Notting Hill Carnival to celebrate Caribbean culture. But in that photo Adele kind of dressed up in Caribbean drag . She had her hair...  Yeah. Yes.  ...In Bantu knots.  Yeah.  She had a bikini with the Jamaican flag on it.  Yeah.  Yes.  A lot of people on the internet - Black people on the internet - were like Adele what you doing? Remember that?  Yeah it was kind of like - what you call it? - Tom Hanks' son. It was a little like that. Not as bad but...  A little Chet Hanks.  It was a little Chet. But it was not as bad but it was a little like...  You know I saw it and I was like if I am going to give any white person the benefit of the doubt on appropriation it is going to be Adele. I just feel like she is always invited to the cookout. I do not know. I love that woman.  Yeah. I do not think she meant any harm by it at all. Like I said she was not like Chet out there you know speaking in patois or whatever. Like she was not doing that.  Right.   Although I will say I have heard on more than one occasion like reggae remixes of Adele songs. I think the Caribbean vibes with Adele. I am just saying.    Hello can you hear me? I am in California dreaming about who we used to be.  Who got that point?  Yamiche. Yamiche got that. So now we are tied.  OK the game is tied. It is tied. Just tell me what story we are talking about when I read this. Quote In the morning of course we changed the bed linen and bedspreads and it was ready for customers at 10 oclock.  Wow.  What store had to change the bed sheets in the store recently because some customers stayed overnight?   What?  What are you talking about right now?  You all did not see this?  Pottery Barn?   If I ever get stuck in a Pottery Barn Lord take me out of here. Yeet  me out of there.  Right.  My God.  Ikea?   Yes. Yes.  Oh wow. They got stuck?  Yeah. You all did not see this?  No I did not see this at all.  Yeah yeah. I mean so this story is so heartwarming and it is probably going to be a Netflix movie in like three months. That quote comes from Peter Elmose. He is a store manager for an Ikea in Aalborg Denmark. So the story is this - this Ikea in Denmark got hit by a really bad snowstorm and that meant that like 25 workers and six customers got stranded in the Ikea overnight.  Oh my goodness.  But they made it a fun time. They said it was a once-in-a-lifetime experience. They ate in the cafeteria at the Ikea.  Yes.  They played games. They watched Christmas movies. They had hot cinnamon buns. And they slept in the showroom beds. Kind of sounds like an adult field trip - like adult night camp. I love it. I want it. It sounds delightful.  No it really does. And I do love Ikea and I do love being in Ikea. So I could imagine if like there is a place you get stuck that is a pretty great place to get stuck.  I mean literally I did not know anything about this story and I was like OK where would I want to spend the night? And I was like clearly Ikea.  Ikea. Can I confess to you all?  Like where would I want to sleep?  Yes. So fun fact - when I was covering the election in 2016 - '15 '16 - I would often if I had time in a strange city sneak off and have lunch at the local Ikea because it felt familiar. And I will never forget I was chasing Bernie around the Bay Area for one of his campaign stops and I had 