 My name is Mark Shields . I live in Washington D.C. right now but I am actually a native of Chicago. So I listen to WAMU but WBEZ is my home NPR affiliate.  Mark Shields listens to a ton of NPR shows including this one but Mark's developed a routine with one show in particular.  I have been known to spend an evening sipping a bottle of red wine and doing a Terry Gross interview in my bathtub. Ter-Bear  and I like to work some things out .  Clearly Mark loves NPR but there is one thing about public media that he hates.  Oh my God we are not listening. Seven straight - let us be honest 10 straight days - it is called pledge week. I am owed a week and I get 10 days of like guilt. I am Irish Catholic from Chicago. Like I understand guilt in a deep way.  Mark admits you can only complain about pledge drives on NPR stations if you are actually a donor.  If you are not giving then you are just a crank. But if you are an actual donor your complaining means more and that is democracy.  Trust Mark. Give to your local station and then complain all you want. You know NPR's work and our work on this show right here - it relies on listener support listener support of member stations and communities all over the country. Support those stations and this show. Go to donate.npr.orgsam. Go donate right now and if you use that link they will know that I sent you there. OK. Go ahead and listen to this episode now without any guilt.  Bobby I think you are muted. Do you know that you are muted?   We have done this before.  No I have never done it on my phone. Now I know I am not muted.  .  Oh OK OK OK OK OK.  I have been talking the whole time and I am like wow no one wants to listen to me.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week how the pandemic changed celebrity culture. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. This week like last week we are continuing to look back on the year in pop culture. This year celebrities provided a much-needed distraction for better or worse from the pandemic and the election and the protests and everything else and they gave us that gift of distraction in the form of bad videos and poorly conceived tributes and most of the time a complete lack of common sense. And you know what? I found it enjoyable. It was funny and it gave us something to talk about. So this episode we will talk about that and who better to talk about it with than the folks over at Who? Weekly? Lindsey Bobby hello. How are you all?  Good. Fine.  Good.  Great.  .  I am great. I am just going to call myself great. We all - we have been spending nine months saying fine I guess. I am just going to call myself great.  Lindsey Weber and Bobby Finger co-hosts of one of my favorite podcasts Who? Weekly.  The easiest way to describe the show is to unpack the name Who? Weekly because we broke celebrities down into a binary of whos and thems. So whos are the celebrities who you see all the time on magazine covers on headlines on Twitter and you just do not know why you know them or why you are supposed to know them whereas the thems are the more A-lister B-lister celebrities you know your George Clooneys your Will Smiths your Rihannas that sort of thing. But there are just so many more whos. And whos are the category of celebrity who tend to make news more frequently. And there is always a new one around the corner.  Yeah.  You know? So our tagline that we open with is everything you need to know about the celebrities you do not.  .  No you do not know. You do not - people always ask like what that means. It means everything. It means exactly what you think it means. It is everything you need to know about the celebrities you do not know and the ones that you see everywhere and you have no clue. You know them but you really do not know them you know?  And also celebrities - the celebrities you do not need to know about.   You do not technically need to know about these people.  Yeah yeah.  We called up Bobby and Lindsey to talk about how celebrities - both whos and thems - how they have changed because of the coronavirus and what is changed in the ways that we think about them. Maybe you recall that video back in March with Gal Gadot. She is singing John Lennon's Imagine with a bunch of other random famous people.    Imagine there is no heaven.  That might have been a turning point.    It is easy if you try.   No hell below us.   Above us only sky.  Yeah. The pandemic threw everyone's game off especially the celebrities'.    Imagine all the people.   Living for today. .  That was incredible. It was just like a pure example of celebrities just kind of like being unaware of what the rest of the world thinks and feels. And this is always been the case with celebrities and rich people in general just like being out of touch. But you know there had been this buildup of kind of people loving the Zoom meetings of it all because they would see a little bit into their favorite famous person's life. So they would see their background. They would see - nobody was set up for this stuff. So you would see like weird things in their houses and where are they? And where are they coming from? Where did they escape to? Et cetera - and that was kind of our big obsession. And then the Imagine video happened. And you see kind of you know people are - they are singing Imagine but I can see you are in the backyard of your big beautiful estate. And so it just exemplified kind of the vibe where it is like I do not want to see that. Like I do not want to see your big beautiful mansion when I am stuck in my tiny apartment. And that kind of like - on that level it just became one of those things where it really showed the difference between them and us not - we are all in this together. Like you guys are on a fully different level than we are. You know what I mean?   Exactly.  .  Well and it is like they - the tone-deafness of thinking that celebrities I do not really know singing John Lennon's Imagine would be helpful to me...  Yes.  ...In the heat of the start of the pandemic. This is like mid- to late March when they released this thing.  Yes.  Who thought that me watching Gal Gadot and friends singing Imagine would be helpful? That was what was so strange. Like they could just give money. They could be...  We just want...  ...Giving masks.  ...Your money.  The answer's Gal Gadot.  We just want...  Yeah.  ...Your money. I know.  Bobby what did you make of the ratio of like whos to thems in the video? I was surprised by the range of notoriety of the folks in this thing.  I - well that is the first sort of thing you were going through. It was sort of how are all these people connected? And a lot of it ended up being just for the very nature of it being Gal Gadot and Wonder Woman being a thing. It was a lot of superhero people. But I am trying to think of the person whose appearance sort of shook me most. And I think maybe it was Natalie Portman...  Oh she was in it.  Yeah she was.  ...Who is in the Marvel Universe. But she is a pretty small character in the Marvel Universe and she does not participate in these sorts of things typically. And so looking back like I think when I think of the Natalie Portman of it all it is like - it is a document of how uncertain we were at that point. We were like what is this exactly? Like should we be worried about this? Should I participate in this? Is this going to look bad if I do not? Is it going to look bad if I do? Like it really just seems like early flailing.  Yeah.  We did not know what to do.  Early flailing.  We called Natalie Portman.  Exactly exactly.  It also shows like we really look - and I think we say this all the time and celebrities say this all the time. It is like you are an example. But it is like they really do. Like we had no one to look towards for any information. Meanwhile your Instagram is like filled to the brim with like celebrities and stuff. Like those are the people you see and you kind of pattern your behavior after them. So it is just - it is one of those things where I think we always say oh you have such a big audience you have such a big platform. It kind of meant a lot this year to have that platform because you could do a lot of damage on that platform - you know? - more damage than normal. And a lot of celebrities...  Yeah.  ...Did do a lot of damage.  Yes. I am also realizing now I think I mispronounced her last name. It is Ga-dote  or - 'ecause Bobby...  Yeah.  ...You said it...  Gal Ga-dot .  Gal Gadot.  Oh is it Gadot? Yeah I know the T is strong.  So you know Bobby you said that this was the first real instance of celebrities flailing in the midst of coronavirus. It was just a start. There was so much more flailing throughout this year. I mean I am going to - I will not go through all the moments. But you have got the Madonna video of her in a milk bath saying COVID was a great equalizer.  Oh no.   It is the great equalizer. And what is terrible about it is what is great about it.  You have got David Geffen isolated in the Grenadines on a yacht to avoid the virus sharing that on Instagram. And then you have got Vanessa Hudgens in her Insta video saying that the old folks just have to die.  Oh God.   Like yeah people are going to die. It is just terrible but like inevitable.  Just a few weeks ago the Kim Kardashian private island birthday party where they were flown by a helicopter after allegedly quarantining - like Lindsey and Bobby were you all surprised by how tone-deaf the celebrities...  No.  ...Remained throughout the year?  No.  Not at all.  Not at all.  OK.  'ecause like...  Not in the slightest.  OK. Why not?  I just think that they - practice what you preach is really not like a thing in celebrity culture you know? Like for me I am like put your money where your mouth is. If you are going to like do all this crazy crap first of all do not post it. That - to me that is the No. 1 thing. And two make sure your charity is flowing you know? Like you know I hate - it is just such a disappointment for this stuff to happen. Like no one knows anything but so many celebrities kind of like - they have posting disease. They have to put stuff out there.  .  And they were not working you know? They did not have their platforms. And we give them these unfettered access to millions of people watching them you know? And they are saying things like what Vanessa Hudgens says on Instagram which to this day is like probably the worst thing that I have seen.  Yeah.  I mean oh my God. Like totally such a flop.  It was crazy.  You know?  Yeah.  Yeah.  I...  But yeah I am not surprised.  I am not surprised at all. And another thing about it is that these celebrities are seeing that every time a celebrity messes up they get away with it. So...  Yeah.  ...There was no reason for Kim Kardashian to not go to her private island with her friends for her birthday...  Yeah.  ...Because she knew nothing would happen. And guess what? There were no consequences.  Right.  And it is you know the perfect storm of all of those things. It is the 24-hour...  Yeah.  ...News cycle. It is that there is - your feed is just constantly updating. You forget about all these things. I completely forgot about the Vanessa Hudgens thing until you said it and then it all came rushing back to me.   Yeah.  Terrible.  Yeah. Well - and what I found really interesting is the ways in which people who were not you know quote-unquote celebrities were doing the same kind of celebrities like behaving badly stuff. Like we have been hearing stories about how Gavin Newsom governor of California was having...  Yeah.  ...Like secret birthday parties at this elite restaurant French Laundry in the Bay Area. Like this celebrity disease it is affected all kinds of powerful people. Like everyone's doing...  Yeah.  ...This stuff.  I mean I think not working gets to all of us including celebrities. It gets to them too. You know? Like...  Yeah.  ...We are all - if anything stars are just like us in that way where they are not working they are not shooting movies they are not shooting TV whatever. They are restless and that - this is what ends up happening you know?  Exactly.  I also think that outrage when it comes to celebrities. Like we - there is something similar to our desire for I guess just gossip. Like we miss gossip. We miss being able to gossip about something frivolous. And outrage seems to have taken the place of that at least partly during the pandemic. Like it is like oh we get...  Yeah.  ...To have something to be outraged about because there is plenty of things to be outraged about that mean something. And it is at least a little more fun to be publicly angry about that than it is about stuff that really affects you personally. So like we are so mad at these celebrities when they behave in tone-deaf ways. But there is something - I do not know. Is it like a serotonin rush whenever you get mad at celebrities? Like I think so. I think it is also entertaining.   Coming up the three of us dive into the intersection of celebrity culture and the summer of protests.   You know so we start to see celebrities just behaving badly in March after COVID hits. But then in May we see George Floyd - a Black man - die at the hands of police. And that leads to months of protest against racial injustice across the world. And it is another big instance where celebrities prove themselves to be a bit tone-deaf. I think for me the biggest example is that I Take Responsibility PSA...  Mmm hmm.  Oh my God.  ...All of the white allies recorded.   I take responsibility.  I take responsibility.  I take responsibility...  I am try to think of how to describe that video to our listeners.  Well it was just - what? - it was like Imagine but they were saying...  But it was black and white.  ...I take responsibility. And did not it...  It was serious...  Yes.  ...Because it was black and white Lindsey.  .  Right. But did not it go back to like - was not it a production company that like made it?  Oh.  And it kind of just - it was not even like this weird - it reminded me of like oh are we doing like a Me Too thing? Like are we starting a new non-profit to da-da-da  do this? And it is like no. It was literally just like kind of for show in a way...  Yeah.  ...You know?  I mean hearing Sarah Paulson say I take responsibility for systemic racism in black and white was like...  Ugh.  OK. Thanks but - ugh.  Ugh.  What?  I mean it really was just like an elevated - it was like one step removed from the Black Square I think because...  Oh. Yeah.  ...Ultimately like it felt like typical celebrity stuff because it was like oh this is a serious problem that people are finally starting to take seriously en masse in this country. Like systemic racism - this is happening. These protests are happening. People are risking their lives...  Yeah.  ...To go out on the streets and protest this. And all you did was make a video? And yeah even if they did do more that - this is the most you know publicly facing thing so this is all people are going to see. Like you have aligned yourself with saying one sentence.  Right.  And it is not even a unique sentence.  Yeah.  Like you are not even adding commentary. You are just repeating each other. Like the details of this are so frustrating. Like it is - you look at these people and you are like these are the people I care about? And this is all they do?  I do think a lot of celebrities did do stuff. They put their money...  Mmm hmm.  ...Where their mouth is. And a lot of it they kind of did a little bit under the radar which is great.  Which is the best way to do it.  That is the best way to do it.  Mmm hmm.  Exactly. But it is the thing where it ends up being - which is like kind of the cycle - you know we do not talk about it because it was not a huge deal. They did it in a way that was more private or whatever. And the true fans of those people know. But so I think like kind of the least you can do thing is more like if you have a fave and they say nothing that is kind of where they let their fans down right? Like I want to know that this person who I am a fan of cares about the important things that I care about too. And not - like they do not have to like like chess because I like chess. It is like about human decency kind of...  Mmm hmm.  ...You know? And I think that is where a lot of the kind of disconnect happen.  Mmm hmm.  Yeah.  It became - I kept seeing a very frequent like refrain I would see on Twitter. I am just like I - like a person I always think of who says this on Twitter a lot is Kara Brown . But it is always like write a check. Just write a check. Like...  Just write a check.  ...Whenever you are a celebrity write a check.  Yeah.  You do not even have to tell anyone...  Yeah.  ...You wrote the check.  Yeah.  Just write the check.  You know who writes a check all the time? Beyonce. .   Beyonce writes a check all the time.  Oh my God. She loves to write a big check. She sends one of those big Price Is Right checks. That is...  Yes.  ...Beyonce...  Yes.  ...Every check she sends.  Yes. Yes.  Even to Con Edison she is like...   Here's a big check.   Huge check. It is a huge check.  So in the aftermath of the death of George Floyd and the protest against racial injustice that came out of that I got to say the tone-deaf celebrity shoutout against racism that I love the most was David Guetta the famous EDM DJ...  Oh God. The song...  Oh my God.  Oh no. No. No.  ...Doing this EDM DJ set in tribute to George Floyd.  That was...  Yeah remember that?  ...Insane. With the MLK mic drop.  Was not it on like - was not it literally in Ibiza? Like it was in some tropical paradise...  No. He was...  ...Or beach paradise?  No. Was not he...  He was on the top of some skyscraper.  .  And so like he starts doing this like - boom boom - EDM. And then he mentions George Floyd. And then he starts playing some audio of a Martin Luther King on top...  Yes.  ...Of the EDM music.  Mmm hmm.  And then to George Floyd's family David Guetta says - as the EDM hits...   So shoutout to his family.   Shoutout to his family.  Ugh. Shoutout to his family. I just - yeah that was - that was - I keep seeing that video...  And his family said who?  ...Resurfaced.  .  As it should.  Like what?  .  In you all's opinion...  It is just ridiculous.  It is. In you all's opinion did celebrities respond worse to COVID or this year's protest?  Oh man. That is rough.  I think they responded - or I think they could respond...  What is worse?  I think it was easier for celebrities to talk about f...  Yes.  ...They were talking about it in a tone-deaf way. Like it was easy for Hilary Duff to say like it is been tough being holed up with my kids in my big house.  .  And when a celebrity speaks to racism they have to speak from their whole career. Like what have you been doing? You know like what does your career look like? And what do you want it to look like? And I think that is a huge challenge. And it is something that like I am sure a lot of publicists were reaching out to their clients being like uh  uh uh you know because it really is one of those things where I am sure people want to do the right thing but sometimes do not have the ability to do so or say the right thing. And you really do not want to say the wrong thing.  What is the big takeaway in watching how celebrity culture has changed in 2020? What is the big takeaway about like American culture?  Oof  wow. I mean I guess people kind of thought celebrity culture was quote-unquote over. But you know what? Sorry we will always have these people.  Yeah.  Maybe they are changing. Maybe they make you feel old. Maybe they make you feel young - probably not. But the kind of fracturing of celebrity culture will continue on. And the kind of age of the influencers still is very potent.  Yeah.  Yeah. And I saw - I remember it was early on in the pandemic. It may have been March or April but there was this sort of widely shared piece about you know is this the end of celebrity? This is the end of celebrity. And I guess it made sense to think that at the time. But the other thing I will say about like what 2020 has taught me about celebrity it is that like when we were home during the pandemic it felt like - at least I was watching more TV than I have ever watched listening to more music than I have ever listened to watching more movies than I have ever watched. So it is like when I am bored when I have time I am going to keep consuming content that celebrities helped create. And so for as long as I am spending this like quality time with these famous people I am going to want to know more about these famous people.  Right. If you are going to binge the sexy chess show - what is - Queen's Gambit...  Like who is that person who played the sexy chess?  ...Then to me even though I am like who is the sexy chess player you are like oh obviously that is so - what is her name again ?  Anya Taylor-Joy.  .  Anya Taylor-Joy - you are like no this is my closest friend. She is an icon a legend and she is going to be a star. And I think that is like - that is kind of where we are at now. It is like because we are consuming so fast and so much these people - they get elevated so quickly. And we love them. And we root for them you know especially when they make something that we enjoy. And right now the barrier to joy is so low you know?  Yes.  It is very low .  Yes. Yes. Coming up Lindsey Weber and Bobby Finger play Who Said That a special year in pop culture wrap-up edition.   Hi this is Jordana. I am the editor of It is BEEN A MINUTE. If you like what you are listening to you can support the show and NPR by giving to your local station. And here's Ian .  Give at donate.npr.orgsam. That is donate.npr.orgsam. OK back to the show.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am your host Sam Sanders joined by Bobby Finger and Lindsey Weber. They host Who? Weekly a biweekly celebrity gossip podcast that has truly gotten me through 2020. And in the spirit of celebrity gossip we are about to play my favorite game right now. It is called Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Lindsey Bobby you all have never played this before. You scared?  Yes.  I am a little scared.  Yes.  I am a little scared.  Totally a hundred percent.  Well the great thing about this game is that it is very low stakes.  OK.  And the winner gets nothing. And I will probably just say that you both won at the end of it.  OK thank you. Great.  So usually with Who Said That I share a quote from the week of news - three of them - and you have to guess who said it. But because this is our year-ender episode I am going to share three of my favorite quotes from the entire year all 2020. And you all will tell me who said it or what we are talking about. There are no buzzers. Just yell out the answer.  OK.  OK.  We are on the same team right?  You all are competing against each other.  Oh what?  Oh no.  It is getting spicy.  OK. OK.  Oh no. I am going to lose. OK.  It is all good. It is all good. So this quote is about a truly iconic performance from this year. The quote is I do not subscribe to the Playboy channel. We do not buy porn for 20 a flick. We simply wanted to sit down as a family and watch the Super Bowl. What performance is that that they are talking about?  Oh Shakira J.Lo.   Oh yeah Shakira and J.Lo.  Yes. Yeah.  You were right Lindsey - got it.  Oh 'ecause...  Can you believe that...  Did they call it...  ...Shakira and J.Lo's...  ...Porn?  They called it porn.  Yeah. Can you believe that was this year? Oh my.  That was this year.  How was that this year?  That was this year.  That was actually probably the last great culture moment before everything went to .  Yeah. And so this performance was a really big deal. It was the first time that two women solo performers headlined the halftime show.   Miami are you ready?  J.Lo was super sultry and J.Lo-esque  at the age of 50 at one point on a stripper pole on the football field.    From In Living Color to movie scripts to On The 6 to J-Lo to this headline clips I stay grounded.  And people pretty much loved this performance. But it turns out the sexual nature of that halftime show led to 1300 FCC complaints filed.  .  Yeah. And so that quote actually was one of the FCC complaints. People were saying it was too racy.  God.  I do not think it was. I liked it. Did you all like it?  It was not at all. I loved it so much. It was fantastic.  It was great. It was great.  And I remember the lead up being like why does J-Lo need somebody with her? What is the deal with this? It was fantastic. They knew exactly what they were doing. It was an amazing - it was the epitome of Super Bowl halftime show. It was like perfect.  Why would we complain about having more you know?  Yeah.  Exactly.  Like little did we know.  I also love that like J-Lo had this like renaissance just as the pandemic hit.  Oh man.  You know she was in Hustlers. She had the halftime show. She was like back.  Yeah.  And then pandemic.  I know.  I mean she is still doing just fine. But we are timing for J-Lo.  We are timing for J-Lo.  I mean it is doing fine. It is J-Lo.  I think she is got like four rom-coms in the cooker though. I think she is ready to continue this as soon as she - as soon as we are letting her. You know what I mean? She is still very busy. She still stays busy.  All right. Next quote. This was one of the more outlandish COVID self-treatments of 2020. Quote Among the many things she prescribed was a type of homeopathic bath a water and dilute sodium hypochlorite bath commonly referred to as a water and bleach bath to combat the radiation and pollutants in my system and oxygenate it. Who took a water and bleach bath this year - a bleach bath - after they got COVID?  After they got COVID.  What?  Oh my gosh.  Who took a bleach bath? Oh my...  Oh it was - it was...  Was it Rita Wilson?   Cuomo's daughter.   Cuomo's - close close close. Cuomo's...  Wife?   Wife? Oh Cuomo's wife.  Yes.  Yes.  I was like there was a Cuomo involved.  Yes.  What is her name?  Cristina Cuomo.  Sure sure.  So she is the wife of CNN's Chris Cuomo and she is also kind of on the influencer track. She has a blog about how she eats how she lives. And after that whole family the whole Cuomo family got coronavirus she wrote a blog post about how they treated themselves. They had someone to come to the house for special COVID tests. She was on a vitamin C IV drip. And the most outlandish treatment that she tried for coronavirus was a bleach bath.  Wow. Best of luck to you.  What even?  Best of luck to you. Great - a great example. Setting a great example. Incredible.  Another - the way that goop has sort of altered the minds of rich people you know?  .  I would like to say still to this date the celebrity who got COVID and handled it the best was Tom Hanks. He literally...  Listen.  He literally set the tone. He was first but he maintained calm and encouraged everyone and said it is serious but it is going to be OK. I just - I am still amazed with the - with that entire thing he did.  Oh yeah.  Yeah.  Last quote from the - gosh - most infamous TV shows of the year. The quote is - oh my doorbell's ringing. The mailman's here. And my dog barks like crazy.  .  My dog is not a...  Wait. I love it. It is too real. It is OK.  Just like us.  That is literally too real. I am like leaf blower leaf blower leaf blower.   Every day this post office guy comes by and every day my dog is like I will kill you. And it is like girl stop. Stop.  Aw.  All right. Last quote from a TV show from this year - Hey all you cool cats and kittens.  Oh Tiger King.  Yes but what character?  Oh that was what is-her-face Carole Baskin. Bobby did not watch this.   Yes. I did not watch Tiger King.  Oh my God. They are ringing the doorbell again. Hold on a second. I am so sorry.  It is OK.  Whoever's here will not go away.  That is OK.  Hold on.  That is OK. It is OK. I was like Bobby you are not going to get that? Really? Carole Baskin. Oh that happened this year?  that.  Language Lindsey. It is NPR.  Sorry. Do not you want to talk about home efficiency?  Yeah. It is like girl no. I am trying to work.  That is so funny.  All right. So Carole Baskin one of the stars of the Netflix hit documentary Tiger King. So Lindsey you watched it. Bobby you did not.  Yeah.  I did not.  I mean this thing was a hit.  It was everything. I mean I am - I cannot believe how quickly it came and went. It had a full cycle in a matter of a month. It was like we love it. We are obsessed. It is problematic. Why are these people still around? Get her on Dancing With The Stars. And oops what was that again? You know what I mean? Halloween costume.  It was the first pandemic...  Yeah.  What was that you know?  It was the first pandemic binge was not it? Like the first...  I think it was 'ecause there was like Love Is Blind. There was Tiger King.  Yeah.  But like the fact that a show like Tiger King went so gangbusters and the fact that like some of the stars of Netflix movies and TV shows have become actual real celebrities just proves how Netflix and streaming won 2020. You know we have - we finished the game and I got to say there was a clear winner.  Me.  Lindsey congratulations. Yeah.  We all knew Lindsey would win.  Honestly it was worth watching Tiger King to win the game.  Yes.   Well it was such a joy having you all on here on the show this episode. I would not have rather recapped the year with anyone else. Thank you Lindsey Weber Bobby Finger...  Thank you.  ...The hosts of the celebrity podcast Who? Weekly. Come back again any time.  Oh please.  Gladly. This was so fun.  Gladly.  Lindsey Weber and Bobby Finger co-host one of my favorite podcasts Who? Weekly. And listeners this week we are skipping our usual Best Thing segment that closes out the show because on Tuesday our entire podcast episode will be just listeners' best things. So check that out next week in the podcast feed. All right. This week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry and Andrea Gutierrez. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss is NPR senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. Listeners 'til next time be good to yourselves. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon. 