 I have been watching all of those 2021 Spotify Wrappeds that I have been getting and my friends have been getting. And a weird thing this year that they do is they take all the music that you have listened to this past year and give you like a musical aura like an emotional energy. And they give you like two words for the emotional state of your music listening.   Oh my goodness.  You know that? And it was like you are angsty and you are this. Like if you had to do a Spotify Wrapped emotional aura for the year 2021 what would the two or three emotions be?  Gosh. I mean I am thinking it is like agony and ecstasy because this was the year that we thought the vaccine was going to promise deliverance and then there was delta and omicron. It is like we thought we would be able to travel and see loved ones and then we kind of did but then new waves - it was a whiplash a year.  I get that. Audie?  You know that gif of the actor Nathan Fillion where he is sort of like - he is - someone says something weird and he points like that is not quite bleh . That is how I felt all year.   Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week a special year-end game of Who Said That? All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. And today on the show something a little different. To celebrate making it through 2021 we are skipping our usual panel chat and just going right to the fun part. We are going to play an omnibus version of my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  This is a game where I read three quotes from the week of news and the guests have to guess who said it. But because this is a very special year and episode this Who Said That is going to be a special 2021 edition. Today I will be reading five quotes from the year of important stories from the news and my guests will try to guess. Here to play the game with me are honestly my favorite dynamic duo to have on this show maybe ever all the time NPR co-hosts of All Things Considered Audie Cornish and Ari Shapiro. Hello. Hello. Hello.  Hey.  Hi. Let us get on this omnibus Audie.  Yeah. You do not have like theme music for us or like the like applause special effects.  Wow. We add it in post. Come on.  Oh OK.   You are in the studio. You can have all of the NPR employees there clap for you right?  All 30 of them.  On the other side of the soundproof booth so you would not actually hear them.  Yeah yeah. So you all have played this game before. It is very simple. I share a quote. You tell me who said it or guess the story that I am talking about. But for this one the quote could have come from any point throughout the year and any story from this year. OK?  Wait. Before we even start can we guess who one or more of the quotes is going to come from? Like I do not even know what quotes you have chosen but I am going to say one of them is Anthony Fauci.  Oh you know last year was - I would say 2020 was his year.  Oh. Oh OK. All right.  2021 is just like yeah sure. All right Anthony. You are still here.   We have heard enough of you.  All right. All right. Enough calisthenics Ari - OK? - because...  Just got to warm up the...  Yeah. Stop stalling.  ...The button-pushing finger.  I also do not know anything. I have been in a fugue state for nine months so I look forward to this.  Must be nice.  Yeah.  I will say there is no Fauci in this game.  Wow. OK.  Sorry to all the - was it Fauci-sexuals? - Anthony...   What was the word for them? Remember?  Yeah. That was not the word .  I forget. Yeah that was not the word. Anyway...  But I remember conceptually what you are talking about.  Yes yes yes. Boomer ladies who were in love with that man - it was cute. All right. Here's the first quote. My life now reflects not just the person that I want to be but the person that I really feel like I am...  Yeah.  ...Which is not perfect but somebody who tries very hard and cares very much about being honest and authentic and accountable. Any guesses? I can keep going.  Wait. There is more to the statement?  A celebrity who rekindled an old flame this year.  Oh what - is it...  Go ahead.  Is it Ben Affleck?   Yes it is Ben Affleck. It is Ben Affleck. And let me finish this quote.  Am I misremembering or was there a Bennifer moment in the last time that we did Who Said That?  There was. There was.   I cannot believe it. Audie were you just giving me that? I feel like you should have been all over that.  Well I think also maybe I only pay attention to the Jennifer part of Bennifer.  Yeah.  No so I will finish the quote from Ben. He says it is hard to say who benefits more...  There is more?  Yes - without going into gossipy detail. I could just say that I feel great about being very healthy. And it is a good story. It is a great story. And you know maybe one day I will tell it. I will write it all out and then I will light it on fire. That man is in love. So that was Ben Affleck talking to Wall Street Journal magazine about his relationship with J.Lo.   The perfect venue for that conversation.  Yeah exactly.  Did it move the markets? - is the question.  .  Exactly. And as you both recalled we talked about Bennifer 2.0 for about a month straight on this show when it happened because I was obsessed. It was the perfect bit of lovely nostalgia in this year of darkness. I liked it.  Also this year of nostalgia - let us face it. I mean so much of what we took in - A so much of what we took in in general - right? - we are getting towards the end of streaming options but what they are starting to feed us now are more nostalgia-based items whether that is Friends or in a way Dune - right? - like it is just a lot of reliving certain...  Sex In The City.  ...Ideas - Sex In The City.  Oh you are right. The pop culture aura of this year is existing IP.   I mean not wrong.  Everything old is new.  Not wrong yeah.  Here's the next quote. Vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine.  Oh I know.  I am begging of you. Please do not hesitate.  Yeah of course.  Who?  Well Audie I feel like I should give you this one.  Dolly Parton?   Yeah she recorded that Instagram video. She was getting her shot.  Oh nice.  Yeah Dolly Parton - that was her singing about getting her vaccine. She sung it to the tune of her classic Jolene.    Vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine. I am begging of you please do not hesitate.  This happened in March when the vaccines were starting to get rolled out and everyone was really excited about them. She was getting her first dose of the Moderna vaccine a vaccine that she helped create.  Which she gave a million dollars to help fund. Yeah.  She gave a million dollars to Vanderbilt University Medical Center which worked with Moderna to develop the vaccine.  With a public radio connection.  Yeah because she is cool with Jad Abumrad's dad...  Jad Abumrad's father.  ...Who was a doctor.  Host of radio.  Yeah.  Yeah.  She also said at the time quote...   Do not be such a chicken squat. Get out there and get your shot.  I mean this really was her year. This was Dolly's year was not it?  Is not every year her year? I feel like...  No this is significant.  ...We have been saying this is her year for a while now.  I mean people - I think just the other day Jennifer Aniston was kind of complaining a little bit about people reacting to her being pro-vaccine. And Nashville country music - despite her legend status it can be quite inhospitable if you kind of go in the opposite direction of whichever way the audience winds are blowing. So it is actually no small thing that she is done what she is done and become essentially the country's fairy godmother in the process.  Yeah.  So to me there is a little bit of extra applause here in underscoring what she is done.  She is always been so judicious with where and when she takes a stand and so the...  True. True.  ...Fact that she decided to do it in this case is significant.  She is our queen. And then it is like you compare her to other celebrities and their vaccine behavior this year - I am thinking about Nicki Minaj - it is like ...  Whose cousin's friend's balls...  ...There were such highs and lows.  ...Something something.  Nicki Minaj's cousin's friend's...  Did you just give away your next quote?  No I wanted to have two vaccine quotes but I can only do one but I said we are going to make a coda - Nicki Minaj being foolish about the vaccine and the Met Gala. We first found out that Nicki Minaj was an anti-vaxxer when she could not attend the Met Gala because she was not vaxxed.  Well she was doing her own research right?  Exactly. And she goes on to explain that the vaccine caused her cousin's friend in Trinidad to become impotent and that parts of his body became swollen and caused his wedding to be called off. I think that was a different problem. Just saying.  I think the like government of Trinidad went and researched that.  They did.  And then they said - yeah.  They were like Nicki no. Nicki no.  We have been unable to track down Nicki's cousin's friend.   As we stand now there is absolutely no reported such side effect or adverse event of testicular swelling in Trinidad or I dare say Dr. Hinds anywhere else?  None that we know of.  None that we know of anywhere else in the world.  Yes. What I want is for Dolly Parton to call up Nicki Minaj and say get it together. We are two divas who need to be on the right side of history.  I am not sure Nicki would find Dolly persuasive on that point.  Yeah I have a hard time picturing Dolly sending a gather yourself text.   That seems like a bit of a stretch.  True. True. All right who got that point?  Wait that was...  That was Audie.  Oh yeah that was me. I was like wait are we still playing the game? I at this point...   I will say that this whole episode is the game as I...  Oh right right right.  Per my last email Audie .  Right there is a format to this show you call it. Interesting.  Little bit.   Coming up - more of our year-end game of Who Said That? with NPR's Ari Shapiro and Audie Cornish. Here's a hint for the next quote. We are going to need a smaller boat.   All right here's the next quote. And this is about a big story from the news this year so tell me what the story is about. We are all in our own little way that ship.  Oh was that this year the Suez Canal?  Yeah bro.   Yeah the Suez Canal ship.  God that feels like a lifetime ago.  That - wait that was within this calendar year?  Yo it is cray-cray .  This says more about 2021 than any analysis we could offer.  That is true.  That was this year?  The what is time joke - yeah for real.  So that quote comes from cartoonist Chaz Hutton. He made a cartoon about this ship stuck in the Suez Canal that went viral on Twitter. The ship is called the Ever Given. It blocked the Suez Canal for six days in March. It stopped worldwide shipping and according to The New York Times it froze nearly 10 billion in trade a day. The ship was one of the largest container ships ever built and I do not know how no one predicted this. Like come on ship people. This is like your No. 1 job. Do not get stuck.  Well what I remember is that that is also when we started talking about the supply chain in our news stories.  Yeah.  And - but it was very vague. It was like this could affect the supply chain. And you could hear the listeners' eyes glaze over because it was...  You are like what?  Yeah it was like oh this far-off concept that is never really going to affect us or might not affect us for many months. And now here we are...  And now.  ...Just kind of with a greater understanding of that in general. But yeah that is what I remember from that story - supply chain.  And also infrastructure because...  Yes.  ...As the ships get bigger and bigger the canals stay the same size and you have less and less room for error. Yeah.  And apparently the ship is back. The Ever Given is back and I think it is going to go through the Suez Canal again soon if it has not already. And it is like you all do not...  Much like Tiger King it will return for a second season.   When you think you have seen it all you have not quite seen it all.  Our attention will be riveted once again.  I will say all this supply chain stuff - it is changed the way that I behave. Like I am in the process of getting Christmas gifts for people and I am only getting ones that I can go pick up in the store. I am not having anything mailed this year. I am scared. I am scared.  Oh. I have been doing subscriptions here and there for people for things which I think are kind of nice. But yeah for sure. The idea that like - do you want to contribute to this problem or are you worried about the problem or...  Yeah well and - also it was a good moment for Americans to realize that all this stuff is not that easy. I think we got really used to telling Jeff Bezos to get it to our house the next day.  Yes.  And it is like actually a lot goes into these things.  Yeah. Yeah. And also I think that one thing that is been - I would like to underscore in these stories I do not hear enough is that it is often not that you will not get what you want it is that you will not get it in the exact way you want exactly the day you want...   Yeah. Yes.  Which is - we are spoiled. Like we are spoiled consumers.  We are so spoiled.  So it is kind of like what? I am not going to get that water bottle in teal? Like that is not an empty shelf you know what I am saying?   Yeah. Yeah.  Like countries have really seen inflation and empty shelves. And we as not seen it yet but the dialogue is such because everyone's so used to getting what they want almost immediately.  I just think it is so interesting to pull back the curtain and see how the sausage is made because we do take so much for granted. But when you actually think about like well what happens when stuff gets to the Port of Los Angeles...  Yeah.  ...Or the Suez Canal or - like it is actually really interesting and there are a lot of good stories in there.  Yeah.  And what happens is people. Soylent green is people is the joke right? Like the supply chain is people...  .  Yeah.  And all - it is like people have to work at the warehouse. People have to drive the truck. People have to work the extra hours. And let us face it we have all assumed that that stuff just kind of happened.  Yeah.  It is like oh I do not know automation. No it is actual people who no longer want to work overtime...  Yes.  ...Without a mask with bosses that do not treat them well. So I want an - I am super interested in 2022 like what that - will the market respond to that?  Yeah. I remember when the supply chain issues began early in the pandemic when no one could get their hands on a Nintendo Switch.  Well in the early early days...   I thought you were going to say toilet paper.  ...It was toilet paper yeah and Clorox wipes.  Oh you are right.   Nintendo Switch.   I still do not have a Nintendo Switch but I have a lot of toilet paper.   Just saying. All right here's...  You win. You just won the game with that quote. That better make the edit. That was perfect.   Coming up - Italian villas HBO's Succession and arguably the biggest story of the year.   All right here's the next quote. The only thing I can see that is good about going to prison is that I am going to be able to work out a lot and do a lot of yoga and detox.  .  I have no idea.  Wait question - is this...  This person was part of a group of people - oh go ahead.  Fiction or nonfiction person?  Oh. Oh.  Nonfiction.  I have a guess.  Oh.  I have a guess.  Go ahead. Go ahead.  Is it the January 6 insurrectionist?  It is.   Yes. This is Jenna Ryan. She was one of the people who stormed the U.S. Capitol on January 6 of this year. And she was talking on her TikTok about what she was going to do for her only 60-day prison sentence.   Hopefully they have like some protein shakes and some protein bars I think because you do not want to eat like green bologna. That is what they have to eat. So I am going to end up losing weight in prison.  She was sentenced on November 4 to 60 days in custody. And the judge Christopher R. Cooper - he said quote You have been very upfront that you feel no sense of shame or guilt. You suggested antifa was somehow involved. And perhaps most famously you said that because you had blonde hair and white skin you would not be going to jail. The judge said think again .  I am feeling a little sheepish because I originally thought that quote was Tom from Succession.   Oh that is why you were like is this fiction or nonfiction?  Yeah. Yeah. I was like...  Yeah.  ...I know this one.  Also while we are on it best show of the year. My favorite...  Is it?  ...Visual consumption of this year is...  Was it?  Oh it is - because here's the thing.  Are you sure?  Succession works once you realize it is actually a sitcom. It is a sitcom because the stakes actually never change. No one wins or loses. They stay there and they just kind of perform comedy for you.  Tell that to Jeremy Strong.  Yeah Jeremy Strong would disagree. But like it is kind of like Arrested Development just with better cinematography.  Actually that is what people thought it was going to be and I think it actually became something a little bit different. But I do hear what you are saying. I have heard a very similar sentiment but as a critique - that in a way it is like a series of sketches...  It is.  ...Right? In between...  It is a bunch of sketches with great writing.  Yeah. Yeah. I do not know how I feel about that but...  Nothing happens till the dad leaves. And if they do not get rid of the dad it is just - the stakes never change because he will not lose.  Fun fact - I actually went to college with Jeremy Strong. My husband and I did plays with him.  Was he crazy back then too?  Well it is funny. I went to that Al Pacino master class that is mentioned in the profile - this is the New Yorker profile that got all the attention - everybody in Hollywood rushing to Jeremy Strong's defense. So it talks about this Al Pacino master class. This was at Yale in like the late '90s. But I did not know the backstory which - you are going to have to read the New Yorker profile. But when I saw that I was like oh. I had no idea that that is what this was about.  So when you were there you were not like why is Al Pacino here?  No. It was like...  That never occurred to you in your brain or were you like I am at Yale.  Everyone at Yale was a little bit like who would not want to come talk to us?  Wow.  This school has an inflated sense of self.  I think that says more about Yale then it does about Jeremy Strong or Al Pacino.  Absolutely.  I will say seeing celebrities come to Jeremy Strong's defense I am just like there are better things for them to do with their time power and visibility. And I felt the same way...  Oh I do not think so. I mean these - look at the actors who were even doing - these are people who also are very into the like craft sentence caps of acting. Do you know what I mean? And I think the response on their part - and I am not defending like super-famous celebrities but I think some people looked at this New Yorker profile and thought that it was actually poking fun at people who take craft seriously. And there is a lot of actors right now who are facing a marketplace that they are not clear needs them - right? - because are we going back to the movies or not? - and that also like the work you do get to do is it in front of a green screen swatting at imaginary flying things or is it acting?  Yeah but here's the thing. It was not just taking the work seriously. All of his co-stars said in so many words we cannot stand him and he makes it hard for us.  That is not true.  So there is a way to be a method...  I spoke - that is not true.  I read it more as I worry about his well-being. I read it more as like we are concerned for his well-being.  No.  Oh that is such - that is such shame. That is such concerned trolling.  No that is not true. First of all that quote is from Brian Cox who if you know his memoir came out this year. And that man does not mince words about anybody for any reason on anything. So I do not really think that is a good message.  See Kieran Culkin though said in that profile this is not helpful to me. What he does does not help me. And then there was that one part where Shiv - whoever plays Shiv told him to like F off in the middle of like the script read. I just feel like they all hate him.  They do not hate him. Give me a break. I mean I spoke to J. Smith Cameron who plays Gerri Kellman on that show. I asked her about this and she is like look he does what he needs to get there. We all have our process. But it is like a - she is like it is like a theater troupe. But this idea that like people should not just get along be collegial and respect each other but have to like love and like each other and hang out at each other's Italian villas or whatever is I think a little bit childish. But I mean whatever. It is Twitter. People are like ha ha Twitter comments on a New Yorker profile.  For the record you are both invited to my Italian villa.   And not just because you are my colleagues.  Oh. OK but I have to ask do you actually have one? I feel like...  Of course I do not have one.  I got to ask. I got to ask. I mean you dropped your...  Thank you for clarifying that for the listeners.  ...Jeremy Strong story in a very casual way. So I feel like I should ask the Italian villa thing.  Thank you for support of public radio. I do not have an Italian villa.   Do not call your congressman yet.  We are going to get to the last quote. I do not know if this game is tied or not. It does not matter. Here's the last quote. Ready? And just tell me what I am talking about. It was a meme stock that really blew up.  Oh yeah. OK. Audie should we say it on the count of three together?  I have no idea what it is.  No. One of you needs to win.  Really? It is GameStop.   Oh my good - was that this year?  GameStonk as the kids called it. Yeah that was this year.  Again was that this year?  That is the name of the episode - Was That This Year?  That is the name of this episode.  Totally. Was That This Year?  So that quote is all about GameStop stock which came to be called GameStonk. Remember that? It was so annoying. Any who that quote comes from one of the moderators of the subreddit WallStreetBets. And you might recall that in January of this year Reddit users discovered that the company GameStop was in financial trouble. So then some of those users invested their own money to make GameStop's stock price go from 20 to 73. But because many analysts had suggested short-selling GameStop stocks to make a profit off their prices going down a lot of other folks ended up losing money. And eventually the WallStreetBets Reddit group had over 2 million members and I do not even know - none of it makes sense to me.  Sam you are reminding me of - sorry. Go ahead.  I am trying to finish the quote but it makes me more confused. The moderators said the massive short contributed more toward the meme stock. I do not know what happened but for a while GameStop stock was really hot and then it was not. And some folks made money and some folks lost money and the stock market is imaginary.  Sam your remind me of the worst part of this story which was - for journalists anyway - the challenge of saying GameStop stock over and over.   Let us do it. GameStop stock. GameStop stock.  GameStop stock.  GameStop stock. GameStop stock.  It is a verbal road cone for sure. It is funny. It is like my brain can only hold so much news and that just sloshed straight out. It is like I know I spent many weeks talking about that and now you are telling it to me I am like interesting even though I bet if you Google like my name is on the like interviews related to it.   I am happy to announce the winner of this special year-end edition of Who Said That is - drum roll - Ari Shapiro.  Oh it is such an honor. Happy New Year. Thank you.  Yeah. Audie how you feeling?  It is good. I mean I am glad I could give him that gift.  You have given me so many gifts Audie. This is just the latest.  . I have. I have.   Thanks again to Audie Cornish and Ari Shapiro hosts of NPR's All Things Considered. All right. This week's episode was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Krbechek Liam McBain and Audrey Nguyen. Our intern is Nathan Pugh. Our editor is Jordana Hochman. And our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. All right listeners till next time be good yourselves. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  