 Hi I am Anjuli. I am a producer here on It is BEEN A MINUTE.  Hi I am Alex. I am an editor on the show.  So Alex let us start by actually telling listeners what it takes to make this show.  The process actually begins with pitching. It just begins with throwing ideas out there.  And then we actually have to take those ideas and book the people we want on the show. We are taping these interviews with people in studio sometimes going out to them in the field.  And then our producers put their headphones on and they start cutting this massive thing down.  And then editors like Alex on our show are actually listening back to it and making sure what we are cutting is working.  And then we ship it off to you the listeners. And before you know it it is in your ears in your podcast feeds and on your radio.  We are a bicoastal team so we are always sending each other messages and emails picking up the phone talking nonstop to get this done.  So many emails.  And Slacks.  And Slacks. The best part of the show is that you get to be a part of it too. Every week you call in and you tell us about the best thing that happened to you that week. And we actually sit down and we listen to all of those.  So whether you are on the East Coast or the best coast - I mean the West Coast or somewhere in between show your support for this show at donate.npr.orgsam. After all we are building a community thanks to you.   Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR health policy reporter Selena Simmons-Duffin and NPR science reporter Rebecca Hersher. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners and to my guests. One of my guests just stopped dancing. You were dancing for like two seconds and then stopped.  Sorry.  It is OK.  I am still dancing.  That is the voice of Selena Simmons-Duffin reporter on NPR's Science Desk covering health policy joined by Rebecca Hersher who has yet to dance...  Yeah come on. Come on Becky.  ...But she is also a reporter on NPR Science Desk covering climate change dancing like a robot.  Yep. Now you are going to tell me to stop dancing please stop dancing.  Yes. Yes. All right. All right. I am so glad that you both are here. It is your first time here on the show. Welcome.  Yes.  Yeah.  So you all both have some big important sciency health care-related stories talk about this week. And we will talk about those stories very soon. But to open the show I want to play you both the wackiest audio I have heard this week. It made no sense to me.  OK.  I am so excited.  On a red carpet this week Laura Dern the actress whom we all love she was asked by Variety magazine if she had seen Baby Yoda.  .  So we all know Baby Yoda is the star of this Disney Plus show Mandalorian. You have seen the Baby Yoda.  Yes.  No I have not. I am sorry.  Hersher help her see it.  OK. It is like Yoda but an infant extremely cute and also a little alarming depending on like what time of day you see it.  .  I think if I see it like first thing in the morning I am like ah.  Whoa.  You like him?  OK. Those eyes are very large.  .  I think I like it.  OK.  But it is - you know it is something.  I think I like it is like a perfect distillation of Baby Yoda.  Yes. Yes but on the red carpet this week for some fancy event Variety magazine asked actress Laura Dern if she is seen baby Yoda. And she said this.   Yes I did.  What do you think about Baby Yoda?  Today.  What do you think about him?  I saw...  I do not know if it is a him or he or she. I do not know.  I do not know but I think he was at a basketball game. That is all I am going to say.  .  Do you all get it?  No.  Do you see why I played it all week?  That is all I am going to say.  That is all I am going to say.  Why?  I do not know. I see Baby Yoda as just another sign of like Disney's quest to actually rule the entire world and control every waking moment of my media consumption.  Yes.  Yeah.  Yoda is your master.  Master Yoda is.  .  Anyways I guess we should talk about like news news at this point.  OK we can do that.  I know. I know.  Yeah news.  We are going to start the show as we always do having my panelists describe their week of news in only three words. And I think this addition of three words I kind of want to call it a funny thing happened while you were watching impeachment - other news.  Yeah other stuff happened this week.  Do not you feel it? Other stuff happened.  Other stuff happened.  Exactly. So the two of you are going to fill us in. Rebecca Hersher you have three words?  I do. OK.  OK.  So my three words are what about us?  Yeah what about us?  What about us? What about us?  Uh-huh.  So I cover climate change. This week - might have missed it - there is an international climate conference happening in Madrid.  Yeah should not this be bigger news? So what is crazy is the climate talks are happening this week the U.S. is at these climate talks...  Yeah. OK.  ...Even though we are like not in the climate agreement.  Right. OK. This is my first point.  Yes.  We are in the climate agreement. We are still in it.  Wait we are still in the Paris Agreement?  We are in it. We are still in the Paris Agreement.  But Donald trump says we are not.  Right. It is so confusing. I feel like I just say it all the time.  .  I am just going to lay it out.  Lay it out.  2015 Paris Agreement signed.  Yes.  Everyone had to make promises about how much they would reduce greenhouse gases. So we the U.S. made a promise. We are like oh we are going to reduce it by like a quarter by 2025. That goes on the books because we are signed into the Paris Agreement. An election happens Donald Trump takes office he almost immediately is like we are getting out.  Yeah I remember that.  We are not allowed to get out at that point.  What do you mean?  Like it is too soon. The Paris Agreement like thought of this. This is not that revolutionary that like there would be an election in one of the countries of the world and then a new person...  Might change his mind.  ...Might change their mind. So the first day that we can actually be out is the day after the election 2020.  Wait. So November 2020 after we figure out who our next president will be...  Yes.  ...Or the same president.  We will be out yeah.  So then that sets up this weird thing.  Yes.  So these climate talks happening this week in Madrid the U.S. still has to send the climate change delegation...  Right.  ...Or a few.  Because we are in. It is so awkward honestly It would be like family holidays when like there was a divorce...  .  ...And then everyone comes. And you are like who is involved here like speaks for - so we sent a State Department delegation that is the actual delegation from the federal government. They represent the Trump administration. A lot of them weirdly like kind of the backup players there are the same as under the Obama administration. So it is kind of the same people who have been going to these meetings every year still showing up for us.  But they cannot say we want to do anything climate change...  Well they are - yeah they are representing the policies of the American government. And right now those policies are mostly like rolling back the regulations that keep us from emitting greenhouse gases. So they do not have as much power as they used to have because they come with like no teeth.  Yeah.  But they are there.  Yeah. But then also like are not there other delegations of like state and local leaders who are like we will do everything because like California goes too.  Right.  And they are like yeah yeah yeah Paris Paris Paris.  Exactly. And it is like not just California too. This is what you will hear people saying is there is like this other coalition of lots of cities and states and companies - like big multinational corporations that are based in the U.S. - they send this other group that like basically opens up its own little tent and says like no no no. This is the U.S.  Wait.  And we are all still in. And we represent like more than half of the U.S. population. We are still cutting emissions. And what the coalition of all those people will tell you is that they represent the majority of Americans and that maybe they represent the majority of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. The issue there is that because it is not being overseen by federal regulations...  It is patchwork.  Yeah it is - and it is hard honestly. Like if you are a state and you are operating under federal environmental regulations for example but you are trying to cut emissions and federal regulations are being rolled back...  Yeah.  Like that is...  Like California.  ...Really enough. There is only so much you can do.  Yeah. Or because like...  You know promising is one thing. But actually doing it...  Yeah.  ...Is something else.  So then we see this confusion at these climate talks this week at least on America's end. This is the same week in which we see this report on climate change that basically says the climate crisis is quote dangerously close to becoming irreversible. In the midst of all of those things...  Yeah that is rough.  Becky Hersher as someone who covers climate change are you hopeful that there is a solution?  Yes. But...  You are.  ...I first have to do my realist - we got to like say what is true.  OK.  There are like irreversible effects of belching greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.  Yes.  Some of those effects are already happening or are about to happen. Like the oceans are super hot species are dying.  Yeah.  But I see a path to a better future.  I am here for that.  So - you ready?  Yes.  So it has to do with where the oil industry where this fossil fuel industry came from in the first place and like the long arc of history because a lot of what I do is like cover these studies that are projecting out to like 2050 or 2100 right? Like we are talking about like - by mid-century by the end of the century. That is a long time. And in 30 years in 100 years like a lot can change.  That is true.  Like going from like whale oil to kerosene to like vehicles to gasoline to like plastics and iPhones...  Yeah.  ...Like did not take that long.  Things change. Yeah.  Right. So that is all it is is like technology can change the economy in like massive ways. And that can happen because like capitalist forces change or because like people want a better alternative.  Yeah.  And so I just - I see like a path on a timetable that could work to like...  You see a path.  ...A totally new economy.  I like hearing that. I also...  I do too.  I love the idea of whale oil coming back.  .  I mean it is crazy. You are like wait a second. We went from whale oil to like light bulbs in how long?  Wow.  This is the first time I have had a talk about climate change that does not leave me wallowing in despair.  Oh nice. Good.  Thanks.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah I am here for that.  Appreciate it. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Selena Simmons-Duffin reporter on NPR's Science Desk covering health policy and Rebecca Hersher reporter on NPR's Science Desk as well covering climate change. Selena do you have three words? Your first-ever three words on the show. I am so excited.  OK. These were a little bit easy. The government gave them to me.  They did.   The three words are ready set PrEP.  OK.  This is the name of the program that the government rolled out this week. It is the first real-life program that is part of the federal government's plan to end the HIV epidemic by 2030.  OK.  Talk about...  That is an ambitious objective.  Yeah.  2030.  Let us tell folks first what PrEP is.  OK. PrEP stands for pre-exposure prophylaxis. It is a drug regimen. Usually it is one pill that has a couple different drugs in it. You take it every day. And it prevents you from getting infected with HIV if you are exposed to it. So people who are at high risk of HIV infection can take PrEP. It is very effective. It has very few side effects. But awareness of it is very low. That is the first problem.  Yeah.  A lot of people have no idea this exists. It is been around since 2012. It is been approved as...  Yeah.  ...PrEP since 2012. And the other problem is that it costs - most recently - I got the numbers from Gilead the drugmaker this week - 1758 a month.  A month.  Yeah.  I do not know. That sounds easy.  Yeah.  How - that is crazy.  Yes.  So then this week the Trump White House is saying we are going to help lower the cost of this or make it free. Who gets it for free?  OK. So no. This is not changing that price at all.  Oh.  What it is is the U.S. government negotiated with Gilead this drugmaker that has a monopoly on PrEP and said can you donate enough of this drug to us for free...  Oh.  ...To cover people who do not have prescription drug coverage?  Gotcha.  People who pay the lowest price are people who have absolutely no coverage.  Gotcha.  And so the CDC did some - crunched some numbers and figured out there are probably about 200000 people who could use PrEP who are at high risk and do not have prescription drug coverage. And so they would be having to pay this giant amount of money. So...  OK.  ...Gilead is donating that - those drugs to the federal government. A little wrinkle in the sunny picture of ready set PrEP is that the government is also paying Gilead 6 million.  Wait wait. So then is it actually a donation?   They are donating...  Wait what kind of donation is this?  Yeah.  They are donating the drugs. But then they are getting paid money to distribute those drugs.  Oh. My big question seeing this news from the Trump White House this week that it is taking action on HIV prevention trying to help the LGBTQ community - I was like does that track with the Trump White House's previous policy stances on other things affecting this community? I am talking about the trans ban in the military. I am talking about certain laws and policies that would allow homeless shelters to kick out trans people. I am talking about the White House arguing to possibly end workplace protections for queer people. Knowing those things from the Trump White House does this to you Selena seem way out of left field?  Well I think you are right to ask the question. I think...  OK.  ...A lot of people see HIV - end HIV epidemic by 2030 Trump White House wants to do this - and go  like?  Yeah. Really?  Excuse me?  Yeah. Yeah.  Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar has framed this because it is a contradiction. I mean there is no way around it.  Yeah.  He says President Trump is interested in solving problems. This is a solvable public health problem. But I mean the ways that you get HIV have to do with drug use have to do with your sexual life. These are...  And stigma.  These are extremely sensitive issues.  Yeah.  And the - this plan really speaks to reaching out to particular demographics of people who are at high risk. Those are vulnerable people. You are asking them to talk about really complicated and personal parts of their lives. And we all see this is the same federal government. Like this is - you cannot bifurcate these things.  Yeah.  So it is a question for the administration how they are going to execute on this goal which experts say is a totally reasonable goal that really targets the places that have the highest rates of new infections that targets the communities that are at highest risk. How are they going to execute on this plan when we can all see what is happening in these other realms of life?  Exactly. Just to point out to be clear you know in spite of there still being a crisis over this disease America has made a lot of progress in lowering the rate of HIVAIDS infection over the last several years. And we are in a much better place now than we were say - what? - 10 years ago?  Yeah. I mean I looked it up and 40000 infections a year is where we have been since like the '90s. And that works out to 100 new infections every day.  Wow. So I guess what I am seeing then in the positive improvement is that people are getting better treatment once they have it.  For sure. I mean it is a totally manageable chronic illness. It is just you know if we can help people prevent getting infected...  Yeah that is the dream.  ...You know we should.  So then what I hear you both saying is Becky Hersher you have hope on fixing climate change. Selena you have hope on eradicating HIVAIDS.  Yeah.  You all have brightened my news week.  Wow.  All right.  Thank you.  Yeah.  Thank you. Thank you.  I like landing there.  Yes yes yes. All right you all. It is time for a break. After that break we are going to talk about one of America's sweethearts Jennifer Aniston. I know right? She is perhaps the most consistently likable celebrity in recent history. But in her newest role on this Apple Plus TV show The Morning Show she is full of rage and angry and screaming and throwing fits. And I love it. So after the break we will talk with a critic about what that performance says about us and how we feel about letting women inhabit rage onscreen and off. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back. As we go to break give me some rage both of you.  .   Science rage .  We will work on it .   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined by two guests - Selena Simmons-Duffin reporter on NPR's Science Desk covering health policy and Rebecca Hersher also a reporter on NPR's Science Desk covering climate change.  Science Desk.  Science Desk.  Woo.   Cool.  You all have like a catchphrase? What is the Science Desk catchphrase?  Hi we wear Hawaiian shirts.  .  We are different and cool.   There is a contingent of like really nice boomer dads on your desk...  Totally.  ...Who all wear Hawaiian shirts.  And they all have...  Boomer dad is actually a description of the core.  They all have like really intense Doppler radar. So if you need to know exactly...  Oh my gosh.  ...What time to leave to avoid the rain...  On your bike.  Really?  Yes. Oh it is intense.  I love it.  Yeah it is great.  Question for you both. Speaking of biking Selena have you all seen that Peloton ad yet?  Oh my God.  The one everyone's angry about.  Yes yes.  I love it.  Describe it for those who have not seen it.  OK so it is a guy who gifts his wife this very expensive like 2000 bike and then...  For Christmas.  For Christmas. And then the ad follows her like being like oh I am so nervous and excited to like do my first workout.  Yeah.  And then it - at the end they watch this video that is like...  Because she is taken selfie videos over an entire year...  Right.  ...Of herself biking getting up super early. And then the ad ends with this woman telling her husband this...    A year ago I did not realize how much this would change me.    High above me.    Thank you.   This holiday give the gift of Peloton.  Thank you.  .  Give the gift...  But she looks the same.  ...Of your wife being different.  She looks...  She looks...  ...The same.  Well also she was skinny to the start.  Yeah exactly.  She is emotionally changed Selena.  Oh sorry .  She is emotionally changed.  As you can guess the Internet was very mad about it. It turns out one day after the ad premiered in a single day Peloton's market value dropped by 942 million.  Capitalism.  That is capitalism - is that an overreaction? Hard to say.  I do not know. You all are women. Are you all mad at this?  I mean...  It is not my favorite ad that is ever been made.  .  But I will say this - compare apples to apples a lot of Christmas ads are like...  The worst.  ...Consumerist and sexist.  That is true. I - speaking of Christmas ads I have never seen anyone buy someone a Lexus for Christmas.  Yeah seriously.  Yes what is the deal with cars?  I have never seen it.  With those bows.  The bows.  With the bow on them.  Right.  Also I have questions about like insurance.   Like is the car insured?  Is the Peloton bike insured?  Is the registration up to date?  Yeah.  How did you do that without my license?  .  Anyways I bring up this Peloton ad because it led to a response of a lot of female rage which was fun to see. And female rage - women's rage is like a thing that I am like kind of seeing in the air right now that I am totally into. I want to pivot to another example of feminine rage in the culture right now - Jennifer Aniston's performance as Alex Levy in the uneven yet extremely watchable Apple Plus series The Morning Show. I have been obsessed with this show and Jen Aniston in this show so I called up friend of the show Anne Helen Petersen. She writes for BuzzFeed and she recently wrote this entire essay about Aniston in The Morning Show and what it says about rage in women and how we allow women to be angry. An eye-opening essay and chat - we will play it right now. And as a note to listeners we include a clip of Jennifer Aniston in the show with some bleeped language. Anne Helen Petersen hello. Thanks so much for coming back on the show. I think this is your third time on It is BEEN A MINUTE.  It is.  Look at that.  It is.  So we are going to talk about Jennifer Aniston for a little bit. Both of us have been watching her really unforgettable performance in this new Apple Plus TV show The Morning Show. How can we set up her character in that show for those who have not watched it yet?  You know it would be kind of like Katie Couric plus Jennifer Aniston right?  Yeah.  Like someone who has been on daytime television for a long time is an institution. But then there is also all of this kind of meta commentary that involves Jennifer Aniston as well that for me at least is part of what makes it so good and so interesting 'ecause otherwise...  Oh yeah.  ...I think it would just be kind of a nighttime soap that has...  Exactly.  ...Some movie stars in it.  Exactly. And so like her character Alex Levy in the show - she is the female anchor of the most popular morning news show. And she in that morning news show way is like the happy-go-lucky smiling face of America's mornings. But just below the surface when she is off that screen she is full of this unbridled rage.  Yeah.  And it is so interesting to see how angry someone like Jennifer Aniston is in this show because for decades now we have known her as maybe the nicest lady in the world.   Or at least like the lady who like keeps it very buttoned up.  I want to play a cut from the show - The Morning Show - that really gets at the rage that Aniston as Alex Levy channels in this show. I do not want to give too much away but basically there is a family crisis of sorts. And Aniston's character goes to her college-aged daughter's college dorm. And you expect Aniston in that motherly way to soothe the child help her feel at peace. Instead we end up hearing Aniston's character do this.    Life is not perfect OK baby? We do not get everything we want. You are young you know? Go make the life that you want. You see how  easy it is. And stop  and complaining and blaming me. And you get your own  pizza. This is my pizza. I am taking my pizza. I earned this .   Hearing that Anne Helen I cannot help but think that like that is a scream into the dark for like all women of a certain age.  Yeah. Yeah. I think you know both Aniston's character on the show and Aniston as like the actual living breathing celebrity - they are both boxed into this image of like you have to be America's mom - right? - which means that you have to be also nice and amiable and you know never too emotional and also somehow like maintain your body in a way that makes it look like you are 30 in order to somehow still be part of the conversation. And that not only takes a lot of effort - like the other thing about Aniston's character is that she is exhausted...  Yeah.  ...But also I think sparks a lot of rage.  Oh yeah. Well there is that opening scene in the first episode where because she is a morning news anchor she has to get up at like 30. And you see her pounding Red Bull and coffee on the treadmill then like jade rolling her face...  Yeah.  ...At 30 in the morning. And it is just like showing us what all women have to really go through. They have to...  Yeah.  ...Be two people at the same time. You have to be likeable and desirable. But if you want to get anything done at a certain point you cannot be those things.  Well and I think that to me is female celebrity - right? - because you are supposed to be powerful but also submissive because a female celebrity who is too powerful and who somehow like shows that they stick up to men in some way or they stick up to other women - they automatically become like a man-eating undesirable wench. And those tropes have been going on - you know this is something that goes back to Joan Crawford right? Like there is just so many different examples of celebrities who if they fail at that if they - that balance between making people like you while also making people fear you - if it goes too much on one side then you become monstrous.  Yeah. You know thinking back to Joan Crawford there is so many of her roles where she was just the deeply pissed-off person behind the mask the person who wanted to make sure that you feared her. And what Aniston does here that is really interesting in the show is she shows you both sides...  Yeah.  ...The nice lovable side and the main fierce side. Seeing that from an actress as big as Jennifer Aniston on a platform as big as Apple TV - does that maybe indicate that the culture is shifting and may be more comfortable in showing the ways that women have to be more than one thing all the time?  I mean I always want to say yes right?   Well and part of the interesting thing about The Morning Show is like the showrunner is a woman. You know you have people who are pulling the levers who have a more realistic understanding of how this sort of thing works. And I think you actually see that too in the primary conflict of the show which is really between Alex and - who is played by Jennifer Aniston - and Bradley which - side note - really funny that they name like the primary adversary in her life Bradley.  Oh yeah - played by Reese Witherspoon.  Yes. But I think you know in a traditional show and especially one that is probably run by a man you would have just like a catfight between them all the time and one that is all about age and beauty and like you know who is the most vixen-ish that...  Yeah.  ...Can appeal to more people.  Yeah.  And then it has done something much more interesting in terms of - they kind of bounce back and forth between allyship and understanding and empathy...  Oh yeah.  ...And then just like being pissed off at each other.  Which is the way that relationships actually work. Sometimes I love you. Sometimes I hate you. Sometimes you help me. Sometimes I hurt you.  Yes exactly. So I think that like having women behind the scenes and having you know these two major female stars who are the heart of the show maybe has pushed it into a more of a realistic direction in terms of like the conversations that we are having about what is acceptable behavior for women. But at the same time I do not know. They just seem - they are so hard. Like ideology - patriarchal ideology is so hard to crack.  Yeah.  It is. But I will say you know thinking about The Morning Show and how it fits into a broader landscape - we have seen a ton of shows recently that are tapping into female rage - Viola Davis in How To Get Away With Murder all those women in Big Little Lies I could go on. I mean like...  Yeah.  ...Are we in a moment where we are more comfortable watching and experiencing female rage? And if so is there something in the culture that these roles and these performances are responding to?  Well even when you think about like How To Get Away With Murder which is - again you know Shonda Rhimes - like having a woman behind the scenes who is not only articulating like this rage at patriarchy but also at white supremacy I do think we are in a moment where people see the enduring ways that - like we have not changed as much as some people would have liked that we would have changed at this point right? Like stuff like MeToo like took years to come out. And we have you know a president who has been credibly accused of sexual harassment and assault and a number of other leaders. So like there is this like - you know but we have to still live every day right? So every day you have...  While making 72 cents to the dollar or whatever right?  Yeah. So you have to swallow it every day and then it comes out in different outlets. And I think - you know people always ask me - they are like why do you study celebrity? Why is it important? And celebrities reflect back what our society values and is interrogating at a given moment in time. So you know yes we are reacting with rage to those boxes that have been put around us for a really long time. But what do you do with that rage right? Where do you funnel it? And that is the question that is unanswered at least at this point.  Anne Helen Petersen thank you so much.  Thank you. It is been my pleasure.   Thanks again to Anne Helen Petersen. She is a culture writer at BuzzFeed. Selena Becky I just want to play you both that scene of Jen Aniston taking her daughter's pizza one more time. I love it so.    You get your own  pizza. This is my pizza. I am taking my pizza. I earned this .   This is my pizza.  This is my pizza. I think my favorite part of that is where she calls her Baby angrily.  Yeah Baby.  Like it is just one of my personal favorite things is like terms of endearment yelled.  Yes. Do you all want to see more of that rage on TV? I do.  Yes.  Yeah.  I think - I also liked the fact that it was like motherly rage.  Oh yes.  I appreciate that. I feel like sometimes I show my daughters rage on purpose you know?  So they know that you can do it.  Yeah. Not like as a weapon you know not like I am being rageful for the sake of being rageful. But that - like rage is allowed you know?  Yes.  Yeah. It is a part of it.  My therapist says all emotions are allowed. That is what he tells me. That is what he tells me.  I also like - to the point about like Jennifer Aniston being like the nicest most likable person in America - like I particularly like that - I am assuming - have not seen the show - that when she is angry her face gets angry which like...  Oh yeah. It is fun - you love to see it.  ...Like I just - like I feel like a lot of women - I definitely have like internalized the idea that like an angry face is an ugly face and like keep it to yourself. And so I particularly want like a very good-looking actress to be very angry in front of me.  Show me your angry faces both of you - into it totally into it totally into it. All right. On that note it is time for a break. When we come back my favorite game - one that'ill make you happy not angry - Who Said That? You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR we will be right back.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests who can introduce themselves. Go ahead.  Nice. I am Becky Hersher. I am a science reporter - cover climate change.  And I am Selena Simmons-Duffin. I am a health policy reporter for NPR.  Love it love it love it. It is time for my favorite game and even more favorite-er  this time because you both are playing for the first time - Who Said That?  I am going to win.  I am so nervous.   So this game is very simple. I share a quote from the week you have to guess who said it or just get a keyword from the story. Three quotes - the winner gets absolutely nothing except bragging rights.  Which is relevant because our desks are right by each other so there could be some...  That is right. Oh oh and if that is the case I should like make you all a trophy so that one of you can lord it over the cubicle wall...  Make it very large.  ...For all time. Yeah. Yeah. All right. First quote. Ready?  Yep.  I am deeply grateful for the work in Potter and indeed Downton but it was not what you would call satisfying. I did not really feel I was acting in those things. Who said that?  Oh I know - Maggie Smith.  Yes. Yes. Yes.  Yes.  So...  I love Maggie Smith.  ...She is great.  She is so good.  Man that is such a sick burn at both of those things.  Right? Sick burn. So legendary actress Maggie Smith sat for an interview with The Evening Standard recently. And in the interview she basically says yeah I did th