 Hey you all. Sam Sanders here in my apartment going through all of the streaming-whatever services I pay for every month. I pay for Hulu. I pay for the extra Hulu thing where you get like live TV on it. I pay for Amazon Prime Video. I pay for Netflix. I pay for the fastest high-speed Internet to watch all of those things. But you know what? When I add it all up I realize I listen to public radio more than I watch any of those streaming platforms combined. And here's the thing - public radio unlike all those other things we do not send you a bill every month. All we do is every now and then ask you to give. So I am doing that now. If you go right now to donate.npr.orgsam you can give and support the original streaming service - public radio. Your donation helps local stations across the country also help shows like this keep coming at you with fresh new hot content. Go to donate.npr.orgsam. Thank you.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show - NPR national correspondents Kirk Siegler and Leila Fadel. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners to my guests. My two guests - it is such a treat - are in an actual live studio with me like just across the room. That rarely happens.  Hi.  Hi Sam.  Hi. Hello to you both Leila Fadel NPR national correspondent covering culture diversity and race and Kirk Siegler NPR national correspondent covering the West and rural issues. We are glad to have you at NPR West today Kirk because you recently moved to Idaho to really cover the West.  That is right. That is right. I am here from my new perch in Boise where we are covering the West and rural America.  I would say that you came back just to do this show but he came back for the NPR West holiday party. That is what it was.   Let us be honest.  I came back to report a story with my esteemed colleague next to me.  Yes which we will talk about very soon. It is a story that is a big deal across the entire country. We will get there get to that newsy subject. But first Leila Kirk I want to play you both the wackiest audio I heard this week.   Ladies and gentlemen we do have a special request for one of our customers...  It was on an airplane. Listen to it.   ...Hustlers is one of our in-flight movie options. We greatly appreciate if you joining us in supporting Ms. Lopez and watch Hustlers on our flight today.  Did you hear that?  Are they promo-ing  Ms. Jennifer Lopez and her movie?  Yes.  Is that a JetBlue flight?  Yes.  OK .  So this week on a JetBlue flight some J-Lo fan who was a passenger on the plane convinced the flight attendants to on the loudspeaker in the airplane ask everyone to watch J-Lo's movie Hustlers.  Wow.  This superfan is Joseph Longo. He is a MEL Magazine staff writer and calls himself a J-Lo backup dancer.  .  He was super pumped that J-Lo got a Golden Globe nomination this week for her acting work in the movie Hustlers. And he says on this flight he was on he was sure that there were Golden Globes voters - I am not sure how he knew. But he figured if I urge all of them to watch this movie and vote for J-Lo maybe it will help her out. JetBlue was like sure why not?  Is there an FCC rule about this?  OK . Just let it be fun and happy.  OK all right all right.  What movie would you all attempt to get an entire plane to watch?  I do not know that I - I have really bad taste. I am not sure I am going to  admit anything.  I do not - I find myself repeatedly - well I am on planes a lot - but I find myself repeatedly watching Lost In Translation. I do not know that I would force the entire plane to watch it. Lost In Translation The Big Lebowski Fargo - I am always watching those on planes.  Yeah.  I always watch rom-coms on planes.  Same.  Escapist.  Also the idea of the folks in the air having anymore in-air announcements bothers me because they already talk to me way too much.  .  I do not want to get the credit card. I do not care how many feet we are up in the air. I am just like ...  And now you are telling me what to watch?  Exactly . Yes.  Yeah.  All right. We are going to start the show as we always do - asking my panelists to describe their week of news in only three words. Because my two guests have been working on a story together for a while their three words are going to be shared on the same topic correct?  Yep.  Leila what are they?  So we chose carrot or stick.  And what is that about?  Well Kirk and I have both been reporting on the growing homelessness crisis and this sort of trend of how much you police the homelessness crisis and how much you so-called criminalize being homeless and how much you actually help solve the underlying issue.  Yeah and this is big in the news this month because the Supreme Court might take up a case that dictates what cities can do to fight homelessness right Kirk?  Right. So there is a case out of Boise Idaho where I am now based and it has huge implications across the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals and potentially across the country. Basically what it does - it goes back 10 years to when a group of homeless people sued the city for ticketing them for camping mostly along the Boise River. The argument was that they did not have anywhere else to go. At that time the city's only shelter was Christian and some people did not feel comfortable going in there for a myriad of reasons. But there also just was not shelter space available. This wound its way through the courts back and forth. But the important thing is last year the 9th Circuit a federal appeals court ruled that a city cannot ticket homeless people for camping in public places for sleeping in public places if there are no shelter beds available.  And that 9th Circuit covers what states and areas?  It covers pretty much most of the west from Idaho Washington Hawaii Nevada...  California?  And - yeah.  OK.  I was going to lead to California where the homelessness crisis is at...  An epidemic.  Yeah epidemic proportions. It is bad everywhere but here...  It is really bad.  ...It is extremely bad. And so this mid-sized you know relatively small city is worried that they are going to start seeing the encampments that we see the large tent cities that we see in West Coast cities - in major West Coast cities.  Is that potential? I mean like is there potential for that? Like how big is the crisis for Boise?  There certainly is. It may not be as eye-opening when you go around Boise as you do just right here in Los Angeles just right outside of our studio. However the underlying issues in Boise are the same as Spokane Wash. as Seattle as Los Angeles. They are experiencing an unprecedented affordable housing crisis. There is a shortage like no one there has ever seen at least in modern times. In Idaho in particular it is a conservative state. There is not a lot of public money for addiction services mental health services. And the housing shortage and the affordable housing crisis is a big pinch there and that is the underlying issue of all this.  Yeah.  And Leila you have been covering the crisis here in Los Angeles. I am sure there are some parallels to what is going on in Boise but this is an extreme case here in LA.  Yeah. I mean California is home to probably about a quarter of the homeless population across the country and LA and New York sort of battle for the No. 1 spot.  Really?  And of those sort of top 10 cities that have really big homeless populations most of those are in California and on the West Coast. And LA's - LA County has some like 60000 people that are homeless.  Really? Wow. And is that more than like 10 years ago 20 years ago?  Yeah I mean it is more than last year.  Really?  Los Angeles the city - 16 jump from last year.  Wow.  Every single day in LA 150 people are entering homelessness and the same number are not coming out of it.  Really. And so that drastic uptick when I read these headlines about homelessness it seems like there are upticks all across the country right now...  Yeah.  ...Because of housing affordability?  And basically the rub out here in particular is that none of these cities are now in compliance with federal law right?  How so?  Well the homeless population is so big that in some cases cities are trying to enforce people from camping on sidewalks and they may ticket them but there are not shelter beds available so under this ruling that is unconstitutional. It accounts for cruel and unusual punishment if you are ticketing people.  Yeah well...  So cities like LA ultimately the issue here like you said is about affordability. I spoke to General Dogon an advocate from Los Angeles Community Action Network center of Skid Row that - known as like the capital of homelessness.  Oh yeah I live a few blocks down.  Right. And so this is what he had to say about why this is happening.   I tell people all the time. Everybody as not on drugs and everybody as not lost their mind. Seventy-one percent of the people is homeless in the city of Los Angeles because the rent is too damn high. That is it and that is all.  Is that true?  Well the most recent homelessness count in the county actually did say 71...  Wow.  ...Is based on affordability accessible housing. But you know those are disputed numbers. Some will say it is a variety of factors and it is still - that count still said 29 are dealing - people dealing with addiction mental issues. But ultimately when you interview a lot of people out there they will say I got - the one guy I spoke to I got hit by a car I was a truck driver could not do my job.  Yeah.  Got evicted homeless.  And sometimes it is a few hundred dollars that makes a difference.  And we do not see all of the homeless people. Like in smaller cities there are people living in hotels.  And in cars.  We tend to focus on the encampments. There are people living in hotels and cars. And there is a frustration amongst the plaintiffs in particular in this case and the homeless advocates. I think most people are homeless advocates but formerly we call them the people who represent the homeless. In this case I spoke with the civil rights attorney in Boise who first brought this case. His name is Howard Belodoff and he points to an underlying frustration in a lot of these cases that you know - and part of the reason I am in Los Angeles was to interview the high-powered LA law firm that Boise hired to represent them.  Wait Boise hired an LA law firm to appeal this case?  Yeah to appeal this case to the Supreme Court - hundreds of thousands of dollars. There are other examples of this across the 9th Circuit. All of this money going to spend on legal fees and enforcement...  And not just like building houses for people.  Yeah. So let us hear what he had to say there.   It seems like more and more cities have taken the punitive approach to address the problem instead of addressing the problem.  Well this gets back to you alls three words carrot or stick.  Right.  What is the method that works? Just giving people housing resources or money or you know criminalizing some of the things that the homeless find themselves having to do what actually does work? What do we know?  Well clearly nobody's figured it out yet. But I mean I think when you talk to homeless advocates they will say let us stop doing this distractionary stuff. Let us stop going to the courts and wasting money. We all know what the problem is. People are poor rent is too high and we need to solve it that way. But then when you talk to city officials they will say well we have to walk a fine line here because rent is too high and affordability is an issue but we do not have the beds yet. We do not have the housing yet.  Yeah.  So how do we protect...  How do you navigate that?  ...Both the rights of the homeless and the rights of people business owners residents who are walking through these encampments as well?  Well - and then you will see homeowners especially in a place like LA they will vote to approve money to house the homeless.  But not next to them.  But then they will say do not put that shelter next to me do not put it there you know?  I think there is a growing consensus that this has to become a national issue that there has to be uniform - a national policy to address this. I think for years and years it is been this city over here this state over here this and this. But it is all interconnected you know. In terms of housing in terms of mental health services we know that you cannot just put somebody who is been living on the street who may have addiction issues or any other mental health issues or anything you cannot just give them a house and think they will be fine.  Right.  You know you have to have....  They need support.  ...Like a wraparound support and that costs a lot of money. And then you got to find a place to build the housing.  Yeah.  And...  It is a lot.  It is complex.  I wonder we have been in the midst of an economic boom by many measures for several years if not approaching a decade. You know the unemployment rate is really really low. The stock market keeps going gangbusters. And yet we have this crisis which proves that like a lot of folks still are not making enough money. What is the explanation for it? And like what is the explanation for all of these rising housing costs?  Well the banks are making a lot of money I think from the housing costs. But the unemployment is really low. But when you parse the numbers a little bit farther in many communities sure there are a lot of jobs. But they are not high-paying jobs. They are service centered.  Without - and they might not have benefits.  Benefits. So there are people making a lot of money in a certain part of society while at - as the middle class as we know it is getting squeezed more and more - the lower income side.  Yeah.  And there just is not enough housing. You talk to any mayor of any political stripe and they will point out in any town that we do not have enough housing. We stopped building housing - houses dramatically after the Great Recession.  To close I am wondering where the federal government plays into all of this. You know there was talk of the Trump White House doing something around homelessness. But just this week there was a new bill released in the Senate that proposes among other things giving financial aid or grants to families facing eviction. And the idea is that there are some remedies that we can give to folks that will keep them from becoming homeless in the first place like money. It remains to be seen if this can move out of the Senate and pass because Congress has not passed too much of anything these days. But perhaps there is action from D.C. coming.  It is interesting. We just do not hear much about housing on the presidential campaign trail. But yet when I visit any community any neighborhood in a city or smaller town - I was just in rural Oregon the other day. And the city officials there were drilling me with we do not have housing.  Yeah.  It is so expensive.  And it is everywhere. I was back home in San Antonio Texas for Thanksgiving and had conversation with friends that live there about San Antonio's growing homelessness crisis. And growing up in Texas I remember never seeing anyone homeless because housing was so cheap there. And you could build a McMansion on a farm somewhere and just live. And it is crazy. It is crazy.  Yeah. Even in my parents' like suburb an hour outside of Chicago they are seeing it now.  Yeah. Yeah.   It is time for a break. Coming up we get into the holiday spirit by talking about the flu. It is that season. Turns out there is a lot you may not know about the flu or the flu shot. We will educate you clear up some misconceptions about this very common illness after the break. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders in studio with two great guests this weekend. Tell folks who you are.  And Leila Fadel. I am a journalist with the National Desk at NPR covering race and identity.  All right.  I am Kirk Siegler. I am also a reporter with the National Desk alongside Leila. And I cover rural America and the West.  You say it so well - rural. I cannot. It is it is a tongue twister for me.  Rural.  Lots of practice.  Lots of practice. Lots of practice. Question for both of you Kirk and Leila have you gotten your flu shot yet?  Yes for the first time actually this year is the...  You just got one.  ...First year I have ever gotten a flu shot.  Did it hurt?  You are probably going to get the flu.  I know right?  Actually - sorry to be that guy. But actually...  This is my experience.  People think that. But it is not quite true.  OK.  On that note have you gotten your flu shot?  I did. It was at the NPR wellness fair I believe.  Plug.  Nerd.  Look at this happy employee.   Anyway it is funny that you bring up the point that you made Kirk. There are a lot of misconceptions about the flu...  I bet.  ...And the flu shot. And a colleague of ours recently set to dispel some of those myths. I am talking about Maddie Sofia. She is the host of NPR's daily science podcast Short Wave. It is a brand-new podcast - really really good. Science news it is fun. They had an entire episode on Maddie's show all about the flu recently clearing up misconceptions and telling us why getting that flu shot is a thing you have to do. So here's my chat with Maddie about the flu.   Maddie Sofia Hi. Hello. How are you?  I am excellent Sam.  You had an entire episode about the flu recently on Short Wave. You took questions from listeners.  Right.  And you had some experts help you answer those questions.  Absolutely. Yeah. I talked to a woman named Dr. Nicole Bouvier. She is at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. And she not only researches the flu Sam she also treats patients.   I do.  That is kind of like showing off a little bit at this point.   Well it is the best of both worlds I think because I really like patients but I do not like waking up early. So the lab is perfect for that.  So Dr. Bouvier knows a lot about what the flu does to our bodies and how scientists are trying to kind of outsmart it.  OK. I do not know a lot about the flu. Like my biggest question for you first and foremost is how do you know if you have the flu or just the cold?  Yeah it is - I mean it is a good question because a lot of the symptoms are really similar. So the flu and the cold are caused by two completely different viruses but they both infect your respiratory tract so meaning they affect like your mouth your lungs your nose your throat. And the cold pretty much only messes with you in that area. But the flu on the other hand being the garbage virus that it is does not stop at your respiratory track. It will mess you right up Sam.   So with influenza you get sort of what we call systemic symptoms which are things like fever lethargy not feeling like eating feeling like you get hit by a truck muscle aches headaches that really with the common cold you tend not to get.  I mean I feel like I got hit by a truck you know at the end of every work week Maddie.   Honestly Sam it is worse than that. I am going to tell you.  OK OK.  So the things she said - the fever - is pretty key. So not everybody who has the flu gets a fever. But Dr. Bouvier told me that if she does see a patient with a fever and a cough during flu season there is something like an 80 chance that person has the flu.  Cough fever together...  During flu season...  ...Might be the flu.  ...Oh yeah - might be the flu.  All right. How big is the flu? How many folks get it every year? I always hear of like people dying from the flu. I have never seen someone die from the flu.  Yeah. I mean I think that we forget just like how big of a deal the flu is. So last year this is kind of a current estimate that might change but the CDC says that 45 million people got sick with the flu last season which is roughly the population of the entire state of California right? It gets a lot of people sick. And about 61000 people died last year for the flu. It was a really bad season. And you know the flu and pneumonia consistently are in like the top 10 causes of death in the United States...  Man.  ...So it is pretty serious.  OK. So then the fix for this is more flu shots. I know I am supposed to get it. I got one this year. In your episode of Short Wave about the flu you talked about how that flu shot and vaccine is made. It involves eggs.  Yes . Sam OK so nobody wants me to walk through the entire process of how the vaccines...  .  ...We would die here Sam of old age.  Not the flu old age .  I mean you probably will sooner than me honestly. I am just going to say it .  And I - oop.  But yes the most common way we make flu vaccine starts with live viruses that are used to infect eggs. It takes months. It is a process that is been used for probably about 70 years. And a lot of scientists are actually trying to find better ways to make flu vaccines.  All right. So let us get into some misconceptions about the flu shot biggest being - and I hear this all the time from friends and family - well if I get the flu shot I might get the flu.  Yeah.  Like people think the shot will give them the flu.  I mean it is just - it is not true. So especially - so for the flu shot specifically when they do process those eggs after the virus has grown up there are multiple steps of killing the virus. In most cases they even bust that virus up into tiny little bits and pieces and then kind of scoop out the bits that are important for the vaccine. So after all that processing is done there is no live virus left in that flu shot. And even if there was Sam the flu shot goes in your arm.   Influenza viruses are designed or optimized to infect your respiratory tract. If you put them somewhere else they are not going to be able to grow the same way that they are in your respiratory tract and you are not going to get the symptoms that you get.  Uh-huh.  So you - there is no way you can get the flu from a flu shot.  OK. But even if I go through all this go to my doctor's office get that flu shot survive the pain...  Go through all this.  ...The pain I can still get the flu after the flu shot.  Yeah so...  OK. Maddie then what was the use of this conversation?   So getting the flu shot reduces your chance of getting the flu by about 40 to 60...  Not enough.  ...When the flu has picked the right strains. But listen up Sam it is not easy to design this flu shot. Twice a year the World Health Organization gets together a bunch of these scientists who share data from like influenza surveillance sites throughout the entire world and decide like OK these are the types of flu we think are going to go around next flu season. And then they develop that vaccine. But even if you do get the flu Sam and you have had your flu shot that flu shot can make the flu less terrible.   In the people who still get flu despite having the flu shot it actually can make you less sick than you would have been if you did not get the flu shot at all. You know if you were going to be in bed for three days you might be in bed for two days.  See?  OK. I will take that.  And time is money Sam.  It is. That is true.  And so that is mostly been shown in people that are at really high risk for bad flu complications like pneumonia. But Dr. Bouvier told me it is probably true for just young healthy folks like you Sam Sanders.  I am not young and healthy. I am old and tired.   And the last thing to know about the flu and the flu shot Sam is that even if you are young and healthy and think like oh it is a hassle I will get be fine if I get the flu you are the person that could be passing that virus on to somebody for whom the flu could be a really big deal like a new baby you are going to meet at a Christmas party or your grandmother people like that.   Those people who are at higher risk of complications you do not want to be the one who then goes ahead and gives them the flu. You are not just protecting yourself. You are protecting other people who either cannot get the vaccine themself or for whatever reason they will not respond to it quite as well.  Do not be that guy Sam.  OK. I believe her. I do. Last question for you Maddie. Have you ever had the flu? And if so what kind of patient is Maddie? What kind of sick person is Maddie?   Well I get my flu shot every year Sam...  Proud of you.  Sometimes I yell immune system activate when they do it and they really like when I do that.   Uh-huh.  So I have not gotten in maybe like three years. But I do remember being a dream patient...  OK.  ...Very cooperative not stubborn at all. I think I remember being described as graceful and kind.  I am a Grinch when I get sick. I am a Grinch when I am not sick.  I was about to say let us act like it.   Thank you Maddie Sofia. Your podcast is called Short Wave. Listeners listen to it every weekday for science and fun.  All right Sam. I appreciate you.  Likewise. Bye.   Thanks again to Maddie Sofia host of one of NPR's newest podcasts Short Wave. It is time for a break now. When we come back my favorite game - Who Said That? You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. BRB.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders in studio with two guests - Kirk Siegler NPR national correspondent covering the West and rural issues and Leila Fadel NPR national correspondent covering culture diversity and race. My friends it is time for my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Really made it dramatic that time for you.  Drama.  Really really drug it out.  I have anxiety about the trivia because last time we failed so miserably.  I do not think I have ever gotten one right.  So I Twitter stalked Sam and got no hints.   Either way you all still get a paycheck every two weeks.  That is true.  It is not like NPR's going to have to...  I need to win.  .  Can I just carol instead?  Oh fun fact about Kirk - and every listener should know this - every year around Christmastime Kirk organizes like carolling.  Really?  Yeah.  He gets a group of folks together. And they just go door to door singing Christmas songs.  Is that true?  Yes.  Due to like logistical and operational issues this year...   ...We may be postponing it for a year which burns me to say.  There was one year I was at Kirk's holiday party. And he is like all right. It is time to go carolling. And I was like I am not going.  You were the only that - you were like on the couch.  And I just stayed in his house and watched Netflix on his couch while they went out to sing. Anyway I digress. You all know how this game works. I share a quote from the week. You have to guess who said that or get a keyword from the story. The winner per usual gets absolutely nothing. We are low budget here at public radio. No buzzers. Just yell out your answer OK? First quote - just tell me what we are talking about here. When we saw them today you could see some loose feathers in the glue around the hat. It is definitely a concern.  In the glue around the hat.  And feathers.  And feathers.  Are we talking about like royalty? The royal family?  These are the least royal of the bird kingdom.  Is this pigeons or something?  Yes.   Yes.  Oh yeah.  Yes.  Least royal of the bird family.  I am going to get hate mail about...  You guessed right.  ...From like pigeon lovers.  Pigeon lovers yeah. You are in trouble.  You guessed right. But you do not know why.  No I have no idea.  So this story is from your old stomping grounds - Las Vegas area.  Oh. What happened?  So there is this really crazy story happening out around Las Vegas. Someone is gluing tiny multicolored cowboy hats on pigeons' heads.  Oh wait I did see this story.  OK. Yes.  I totally forgot.  Yes it is bananas.  That is insane.  And so like there were these videos floating around this week of these pigeons in cowboy hats. And at first everyone's like oh my God it is cute. But then you realize they are glued on. And that is pretty cruel. Anyways that quote comes from Mariah Hillman. She runs an animal rescue service called Lofty Hopes. And they nurse pigeons and doves back to health. And they have been helping try to figure out what is going on with these pigeons and the cowboy hats.  How did these people - how - whoever's doing...  How did they catch them?  Exactly. I was thinking how did you keep a pigeon still to glue a...  They are carrier pigeons? Like do they - are they already trained to like fly to like get the cowboy hats? I mean you can do that you know?  .  You could theoretically train a carrier pigeon to like fly to the you know country western store get a hat fly back.  You cannot train it to glue it on its head though.  True.  I do not care how annoying pigeons are you do not do that to them.  No.  Yeah.  Is not that weird?  That is so mean.  I hope those pigeons get revenge. like...  What would that...  They have a way to get revenge.  You better crap all over that...  Like an Alfred Hitchcock...  ...Dude's house.  Oh yeah.  All right. First point goes to Leila.  Yay.  You are really excited about that.  I am.  I like it.  I am competitive.  Yes. All right. Second quote - you can just guess the word that we are talking about in this quote. I have to say it is surprising to me. It is a word we all know and love. So many people were talking about this word. Hint it is the word of the year.  They and their.  Yes.   They. OK Leila. She came to win. Kirk where are you at?   Well I am sitting right here. And I am not winning.  So that quote comes from Peter Sokolowski from Merriam-Webster the dictionary. He was talking about their announcement this week that the Merriam-Webster 2019 word of the year is they. They apparently had a 313 increase in lookups on merriam-webster.com this year compared to last year. And we know that they is used increasingly to refer to people who are trans or non-binary or gender nonconforming. And this year has been a big year of acceptance for those in that community.  Yeah.  They.  OK.  I am into it.  Me too.  I like to use the word you all - also not gender specific very neutral in terms of gender. And it is nice and welcoming.  I agree.  All right. Last quote. This one's funny. This is a fill in the blank. It was a unified command decision to call out a secondary bus to be dispatched to pick up the stranded students and remotely transport to the local high school. At this time the incident is being ruled as a prank as blank was discharged on the bus. What was discharged on this school bus that made the whole bus have to be evacuated? A thing young boys are prone...  A whoopie cushion?  ...To overuse.   No. Something that young teenage boys use a lot - too excess - and it smells a lot.  Axe body spray.  Yes.   Yes yes. Axe body spray. There was a...  I have teenage nephews.  There was this...  I have it on right now.  Oh I figured Kirk.  Axe.  There was a school bus in Parrish Fla. in which some young kids were trying to pull a prank. They sprayed so much body spray they had to evacuate the bus. A few of the kids had to get treated for mild respiratory irritation. Everyone was OK but like ugh.  That is a PSA if you ever heard one.  Oh yeah. Kirk how old were you when you stopped wearing Axe body spray?   Do I have to answer that?  Yes you do.  I mean you say it...  It was last week.  ...Like it is past tense.  .  I can say I have never worn Axe body spray.  Oh.  Sorry Axe.  I used to slather that on man.  Really?  Well it is like one of those things. It is so tempting.  Is it like a rite of passage?  You cannot stop. And they say on the bottle you can actually spray it anywhere. So then you spray it everywhere.   OK moving along.  Anyway that quote came from the Parrish fire district in Parrish Fla. talking about the schoolbus in Parrish that was fumigated by Axe body spray. Leila you came into this game very very nervous. But I am happy to tell you you won.  Thank you.  Yes. And you got all three.  Can you say she won when technically neither of us really knew much of the context?  No I knew...  Wow.  No I knew the...  Am I throwing shade?  Leila won the popular...  I knew the dictionary.  ...Vote and the Electoral College.  Sore loser.  Yeah. I won both. I knew...  Sore loser to the left.  ...The dictionary one. And I did - yeah that is true. I only knew one for real. Like I had actually...  Yeah so...  ...Paid attention to that one.  ...Let us keep that in mind.  Word of the year.  J