 Hey you all. Sam Sanders here in my apartment going through all of the streaming whatever services I pay for every month. I pay for Hulu. I pay for the extra Hulu thing where you get like live TV on it. I pay for Amazon Prime Video. I pay for Netflix. I pay for the fastest high-speed Internet to watch all of those things. But you know what? When I add it all up I realize I listen to public radio more than I watch any of those streaming platforms combined. And here's the thing. Public radio unlike all those other things we do not send you a bill every month. All we do is every now and then ask you to give. So I am doing that now. If you go right now to donate.npr.orgsam you can give and support the original streaming service public radio. Your donation helps local stations across the country. Also help shows like this keep coming at it with fresh new hot content. Go to donate.npr.orgsam. Thank you.    It is been 24 hours. I need more hours with you.  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. You are hearing right now one of Maroon 5's many No. 1 hits. This song is called Girls Like You. It was at the top of the charts for several weeks this year. And I am playing Maroon 5 and this song right now because I want to share with you a small piece of Maroon 5 trivia that you may not know. Here it is. Maroon 5 has more than five members. Yes. Actually more than five. And one of those members is a singer and songwriter and artist in his own right. And over the last few years I have become a very big fan. I am talking with him today. His name is PJ Morton. As a solo artist PJ has worked with Stevie Wonder and Lil Wayne and Erykah Badu and he also just got three Grammy nominations for his latest live album. So the focus of my chat with PJ today is his new holiday album. It is called Christmas With PJ Morton. Think Christmas classics meets the soul of Stevie Wonder and Donny Hathaway with a sprinkle of New Orleans bounce. We will play a few of those songs in this interview. We will chat about PJ's solo career and we will talk about PJ's dad. PJ's father Paul S. Morton is a very famous gospel singer and preacher who I grew up listening to. We talk about all of that. And of course we touch on Maroon 5 and their reported alleged possible performance at next year's Super Bowl. All right. Let us get into it. Here's me with PJ Morton and a whole lot of music. Enjoy.   What is your like tour regimen? Like what do you have in your trailer? What is your routine? All touring artists I feel like have their own little thing.  Yeah. We are pretty chill. I mean we play a lot of cards. That is how we pass time on the road. That is a big...  What games?  We play spades.  OK.  .   OK.  Multiple games. We just play a bunch of spades games. And you know I am happy to announce that I am three-time international champion right now.  International?  Yeah. Yeah. We have played all over the world. We played in Australia. We played all over Europe all over Asia. So yeah.  I love it.  Yeah. It is a real thing. .  So I want to talk about everything you have done but we are going to talk about your holiday album. And I have got to say for starters I have a very high bar for holiday albums and for holiday classics and people trying to mess with holiday classics.  Sure.  But I am going to tell you PJ the first track of the album it kind of showcased how you are preserving the soul of these classic tunes but finding ways to reimagine them...  Sure.  ...In some pretty lovely ways.    Oh we are walking yeah in a winter...  Like for instance this first song on the album...    Oh we are walking...  ...It is a reggae version of Winter Wonderland.    Sleigh bells ring. Are you listening? In the lane snow is glistening. Beautiful sight. We are happy tonight walking in a winter wonderland. Gone away is the bluebird. Here to stay...  I like it.  . Thank you.  What made you want to do it that way?  You know it was really important to me. So I like you am a hard critic of Christmas albums because I love the classics...  Yeah.  ...And the reason those songs have been around so long is because they are just so well-written and...  Exactly.  ...The melodies are already perfect. So I definitely wanted to keep the essence of these songs but also wanted to make it exciting to listen to. I mean they have been done a million times now.    Plans we have made walking in a winter wonderland. In the meadow we can build a snowman. So I did not know which song I wanted to be reggae but I knew I wanted to do a reggae version of a Christmas song. And actually my drummer mentioned Winter Wonderland. And as soon as we started we were like yep...  Really?  ...That is it.  You just knew?  Yep. That was the one. We did not try another one. We went straight to that one and it just flowed.    Face unafraid the plans we have made walking in the winter wonderland. Oh we are walking in the winter. Oh my. Oh we are walking...  Yeah. Well and then there is this like little vamp you throw in there that I have not heard done with that song before.  Yeah.  Where you kind of vamp on like walkin'.    Walking oh my in a winter - oh...  It is real cool.  Yeah. Yeah. That is kind of - it is kind of a church thing. You know?  Totally.  It is probably me - it is probably me growing up in church where I just wanted to vamp it a little bit. .  Well I mean 'ecause church folks can make any song last as long as it needs to and a vamp will do that for you.  You are absolutely right. Yeah.  . Another question I have for you is like what songs you choose to cover. 'ecause with these classics some of them are so classic that when people cover them they only embarrass themselves. You know what I am saying?  Sure. Yeah.  And you made a big gamble in covering Mariah Carey's All I Want For Christmas Is You. Big shoes to fill. But I think you filled them. We are going to play some right now.    I do not want a lot for Christmas. There is just one thing I need. I do not care about presents underneath the Christmas tree.  So you slowed it down made it even more soulful. Giving me some Stevie vibes.  Yeah.    More than you could ever know.  But like were you afraid to tackle this song?    Make my wish come true. My plan for that was to just not compete with Mariah. You know?  .    Ooh baby. Ooh baby. I do not want a lot for Christmas. You know it is like let me get out of the way totally. Let me make this whole other thing you know where it is like we are just apples and oranges. You know?  Yeah.  I think first of all it is hard to create a modern Christmas classic. So like I said I stayed true to that melody. Hers is classic and it always will be. But yeah that was my - my strategy was just to get out of the way altogether.    See I just want you for my own more than you could ever know. Make my wish come true. Baby all I want for Christmas is you.  Why do you think it is so hard to make a modern-day Christmas classic? Because there really has not been like a new classic since that song which is what 20 years old now?  Exactly. I do not know. It is a perfect combination of things. It is got to be like repeatable you know? Like replay-able. Like you have got to want to hear it over and over. But you have also got to say something kind of fresh but also not really. You know? You have got to talk about the things that have always been talked about. You know? They are talking about the mistletoes and they are talking about presents under the tree.  Yeah.  So I think it is just - there is got to be a perfect little combination that I think if people actually knew the chemistry that they would be doing it over and over. But I do not think anybody knows. You just kind of fall on that.    And everyone is singing. I hear those sleigh bells ringing. Santa will not you bring me back the one I need? Will not you bring my baby back to me? I do not want a lot for Christmas.  Perhaps the biggest influence I am hearing on the album and on - honestly - all of your albums is the church the black church the Southern black church. And like it is most evident for me in this album - there is this like good 30 seconds or so at the end of one of the original songs that you have for the album. It is called Do You Believe? And like the last 40 seconds or so it is just straight-up church organ.  Yeah. B3.  It is beautiful.  Thanks man.   And it takes me right back to church Sunday morning when the organist is filling that time between the offering and the announcements. You know?  That is right.  And the organist just gets to go up.  Yeah. We call it talking music. That is right.  Yeah.  That is right. That is right.  Yeah. I love it.  .   So that is just really me being me.  Yeah.  And I could never get away from my upbringing. You know I thought about a transition going from that song to I will Be Home For Christmas and I am like you know let us do a church thing going into the next song. And it felt right.    I will be home for Christmas. You can plan on me.  Did you play in your church growing up?  Yeah. Big time. I wrote a lot of songs just like that sitting on the organ while my dad was talking  during church.    And presents on the tree. Christmas Eve will find me. And a lot of melodies and songs would come to me right there. I would veer off into my own world blending talk and music and...  Talk and music  ...Work on new songs. Yeah.  Speaking of I will Be Home For Christmas I want to play a bit to showcase the wonderful horn and string arrangements you have all through this album.    If only in my dreams. .  That is beautiful. Who is doing those arrangements for you?  Matt freaking Jones .  OK .  Yeah Matt Jones. He is kind of you know my partner right now since Gumbo. He just gets me. I just think he is the perfect partner. I have watched a bunch of Frank Sinatra things and how he...  Really?  ...Became - I mean that is what made me bring on Matt. You know I was listening to a lot of Frank before I did - before I worked on Gumbo. And I knew I wanted a lot of orchestration. But when I think back to his and Quincy Jones' relationship you know and how the orchestrator was just so important to what he was trying to do in that era - I think of Matt Jones that way where it is like - those arrangements are just...  They are luscious.  ...Insane.    I will be home for Christmas if only in my dreams - my dreams.  I miss - I mean it is like you hear Top 40 music nowadays - God I sound old...  .  ...And you never hear this anymore.  Yeah.    If only in my dreams. And I know that sound. I have heard that sound my whole life you know?  Yeah.  It is almost like magic.   OK. Time for a break. When we come back we talk a bit about Maroon 5 playing the biggest show on screen the Super Bowl.   We are going to pivot and talk about this other band that you are affiliated with a little band folks might have heard of called Maroon 5.  Yeah that little band. We are working. We are working man. We are trying to get to the top.  Yeah.  .  You are in Maroon 5. Are there more than five members?  There are typically.  .  Yeah .  How many are there now?  So when I joined the band there were six of us. And Jesse the original keyboard player after two years of me touring with the band kind of took a two-year sabbatical...  OK.  ...Which is when I popped up. I was already playing but I popped up two years later. And they were like oh it is a black dude in Maroon 5? It just...  That is just the thing. I was telling someone about interviewing you today. And they were like - and I was like he is Maroon 5 too. And I was like - and they said adamantly there is no black person in Maroon 5. And I said...  Right.  Actually there is.  Yeah - and nine years almost. But I love it man. Those are - those have become my brothers. And it also gives me balance.  How so?  I like being able to go back and forth from my solo thing to that thing. I get to take a backseat. Sometimes the pressure of running everything on your own thing you know can be a lot. And it seems like right when it is getting too much then there is a Maroon 5 tour. And I can just play keyboards and sing background vocals you know and not run everything. And then when I am you know getting tired of that then it is like all right - back to PJ Morton tour. So it is allowed me - I feel very like blessed man and very fortunate to even be able to have these two things going on in my life.  Yeah. I feel like - what song of you all's is like No. 1 right now as we speak?  Girls Like You is No. 1.  Yeah.  Or it has been for a while.  How does it feel? Like that must...  Amazing.  .  It is crazy to have the No. 1 song in the world you know?  Yeah.  I mean when I joined the band the next album - the first album I played on Overexposed we had five No. 1s in a row you know?  Wow. Wow.  And I am like - so for us to still be doing it right now I am like man we are - this is all borrowed time you know? It is like...  .  This is great. Let us just enjoy every minute because we are just so fortunate.  I hear you. You all are going to be playing on the biggest stage in a few months the Super Bowl. Exciting.  It is exciting. I cannot really even - like it is crazy because that is fully out there right? But I cannot...  Yeah.  ...Officially confirm or deny that...  .  ...Which is crazy right?  That is - come on.  Hey man...  .  Listen - I am just here talking about Christmas With PJ Morton. Nah. But I cannot officially do that.  .  I know it sounds crazy. It feels crazy. It feels...  So what do you say to your friends and family when they are like hey I saw the headlines?  When I got all those congratulations messages?  Yeah. Yeah what did you say?  I am like - I was just like hey I cannot confirm or deny that. Thank you  Dad.  To your dad .  It might have been a different conversation with my dad.  OK. OK. OK. I am not going to ask if you are already rehearsing because then that would give it away. So I am not...  Right.  ...Asking you that .  Well I can say without any hesitation that we have not rehearsed.  OK.  So I do not even know...  OK.  ...If it is happening man. I cannot confirm or deny it. No .  So I mean a thing that will be an issue for whoever plays that big game - and I am not going to say we do not know who it is yet...  Yeah.  ...Is the NFL's stance on take a knee protests and black players and the protests during these games. It is rumored and believed that Rihanna turned down playing the game because of this.  Yeah I heard that.  Would that be an issue for you and a thing that you think about?  Well you know - first of all well I know that the NFL is not enforcing that anymore. They are allowing players to kneel. I heard that the reason Rihanna turned it down allegedly was because she is with Kap you know?  What with Colin Kaepernick?  With him meaning you know...  Oh oh OK.  ...That is the hashtag...  Yes yes totally. Yes yes.  ...The hashtag ImWithKap. Yeah yeah .  I stand with him.  ImWithKap  OK.  So I think if I were to play the Super Bowl - initially I was feeling like man I do not know if this is the year I would necessarily want to play it. But you know I do think that it is a little gray out there. It is like you know I saw Eric Reid take a job with the Panthers. And you know so he is...  Who is that?  ...Working for the NFL. Eric Reid was the guy who was on the 49ers with Kaepernick and kneeled next to him you know and was also rumored to not being able to get a job for that reason. But he is taken a job now with the Panthers. So I just think it gets a little gray on what ImWithKap means you know? I definitely know that if with Kap means I agree with peacefully protesting I am with Kap for sure. I am against police brutality against you know the disproportionate police brutality against black and brown people. If that is what ImWithKap means then I am with him for sure as well. So you know that is my feelings about it.  We shall see whoever plays that game.  Whoever plays that game .   All right time for one more break here. When we come back PJ's roots in the church. And also PJ struggled to make his own path out of his father's shadow. All right BRB.   OK. One more time before we get back to PJ embrace the reason for the season. Give to public radio. Go to donate.npr.orgsam to support public radio. You give money every month to Hulu and Amazon Video and Netflix and all those other things. And you know you like us better. Help us out - donate.npr.orgsam. Thank you. So I did not know this until I was prepping for this interview but you are the son of the Paul S. Morton who I grew up listening to.  Wow.  I had no idea.  That is cool for me.  Yeah?  We joke with each other because his shadow was so huge growing up you know?  I am sure.  But now he jokes around and says people walk up to him and say hey you are PJ Morton's dad you know?  .  I used to get you are Bishop Morton's son.  Yeah.  But now he gets it more than me. So...  Yeah.  It is working out.  I have got to play a little bit of your dad just to show our listeners how this man...  Sure.  ...Can bring it. There is this song Your Tears that my mom used to play in the car for probably two or three years straight. And your dad was wailing on that song.  PAUL S.   Your tears are expressions that cannot be controlled.  He is a crooner.  Yeah he is .  PAUL S.   Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh.   Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh - I remember that.   I know right? Yeah it sticks with you. Yeah.  Yes.  It is crazy. My dad could have took a much different path. They wanted him to be like Al Green's competition back then.  Really?  Atlantic Records wanted to sign him. And...  Really?  ...He just knew that he wanted to be a preacher and that was his calling. But it was not because he could not hang. You know he is a bad man.  PAUL S.   I will not have to cry no more. Oh yeah I will not have to cry no more.  Are you ever on your dad's album?  Yeah. Well that one I was too young. I was in the youth...  .  ...Choir on one song .  OK. OK .  But yeah. No I have - I have worked with my dad and recorded with him in written form and whatnot so we stay close.  Did he trip out when you were like I am not only going to do gospel music?  Yeah. Yeah initially for sure.  .  Yeah for sure there was some pushback from my family initially. Mostly I think in the beginning they felt like it was just a rebellion you know? - a preacher's kid just rebelling.  Yeah.  I mean once...  Was it?  No I do not think so. I just felt like I genuinely wanted to talk about more than just God you know? I just felt like there was so much more in creativity to talk about. Life you know - all the things - if you believe he is the creator of all things then let us talk about all those things he created not just...  Yeah.  ...Him you know? So it was not a rebellion for me. It was just me feeling a need to talk about more. And I think when he saw that my purpose was you know as potent you know and as important you know he let go of that and just got behind me like a great father. He is been my biggest support system. But yeah I would be lying if I said that he did not have a dream of me like you know following his footsteps for sure.  So you know I was in New Orleans one summer for an internship. And while I was there I was like I got to go to Paul S. Morton's church.  Yeah.  And I did and it was amazing because he does this thing where he understands very well the theatrics and the timing you need to make a church service and to make a song at a church service pop. And so there is some song the choir's singing. And he is like still sitting down because he has not gotten up yet. But the choir sings the song. You think the song is done. The band brings it back up. Your dad gets up from his seat goes to like the lead singer takes the lead singer's mic and starts singing the song again. He is like bring it back.  Yeah.  And he just has this - such a precise read of timing and pacing that is just impeccable.  Sure.  Its impeccable.  You know I think part of that is just instinct. Part of that is just - he is been doing it for a long time man you know? And for me he was the greatest teacher. Just being able to watch him you know lead over people and you know control a room and be sensitive to a room that is really what it comes down to - being sensitive and being open.  Yeah.  So I could not help but become a studied performer. You know I got to watch him for years and years - and not just watch him but play behind him you know?  Yeah.  So be connected to that same process.  What is a thing that you find yourself always bringing to your live shows your performances that you learned directly from him or saw him do all the time?  You know I think the involving people. You know I have watched - I have been a part of things and watched things where people just perform to the audience you know?  Yeah.  But for me church was - and what my dad did was involve the people - talk back to me sing with me. I always say - I mean I am not exaggerating - that I have the best sounding audience...  Yeah.  ...Of any artist.  Yeah.  My audience can sing man - always. Any city they are harmonizing without me asking you know? But I think the call and response is definitely the biggest thing I took from him.  I want to talk about another influence of yours which anyone listening can hear - Stevie Wonder. We actually asked you ahead of this chat to share with us a few of the songs that you like to hear during the holidays. You sent us a Stevie Wonder song called Someday At Christmas. I want to post a little bit of it right now.    Someday at Christmas men will not be boys playing with bombs like kids play with toys. One warm December our hearts will see a world where men are free. Someday at Christmas...  How old was he on this song?  He had to be young man.  It was like young Stevie.  He was born in '50 I think - so yeah like early 20s.    When we have found what life's really worth there'ill be peace on Earth. Someday all our dreams will come...  What about him is so influential to you?  It is so many things you know? It is so crazy. I tell people that I was not a fanatic in that way where I was like listening to every word. It was more - I internalized it in a way. It spoke to me deeper than what was being said or played. It was kind of like a connection of like oh this is the way I want to say things.    One happy morning people will share a world where people care.  And his voicings you know his changes...    Someday all our dreams will come to be someday in a world...  The melodies are just something we still have not heard you know...  Oh totally.  ...At that level.  Like his chord changes were weird. They were strange.  Yeah.  They were like out there.  Yeah. But his genius was they were weird but then he put a simple melody on top of it.  Yeah.  And you do not even realize it is weird. Or me as a musician - right? - I would not even realize they were weird till I tried to go play it. Then I am like...  .  ...Wait. He changed keys right there? I did not even - I thought we were in the same key right now you know?  Yeah.  The genius is when you can be complex and serve it in a way that is like - feels simple.  Yeah.    But someday at Christmastime someday at Christmastime.  Now we cannot get away from Stevie without pointing out that you had the honor of working with him. You all did a song together.  Yes.  What song?  Absolutely. It is a song called Only One on this album I did called New Orleans. We were nominated for a Grammy for that song actually - 2013 - best RB song yeah. So...  And he played the harmonica right?  He played the harmonica on it yeah. That is right.  Wow.  And you know to me still my greatest accomplishment for me personally in my career is to be able to work with Stevie. And so yeah. I still do not get used to it. We have sort of a relationship now you know...  Oh snap.  ...Where I can call him if I need to. But I...  Wait when does one need to call Stevie Wonder? What is...  That is what I am saying.  ...The circumstance?  I do not even take advantage of that. I am like - man I am not bothering Stevie Wonder. You know?  .  It is still - like he still - I hold him in such high esteem. It is like hey man - I know I can but I am going to just chill. You know?  Yeah. Favorite Stevie song?  There is this song called Summer Soft...  OK.  ...That is my favorite. I go deep cut with Stevie .  I am going to say Golden Lady...  That is great.  ...From Innervisions.  The greatest Moog bass performance ever is on Golden Lady.  It is so good.  Yeah.  Well also like - I like came to Innervisions at this really - like so I - we grew up in a gospel music-only household. Like we could not have any secular music in the house.  Sure.  And I remember buying Innervisions at like a Half Price Books or whatever when I was in like eighth grade. But I would have to sneak to the bathroom to listen to it.  Wow. Yeah.  And so I would be holed up in the bathroom with the door locked for hours just playing Innervisions over and over.  That sounds very similar to me.  Really?  I - it was probably 8th grade. I was 13. Yeah. And I - well we - so somebody gave me a cassette tape with Never Dreamed You would Leave In Summer And that sparked my curiosity about Stevie. So there was a Circuit City...  .  ...Around...  RIP.  ...My house. Yeah RIP Circuit City . And so I started to buy Stevie Wonder CDs in chronological order. I started with like Music Of My Mind.  Oh wow.  And I literally went into like a Stevie stupor. And I would not listen to anything else...  Wow.  ...But like Stevie albums. And so...  Yeah.  ...I was not writing songs then yet - or anything you know? But the influence came I think because I just was in Stevie school for - I do not know - it could have been a whole year.  Yeah.  I do not remember. I just remember my friends being into whatever was out currently. And I would be like - man you got to hear this from 1968.   You know what I am saying? You have got to hear...  Stevie school.  ...This Music Of My Mind from 1969.  Yeah.  And my drummer who is still my drummer now - I would make him listen to Stevie all day if he came to my house. So - but he is still rocking with me so I guess it worked out.  Stevie school.  Yeah.  Back to you having Stevie's number basically what would rise to the occasion of you saying I am calling Stevie?  I do not know. But I am doing...  .  I am doing something with him actually before the end of the year. I do not think I can announce it yet. But...  Oh.  ...We are doing something together before this year is out.  All right.  Yeah.  Well you got less than a month...  That is my boy.  ...To put it out there.  That is my boy. That is my boy Stevie. Yeah it should be out. It should be out today or tomorrow actually.  Oh. Well then just say it because this is going to run next week.  I do not even  - I do not even want to.   OK OK OK OK.  I do not even want to. Yeah yeah.  I am not going to pressure you.  It is Stevie man. I just told you. I just told you.  Yeah. You cannot mess with that. That is...  No. Then I am messing...  That is bad juju.  I am not messing up my relationship.  That is bad juju.  Yeah.  You do not want that.  Yeah. Yeah.  All right.  I am holding it.    Chestnuts roasting on an open fire...  Hey thank you so much for your music for your time. I am a really really big fan.  My pleasure man. Thank you for having me. It was a good talk.  Of course. All right man. Take care.  All right.    ...Being sung by a choir and folks dressed up like Eskimos. Everybody knows...  All right PJ's holiday album is called Christmas With PJ Morton. Thanks to PJ. He is on tour through the rest of this year. I will not miss him when he is in LA later this month. All right. Also listeners a reminder - for our Friday episode do not forget to share with me the best thing that happened to you all week. Record yourself. Send that file to me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. You might hear yourself in the show - in the podcast on the radio - could be fun. All right till Friday thanks for listening. Talk soon.    ...On his sleigh. And every mother's child is going to spy to see if reindeer really know how to fly. And so I am offering this simple phrase - oh - to kids from 1 to... 