 Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. So it is the last week of 2021 and we have been talking a lot this month about what happened in this year of news and pop culture. And for this episode I want to talk about the year in music - and not just music we loved but also how the music industry has been changing very quickly. Besides you know the pandemic the rise of TikTok and the continued dominance of streamers like Spotify it means the music industry looks even more different now than it did at the start of 2021. So I called up my friends Charlie Harding and Nate Sloan. They are the two co-hosts of one of my favorite podcasts Switched On Pop. And I talk with them both about what changed in the pop landscape of 2021 and what their favorite albums of the year were. I had so much fun talking with them. I hope you have fun listening. Enjoy. How are you guys?  Good.  Great.  We are here to talk about music. We have been talking music and such gosh at this point for a few years now and I am so happy to hear you all's thoughts on what is been a really strange year not just for the whole world but for music. And I think I want you both just to start out by telling me if you will what you think was the biggest or biggest few trends in pop music this year.  I think one of the biggest trends that we saw this year on the pop charts was something that we have been calling the death of the chorus. That sounds maybe a little overdramatic.  It is so sad .  It is not. It is a perhaps hyperbolic way of discussing something which is really interesting that is happening in pop music right now which is that the kind of one truism of pop music that your song needs to have a high-octane compelling catchy chorus section in order to do well that seems to be changing. When we listen to artists like Bad Bunny - who for the second year in a row now in 2021 was the most streamed artist globally. When you listen to a Bad Bunny song like Si Veo A Tu Mama you find that there is not that kind of predictable pop structure where it builds up to like an apex chorus. Instead he just gives you hook after hook after hook after hook.   .  It is about the vibe and it is about keeping a listener's interest for as long as possible. He is a master of this new music streaming economy because streaming has really changed the game in the last few years and you can really hear it in 2021. There is a new premium on keeping a listener's attention from the very beginning of a song to the very end. So artists are now trying to grab your ears from like the very first seconds of a track. There is no like slow long introductions. There is no ramp-up to a climactic chorus. They want to grab your ears and keep you listening from beginning to end.  Charlie how do you feel about this?  On the one hand I love when artists can be reactive to the changing ways that people are listening and the kinds of creativity it can inspire. But on the other hand I think that maybe one of the negative trends or maybe one of the challenging trends that we have seen this year is that we are seeing songs become bigger than artists. Part of the reason why artists need to keep us so glued into their song is because we are not hearing them in the same way that we used to. More and more people are going to playlists as their main way of listening to music. And this year I reported a conversation with Lucas Keller. He is the CEO of Milk  Honey. It is one of the biggest artist producer songwriter management companies in LA. And what he told me is that streaming is a great way for an artist to be faceless and that the song is becoming bigger than the artist meaning you might have a huge hit on TikTok or you might trend way high on a Spotify playlist but the reality is most people probably are not even registering your name. And so we are having a whole new world of one-hit streaming wonders.  I know. You know it is crazy to hear you all say that 'ecause that has happened to me this year. I do not know how it happened but Spotify a few months ago was like Sam we think you would like this playlist that we have curated called Modern Psychedelia. And I started playing it and I love it. And it is like my go-to for road trips. It is my go-to for long walks. It is - I just play that playlist all the time. And there are a few songs from that playlist that I love. I do not know those artists' name. And the only way that I found out these artists' name is because a bunch of the songs from that playlist ended up in my most played songs on Spotify Wrapped.  Yeah and it is affecting artists all across the board. Like I think about a conversation we had with songwriter Julia Michaels who is known for her mega-hit Issues and writes for artists like Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber. She told me that streaming today is making it such that songwriters are lucky if they are making anything at all. And if you really want to be a songwriter like you have to be a TikTok star. You have to be on social media all the time.  Yeah.  You have to be a model. I think that musicians are now competing with - profanity warning - content creators.   Like I think about an artist like Tai Verdes who was a TikTok breakout from this year.  What was his song?  His song Stuck In The Middle first broke out on TikTok and became a viral trend.    I said why do not you try me on out? I know you want to be friends.  I have heard that song and I know that I have heard that song on TikTok this year. And I yeah did not know that man's name till you told me.  But you know Tai's really smart because he recognizes that one song is not enough. He was on this whole campaign to put out like a song every single month.  Oh wow.  And eventually one of his songs really sticks. His track A-O-K ascends off of TikTok into all the streaming platforms and up the charts. I am going to play that for you...  Yeah yeah.  ...'ecause you are going to know this one.  OK.    Living in this big blue world with my head up in outer space. I know I will be A-O A-OK. I know I will be A-O A-OK.  I like it.  Yeah. I mean and - but Tai is smart. He recognizes that every single song needs to have not just one TikTok video but he has like dozens and dozens of videos for every single song recognizing that basically every song is a bottom-up marketing campaign because you probably have not registered the name unless you started to follow the person and have more and more viral connections to that artist.  So what I hear you both saying is that it is really really really hard right now to be an emerging pop star.  Well I think that is one of these things where like the old gatekeeping has dissembled and there is more music than ever. I mean frankly someone like Tai Verdes - like he got his start - he was working at the Verizon store just making music on the side.  That is amazing.  And he was really good at telling his story on TikTok and got people's attention. So you have more and more people who are really popping up out of nowhere without the traditional institutional support of the music industry who are then gobbling them up as they become hits. And on the other hand yeah I mean there is just so much material that it is extremely hard to get noticed.  Coming up more on how TikTok shapes what we hear. Stick around. One of the things that has surprised me with TikTok this year has been the unexpected viral success of a Willow Smith song that was actually released a few years ago. I am talking about that Caught A Vibe song Meet Me At Our Spot.    Meet me at our spot. Caught a vibe. Yeah. Baby are you coming for the ride?  So I saw it all over TikTok and I was like oh that is so cute. I did not realize for weeks that it was Willow Smith the Willow Smith of the Smith family. And then I did not realize for weeks that this song has actually been out there for a while. What does a song like that just kind of pop out of nowhere it seems on TikTok say about what TikTok is doing to music?  I think one of most exciting things about TikTok is that it does find pieces of culture that might have been forgotten. The question is whether or not one trending moment will sustain a career. I think of someone like Trevor Daniel whose song Falling came out in 2018 to no success until only more recently it became a TikTok meme.  Which one is that? Sing the chorus.  I will play it for you.  OK .    My last made me feel like I would never try again. But when I...  That is been out for a few years? OK.  Yeah yeah yeah. This gets picked up on Spotify playlists like Chill Hits and Beast Mode. It gets billions of plays on Spotify. But you know his follow-up the song Past Life with Selena Gomez and Finneas...    Last night was the last night of my past life. Got me here like you can never figure me out.  ...Does about 10 the size of streaming as Falling did. So a great example - you know you can pop up on that platform but sustaining it is extremely challenging.  Do you think the marketplace is going to find a way over time to sustain some of this stuff and to monetize it in a way that benefits these artists? It seems like a wild Wild West right now. But are things going to even out and - I do not know - give these folks more money over time?  I wish I could say I was optimistic about that. But unfortunately I think if you look at services like Spotify which are incredible in the access that it gives to consumers to like the entire database of recorded music ever at the same time they have not really shown any intention of paying artists a fair return for the music that they are putting on the site. I do not really see that changing. But I am somewhat optimistic about the success of rival platforms - for instance Bandcamp which during the pandemic began these Bandcamp Fridays where they would give the proceeds of every sale on their site to artists. And that is really generated not only a new kind of alternative musical economy. It is like created a whole musical community...  Yeah.  ...Around that platform. So that leaves me like a little bit optimistic that artists will still have a chance in the future.  Yeah. I will say it is quite interesting in this year of TikTok changing the music industry the biggest album of the year and the biggest artist of the year is Adele. And she is an artist...  Right.  ...Who on the release of her latest album said I am not making music for TikTok. She said in an interview I do not get that. I am too old for that. She says I am making music for my generation music for 30-somethings who have gone to therapy. And it is almost just like two competing tracks.  Yeah.  Someone like Adele is big enough to not need to play with the algorithms to succeed but a lot of other artists do not have that luxury.  Yeah she is a true outlier in all of the musical and economic trends we have been talking about Sam. She does not stuff her songs with hooks. She takes her time. She adds these classic structures with organic instruments and string symphonies.    Mama's got a lot to learn - teach me.  And she almost represents this throwback to another era in the music industry where you - where someone could release an album and everyone would be listening to it and people would actually going - be going out to stores and buying physical copies of it. Like that does not happen anymore. But with Adele it does. So she is - you are absolutely right. She is like the outlier in all of this - all of these changes we have been describing.  Yeah if you want to be outside of our systems of communication you kind of have to already be the biggest names in the world. It is only folks like Adele or Beyonce who can drop an album with no warning that then becomes the biggest part of conversation.  Yeah yeah. Also speaking of Adele I love how all of her music is always sounding vintage. But there is a remix of Easy On Me by a producer called Louis La Roche and he calls it his 1988 remix. And it has all of the trappings of like '80s RB. It is so good.    Go easy on me baby.  Oh yeah .    I was still a child did not get the chance to...  Like all those '80s tom-toms the - .  Yes. Yes.  I love it.  It is the - it is my song of the year.   It is my song of the year 'ecause it just gives me warm fuzzy feelings.  It is like nostalgia on top of nostalgia.  Yeah yeah. It is just delightful.   Up next Charlie and Nate's favorite music from this year. Stay with us.   I admire you all's taste and I always want to know what you are listening to. I do not care who goes first but tell me what you enjoyed the most musicwise in 2021.  I guess it would not be a surprise to say that the most listened to album in my life was Montero.  By Lil Nas X.  Yeah.  It is made with some of the best beat-makers in the business.  Yeah.  The producer duo Take a Daytrip - we spoke with them on Switched On Pop about the making of the song Montero .    Call me when you want. Call me when you need. Call me in the morning. I will be on the way. Call me when you want. Call me when you need. Call me out by your name. I will be on the way.  What I love about that song which I think is probably my top played song of the year is that we all know the story about Lil Nas X being a master marketer who triggers the entire far-religious-right for his depiction of the devil but what I love about him is his musicality because he embeds within the song this scale the Phrygian dominant scale...   ...Which is often used in Hollywood to evoke otherness and evil. It has the devil's tritone in it.   It is often used as frankly like kind of a signal of Islamophobia because it is so often used in Arab cultures. And so we hear it frankly in like Hollywood bad TV shows when they want to like signal a terrorist is coming on screen. And so I think it is brilliant that Lil Nas X uses this scale which is actually played on a banjo...   .  ...Which is kind of like a nod to his earlier song Old Town Road. He is showing off that he knows how to evoke our collective consciousness around what we perceive as like quote-unquote dangerous music...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...That matches up with the message of the song and it is those kind of moments where the music and the lyric connect that I am just like dang.  Well and on top of all of that he has all of that messaging almost subliminally and it is still a bop. It is still incredibly catchy.  Yeah.  That is hard to do.  I think that track and this album like Charlie was saying shows that he is not just kind of this - a master of virality. He is a really creative and innovative musician as well.  All right Nate what is your pick - your best favorite music of the year?  All right I am going to throw down with An Evening With Silk Sonic.  Yeah.  This is the - can I call it a supergroup?  Oh yeah.  Anderson .Paak Bruno Mars. And the whole album is sort of narrated or hosted if you will by legendary P-Funk bassist Bootsy Collins. This could have been just an exercise in kind of retro sounds and throwback nostalgia but it is something more than that. When you listen to the lead single from the album Leave The Door Open you hear these classic harmonies that are borrowed from '70s Philly soul.    I ama leave the door open. I ama leave the door open. I ama leave the door open girl.  But then at the same time you have these modern touches the - Anderson .Paak's highly contemporary hip-hop flow and song lyrics that sound both timeless and utterly in the present.    If you smoke - what you smoke? I got the haze - purple haze. And if you are hungry girl I got filets - ooh.  So I think this album is such a success because it is not just kind of paying homage to the past it is yanking the past into the present. And it is so much fun to listen to.  Yeah. And what I love about that album - I have been playing it to death - it is an album full of lyrics about relationships and sex but it is cheesy and corny in this way that is almost asexual which makes me love it even more.  Definitely.  I totally agree Sam. It is the first album that I have listened to in a long time where I have actually kind of like laughed out loud or at least chuckled when I am listening to the lyrics...  .  ...Because some of the rhymes and some of the references you are talking about are so surprising and such a different way about talking about love and sex.    I can smell your sweet perfume. You smell better than a barbecue.  That it just like - I am just like smiling you know walking down the street listening to it. And people are probably looking at me like what is that guy's problem? But that is how it makes me feel.  Yeah yeah I love it.  Can we turn this around and ask you what your pick is for this year?  Oh yeah. I have thought long and hard about it. And I want to use my time talking about my favorite stuff of the year and not overlap with other colleagues. So my favorite album of the year is clearly Jazmine Sullivan's Heaux Tales.    I do not know where I woke up. I keep on pressing my luck. I do not know where I woke up.  But the fine folks over at NPR Music have named it their album of the year. And they interviewed her all about it. So go over there and check that out. They can speak about her much better than I can. But Jazmine I love you. But I am going to say after Jazmine my favorite artist of this year is an indie almost under-the-radar pop star named Remi Wolf - R-E-M-I Wolf.  Oh love Remi Wolf.  She is just - her music sounds like Pop Rocks.   Like it is just - like it sparkles.    East side guys - they bring the thunder.  it is so energetic. It is frenetic. Like she does these things where it is like it is pop but really RB influence. But every song sounds like a party. Like every song sounds like a party and there is so much going on. It is so busy. It sounds like - it sounds giddy. Her music is giddy you know but also very musical. And so all of the up-tempo stuff that she is put out I love. And it gives you this sense of a woman who is just always having fun making music which I love. She is had a few EPs. And her full length album came out this year and it is mostly full of great fun up-tempo stuff. But I think what really makes me love her the most are the ballads because she does this thing with her ballads even when they are talking about stuff that is not fun like a breakup - they still feel infused with those Pop Rocks with that joy. And my favorite song of the year came from her. It is a song called Street That You Live On. And it is beautifully written full of what feels like teen angst. But even as it is a song about a breakup it feels and sounds like a song about falling in love because her stuff is just that happy.    I avoid the street that you live on. You are a magnet pulling my feet and my head off.  Whew that is a hook that you want to belt out of your car window and play 27 times in a row driving down the PCH. And it is this song full of these sad lyrics about a breakup but you cannot help but smile.  It is kind of like the anti-Driver's License by Olivia Rodrigo. It is kind of the same story premise of like - well the opposite right? It is like I drive down the street reminisce about our old relationship. This is like nah nah nah I am avoiding your street.  I am avoiding you. Exactly.  But the vibe is also the exact opposite. It has that like happy sad thing...  Yes.  ...Where the groove is - yeah it is like that is driving with the top down music. But the lyrics are so bittersweet.  The lyrics just feel so youthful. So like there is a section in the second verse she says I am a feral cat.    I am a feral cat. I am licking up the milk at your door. A serial farmer I am harvesting the drama. This episode of Criminal Minds is too real to ignore.  And delivered by anyone else you would be like this is ridiculous. But she believes it. And you just feel it. I love her.  Yeah. She sings it like she means it. And her vocal range is crazy. I love how she dips down to those low notes.  I mean like her range you speak of - like that verse construction is so beautiful but you do not realize till you hear it a few times. The range of just the verse is like an octave and a half.  Massive.  She is really moving vocally. So yeah that is my favorite pick of the year. Her album all of her EPS every song she makes - Remi Wolf the queen.  I look forward to the interview on It is BEEN A MINUTE.  I sure hope so. I sure hope so. So this episode is running at the very tail end of 2021. So to close I want to ask you both to give me and our listeners some advice. What is the ideal best song to play right at the new year to bring in on a good note 2022?  I love that question. I am going to have to pick a song that I heard one New Year's many moons ago at a warehouse party in Brooklyn. At midnight a giant tray of champagne glasses descended from the ceiling. The strobe lights went off. Everyone went nuts. And the song that they played was Once In A Lifetime by the Talking Heads.    Letting the days go by let the water hold me down. Letting the days go by water flowing underground.  OK.  To this day that song just makes me think of a possibility of renewal and of just celebrating life. So I am going to go with Talking Heads Once In A Lifetime.  I love it.  I guess you could say then if you are not feeling that positivity you could just play Burning Down The House. So either way...  .    Watch out.  Thanks again to my guests Charlie Harding and Nate Sloan. They are the co-hosts of the podcast Switched on Pop one of my favorite shows one of the best shows out there. Find it wherever you get your podcasts. All right. This episode was produced by Liam McBain and edited by Jordana Hochman. Thanks to Felipe D. Oropeza for additional scoring help. All right listeners I hope you are enjoying the last week of this year. Until Friday I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon. 