 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show comedian and host of Fake The Nation Negin Farsad and New York Times reporter Sopan Deb. All right. Let us start the show.   That was correct?  Yeah.  Yes.  Yup.  OK. Betty wants to get it right. Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Each week a different song - you all know this song. We will talk more about it later. But first two great guests here with me at NPR in New York - Negin Farsad from Fake The Nation a podcast from Earwolf that is quote all the comedy about politics without any of the politics about politics. I like that.   Thank you.  ...And Sopan Deb my good friend from the trail.  Yes.  We used to go Trump rally to Trump rally together.   Yeah I remember.  Now he covers culture for The New York Times.  Yeah right.  ...Probably like the most awesome job in the world.  I sleep a lot more than I used to.  Bless. Yes. So this song - you all can name it.  QUAD CITY DJ'  Everybody get up.  It is Jock Jam .  Close.  QUAD CITY DJ'  It is time to slam now.  Space Jam.  Space Jam - right right right.  But is it...  QUAD CITY DJ'  Welcome to the Space Jam.  But this song is called literally Space Jam. Is that correct?  Brent confirm?  Oh wow. OK.  It is called Space Jam.  .  That is good to know.  It is this theme song from the movie which I have actually never seen. But it is by the Quad...  Whoa back up. Back up.  I have never seen Space Jam. I am sorry.  I have never seen it either.  What? Who am I with? What is...   I do not mean to pull the culture writer card here. Come on guys.  Also how are you going to be like...  Did you not...  Oh Space Jam is a part of the culture you must consume. Really bro? Is that where we are at right now?   Yeah. Oh man.  .  But I have not seen it. But I feel like I know it because I know all the songs from the soundtrack. But I picked this song by the Quad City DJ's who also made - come on ride the train and ride it remember?  Yeah. That was such a great song.  I picked the Space Jam theme because this week some stuff went up into space.  Oh yeah.  Elon Musk did the thing. His SpaceX company sent what is being called the Falcon Heavy into space. It is the most powerful rocket in use today. And they put a 2008 Tesla Roadster on it. So there is like this video of a Tesla in space. OK.  Which who cares? Like why did he do that? I would rather see like cute little dogs in space or whatever.  No because then they might lose their oxygen.  Oh I mean not like naked - like I mean like in a spacesuit like being - playing fetch on the surface of the moon or whatever. Like that would I would see.  That would be nice.  You know what though? If you have the money - if I had my own money and was able to send a rocket - the most powerful rocket ever into space yeah I am putting my own stuff like stuff that is promoting my own like...  Yeah.  I guess.  So you know?  But my thing was...  Yeah is there a mannequin that looks like me in that rocket? Yeah you better believe it.   My thing with space exploration - and I feel bad because I have always been a space downer. Like whenever I see us launch a rocket I am like this is good. You know it is scientific progress.  Right.  But we got some stuff to fix down here still.  Yeah. I am not on board.  I am like Cape Town's about out of water.  Yeah.  Like things are happening here.  Because Elon wants to - me and Elon are on first-name basis. He - you know he is always talking about Mars and stuff - right? - like colonizing Mars.  Yeah.  ...Which sound - I mean look I do not know if you guys have ever been to Mars. It is supes  boring.  .  Yeah.  You know what I mean? Like there is nothing to do. Like do you - you know? Like if you think Sheboygan needs more culture check out Mars.   It is the worst. So...  Yelp reviews not great for Mars.  Yeah. Yeah.   By the way no offense to Sheboygan. I think Sheboygan's great.  Our Sheboygan audience we support you we see you.  And the Martians we apologize as well.  No. No. I am through - I am fully throwing the Martians under the bus.   You guys are way boring.  All right let us get into it. We are each going to describe how the week of news felt in only three words. Negin you are up first.  OK. So my three words are hey big spender as in  hey big spender - whatever that...  Do that again. That was nice.  Yeah really...  .  I would like to...   Hey big spender. And so the reason for that is there is just been so much money money money money money talk this week a lot of money business a lot of money - the stock market took a tremendous tumble multiple days in a row.  Yeah.  We keep thinking it is going to stabilize and then it does not. And then like alongside that we have this talk of a military parade which by the way the last military parade we had was in 1991.  At the end of the Gulf War.  ...Courtesy of George H.W. Bush. Yeah because - at the end of the Gulf War was a victory parade. Also side note - it was also meant to sort of like bring the Vietnam vets out of the shadows and celebrate them as well.  Oh really?  ...Since we did such a terrible job of that back in the day. But the parade cost 12 million. And our president wants to do a military parade. He was in...  Because he saw the French do it.  Yeah he .  Yeah. He was with his buddy Macron and he thought oh my God this military parade - like for Bastille Day - he loved the military parade. And he wants to do that here to show that we have force.  But you know what though? That 12 million or double it even - it pales in comparison to in my mind the biggest figure of the week the 300 billion in added spending that Congress approved in this new spending deal early Friday morning after Rand Paul had a little mini...  Filibuster.  It was like a shutdown for how many...  An hour.  There was an hour-long government shutdown last night.  An hour and a half maybe.  ...Because Rand Paul was mad about how this would increase U.S. spending. The bill passed anyway. But yeah you are right - money money money this week.  And that is the thing with the spending. The Republican Party was always the party of let us not spend.  That is what Rand Paul was saying last night.  And now we are going to have trillion dollar deficits. You know conservative watchdog groups are suspecting that we are going to have trillion-dollar deficits permanently.  Like it is crazy that my credit score is better than the U.S. government's.   Never would have thought. Mama I made it. But like you know at this point with all these shutdowns happening I am going to just start conceptualizing the federal government as like a seasonal pop-up.   Like are they open today or are they not? Got to go see.  Yeah.  Like it is just - you know.  Yeah.  Anyway well all right Sopan you are up next. What are your three words to describe the news this week?  Over-the-top are my three words.  OK.  And the two - and one we already touched on. But one story in particular that drove me a little crazy this week which I wrote about yesterday - self - little self-promotion here - there is a high school - Ithaca High School - that was going to stage a production of The Hunchback Of Notre Dame. In November it was announced that the lead of Esmeralda was cast as a white actress. And a number of students of color you know and non-students of color...  In the original she is a Roma right?  Right. But in the - obviously in the Disney movie you know she is depicted with a very dark complexion.  Yeah.  And in the musical that debuted in 2014 2015 it was played by - she was played by Ciara Renee who is a woman of color. So these kids saw this as an opportunity for a lead to be the woman of color so they objected. After a lot of debate in the community the school board decided to pull the musical and put something else in its place.  Really.  Yes. But the...  Who auditioned the best? Did the white student just have the best audition?  Well I mean I am sure the director would tell you that.  OK.  I mean who knows right?  Yes. Yes.  But then Breitbart picks up on the story.  Oh.  What? Whoa whoa whoa whoa why are they in...  Why?  OK.  So the story starts going viral. Breitbart picks up on it - the right-wing kind of conservative - The Daily Stormer a neo-Nazi website...  Too much.  And so suddenly now these poor high school kids that kind of led the - you know the...  Yeah. Are they being doxed?  Sure. The mom - one mom...  Oh my goodness.  One mom had her home address doxed and it was not her address. It was...  Doxed meaning personal information shared online.  Yeah right. You know these poor kids are being targeted for harassment and threats.  Oh man.  And you know the school board received hundreds of emails and voicemails you know with a lot of profanity. There is a lot of racism. One of the girls that led - you know kind of put this whole thing together - her name is Prachi. She is being told go back to India. You know...  All right.  Oh Lord.  So that to me was shall we say over-the-top?  Yeah.  Yeah. If this keeps happening like is there any fix?  I mean I just never...  Shut down the Internet? I do not know.   Can I just say that one? As someone who is been the subject of like - I have been on - attacked on Breitbart in the Washington Times - you know all of these sites. I have been on conservative right-wing radio where fans will then ruin my life for days on Twitter.  Oh man.  And I have gotten death threats and all of that stuff. It is unpleasant guys.  I bet. I bet.  So I really feel for these kids. And it is - it is beyond over-the-top.  But it - the Internet is such a you know...  Yeah.  It is such a wild Wild West.  Can I also say...  Please.  ...Real quick though that when I was in high school I was cast in the Neil Simon play God's Favorite. I played the part of God. An Iranian-American Muslim played the role of God and if Breitbart had caught wind of that...   If there was a Breitbart to catch wind back then...  Then all hell would have broken loose.  Oh my God.  All heaven would have broken loose.  Indeed.  What would the Times have said about your performance? How did you do?  I won the best actor award that year so thank you.   I love it. You guys I have three words.  Oh please.  Oh yeah.  They are go for gold because the Olympics.  Yeah.  I love the Olympics so much.  Oh God.  You are one of those.  Because it gives you - I am one of those.  Even the winter huh?  Oh I have had watch parties for the figure skating competitions.  Oh OK.  Who shows up - who comes to your watch parties for the figure skating?  OK.  Who comes? I want to know.  Not you hater.   But no no. Figure skating is actually the most fun part. It is kind of like reality TV for figure skating. It is just really fun.  It is mass drama.  Yeah.  But like I love the Olympics because - well one I got to cover the last one in Sochi which was super fun. But two the Olympics function as this awesome microcosmbarometer for the state of global diplomacy. Like all of the plotlines between the countries while they are there gives you a really good glimpse into like geopolitics. Take Russia. The way that the Olympic committee is treating Russian athletes this Olympics kind of in my mind mirrors the way that the global community treats Russia itself. Russia was banned from the Olympics for this Olympics because they doped severely at the last Olympics. And so now Russia as a country cannot win medals but the Olympic committee is going to allow almost 170 of their athletes to participate in this Olympics as individuals. So they are going to go unpunished which to me mirrors the way that in spite of all the handwringing over Russia's geopolitical shenanigans the global community really does not punish them. The second thing is looking at what is happening between the Koreas coming together in the opening ceremonies. They are going to march under one flag with the South Koreans during the opening ceremony. They have not said they are going to talk about nukes at all right now. But what I have been thinking in my mind is that like Donald Trump's rough rhetoric towards North Korea for so long has convinced the Koreans that they are going to have to get whatever fix in their diplomatic problems on their own.  And I was watching - I was listening to ye old NPR and you guys had an interview with a hockey player from the South Korean side.  Yeah.  And they were like how is it going like playing with North Korean players?  Because they formed the joint North Korean-South Korean hockey team.  They formed a joint - yeah. And it is insane to me. I mean I - it is one of the more remarkable things I feel like I have ever witnessed.  Can this be like a Mighty Ducks movie?   Like 100 percent right?  Like seriously seriously.  And she was just like oh it is actually - it is super great. We have 12 new friends. And that is how she characterized it. And I just thought wow. Like can she be Rex Tillerson? How does that work? Would it - would that work out OK?  I had not...  ...Because I feel like that is a really like progressive and kind of simple and embracing way of looking at international diplomacy.  I had not thought of Flex Trillerson  in a long time.   Hope he is taking care of himself.  Yeah right right.  All right guys it is time for a break. Coming up we are going to have a lot of stuff for you guys - a special surprise call for our Long Distance segment a big talk about the state of not just the stock market but the economy itself. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests who are going to intro themselves really quickly. Tell folks who you are.  Ladies first please.  Oh all right. I am Negin Farsad. I am a comedian. I am a host of the podcast Fake The Nation which has some crossover audience with It is BEEN A MINUTE.  I was on the show yesterday.  And so yeah if we - exactly. So...  Who were you on with? Who else?  ...If you are a Sam Sanders fan...  .  ...You should listen to Fake The Nation this week because he gets even more Sam Sandersy  on Fake The Nation.  I went full...  Who else was on?  We were on with Stephanie Butnick of the Unorthodox podcast.  Oh so it is like three...  Three...  ...Podcasts.  Exactly.  It is like a super podcast.  .  It is like the Destiny's Child of podcasting.   Yeah.  Exactly.  You are the Beyonce.  Oh thank you.  I am Sopan Deb. I am a comedian and a writer for The New York Times for the culture desk.  I love it. So quick question before we get into our next segment - there was a weird story this week. A woman in New Hampshire is believed to be the winner of a 560 million Powerball lottery. But she is afraid to accept the money.  Uh-oh.  ...Because she wrote her name on the ticket before she knew that when you do that it makes your name public. So she is saying she only wants to accept the 560 million if she can remain anonymous. She went to court over this. So my question to you is would you make your name public to win a 560 million lottery? Yes or no?  Absolutely.   No problem with that.  Sopan's thinking about this.  ...If it is for that much money.  I am thinking about it. Here's why I am thinking about it. The reason is a couple years ago there was a special NBC did with past lottery winners and...  Did all their lives just fall apart?  Yeah.  Aw.  ...Because they did not know what - how to handle the money.  Everyone you know is asking for money.  Everyone you know is asking for money.  Yep.  And if you say no you know...  Get the gradual payout. Never get the big at-once payout.  Right. I - like I know this sounds crazy. Like and I know we are - I am probably you know - I do not know if I want to win the lottery. I just feel like if your name was out there...  No all of you all are doing it wrong. Here's my plan.  Yeah.  If I get the lottery...  Uh-huh.  ...I would disappear. And you would never see me again.  Right.  Nice.  That is what I would do. Anyways...  All right.  ...I could go on.  Well...  I would take all the money.  It does not shock me that you work for public radio by the way.   Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance.   ...Where...   ...I call up someone across the country or wherever and we talk about some news in their neck of the woods. But today there is no one actually on the line because we pre-taped the call because our guest for this segment is very busy and in a weird time zone. I ama  just play the tape and you will hear it.   Hello Devin?  Hey Sam.  Hey. I have not talked to you in four years. How are you?  I know it is been crazy. I am doing .  So our listeners - tell them where you are.  I am in the Olympic Village as we speak in Pyeongchang South Korea.  Because you are competing for the U.S. in the Winter Olympics on the ski team. Congrats. That is so awesome. What events are you doing?  Oh thank you. I am doing halfpipe and slopestyle.  Tell folks what slopestyle is if they have not heard of it before.  So slopestyle is basically like a course made up of different options of handrails jumps. And then the judges judge you on your amplitude the technicality of your tricks your overall impression. So it is really cool because you can make your run as unique to you and make it different from everyone else. So you can stand out in the judge's eyes and really you know make it known.  Yeah I love it. What is going to be your craziest move out there this go-round?  I do not even know yet.  Like really?  We have not been on the course.  OK - oh because each course is different.  I mean I have it in my head but we have not even been on the course yet. I have seen a bunch of pictures and heard good things from the snowboarders that the course is amazing. So I am excited to get out there.  Yeah. And so funny enough I saw you do it last time in Sochi because we met in Sochi at the last Winter Olympics and I got to do a story about you. And it was your first time there. That was four years ago. You were 20. You won a silver medal in freestyle skiing right?  Mmm hmm yep in my slopestyle event. So I am excited to represent Team USA again...  Yeah congrats.  ...In the Olympics. It is kind of crazy.  Yeah.  Yeah four years feels like a blink of an eye now.  Really? How has your life changed in the last four years - these last four years as an Olympic medal winner?  I mean it is definitely changed. But I feel like a lot of people think you know you get super famous off of things but like that really has not happened to me. Like I have changed you know growing up in the last four years being 20 going 21 to now 24 going 25 - just really sticking to my overall plan of how I wanted to get here which I did so I just got to stick to the plan and hopefully walk home with some medals.  Yeah. Yeah. How does this Olympic Village and Olympics compare to the last one if you can make a comparison yet? I know you just got there.  It is definitely different. I feel all Olympics are different. You cannot go in expecting it is going to be the same. I mean the location is you know way different. The rooming situations are different. I feel like it is already a little bit better than Sochi.  Oh yeah well because in Sochi...   Yeah.  A lot of stuff was not done when it started .  Yeah. No this one's cool actually. Our rooming situation - I have arrived here with the slopestyle team with the girls already and we are actually rooming with the halfpipe girls so...  OK.  It is going to be a fun interaction. I do not know. I am pretty adventurous with my food. I love the Korean cuisine here.  OK.  I am enjoying myself so far so I am really excited to you know get the full Olympic experience this time because after I won my medal in Sochi I got shipped off to New York and kind of capitalized on all the media and did not get to really see too many more events and did not walk in closing so I plan on staying the whole time here. You know it is a whirlwind but it is so exciting. It is like Christmas morning over and over and over again .  I bet. I bet. Well you know since the last Olympics I have been following your Instagram and you post these really awesome pictures of you in action and showing off your travels. So if folks want to follow you on Insta and see what it is like inside the Olympics how should they follow you there?  Yeah. On Instagram you can just follow me - devinlogan. And that is Devin with an I-N. Yeah I was actually going to post some flame pictures of the opening ceremonies because that is happening tonight over here. And you know I try to bring a little comedy within it because some people I feel get a little too serious so...  Oh yeah.  ...I just like to - I think I am funny.  .  So hopefully other people find me funny too .  Yeah. Hey well I wish you all the best. It has been a real privilege to connect with you years ago and follow your career since then. And I am rooting for you and team America.  Oh thank you so much. It was - been so great catching up with you too. I remember...  All right.  ...All the talks of rappers and stuff so...  Oh yeah. We had a good time.  They will see me jamming out up there too.  Yeah. You also that last time got me on a ski lift for the first time ever and it mortified me.  Yeah.  Remember that?  Yeah. How is that been? Have you been keeping up with that?  No not since.   All right. Well we will have to reconnect again and maybe on a ski hill again.  I love it. I am down. Thanks Devin.  All right. Thanks Sam. Have good one.  You too. Bye.  Bye.   That was Devin Logan freestyle skier for Team USA. I talked to her on Thursday evening East Coast time about 30 her time. For those that want to see Devin in action which you should - I have watched her compete. She is amazing. She is going to be skiing on the 17th and the 20th of this month. And - side note - the 17th is actually her 25th birthday. Happy early birthday Devin. Back here with you guys Negin and Sopan - what event in the Winter Olympics would you all compete in if you could?  Oh.  That is a great question.  Yeah.  Probably the best figure skater. I feel like that is the most high-profile Winter Olympic sport right?  I mean if I could like get my Kristi Yamaguchi on...  Yeah.  ...I would definitely do so. What about you?  I - can I just be honest with you guys?  Yeah.  In middle school I did ice skate competitively.   No.  You - OK. So first you were God and then was like...  For...  This was like...  Then you were...  I did. I did for like not very long. I mean I was doing it maybe for like two years or something.  Well how many twirls could you do?  Oh...  ...Triple axel triple lutz...  Like I - no I was not doing like a triple axel jump. No.  I do not know. You seem pretty talented.  Is not it like Tonya Harding was like the only one that ever really did that or whatever?  Yeah.  Yeah.  ...I learned from the movie.  I saw I Tonya too .  No. I was just doing some twirls. I mean I was like - you know I was like 11. I was doing some stuff. It was cute.  Well Tonya Harding was doing that when she was 6. I saw the movie.  We - yeah .  I want you to...  No I was definitely no Tonya Harding.  OK. It is all good.  I not Tonya Harding.   All right listeners - want to talk to you for this segment. If you want me to give you a call some week and talk about what is happening where you are email me tell me what is up - samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org.   This is It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two amazing guests - Sopan Deb comedian and reporter for The New York Times. Where do you do your comedy when you do it?  I just did a show with a friend of Negin's with - I did the Big Brown show.  Oh nice.  ...At the Comic Strip which is a lot of fun.  It is called the Big Brown show. I love it.  It is called ...  A bunch of brown comedians.  Yeah.  Love it.  It is the most fun show I have ever done because the crowd is just - you know sometimes a crowd shows up to a club and they are not interested in laughing.  Yeah. No but this crowd is like we never get to see brown comedians all in a row.  We are all...  And you could...  Now that I think about it we are all brown today.  Oh yeah. Hey.  Oh right.  I think this might be our first time our Friday was all people of color. And as they say...  But...  ...Once you go brown that is great because representation matters.   You - because...  It really works well on bumper stickers that part.  Oh man. We are moving some things around today and we are going to have the dessert before the main course.  OK.  The main story will be coming later. We are going to talk about the economy and the stock market et cetera. But first let us play my favorite game.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who Said That?   Who said that?  I love the game because it is so simple. I share a quote from the week you guys have the guess who said that or at least get the story it is referring to. If you get close I am fine. This as not Jeopardy! It is all good. Like what was the Jeopardy! one where he was like the delivery was off?  It was...  Gangster gangstas.  ...Gangsta's Paradise - yeah .  We are not going to do you like that.  .  But here's the catch. The winner gets absolutely nothing.  Oh great.  Yeah. Get excited.  Oh wow.  So ready for the first one?  This is a brown show.  Oh.   All right. First quote - they were the worst musicians in the world. Paul was the worst bass player I ever heard. And Ringo - do not even talk about it. Who said that?  That would be Quincy Jones talking about the Beatles.  Yes.  Oh yeah.  Did you all read this?  I did not.  I did. It was...  Quincy Jones had this tell-all interview in New York magazine this week and he went off.  I mean the Beatles. I mean just everything. From Michael Jackson to JFK to I mean my gosh.  It was a lot.  What precipitated it? Like why did he do it now?  When you are Quincy Jones what - you are just Quincy Jonesing .  Quincy Jonesing.  And did you see his Marlon Brando quote in the...  I do not know if we can say it on this show.   Wait. You are right. I am sorry.  But listeners...  Go read the...  ...Go read it if you are of age.  .  If you are of age.  Right.  He is already apologized for it.  This is a family show. He did? I missed that.  There is an apology out.  Oh wow.  Quincy was like clean it up.   Sopan 1. Quincy infinity.  Yeah right.  Negin zero.  Zero.  Next quote. I wish to think about marriage more deeply and concretely and give sufficient time to prepare our marriage and for after the marriage.  My God is this like a contestant from The Bachelor?   No they do not speak in that complete of sentences.   I do not know.  It is about a certain royal wedding that is upcoming. Name the country or even the continent and I will give it to somebody.  Oh the United Kingdom?  Yeah. Yeah. Is that a trick question?   So you are saying that - no. It is not that.  It is not Meghan Markle and - who is it?  Harry.  No.  It is not?  Denmark.  No.   Japan.  Oh.  Oh.  On of the - a member of the royal family there Princess Mako - she announced this week that she is postponing her wedding that was scheduled for November until 2020.  Wow.  She said that she is immature and not ready for it. And they want to just wait.  That is good. That is good for her.  How old is she?  She is - they are both - her and the groom are 26. But here's the catch. He is a commoner that she met at college.  Ooh.  And so when she marries him she has to renounce the royal lineage and like leave the royal family.  Oh she is trying to stretch it out.  .  Yeah she is trying to stay royal for as long as she can.  The new movie from Pixar in 2024.  Right?  Why do not they like live together get a cute apartment? And then you know...  You cannot do that if you are royal. There are rules.  What is it called if you live in an apartment together for...  Shacking up.  No. No. No. Well yeah.  That is what my mom called it.  No. No. No. But it is a legal thing if you live in an apartment or a domicile in New York with same person for like five or 10 years...  You are civil...  Common-law marriage.  Common-law marriage. Yeah just do it. There you go.  Yeah they should just common-law marry and then...   And then she gets to share...  What are you all common-law married to? I am common-law married to this really ratty comforter I refuse to throw out.  I am like actual married to a person.  OK.  So I...  Oh rub it in why do not you? OK. OK.  I am sorry. I just like have a lot of love in my life.  Wow.  So like I do not know what it is like to be you guys. Is it tough though?  So she is here for the right reason.  Yeah right.   OK. Fine. Who won that one? None of you all got that one. You are still up 1-zip.  But I would like a point. Thank you.  Yeah right.  Brent can we give her a point?   Sure.  All right. Great.  Thank you Brent.  All right. So it is tied. This one's for all the marbles. He went in but obviously he could not come back out the same way. Who said that?  Oh man.  What is up with these?  It involves...  Like a celebrity trying to go somewhere?  No a noncelebrity...  Like in a court house?  No a noncelebrity from a state that is known for weird news.  Florida.   Yes. OK. I will give you the point. That quote came from Battalion Chief Gregory Sutton in Titusville Fla. He was describing the scene when a young Florida boy crawled inside one of those vending machines with the claw that gets the bear...  Oh hilarious.  ...And got stuck. The boy's name is Mason. He is fine. But as David Burge said on Twitter beautifully and thus we are reminded that every Florida man started as a Florida boy. It is so true.   I mean the fact that this story does not include the term bath salts I feel like...   ...Is progress for Florida. You know what I mean?  And also Floridians listening - no shade. We love you all. I love Miami.  You guys are great.  I love it down there. It is so great.  Totally love the weather.  There you go.  I have never heard a bad Pitbull song. I will take that to the grave. Anyway...  Talk about a hill to die on.   That is my hill to die on.  Find me a bad Pitbull song.  Is not Post Malone also from Florida?  He must be.  He must be. He feels Florida to the bone. But he also has like every hit on the radio for like months.  Oh yeah. Oh yeah.  So you guys are doing something right.  Anyway that concludes the game. Sopan I think you won. You get nothing.  No thank you.  How does that feel?  Like a normal day.  You are welcome.   Like life.  Yeah. Yeah. All right. It is time for one more break. When we come back we will talk about our main story. We have some special guests for that Stacey Vanek Smith and Cardiff Garcia from one of NPR's newest podcasts. It is called The Indicator from the Planet Money team. And later we will hear our listeners tell us the best things that happened to them all week. BRB.   We are back. In a moment we will have our main story of the week with the co-hosts of The Indicator Planet Money's new show that offers quick takes on the news and the economy. Those hosts will tell me about the stock market which a lot of people were obsessed with this week like me and how the stock market is and is not the economy. But before that I want to know what is the weirdest thing you guys watch to make sense of the economy and see if it is doing good or bad? Like do you go to the bodega and see if the coffee is brewed stronger and that is like oh the economy is up? Like what do you watch? What is your economic barometer?  If I turn on CNN in the middle of the day and I see stock market in the chyron...  Yeah.  ...OK? - I know things are probably not going well.  OK.  Because I have - typically when do you see the stock market in the news...  When it is going down.  ..When it is not CNBC?  Yeah.  It is not - you know at 2 oclock during the Trump administration. OK.  If the stock market's on there...  If they are not talking about Trump or - and they are talking about the stock market...  Something's up.  ...And Trump is not in the chyron...  Something's up.  ...Something's going on.  OK. That is a good one for sure.  You know in New York like again as someone who does not have very much to do with the stock market - we do not have very much reason to be in the same room. You know what I mean?  .  Me and stocks.   Why not?  Guys I am a dirt bag comedian.  .  But I think one of - you know in New York they talk about a slice of pizza and the cost of a metro ticket...  Yeah.  ...Are usually the same price