 Hey you all this is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis and host of NPR's Weekend Edition Sunday Lulu Garcia-Navarro. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders - It is BEEN A MINUTE - coming to you from my hometown of San Antonio Texas this week hanging with my friends at Texas Public Radio - KSTX. My guests though are in D.C. - Lulu Garcia-Navarro host of NPR's Weekend Edition Sunday and Susan Davis congressional correspondent for NPR News. You both are really busy so I am glad you are here. I really appreciate you.  Sam I love this melody.  Oh yeah. This is good music. This puts me in the mood .  I am playing this song because there was a big development in space news this week.  Oh.  And this song is part of it. This song is called I will Be Seeing You by Billie Holiday. Let us just hit it for a second. It is so beautiful.    I will be seeing you.  So I am playing this because this song was the last song NASA sent out to communicate with its Opportunity Mars rover.  But the rover had an amazing life because the rover was only supposed to live for 90 days. And the rover lived for over 14 years.  Exactly. So this rover NASA's Opportunity Mars rover as you said Sue it was made to last three months. It roamed for more than 14 years on Mars. It discovered along with the Spirit rover evidence that water has flowed on Mars' surface. It traveled about 28 miles around Mars. It worked longer than any other lander. And so a dust storm took it out last summer but NASA tried to send commands to recover it - like over a thousand commands. But this week they said it is time. And this was the final song that was sent out to the rover.  And also it had some great last words.  Really?  It said my battery is low and it is getting dark.  Oh my goodness.  I mean how kind of like poignant is that?  Where is the screenplay for this rover? Like Pixar make this movie.  Right.  I hope the rover finds the other rovers that are out there. And they go to rover heaven together and can play Billie Holiday like all day.  All rovers go to heaven Sam.   Yes they do. Yes they do.    But I will be seeing you.  OK. We are going to start the show as we always do. We are going to ask each of you to describe your week of news in only three words. Sue - going to have you start. And you have been covering the big D.C. drama this week. President Trump finally signed a spending bill to avoid another government shutdown. There was some money for border security in that bill but President Trump also declared a national emergency at the same time he signed that bill. He says this will help him get more money for a border wall. So with that as your backdrop Sue what are your three words?  So my three words to sum up the week are finish the wall. I think that this is a very familiar phrase to most people better known as build the wall which had become sort of the signature campaign rallying cry of President Trump. And earlier in the week at a rally in El Paso the president had a rhetorical shift. And there were banners in the campaign rally. And instead of build the wall the rallies now say finish the wall which I think is fascinating on so many levels because the border story has played out so intensely this week and is culminating with the president declaring a national emergency - but also politically because the wall fight's always been about politics right? The wall has always been the physical representation of the Donald Trump presidency. And as a matter of fact check we should make clear that really no wall has gone up...  No.  ...Under President Trump's administration. There is hundreds of miles of existing wall along the U.S. border. His administration has not really extended the length of that wall. So one to automatically shift to finish the wall I think is a misrepresentation right? It is just about messaging but also shows you that so much of this is going to be about political messaging.  Yeah.  And if the president can convince his supporters that he has in fact finished the wall even if he has not that is a pretty potent political weapon he will try to use again in 2020.  Is this a situation where once the first photos of some kind of fencing or wall are built he is satisfied?  Well we have got to back it up there Sam. So he is invoking a law that allows presidents - and gives them pretty broad authority - to marshal federal resources when a state of emergency is declared. Normally when a president declares a state of emergency there is no dispute about it. If you think about when it is been done recently in the past...  After like disasters and stuff.  Yes - after 911 after Hurricane Katrina when the government needed to respond to something so quickly that it was given with consent of Congress to do it. There is clearly no consent of Congress here. So there is going to be a legislative challenge to it. The same law that gives the president the authority to declare a national emergency gives Congress the power to nullify it. But then if he does move forward Democrats are promising court challenges. And what shape those take and how long they play out - we cannot determine that they ultimately will end in the president succeeding in building any wall. But it will allow him to campaign on the talking point finish the wall.  Lulu you have talked to a lot of Trump voters over the last few years. And my question with all of this - I mean it seems as if Trump is really digging down hard on this issue to please his base.  Yeah.  My question is like where else will his base go even if he makes them mad over this Lulu? Like they have shown for years now that they will kind of support him no matter what.  I think that is right. I also think that this plays out in two different levels. On the one hand you have the discussion here in Washington - winners and losers who exactly got on top of who in this negotiation. But there is a reality. The wall is not just one wall. It is actually walls that are many walls. And so...  Yeah.  ...Last year in funding that was approved they allowed for a certain amount of wall to be built in the Rio Grande Valley. This year with this new deal there will be additional sort of barriers that have been approved. And so building is a slow process.  Yeah.  But something at some point is going to go up.  Yeah.  What is important about what the president's doing with this national emergency too is he is setting up really a constitutional clash over who has the authority in this government to directed martial federal funds?  Yeah.  And the Constitution's pretty clear that that job lands with the legislative branch that Congress has the power to do this. And this is one more norm that I think the president is going to smash. And if he is successful in doing that it could open up an entirely new frontier in executive power in this country.  Lulu you have three words.  I do.  OK.  And I am going to stick with the theme...  Do it.  But my three words are losing my land. So I was just down at the Rio Grande Valley...  Yeah.  ...Looking at this issue and really wanting to walk along the place where some of this border wall some of this border fencing is actually going to go.  Yeah.  And you know there are people down there that are actually going to lose their land over this. Over 90 percent of the border is privately owned in the Texas...  Really?  Yeah - in the Texas area. I spoke to two women down there. And the land that is going to be affected which will essentially be taken from them to build this barrier has been in their family for generations. One woman traced the land back to the 1700s. So this is something that is you know really about their identity. It is not just about the land itself. You know for me it was really interesting.  Do they get paid out when the government says hey we are taking your land to build this wall? And is the rate good?  So this is exactly the issue. This is not a new problem at the border. If you remember back under George W. Bush...  Yeah.  There was a - something called the Secure Fencing Act. And that basically tried to do what Trump is trying to do now saying we need these barriers on the border. It is really important to do that. And a lot of that was held up by exactly the issues we are seeing now - land rights issues water rights issues environmental concerns. I mean the litigation for that went on and on. And so the proposed barrier in another part of the Rio Grande Valley which was approved last year was going to go through a historic chapel a butterfly sanctuary...  Oh my goodness.  ...A public park.  Wow.  And the government does have the right of something called eminent domain which means that because they are the government they can say we are going to take your land. We have to fairly compensate you but we are going to take it because we need it for national security. But the question is also what is fair compensation? And in the past what we have seen is what the government has offered most people do not believe is fair compensation.  Really?  Yeah it is tens of thousands of dollars. You know most people say like I cannot put a down payment on another house...  Yeah.  ...With 20000 when I have had this land and my family's lived on it for generations. And it is mortgage-free.  We should just note too that Democrats did secure protections for some of those exact...  They did.  ...Areas that Lulu mentioned specifically the butterfly center which I think got a lot of attention. There is wildlife reserves along...  Right.  ...The border too. I think sometimes people presume the border is this barren wasteland. And it is actually one of the most...  It is beautiful.  ...Ecologically diverse places in the country. So there will be...  And La Lomita Chapel as well is getting protected.  Exactly - and also protected.  Exactly. So there are - these particular landmarks are going to be protected. But in advance of this discussion I was looking to see what the reaction has been down there in the Rio Grande Valley. And you know you have the priest that I was talking to down there Father Roy Snipes who said yeah. It is great that La Lomita Chapel which has been there since the 1800s is going to be protected. But that just means that this particular sliver is going to be protected. But our neighbors to the right and our neighbors to the left are still going to have a barrier. And they do not have the clout of the Catholic Church and others to fight this fight.  So all that to say the fight's not over .  Oh the fight is not over.  The fight is only beginning. And that is what is so interesting about this. Whatever's happening in Washington there is also the fight on the border where individual landowners are going to be taking all these things to court. And that takes time.  Takes time yeah. Yes I have three words. They are not really border related. They are local or national. And I am talking about an issue that I have been following this week - the Denver teachers strike.  Oh I do not know anything about this Sam.  So teachers in Denver went on strike this week over wages and bonuses.  Yeah.  The strike's already over. They reached a deal. It is going to set clear salary increases for these teachers between 7 and 11 percent of their base salaries. But as you both know over the last year year and a half or so we have seen widespread teacher strikes all across the country in all parts of the country. And my question though watching one strike happen after another - and it was just in L.A. a few weeks ago too - is are these issues local or are they national? I think a lot of the coverage of these teachers strikes in various cities and parts of the country have been covered as a local story. But when you look at all of these things happening at the same time it is really a national issue. And I think the national issue that underlies all of these teacher strikes is that millions of Americans who have jobs that we think should be enough for them like teachers those jobs are not enough for them. You know what I am saying?  I do. And I also think the teachers unions - I think it is both right? Each state has their own individual problems. But these - the rise of the teacher union strikes are a symptom of the same problem which is that most states legally have to balance their budgets.  Yeah.  They do not have the option that the federal government does to run up debts and deficits. And when states have to balance budgets they make tough choices. And most states or many states often do that on education and on teacher salaries...  Yeah.  Right.  ...And public employee pensions. And that - this has been chipped away at years and years and years and years. And you have created so many situations in states where teachers who I think - I do not think it is a controversial statement to say are critical to our society .  A little bit .  Yes.  Are - it is getting harder and harder for them just to have a basic standard of living.  Yeah.  And I think that is a crisis that that becomes a national crisis because of the uprising in the states.  I mean if you talk to teachers which I have done on my show...  Yeah.  You know their stories are just heartbreaking. I mean they are working all the hours that you can at school. Some of them are paying out of pocket to buy pencils and books and supplies for their students because the funding has been slashed so much. And then they are actually having to leave school and then go and do second and third jobs.  Exactly. And so like I was thinking more and more about these teacher strikes as a national issue and kind of just like a sign that a lot of people are just strapped for money even in this booming economy. And there is further evidence to kind of suggest that that is correct. So there was this new report out this week. It found that a record 7 million Americans are more than 90 days late on their auto loan payments.  On their car loans yep.  Millions of Americans even in this booming economy cannot make their car payment.  And it is I think one of the worst records for that in recent years. And a lot of people are looking at this while everyone's touting the overall health of the economy and saying this might be the canary in the coal mine showing that people are not in the footing that they should be.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. Time for a break. Coming up my panel and I hash it out over one of the biggest debates of our time. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back. Also for the record Sue picked this fight. I did not.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders. Happy weekend to both of my guests Susan Davis congressional correspondent for NPR and Lulu Garcia-Navarro host of NPR's Weekend Edition Sunday. So Sue because we love you so much we decided to kind of make a new segment.  To steal my idea.  We are going to steal your idea.   So basically last time you were here you were riffing in the studio. And you said something to the effect of well if I had my way I would just make a podcast segment called Maybe It is Just Me.   I am going to do a podcast called Maybe It is Just Me...   ...Where you have people come on and defend their really unpopular opinions.  Oh.  Oh can I give you mine?  Sure.  Fake maple syrup tastes better than real maple syrup.  There you go.  Oh.  I stand by it.   You are so wrong. I did not hear this.  .  That is a great example of a Maybe It is Just Me.  Right?  Yeah.  So that happened last time you were here. Ever since then our editor Jordana was like we are doing this segment. So Sue this is your segment. What is an unpopular contrary opinion that you want to defend to the world at large? It is your time.  I also want to just caveat to listeners that the whole - there is a self-awareness to this...  .  ...That we recognize that it is an unpopular opinion. So please spare our mentions on Twitter. We get it. You have your own unpopular opinions. Send those to us.  Please do not write.  Please do not write. Please do not start a campaign.  Send Sue all the mean tweets over her...  Yes please.  ...Unpopular opinion . So what is your opinion?  Maybe it is just me but I think This Is Us is a terrible television show.   Get out of my studio.  .  Leave now.  If you do not know what it is it is - you are one of the rare Americans who does not because it is the No. 1 drama in this country.  Yeah.  It is a show centered around the fictional Pearson family that I think only exists to give America a reason to ugly cry every week.  .  And America loves it.  Do we need reasons?   Do you need a show?  Come on.  Do we need reasons to ugly cry? I feel like I got lots of reasons to ugly cry.   Exactly. So Sue you are correct. As far as all TV programming in the 2017-2018 season it was No. 2 second only to NFL football on Sunday nights.  I mean that is a testament to how popular the show is. And I start - I do not watch it anymore. I had to quit it.  OK Sue.  And I - it is also in...  Give me an example.  Yeah yeah.  What - when - what is the moment then you think I cannot take this anymore? This scene is just like making me...  It is every episode.  To support Sue like they do not just like kill off characters. They like drag out the death of the character...  .  ...Over several episodes in different timelines. So like you will know the grandpa's going to die. But they like make you wait half a season to find out how.  .  So they make you cry six times over grandpa dying. I get it Sue.  I also think there is something about the psychology of the show where everybody likes a good cry. And everybody has a movie or a song.  Oh yeah. Oh yeah.  And it kind of takes you on a journey and lands you there. But people go into the show knowing it is going to do...  That is me.  ...That to them.  Oh that is me. Can I just...  You like...  ...Push back a little bit?  ...That Sam?  So - OK. I will tell you when I came to This Is Us. Also caveat - we have interviewed on this show one of the stars of that show Chrissy Metz. And she was delightful.  I am sure she is.  .  Please do not come at me Chrissy Metz fans.  But I began to watch This Is Us when I was covering the 2016 election and...  And you needed to cry a lot?  I would know that I would have a rough work week a rough time just doing life. And because it is hard for most humans to really be emotive in their real life I would save all that emotional energy bring it to the couch and know...  That is...  ...That like half an hour into This Is Us...  ...So funny.  I could purge the tears.  This was your emotional conduit.  It is.  Yes.  Oh wow.  And so that is why I would say...  I am not like that. I do not want to cry...  ...I am OK with it.  ...When - I only like comedy.  I am the...  Really?  ...Same way.  Because years of living in war zones like I will...  I just want to laugh.  ...Only read vampire novels and romance novels. And I will only watch...  Yeah.  ...Comedy.  I want television to involve teenagers and the apocalypse and magic.  .  Now that is the podcast we need to start.  Yeah.  There you go. So I mean - but I guess just to push back a little bit more like if it is people's reason to cry what is wrong with that? I mean like it does not have to be good if it works. Like not all toilet paper has to be Charmin...  .  ...Right?  Again...  I would kind of argue with that too. I feel like all toilet paper should be soft.  .  I do not - I want you to defend that opinion my dear .  So there is this interesting article from this website called FanSided about This Is Us basically saying it is not right to classify this show as prestige TV to lump it into prestige TV. It is not prestige. And he basically was saying all the awards show love this show gets - it gets Emmys. Like all of the Top 10 lists it lands on which it does - he says it is not merited because the show manipulates people's emotions too much to which I say the only people who care about whether or not a thing is prestige TV...  Yeah.  ...At this point are TV critics...  Really.  ...Right?  I mean that is a thing. Like we now categorize like labels. It reminds me of like what happens to novels. Like...  Yeah.  ...Is this a worthy literary novel?  Yeah.  Or is this just something that people read for fun?  It is like Stephen King right?  Yeah.  The argument of like is Stephen King a great writer...  Does not matter at this point.  ...Or is he just prolific?  It does not matter.  It does not matter.  It does not matter. You can be popular and good.  Like does it matter at this point if we think This Is Us is good or not?  No. I am just not going to agree with you if you do.  .  Maybe it is just me Sam.  .  Maybe it is just me. Maybe it is just me. So Lulu what is your - OK if you do not go to TV Lulu to ugly cry but you go to it for like comedic relief what is your go-to right now?  So right now it is One Day At A Time which is so crazy that I only have started watching this because obviously it is about a Cuban-American family. And it is got Rita Moreno and Isabella Gomez. And it is so good and so fun on Netflix. And it is got all the feels. The only thing that I have a problem with - and it is a pretty big problem - is that they are playing a Cuban-American family and the two main stars are Puerto Rican.   Are Puerto Rican - Puertorriquenos.  Sounds like our next segment for Maybe It is Just Me is going to be this discussion.   We are going to laugh some more after this break because when we come back we will play my favorite game Who Said That. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. BRB.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. Here with two guests this week - Lulu Garcia-Navarro host of NPR's Weekend Edition Sunday and Susan Davis congressional correspondent for NPR. You all it is time for my favorite game...   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  ...Who Said That.   Who said that?  You both are old pros at this now. You know how it works. I share a quote from the week. You have to guess who said that or at least get the story I am referring to. The winner gets absolutely nothing. I am trying to think - who am I going to give the odds to going into this game this week? I know Lulu's fighting a little bit of a cold...  I am.  ...So maybe not - but you sound like you are still all the way in it. Sue is...  I get nervous because on busy news weeks I usually am so focused on one story. I am not as aware of all the other news of the week. So...  And also I am terrible with names. So I can be like I can see the person's face.  Yeah.  I can see their face.  .  That counts in this game.  And then I can describe them and that'ill offend lots of people.   And then I am going to be quiet because I will not have a job.   Uh-huh. Well I will say last week's questions were really really hard. We made them easier this week so I think it will be OK. Let us get to it. First quote - ready? You have to be tough to make it in New York City. Who said that?  I want to say de Blasio.   Yes.  OK.  Hey. Good.  That is it.  Mayor...  So we...  New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio yeah.  Yes. So we have all heard by now that after - gosh - months and months of hype and this big announcement that Amazon's HQ 2 their second headquarters were going to be in New York they announced this week actually no. Amazon says it is changed its mind will not put HQ 2 in New York. And Bill de Blasio was mad at them. He told Amazon you are not breaking up with us. We are breaking up with you actually.  I think this is such a interesting thing. You know after this incredible rollout with so many different parts of the country begging to have Amazon...  Yeah.  ...There...  Yeah.  ...And offering them all this stuff now you know once they actually got it people were like wait a second. Wait a second. How much is this going to cost us?  Well because the whole deal was made behind closed doors.  Yeah exactly. How many - how much tax breaks are these - they going to get? And you know I think it is been really interesting.  Especially with Amazon in particular and Bezos - when you are telling taxpayers this is going to cost us 3 billion and he is the richest man in the world.  .  Yeah.  Like being the No. 1 probably did not help sell that case to the public.  Yeah. And so like this decision - it seems to have come after this outcry from local politicians and union leaders and community organizers who like organized weeks of these protests against all the financial breaks that were promised to Amazon. But I think going forward like the bigger question is like should these kind of negotiations in which a city negotiates with a company like Amazon for a building - should those just be made public from the start?  Yes. I think...  .  ...It is - yes. I mean we are journalists. We are always going to argue for transparency right?  Yeah yeah.  And I think the other thing is it is not just a failure of Amazon. I think it is a failure of these governments to not think about their constituencies and you know exactly how this is going to affect them.  I mean like I will say if I were the head of a city like Denver or Austin or whoever maybe trying to lobby Amazon now for that HQ2 the one person you never want to get engaged to is a person who is broken off an engagement before.  And certainly not within...  .  ...The past 365 days.  Exactly.  .  Anyway - all right. Sue you are up 1-0. But the game is still wide open. Next quote is the combination of these three dance steps is a simple routine that is not registerable as a choreographic work. Just guess what this is about. There is been a certain point in the culture that has become part of a debate over who owns certain dance moves.  Is it the backpack kid dance?  It is in that same - the same game that he was fighting with about his dance. What is that game called even?  The game?  He was suing game owners for putting his Floss dance into a game. There is another lawsuit in the same game...  The Floss.  ...This week.  ...That is what it is called.  But what is the game called?  Fortnite.   Yes.  Oh.  Lulu you got it.  There we go.  Lulu you got it. That quote that I was reading to you all came from a registration specialist for the U.S. Copyright Office. He was arguing that Fortnite this crazy popular video game is OK to use the quote Carlton dance in its game.  Oh.  So the Carlton dance made popular by Alfonso Ribeiro who played Carlton on The Fresh Prince of Bel Air - that iconic kind of...  Oh yeah.  ...Arm-swinging snap dance - that is in Fortnite. And his lawyers argued quote 27 years later the dance remains distinctive immediately recognizable and inextricably linked to Ribeiro's identity celebrity and likeness. But the other argument is like everyone does that dance. Get over yourself.  But everybody calls it the Carlton dance.  Yeah it has his name on it.  Yeah.  And also Fortnite is now like the biggest video game on...  Yeah.  ...The planet. It has dwarfed every other video game to the point where there is like gaming companies that are going out of business because...  Oh yeah.  ...All the stuff's going to Fortnite. So I feel like they might be able to afford it.  Also total...  Just pay him out.  ...Dogleg Sam but you will appreciate this.  Uh-huh.  My best friend who lives in San Francisco texted me recently that she ran into Alfonso Ribeiro with his kids when she was out with her kids.  Aww.  And she was like oh my God. I met Carlton today. And I was like how was he?  Was he nice?  He was so nice.  .  Oh good. It is always...  Yay.  ...Good to hear that.  She said he was really lovely.  It is always good to hear that.  Yeah.  So this Carlton dance lawsuit against Fortnite now makes three dance lawsuits against Fortnite. The creators of a dance called the Milly Rock are suing Fortnite. As we said earlier the backpack kid that made up the dance called The Floss he is suing Fortnite. I have not played the game yet. Have you guys played the game?  I thought you were going to say I have not done the Carlton .  Oh. I have done the Carlton. Trust.  Trust me.  I have watched my nieces and nephews play the game...  OK.  ...Because in fact if you are in the house of any kid between the ages of sort of 8 and 15 they are going to be playing Fortnite. So yeah you are going to watch that.  I like to floss around my nephews just to embarrass them.   All right. The game is tied one apiece. This is the last question for all the marbles. You ready?  Ready.  OK.  Quote each 'za is handmade which means the amount of sauce cheese and toppings might vary. But it still tastes great. Who said that?  Is this the Chuck E. Cheese...  Yes.  ...Conspiracy?   It is.  Oh.  I do not know who said it. But I am aware of the conspiracy theory.  That was an official like tweet from the Chuck E. Cheese account this week because they had to respond to accusations that Chuck E. Cheese's - Chuck E. Cheese recycles pizza slices. There was this viral video that made the rounds this week basically accusing the chain of using disparate slices from various leftover pizzas to build new pizzas from like zombie pizzas. And people believed it.  Is Chuck E. Cheese pizza good? I have never had it.  Oh Sue.  I knew you had Sam.  I have - listen.  You have been to...  It is...  ...The pizza mountaintop.  I have been - well no the pizza valley low.   My daughter is desperate to go to Chuck E. Cheese.  I have never been.  Yep. And we are holding off on that because I know once the gates of that particular door have opened then it is going to be an incessant thing.  All right - just got to be clear here. Chuck E. Cheese completely refutes the claims in that viral video. The company said in a statement quote no conspiracies here. Our pizzas are made to order and we prepare our dough fresh in restaurant which means that they are not always perfectly uniform in shape but always delicious. Also fun fact - Chuck E. Cheese is short for Charles Entertainment Cheese.  Oh.  Oh.  I know.  I always kind of thought the E was like just E like Harry S. Truman.  Well the S means something in Truman too right?  I think it is just an S.  Oh we are going to fact-check that right now.  Yeah. We will fact-check that.  Anyway all that said Sue you won Who Said That.  Honestly Sam most surprised there was not a Drake quote this week.   That is what I was most prepared for - one of my answers to be Drake.  We could have used him because apparently at the Grammys this week he basically was like Grammys do not matter.  Yeah.  Yup.  He won a Grammy and was like I do not even want this anyway.   He is too cool for school. All right - that concludes Who Said That. Congratulations. Now it is time to end the show as we do every week. We ask our listeners to share with us the best things that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. Brent hit the tape.  Hey Sam. This is Sarah from Little Rock Ark. I am coming up on a year anniversary with my husband. Matthew's  really great at making sure I take time for myself and especially when I am sick which I was this week as you can tell from my stuffy nose. He took care of me made sure I had tissues medicine and especially Indian food at the end of the day when I finally got hungry. He is almost always the best thing about all of my weeks.  Hi Sam. Bethany here from Grand Rapids Mich. The best thing to happen to me this week is that today is my 30th birthday.  The best thing that happened to me this week is that I finally finished an embroidery project that took me 7 12 years to finish.  The best part of my week was that last week I celebrated 11 years of sobriety.  The best thing that happened to me this week was that I got to go to the national curling championships in Kalamazoo Mich. and watch some amazing men and women sweep ice like I have never seen before.  Hi Sam. This is Chica  from Converse. Today was my son's first day at work as a professional after graduating from college way back in 2017. I am so relieved.  Hi Sam. This is Jenna  Adam  and baby Rose  from California. And we just got back from our first international trip as a family to Sydney Australia. While Adam's grandma who lived in Sydney has passed away we got to celebrate her best friend Lena's  100th birthday. And that is making us happy this week. Rose can you say Australia?  Australia.  Oh my God.  Have a great week.  Have a wonderful day.  And take care. Bye.  Well t