 Ira are not you so glad that we did not make you tape this on a Friday morning at 30 as...  You know what?  ...You did last time you came on the show?  That is why I was never going to do your show again.   30 a.m. - is it a bird-watching podcast you were doing? What the ?   And we are.  We changed some things around. We changed some things around.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week the problem with award shows. All right. Let us start the show.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. This episode awards season. It is been just about a year since awards season 2020 when everything still felt like normal when fancy awards shows took place just before the pandemic shut everything down.   Welcome to the 2020 Oscars.   Flash forward to now and everything has changed. The Golden Globes the SAG Awards the Oscars - they have all been pushed back. And the award shows that have taken place so far in the pandemic - it looks very different. This award season is also happening with most of us watching new movies from our couches not in movie theaters and with just fewer movies period. So many films have been held back until the pandemic is over. So as we head into this new and really strange awards season I wondered whether the pandemic will change all of this for good and just how much these awards actually still matter. So I turned to two people for some insights - Ira Madison III and Louis Virtel. They are two hosts of the podcast Keep It from Crooked Media. This weekend the 2021 movie and TV awards season officially kicks off with the Golden Globes. Those awards have seen their share of controversies in the last few weeks beginning with nominations and snubs. What movies or TV are already at this early stage in this weird awards season - are getting short shrift?  Well I mean immediately for the Globes you know there is Michaela Coel's I May Destroy You right? You know I feel like...  Yeah.  ...That was one of the biggest stories even in film or TV because it was just like one of the biggest critically acclaimed shows of the year. And to see not even - nary a nomination for it and then to see Emily In Paris nominated...  For Golden Globes yeah.  You know I think that there were - yeah. There were two sort of things like that you know where you were just sort of like oh this is what is being snubbed. You know I could say for the Globes you know like things that are Black are being snubbed.  I think the biggest snub for me was in the supporting actress category - Yuh-jung Youn who is the grandmother in the movie Minari. It is such a fresh hilarious and a maternal performance that does not feel quaint. It just feels like a real grandmother not somebody just written for the screen.  Yeah.  And I was really hoping that would be rewarded. But no can do. But this is the kind of performance that often gets a redemption arc going into the Oscars - you know that people get behind. And eventually it makes its way into the conversation.  Yeah. When you mention Minari and when you mention I May Destroy You and how they have been kind of snubbed so far it raises this larger question that is always a question every awards season as these awards continue to like not honor the right stuff it seems - are these awards shows irrelevant? If there is an awards season in which Emily In Paris gets more praise than I May Destroy You is the whole system bust? And should we just stop caring about awards period?  Well I would always argue that awards are not irrelevant. You know I think they can be superfluous and not sort of the point. But so much money is put into these award shows and people will tune into these things. They are still big events right? So that right there tells you one they are not irrelevant. Two it tells you what drives the conversation of what is important in this industry. And I think it is a reflection of the industry to have more people talking about Emily In Paris than talking about I May Destroy You because it is also representative of who makes up the Hollywood Foreign Press Association which decides the Golden Globes. It is like 85 people who write for foreign outlets who like live here and you know like love to schmooze and hobnob with celebrities you know? And when you give that sort of power to those type of people you are really just creating a microcosm of what Hollywood does normally. But I think Amy Poehler you know had a quote you know about how yes you can call them irrelevant or whatever. But you know it is like when someone is nominated for something it is not irrelevant on their career you know?  Yeah they get more work.  It is not irrelevant on...  Their film gets more dollars. Yeah.  Yeah. More people want to be like hey let me send a script to this person got to get this person in a movie et cetera you know? So the awards are not irrelevant. They can drive people's careers to new heights and directions. But a lot of how they are produced needs a lot of work.  Yeah.  I also think this is a conversation that secretly has been occurring for the past 70 years. You know it sort of...   What conversation?  It reminds me of - you know people are always like well are the Oscars relevant now? - as if 10 years ago we were all obsessed with them and everybody watched them and we all believed in every single award they handed out. That was never the case. I feel like that is a conversation generated by people who kind of do not care about the movies to begin with. Like it is like if I were generating a conversation about the Super Bowl. Like who cares who wins this? You are all really good football players you know?   I want to talk more about the Hollywood Foreign Press Association in advance of the Golden Globes their award show this Sunday night. I mean in some ways it feels like a brand-new scandal but in some ways it feels like we already knew. Which of you can sum up what the state of their scandal is at this point going into the award show?  Well a big LA Times story came out confirming a lot of what we suspected but putting finer points to it that are disturbing - I mean the amount of money spent by Emily In Paris wooing members of the Hollywood Foreign Press which is a very small organization.  Did they fly them to Paris?  Yeah they did. They stayed...  They flew them to Paris...  Yeah.  ...Put them up in hotels. I am like can I join the HFPA? I miss Paris.   I mean specifically about the HFPA it is such a small organization. In the academy there are thousands and thousands of members. Like you could not mount a campaign like that to woo the academy.  Yeah.  It confirms years and years of suspicions that the Golden Globes are obsessed with awarding sort of the glitziest thing or the thing that - it is not necessarily the best TV show you ever saw. But it is well first for one thing white but secondly...  Yeah.   ...You know rich enough that they can woo members of the HFPA. And I always say about the Golden Globes as an award show obsessive I forget who has won them. Like has Jon Hamm won one? I do not really remember you know?  .  It is mostly just...  He probably does not either.  Right. It is an amuse-bouche leading up to the Oscars which is the real Christmas. You know this is like St. Nick's Day...  .  ...Compared to the Christmas of the Oscars.  Yes. And you know we should say besides this LA Times story kind of uncovering an almost pay-for-play model and a model in which like these journalists use the association to almost pay themselves salaries to watch movies there is also a lawsuit from a European journalist who was not allowed into the HFPA. And she basically said it is a rich clique and they are just like money-grabbing and hobnobbing with stars.  Well yeah. I mean that makes so much sense you know? I mean I think there was something too in the report about how like these people are allegedly press right? But you would be hard-pressed to know what any of them have written you know...  .  ...Or what any of their reviews are you know? It is like it would be different if you could see like oh they spent the entire year like writing good reviews about like Emily In Paris - right? - or if they really liked I Care A Lot. But you actually have no idea like what these people have written. And for like you know things like the Critics Choice Awards or something you can sort of at least like garner where things are going because you know what the critics have been lauding throughout the year.  Yeah yeah yeah. Another big question about the way the movie business is just changing - on top of seeing the awards season be totally upended this year we are also seeing the decline of movie theaters. Like we are not able to watch movies in theaters. We are all getting used to watching everything at home on demand. Is some of what the pandemic is doing just speeding up the inevitable in terms of like...  I...  ...Where and how we watch?  I think that is a sort of early prognostication because I mean like you could say the same thing about clubs and restaurants dying - right? - you know? And I still think that like when this is over clubs and restaurants will be packed again.  Yeah.  And you cannot tell me that people who enjoy movies are not going to be going back to the movies to see them. For Americans who live their lives working daily those tiny releases that we had that sort of made life enjoyable are gone. And you cannot underestimate just how enjoyable it is to go and see a movie on a Friday night...  Yeah.  ...When you have been working all week.  That is true. That is true.  Yeah. There is no way there will not be a bounce back in some fashion from this. There is always going to be people who are obsessed with movie theaters. I do anticipate that eventually there will be fewer of them. I question who will own them. But there is always going to be a movie theater opened. I mean people want to have fun. Who is sitting in the pandemic and thinking actually most things are better this way? I think work is like that for some people.   But in any other regard I do not think anybody is like well we really solved everything.  Yeah. Yeah.  Baby I would go see Tom And Jerry this weekend if I could - OK...  I sure would not. I sure would not.  ...In the ArcLight.  Wow.  I certainly - to see a movie...  At the ArcLight.  Yes I would.  You would see Tom And Jerry in the prestige theater. Wow.  Yes I would OK? Get me my caramel popcorn.  .  I miss my chicken apple sausage hot dog.  Oh my goodness. I will say I cannot wait - and I have already planned this out. My first like return to a movie theater after the pandemic is going to go see Cats. That is it. That is my only option. It has to be Cats to...  You think they are still going to be playing?  Someone's going to do it for me.  .  I am praying and believing. I am trusting and believing. Someone let me go watch Cats when this is all said and done.  I could say I think you can take some sort of pill and then hit your head. And you are already watching Cats so...   You do not have to go to the IMAX for that.  We are going to take a break. When we come back I am going to play my favorite game Who Said That with my two distinguished guests Ira Madison III and Louis Virtel hosts of the Crooked Media podcast Keep It.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am your host Sam Sanders joined this weekend by a distinguished panel. My two guests are Louis Virtel and Ira Madison III two of the hosts of the Crooked Media culture podcast Keep It. I am so glad to have you all here. You ready to play a game?  I love games.  Yes. And I do not like losing games so I am already angry.  Wow.  .  I need to win. I - we will have fun but I need to win.  Can we have a T-shirt for you that just reads I am already angry?  .  Yes with Cathy on it of Cathy cartoons.   So this game is really simple. It is called Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  All I do is share three quotes from the week of news. And you all got to guess who said it or who I am talking about. I will give you lots of hints. And you just yell out the answer when you got it 'ecause there are no buzzers. This is public radio. We are on a budget. The thing about this game though is there is actually no winner and there are no prizes. So it is whatever.  All right. Well in that case I will work with Ira on...   All right. Here we go. Here is the first quote. Tell me who said this. What do they call it? A contact high? That is the extent of my getting high with Snoop is secondhand smoke which is pretty serious by the way. Who said that?  It is got to be our girl Martha Stewart.   It is our girl Martha Stewart yes. So Martha Stewart was in a wide-ranging profile in Harper's Bazaar this week. And she was asked about her gosh very long and beautiful friendship and business relationship with Snoop Dogg the rapper and weed connoisseur. A lot of folks think that she smokes weed 'ecause she hangs with Snoop Dogg a lot. But she said no I do not. Did you all read the profile?  I did. And my favorite part of it was she talked about how the - her biggest regret is that she did not get to host SNL because her probation officer at the time would not allow it which means we have got to get Martha Stewart hosting now.  Oh yes. We need that like yesterday.  I also love Martha Stewart because - and I talk about this with Ira frequently - I miss imperious unapproachable celebrities. Like Martha Stewart - just who she is the level of control she exerts in every area of her life is terrifying. And I am so appreciative of that. And she is so not somebody who is going to reply to your comment on Instagram with like thanks for following. She does not care if you are following.  Right. She dragged Chelsea Handler for trying to even impersonate her on Instagram.  More of that.   All right Louis you got that point. It is time for the next quote. You all are going to get this one so quickly. Here we go. I will give you some tea. I was the ninth choice in Devil Wears Prada.  Anne Hathaway.   Anne Hathaway or as I call her Stan Hathaway 'ecause I stan. I like her stuff.  She said it on Drag Race.  That is right.  Yeah. So Anne Hathaway was on RuPaul's Drag Race recently. She showed up via Zoom. She was in the workroom to advise and encourage the contestants. And they asked her if she ever had to fight tooth and nail for any of her roles. And she told them in fact...   I was the ninth choice for Devil Wears Prada.  No way.  Who were the top eight? Do we know?  I was just thinking - you should be able to deduce that. I feel like a Reese Witherspoon is in there somewhere you know? We are also talking about the mid-2000s so we gave a mysterious amount of power to people like Kate Bosworth. You never know.  .  But man eight people. She is so right for that role and so winning in that role. It seems unfathomable.  It was 2006. You know what? I bet like an Elisha Cuthbert fresh off The Girl Next Door was who like the studio was like got to get her.  I mean I do not hate the idea.  Yeah.  I do not object to other wonderful actresses being considered. But Anne's gifts just seem so apparent.  I guarantee none of the other eight were not white.  Well yeah.   I did notice these actresses had something in common yes.  So this game is tied. It is a nail-biter. This last quote is for all the marbles. You ready?  Yep.  Yes yes.  OK. You bore us. If science is a quote commitment to truth shall we cite all the historical nontruths perpetrated by scientists? Of course not. It is not science versus philosophy. It is science plus philosophy. Elevate your thinking and consciousness.  MC Hammer.   MC Hammer.  Yes.  MC Hammer.  Yes. I got to finish the quote 'ecause it is so funny. He goes elevate your thinking and consciousness. When you measure include the measurer. What even is this?  No idea.  Can one of you all explain this to me please?  No idea.  What happened here?  I saw it shared on Instagram. And I was like oh that is what is happening on Twitter these days. OK .  It is like when you ask Will and Jaden Smith about math. It is like well you asked for it. Here comes a paragraph of backward syllables like nothing you have ever heard before.   Yeah yeah. So MC Hammer who I know most for his amazing Behind The Music - he was responding to a tweet on Twitter this week in which someone tweeted philosophy is flirtation with ideas. Science is commitment to truth. That tweet was a response to MC Hammer tweeting the visibility of philosophy of science in the sciences. Girl all I know is why do these rappers get on Twitter thinking they got a Ph.D.?  I admired Patton Oswalt's joke which was please Hammer do not theorem.   Not much more needs to be said other than occasionally if Pumps  A Bump is on I do not turn it off.   Who was...  You know I would have learned about science too you know? If I lost that much...  Come on.  ...I would pick up a book.  Yeah. He might know a lot about science. But the way he handled his money he does not know a lot about math. I will tell you that.  If you have an E! True Hollywood Story featuring the gates to a mansion with your initials in the gates it eventually all goes south for you. That is the rule.   OK. MC Hammer please stop hurting them and us and you. The winner is - drum roll. The winner is Ira Madison III.  I do not want to win. I do not get anything .  Can you...  I stated earlier that I needed this. And yet Ira is the winner.   Louis can have it .  Wow. Well OK. Can one of you all give us a quick awards show-style acceptance speech?  Oh sure. Ira you should do this. I am more curious about yours.  You know I do believe that there are some angels in this city. Thank you love. Thank you life.  Name the speech. Name the speech.  .  Marion Cotillard 2008.  Yeah.   Deep cut. Deep cut.  .  Oh my goodness. This is so much fun. Listeners you can find Ira and Louis whenever you want on their lovely pop culture podcast Keep It wherever you get your podcasts. Thank you both. And congratulations to Ira who now wears the Who Said That crown.  Bye. Thank you Sam.  Thank you. Thank you and goodbye.  Thank you and goodbye . That was beautiful.  Do I sound like Vincent Price?  Yeah.  OK.   What is your like first Selena memory as a kid?  I remember when she died.  Yeah.  I remember when she died. I remember the San Antonio Express-News and the paper just being wall-to-wall Selena for like weeks.  Oh yeah.  I remember the vigils and the flowers. And it was - it felt like Texas's own version of Princess Diana died.  Oh absolutely. I mean it felt - if you were in Texas it felt like the Kennedy assassination. That is how her biographer puts it in terms of just like seismic impact.  Yeah. That is Maria Garcia. She is the host of Anything For Selena. That is a podcast from WBUR and Furturo Studios. This podcast is all about the enduring legacy of Selena Quintanilla Perez. And what I love about it so much - it talks about how Selena and her legacy are a lot more than just her music.  Loving Selena mourning Selena was political from the beginning. It meant something. And it still means something now.  I grew up in South Texas. And Selena has been this cultural touchstone for me for decades now. In fact we had a whole Selena segment on this show when Netflix dropped a series a few months ago all about her life. But in my imagination and in the culture Selena has been flattened - fun songs a big smile sparkly outfits. That is it. Maria's podcast sets out to challenge that narrative and let the world know that Selena meant a lot more and changed a lot more than most of us think.  Selena came at a time - at a crucial time in history for Latinos right before the Internet. She came at a time when a new Latino identity was forming.  Well you say in the podcast that she is - she was kind of responsible for the birth of People en Espanol.  She was. So after her death People magazine put out two issues. The Western part of the U.S. and most of the Southwest got Selena on the cover. And then the Eastern part of the country got a cover with the cast of Friends from the sitcom you know...  .  ...Which is sort of like...  You cannot make this up.  Yeah.   You know this visual metaphor of sort of an all-white coastal elite cast - right? - from this sitcom. On the other cover was the face of this slain brown singer that held on to a working-class - markedly working-class Mexican American identity and aesthetic that in the mid-90s was so incredibly derided because this was you know the age of heavy assimilation when most portrayals of Latinos and particularly Mexican Americans were of you know lost dropouts or teen moms. And so here was this squeaky-clean Mexican American who somehow was transcending in American society ascending to this new plane while also holding on to her roots without compromise without contorting herself. And that was so powerful to see like at such a visceral level. Even me you know as a 7-year-old without like I said having the ability to intellectualize this to fully even articulate it I felt it. I felt like what a big deal it was to see a woman like her ascend.  Yeah. And you have an entire episode of your Selena podcast about her death and when and how that affected the culture. You point out - and I had not thought about this until your episode - the rise of Selena also coincides with the massive growth in the '90s in America of the Latinx population. And so her rise almost coincided with increasing fears from white America of like a brown takeover. And so she dies. And people are mourning her. And some white people make her death and mourning her death political. And they put all of their anxieties about the community writ large onto her. And you really crystallized how that all comes to a head with the way that Howard Stern on his radio show treated her death.  Yeah. I mean from 1990 to 2000 the Latino population surged by 60 in this country.  Wow. Wow.  And Selena died in 1995 right in the middle of this historic demographic shift when all people were talking about was what the country was going to look like as it rounded out the millennium as it hit the year 2000. And there were a lot of anxieties about Latinos and particularly Mexican American working-class Latinos. And so Selena whether she wanted to be or not even before her death was a symbol. But then the weekend of her death - so she is shot on a Friday. She dies almost immediately. It is a violent cruel cold death. And there are images of these people who are often not seen on television at this point in American history just crying and mourning her so you know - yeah.  Well her death brought about this visibility because you would see hundreds and thousands of people come out in the streets to mourn her. And there was no way for white America to not see all those brown people in the streets you know to honor one of their heroes.  Yeah. So then what happens is you have a full weekend after the Friday of her death of these images of distraught Latinos crying for her. And then Howard Stern and his producers decide it is a great idea to open their show by making fun of those mourners and by making fun of Selena's music.   Spanish people have the worst taste in music. They really do.    All happy - that is because they are all so sad.  Well you point out in this Howard Stern episode - you post this audio of Stern and his co-host and his team mocking Latinos in a derogatory accent as they are playing Selena music beneath that. And then a Latino DJ calls in and says hey that is offensive. Howard Stern gets into an argument with him and Howard Stern ends up telling this man who was an American citizen go back to Mexico.   OK so you did do it.  And I did do it and I am going to do it again.  OK...  And I am going to do it 20 freaking times...  All right man.  ...And I want you to leave my country.  All of this over his anger that people would mourn Selena. You know she meant so much more than just her.  Yeah. And I remember people saying you know why is it such a big deal? Like you know she was a pop star. But of course we know that for Latinos you know...  Yeah.  ...She was more than a pop star. She was a symbol again of living in America without letting go of your roots.  Yeah. You announce at the start of each episode that there are also Spanish versions of these English-language episodes to accompany the English-language versions. My Spanish is very bad so I have not been listening to those. But a colleague of mine recently told me that she has been and she is found out that the Spanish-language episodes are different than the English ones. They are not just translations.  Yeah. So I knew that in the spirit of Selena - you know one of the things that made her so profoundly important in the '90s is that her Spanish was not perfect and yet she spoke it without shame. And that was so powerful for me to see when I was 7 years old because when I was 7 is right when I was starting to sort of struggle with my Spanish after being a native Spanish speaker. And I knew that I - that we needed to have a dual-language component and I knew that it had to be authentic. And to me that looks like with an open heart coming to listeners and saying - and I say this in the first episode in Spanish - you know maybe you have noticed that I do not speak Spanish perfectly that I struggle that it is halting. And it was important for me to do it to confront my shame that I have felt for so long around Spanish and frankly some self-loathing. And so yeah your producer's right. It is not a word for word because it is me navigating in a different language and having these you know really vulnerable conversations with folks that summarize the English episodes.  Yeah. What kind of celebrity do you think Selena would be today if she were still here? What kind of music would she be making? Would she be political at all? What would her Instagram feed look like? Do you think about that?  A lot. Constantly Sam. Constantly.  Tell me what you think. I am curious.  You know this is when I long for her the most. Selena came from a sort of ethos of performance that her family had which was do not talk about politics ever. Stick to your art. And I genuinely believe that the way we sort of saw Beyonce you know go from you know in - early on in her career she was very much - Beyonce was under her father's wing.  Yeah.  And then we saw her sort of bloom into herself. And I think that we would have seen that with Selena. Would she have spoken for Black Lives Matter? Would she have spoken against kids in cages? Would she have used her artistry to make a statement? I do not know. But I have a feeling that she would have because her whole ethos everything about her artistry was about building bridges and not putting up walls.  Yeah.  And I think we would see that. And I also think you know she would have a song with Bad Bunny right now and that instead of Rosalia on SNL we - maybe would have been Selena with him you know?  Yes. Come on. I am ready for that. It would be so amazing. I am going to spend the whole day now thinking about what a Selena song in 2021 might sound like. What a talent. I miss her and your podcast has helped with that. I appreciate it.  Thank you Sam. Thank you so much.  Thanks again to Maria Garcia. She is the host of the podcast Anything For Selena from WBUR and Futuro Studios.  Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.   Hi Sam. This is Elizabeth  from Concord Calif. The best part of my week was driving into my driveway and noticing that my daffodil bulbs were just starting to sprout and it made me so so happy.  Hey Sam. It is Cheryl  from beautiful northwest Georgia - Calhoun Ga. And the best part of my week at 66 years young was getting my second COVID-19 vaccine the booster shot.  Hi Sam. This is Sylvia  outside of Boston. The best part of my week was watching the rover Perseverance land on the surface of Mars with my Mars-obsessed almost-5-year-old watching the immense amount of relief and joy on the faces of those people who worked so hard and then just watching the huge eyes of my kid who wants to land herself on the surface of Mars someday.  Hi Sam. This is Laura .  And Nick  calling from Lincoln Neb.  And for the first time in our more than two years of trying we got a positive pregnancy test.  After all the poking and prodding and testing and whatever else we are going to be parents.  We love listening to you Sam and we have been waiting for our turn to call.  Thank you for doing this Sam.  Have a great week and thanks for your show. Bye now.  That was a good one. Congrats on the pregnancy. Babies - I love it. All right thanks to all those listeners you just heard - Laura and Nick Sylvia Cheryl and Elizabeth. Listeners do not forget you can be a part of this segment too. You can send us your best thing at any time throughout any week. Just record yourself on your phone and then send that voice memo to me. Our email address is samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org.   This week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Andrea Gutierrez and Sylvie Douglis. We had fact-checking help from Jane Gilvin. Our intern is Liam McBain. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. Listeners till next time be good to yourselves. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  