  Hey you all. From NPR It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am Sam Sanders. So this week is Valentine's Day this Wednesday. And in that spirit this episode is all about love and marriage and how it works or does not. PBS reporter Liz Flock is my guest today. She wrote a book about these three couples that are struggling to figure out how to keep making their marriages work. The book is called The Heart Is A Shifting Sea Love And Marriage In Mumbai. And so over the last 10 years or so Liz has been tracking the lives of these three married couples. She is been following the good and the bad and the ugly of their relationships. But here's the thing - the couples they are not American. They are Indian. Liz spent years with these people in Mumbai. And so the book it is not just about the couples. It is also about India itself and how the country is rapidly changing and how that change is playing out in relationships. I found it all quite fascinating. And it really made me ask some questions about my own attitudes towards long-term relationships. And some of those thoughts I share in this episode. And that was perhaps a bit out of my comfort zone to share that with you but I did. I also talked about Liz's love life too and how writing this book changed the way she thinks about love and marriage. Also PS Liz is a friend of mine. I got special permission from our ethics editor to do this interview. We will fill you in on that in the episode itself. Enjoy.   Hi.  Hello.  Let us just full disclosure to our listeners. We are friends. We have known each other since - we worked together briefly at The Washington Post which was 2010.  Correct.  And I mean...  I think we started almost on the same day.  On the same day. I was a few days ahead of you and then you walked into the office and I was like who is this newbie...  Yeah.  ...After I would been there like four days.  Yeah. And you were basically in my space all the time.   Yeah. Yeah. And so I mean like most D.C. journalists we know all the other D.C. journalists. And I remember at a point in our friendship you got a book deal.  Correct.  And we all were so excited for you. Before we get to the book itself I do kind of want to walk through the years between the deal that you got and the release which is tomorrow. I kind of got to see you go through that process. And gosh it is not nearly as romantic as folks would have it seem.  No it is not. It is a lot of crying alone in rooms.   But yeah I got the deal back in 2015 just after graduating from grad school. And it was a long painful process. None of it was romantic. And you know spent two years going - writing going back and forth on edits...  Going back and forth to India.  ...Going back and forth India of course you know worrying about whether I can even get into India because it is become harder under the new administration. You know trying to organize notes in one million different ways structuring the book restructuring it throwing it out in the garbage starting over again and going through you know 10 rounds of edits. Each time you feel like you are done maybe you should go celebrate and...  Yeah. Well I would see you sometimes you would be like I turned in the final copy. Then next month you are like I am turning in the final copy...  Just kidding.   Work here is never done. It is like The Sorcerer's Apprentice. Everything just keeps multiplying.  Yeah. Did you - I guess we should walk through what the book is to talk about what went into it because it was - as far as books go it seemed like you picked the hardest kind of book to write.  Yeah.  It is a piece of narrative nonfiction where you follow three couples in India and through their stories tell the story of modern love in India. But you - like you lived with them.  Yeah. Yeah. It is immersion journalism sort of like the art of hanging out. And it basically entails spending as much time as humanly possible with people. And you know it is so satisfying as a journalist to be able to not just parachute in somewhere and to spend a significant amount of time - and you realize as you go how much you do not know. And you think you understand a person. You think you understand a moment. You think you understand that exchange. And the longer you spend you realize you did not know - you did not know what was going on at all. So it is really rewarding in the end I think but it just requires a tremendous amount of time. And for the people I was interviewing they are like oh Jesus you are still around...  Because you were in the house.  Yeah. I mean I met them in 2008 mostly. And so that was 10 years ago. And you know liked them then was interested in doing this project then but had no idea what I was doing because I was 21 and had no idea how to write a book or even to go about that so yeah.  Briefly describe each of the three couples.  All three couples are middle class. Ashok and Parvati are really young. He is a journalist. She is a student. They are Tamil Brahmins. And Brahmin is the highest caste. And Maya and Veer are approaching middle age. Maya is a school principal and Veer is a businessman. And they...  And Janu is their son who sounds really cute.  And Janu is their adorable son who is probably the most adorable child of all time. And they are Hindus who had a love marriage and were together despite all obstacles in their way and married. And Shahzad and Sabeena are an older Muslim couple who met just before their wedding day - an arranged marriage.  How big is caste still in India? I think us Americans just assume well it cannot nearly be what it was a century ago. But I do not know.  Yeah. I think if you were to just parachute into India you would feel like caste is not playing as much of a role and it is probably playing less of one. But you dig a little deeper and you see how entrenched it still is you know especially outside of cities. But even among like Ashok and Parvati right? They are both Brahmins of the highest...  Yeah.  ...Caste. And I felt like OK they are middle-class very educated probably they think the caste system is ridiculous. And I mean it played a huge...  Yeah.  ...Factor in their marriage.  They were into it yeah.  And I heard Ashok at different points sort of emphasize that Brahmins were purer that Brahmins were higher that Brahmins were more important that Brahmins were to be trusted and were better educated and especially their parents certainly felt that way. So I think those notions are still really embedded in how people think no matter what economic background you are from or how well-educated you are. It can still...  Yeah.  ...Play sort of a less overt role where you do not see it on the surface but it is still...  It is there.  ...Driving a lot of decisions...  Yeah.  ...Especially in marriage.  Yeah. And cultures have a way of perpetuating things that they do not even like - I mean even the idea of arranged marriage.  Yeah.  So many of these young folks in India that you hear about entering into arranged marriages who actually love someone else - a lot of them are going to put their kids in arranged marriages.  Yeah.  It perpetuates.  Well this is what I did not understand - I mean with Ashok and Parvati Parvati never wanted arranged marriages. She was in love with someone. She wanted desperately to marry him. And then at the end of the book and at the end of my reporting process she told me she was going to make sure her daughter had an arranged marriage.  .  And I was shocked.  Yeah .  I could not speak.  Yeah. Why do you think that is?  I mean I think she sees the benefits of it now.  Yeah.  But you know I struggled with whether I felt like there was a certain giving in that women do sometimes in arranged marriages where they say like I did not want this for myself but now I am going to force myself to think this is a good thing or whether that is an absurd outsider's view that I have and that they really are seeing the benefits in their marriage and they really are seeing that they have a stable life that maybe they have to - have had to make compromises for but that they are going to be with this person for the rest of their life and they see the benefits.  Yeah.  So it is hard to know.  It is one of the things where it is like you think you know about a place like India because it is in the culture and you see...  Yeah.  ...Stuff. But like reading your book let me know how much I do not know. Like what do you think American readers will be the most surprised by as they read about this book and read about love in India? I was very surprised to the extent that which families are really involved in arranged marriages. They do not just set it up. Like...  Right.  ...Once you get married the wife belongs to the family of the groom and lives in...  In some cases.  ...Their house...  Yeah.  ...In some cases.  Yeah.  That was - I would - I would never thought about that.  Right.  I was like oh my God. That is a thing.  Right. I mean in-laws are really difficult in any culture...   Yeah.  ...But there is a particularly difficult thing about Indian mother-in-laws. It is like a fabled long-standing tradition that Indian mother-in-laws are incredibly difficult and it is hard - really hard as a new...  And you are in the house.  ...Bride.  It is crazy.  And - yeah. And you really have to adapt to their rules and radically change your life - change what you are wearing change what your schedule is. Yeah. I mean for me like the overall things that were surprising that I hope I have conveyed in this book is that of course there are things that are radically different about India than the U.S.  Yeah.  And then of course there are like thousands of little details that are of course exactly like...  Yes.  ...American life.  Yeah.  And for marriage so much of that is the case as well.  Yeah.  I mean there are really different practices like arranged marriage which is very low in the  United States.  Yeah.  But then the problems that exist within an arranged marriage can be exactly the same.  Yeah.  So...  Well and like you do this really interesting thing. You signpost the big moments in these couples' lives with big moments in India's history. Like in this year there were the riots in this year it was very dry the partition did this. And like you do this really good job I think of not just giving the readers snippets of these Indian lives but snippets of Indian history. That seemed very purposeful.  Yeah. I mean those were huge moments in their lives.  Yeah.  You know all three couples went through the Mumbai terror attacks. Those happened right after I moved there and I saw how much that upended the city. And you know I - as much as possible I wanted this book to read like a novel but I also wanted people to just learn a little bit more about India and Indian history. And I do not know. I mean there is so much to get into so I feel like I only gave a small taste. So...  How did you find these couples? How did you pick these three?  I met at least one person in the couple at least all back in 2008 right when I moved there.  By virtue of like where you were hanging out or what?  Well a combination of being restless homesick and broke.  OK.  I ended up living with multiple families...  Woah woah woah woah. How did that start?  ...Who took me in .  Who did the - OK back up.  .  You were wandering the streets - who will house me?   No no no no.  So how did it happen?  Incredible generosity - friends of friends of friends of friends. I really knew no one when I landed in Mumbai.  Did you have a job when you landed in Mumbai?  I did not have a job.  You just went.  And I had 100. It was - I would not advise this to anyone.  When did you...  It was a horrible idea.  How far after college was this?  I believe it was a couple months later.  After you finished college.  After I finished college I just moved there.  So you graduated and were like I am going.  Yes. And you know my mother and many others tried to stop me.   But - so I moved to Mumbai and lived with one family who is not in the book. And then from there through contacts sort of ended up living with other families because I was just trying to get my footing. I had no idea what I was doing and they were very generous and kind...  Yeah.  ...To let me live there. And eventually I - yes I did get my own place .  OK .  But it is also really difficult to do that when you are a foreigner living in India.  Yeah.  It is hard to get a place so...  And so of the families you bounced around with and living with you decided on three to be in the book. What made those three the three?  Yeah. I mean I think it was that I could not get them out of my head. And I would try to ask myself like what is the reason that these three compel you so much? And I think some of it was that they were - seemed to me rule breakers in a way. And - not that I could have articulated then because it was more of an unconscious  choice I think - but you know India's undergoing so much change - social cultural political economic - just incredible amounts of upheaval that I think is placing pressure on the Indian marriage and is really - you know Indian women are gaining a lot more agency. So many more women are going to work and getting more education are watching more pornography are having more affairs. There are so many ways that that is playing out and I think in these particular marriages I saw that there were people within them that were sort of striving to break the rules or test the boundaries test the limits.  Maya?  Yeah.  Girl.  .  That is a whole other follow-up episode. I have many thoughts.   Yeah. And in a lot of these cases one half of the couple was breaking the rules or testing the boundaries and the other half was sort of stuck in maybe older ways. And that tension was something that I wanted to understand.  Yeah.  So...  When you - so you started out living with these people but they were not yet the subject of your book. Did something happen change shift in your relationship with them once you said and also I am writing a book about you?  Yeah. I mean - so from 2008 to 2010 I lived with them asked them questions about their marriage but really informally.  Yeah.  I was like maybe I will write a novel about this. Maybe I will write a Bollywood movie...   Who knows? My aspirations were great.  .  And my execution was poor. But - and so that was more of an informal process. And then in 2014 I said I would like to follow up. You know we have stayed in touch ever since and I have been asking you all these questions about your marriage and I want to write a book about this - a nonfiction book which will require an incredible amount of me being in your house and...  Yeah.  ...Being sort of...  Yeah.  ...There when you probably do not want me to be...  Yeah.  ...And in private moments. And you know they all gave me permission. You know some of them I went and spoke to them more in-depth of course about what this would entail. I do not think they thought it was going to be like such a long process .  Yeah.  Why are you still here?  I am sure you did not think it would be as long of a process...  Yeah.  ...Either.  Yeah.  Would you - so you would be in the house just like observing but would you also pull them away for like one-on-one interviews?  Yeah. It was really important to me to talk to the couples both separately and together...  Together.  ...And do a mix of you know formal sit-down...  You were kind of nervous.  ...Interviews. Yeah. I mean and there was a lot of cases where I felt like a third wheel because I would be traveling with them or you know be in these really awkward situations where they would be fighting and you know I would been there so long that I felt like at that point I was basically invisible. So you know in the beginning people are fighting and they are like oh do not fight.  Yeah.  She is here.  Yeah.  Or maybe we will save this for later. And then by the end they are like who cares?  .  And you know having like caterwauling huge fights. So...  Yeah.  ...Yeah.  Do you think that in any of those three couples that you changed their trajectory? Do you think that your being involved in their life and writing a book about them changed what their relationship is or could have been?  I mean I think it is silly to pretend otherwise. Like as journalists we try to pretend that we have no impact on the lives of the people that we interview. And I think that is sort of ridiculous.  Yeah. Yeah.  And even just by virtue of the fact of asking people a lot of questions about their marriage...  Makes them think about it.  ...Makes them think about it makes them think twice about things.  Do you think your impact was overall positive or negative for their relationships?  I hope it was positive.  When do you think you will know?  No one has broken up yet.  OK.   But you know I also was there for a period of time. But I also was not there and I have not been there...  Yes.  ...For a long period of time...  Yes.  And so again I feel like I am an expert on these marriages but there is still - as anyone who is been married a long time knows - you still do not know a lot about your partner...  Oh yeah.  ...When you are married  to them for 40 years.  Yeah.  So I certainly do not know everything.  Yeah. All right. Time for a break. When we come back we will talk about how Liz dealt with working and living in India as a white person. All right BRB.   How many hours weeks months days would you say that you were in these folks' houses altogether?  Well I lived with them in 2008 for months - some of them months at a time - and then again in 2014 and '15 on extended reporting trips for three months. So I spent at least months living with all of them. And in some cases it was hard to convince them to let me stay that long or - you know it is pretty annoying to have a person just...  Yeah and like...  ...Sleeping there.  ...And like in some of these houses it was more than just a couple. It was the family because...  Right.  ...They live with the family.  Right. And it is joint families...  Yeah.  ...Which often entail 12 people.  Oh my God.  I mean and there is people coming in and out that you do not recognize. And there - it is - you know it is a cousin's cousin's uncle...  Yeah.  ...Who is now staying there as well. You know and sleeping on the floor or wherever is - I could squeeze myself in and trying to be as unobtrusive as possible. And in one of the cases the couple I stayed with they basically said if I left I probably would not be able to get back into the house because it was - you know they still had to convince the sort of matriarch of the family that I could come in. And so I did not leave for at one point a couple weeks.  Like you did not physically leave the house?  The apartment yeah. And you know you do not realize how difficult that is until you do it. And I was just desperately wanting to go outside but knew that I had to stay so...  What would you - what was your spiel when you were trying to convince people other than the couple to let you into these homes?  You know I would explain the project as much as I could and just say I was trying to understand love and marriage in India and through these people. But in a lot of cases I think they were just like I do not want to hear it. I do not really care what you are doing. Just like do not cause trouble.  Yeah.  You know and living with the Muslim family who was pretty conservative I think they were basically like OK wear a headscarf and you can stay you know?  And you did.  Yeah of course. Or you know even a burka if on a holiday. And so yeah I mean I think it was really about respecting the rules of that house...  Yeah.  ...And knowing what those were...  Yeah.  ...And not being an idiot.  I think an added wrinkle to all of this - listeners you might not see it right now but I will tell you a secret. Liz is white.  .  And she is blonde. And you probably stuck out a bit in India...  Yeah.  ...And in these homes. Was that an issue?  I mean in some ways I think you are at an advantage slightly because you are different and people are willing to help out. And you know in my experience with families in India people are extremely generous and open their homes to you and you know treat you as if you are family. But of course it was more difficult. I mean skin color is definitely a major topic of conversation in India. There is still Fair  Lovely cream that is advertised...  To lighten the skin.  ...To lighten skin. And I remember once my Indian girlfriend and I were sitting next to each other and she was putting out Fair  Lovely and I was putting on bronzer. We were just like this is...  This is weird.  ...But for me it was more about the person - what - pale skin yes but just generally being an outsider and with blonde hair. I think my experiences with sexual harassment - I mean many many Indian women deal with sexual harassment and I was no different. And I do not know if it was more because I was a foreigner or not but it certainly was something that was a fabric of my daily life when I was taking the train. And there are women's train cars but sometimes I would arrive late and be on the men's car. And obviously I learned over time how to try to mitigate that.  How would you mitigate it?  You know by getting early - there early...  Yeah.  ...And getting on the women's train car. But there was you know still on the platform or in many other places and you know once in my home.  Oh wow.  But it is just a part of daily life. And I think there is the perception - even one of the characters in the book said to me at one point you know you are a Firangi. You are a foreigner. So you must want sex all the time.  Wow.  And he got that perception from a few Bollywood movies he would seen. And even though he had known me already for nine years at this point and knew that...  Yeah.  ...That was a ridiculous thing he still had this sort of embedded notion in his mind that I had to sort of sit him down and talk to him about it and make sure that he understood that that was not correct.  Yeah.  And so I think you are working - and also like pornography in India - a lot of the pornography that is making its way there is made in the West. So I think that encourages the perception that Western women are loose that blond women want sex that they are going to do all these extreme things sexually. And as Shahzad says in the book he is like those images are always playing in their heads. And that is - some people believe that is caused sexual violence to rise is how much more pornography is available....  Right.  ...Which I do not think has been pinned down one way or the other but...  Yeah. Would you - and you write about this in the forward of the book. It is an interesting moment and an interesting time to write a book about a culture that is not your own and a lot of people in the politics and online society we live in could take a lot of issue with the very fact that you as a white woman from Illinois had the audacity to write this book.  Right.  What did you learn over the process of writing this book about India as a white person? Like were there things that you learned in how to do it that might be applicable to other writers that might want to write or think about or report on places that are not their own? Like was there a big takeaway for you in that regard?  I think the biggest takeaway was - for me - was understanding how much I do not know .  Yeah.  Just because when I first moved there I lived there from 2008 to 2010 as a reporter for a magazine. And I felt like a few months in wow I am really getting the hang of this. I understand India. I understand Mumbai. I was totally ridiculous. I did not understand anything. And then of course the more you get to know the more you realize you do not know. And I think that is a really important starting point in just realizing how much you are just scratching the surface and just asking questions. And so there was a lot of reporting I did on this book that did not make it into the book like interviewing academics and historians and filmmakers and Bollywood stars and authors and asking them to talk to me about what they - how they would want to see this book you know about history - just asking a million questions and doing the work beyond the pages of it...  Yeah.  ...To make sure that I at least had made a good-faith effort to understand it...  Yeah.  ...as best as I could.  Well and like I was - and I guess I was not surprised. It was affirming to know that a lot of the issues I see myself and my friends here go through in relationships folks in India are going through it the same way. One of the trend lines I noticed in some of the characters is that they all wanted to have expectations that this thing would work - that it would last. Even if it was not the love of their lives they wanted it to work. And yet - and still a lot of the characters found ways in spite of their expectation to honestly self-sabotage. Maya I was just enamored with. Like she - I do not want to give too much of it away. But she is hanging out with someone who is not her husband. And the husband is basically like you have got to do what you have got to do. I am not mad at you. Like whatever. And so he allows her to do that. But then the whole time she is hoping that she will kind of make him jealous or something? It is like she almost wants this bad behavior to lead to good behavior from him. That was the thing that I saw in the book and just seemed so crystal-clear in my life and my parents' lives.  That we do irrational crazy things.  Yeah. Oh yeah.  Yeah. When a marriage is not going well I mean you can do irrational crazy things to try to fix it or just try to get the attention of a person again. I mean I think - you know in a recent book that came out about marriage it said there were less happy marriages than there used to be but the ones that are happy are happier than ever before.  Wow.  So there is a smaller number of them but those that are - and the thing he found about those small segment of happy couples happy married couples is that they had nothing in common. They had all different kinds - which is like great. What am I supposed to...  Yeah .  ...Take away from this? Basically that people have to do what works for them. Like you find a partner and whatever it is that works for you whether you have an open non-monogamous relationship whether you have the most faithful relationship of all time where you spend every moment together - whatever it is that works for you I think is the takeaway there - which is you know as always with love and marriage not an easy answer .  Yeah. Do you think that the couples in your book are moving closer to partnerships that really truly work for them?  Not constantly. I think it is two steps forward one step back - you know in most of the cases. But...  Yeah.  ...That is sort of forward movement.  Yeah. Do you think that you are closer on your way to getting towards that thing that works for you and a partner through writing this book? Or did it totally upend all of your notions and all the things you thought? And now you are like oh my God.  I do not know . I honestly do not know. I wish I knew. I hope I am...  Does it frustrate you?  ...Getting closer. It is incredibly frustrating. I stay up at night thinking you spent 10 years...  .  ...Researching this damn thing so that you can figure it out and you know nothing .  Yeah.  But...  Did you...  ...I do not think that is true.  Yeah.  I think I got a little bit closer to understanding.  You did.  And I was coming to this project with you know personal baggage as we all do of what marriages look like.  Yeah. And you had a breakup over the course of writing the book.  Yeah. I mean the person that I thought I was going to marry - we broke up pretty much right when I handed him the book. And you know that was incredibly devastating...  Yeah.  ...And made me feel like this book was a failure a personal failure. But I feel differently about that now after the space of time.  How do you feel about it now?  I feel like that probably was not the right person. And if I had not - for me - and if I had not written this book I probably would not have figured that out. So maybe I did learn a lesson of some kind.  Do you believe in marriage more or less now?  I do not know. I think - you know we are obviously many of us driven to partnerships and there is a lot of reasons for that. And it serves a lot of roles in our society and it has for a really long time. Whether it was an arranged marriage you know longer ago in the West and - or even in the present day in India or whether it is a marriage driven by love marriage is a very useful thing. And love is a very you know charismatic thing. It is a thing that we all - we all want but I do not know. I was thinking about how that very idea of marrying for love makes marriage an inherently unstable thing because it is all based on this premise...  Yeah.  ...That you have a feeling which could change.  Yes.  So...  Whereas if you approach it just saying this is a partnership we are going to share the mortgage...  Right.  ...That is fixed.  Right. Or - Yeah. And this is arranged marriage and we are marrying because our families make sense for us to be together or for the economics of it. That is going to be a more stable thing. And I - I am not arguing that everyone should have arranged marriage of course. I just think it makes sense that marriage is so incredibly difficult.  Yeah. I found myself reading the book saying to myself you can have a spark but it will not last forever. And even if you say screw the spark this is just a partnership that the families chose for us even that becomes tiresome after a while. Like there were times I think that even the couples that went into these partnerships with lowered expectations they eventually could not even hit those. Is there something to be said about - especially in chronicling these couples for years - the way that what we expect changes over time and makes it harder over time? Whether it is an arranged marriage or a love marriage we want different things and that it is always changing.  Yeah. I mean some comedian said that marriage plus time equals hate which...   I believe it.  ...Is true and also is not true. I mean the thing that I saw having gone back to these couples at different points in their marriage - and like at one point I was away from India for five years and then checked in with them - again is how radically different it was. So I would come away from a reporting trip and be like OK this couple is over. Like they are going to...  Yeah.  ...Get divorced.  Yeah.  No question. Absolutely. It is over. And then I would go back again a year later. I would check in with them a few months later. And again the marriage was radically different.  Yeah.  It was like a sinusoidal wave where it would go up and down and up and down. I mean and that is like most marriages I think. And so you know do you want to stick it out through those low points or not?  Yeah. Well and like it just confirmed to me reading the book like I do not. I just like...  You do not?  I do not.  You do not want to stick it out through those points?  No. And like...  Marriage is not for you?  Probably not.  Never?  I do not think - I was just reading the book and for all the couples there would be a point where I would be like leave him leave her break up I would never let them - and like that is my first impulse.  So was that about the sacrifices that people had to make? Because I mean that is obviously huge. That is a huge part of it but...  The sacrifices but also just like the idea that one person is intertwined so intricately in my life the idea that I would shape major life decisions of my own around someone else.  That is a very individualistic way of looking at it.  Yeah. No and I mean like I was reading the book being like I am not cut out for this. I do not like - the book for me underscored how like usually marriage is not fun. But I know how to have fun by myself. Like I know what makes me happy. I know the things that...  Or in shorter-term relationships.  Yeah. And it is - it was a - no. It really made me ask myself some hard questions and basically say to myself Sam you are a garbage trash person...  No...  ...But that is OK.  No. But we are - I mean we are more individualistic in the United States right? Like one of the first things I noticed when I moved to India is how much less people use the pronoun I or me. And we are constantly doing that...  All the time.  ...Right? Like I am tired. I am hungry. I a