  I love that there are two sheets of bubble wrap. These are - this is like quality bubble packaging. On top of this...  You know you have made it when you are recording an unboxing video of your own book.   I am obsessed. I am obsessed with this book.  That is exactly what my guest on the show today did a few times.  First of all I walked down to my package room. I had the flu. I walked down in basically like my bathrobe.  .  And I thought I - like I was looking for - I do not know - lightbulbs or something. And there is five boxes from Random House and I was like oh no this is it. This is happening.   As you have the flu.   Oh my gosh. Look at this. I am obsessed. I am obsessed with this book.  I feel a little bit like I am like pulling a switcheroo because it was not the first box that I opened that is on the video. But the reactions are genuine. I know. I know.  OK.  I should not even say this.  OK.  Cancel me. Cancel me.   Oh my gosh. Here For It Or How To Save Your Soul In America by R. Eric Thomas. Those are my names...  The world needs to hear it.  I - you know I enjoy narrating opening my mail. I am going to do it every day. I am just going to be like look at this cable bill you all.   Yeah.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. My guest today is R. Eric Thomas. You have heard him on this show before. Eric writes a pop culturenewsshadecelebrityshade column for elle.com. He is the writer who coined the term Auntie Maxine for U.S. House member Maxine Waters. Some of his recent posts have titles like Literally 10 Photos Of Nancy Pelosi Ripping Paper I Am Pleased To Announce That I Too Won Iowa and The Grammys Really Needed Alicia Keys' Weighted Blanket Energy. Man that is a good one. R. Eric Thomas is now out with a book. It is called Here For It Or How To Save Your Soul In America. It is a memoir made up of some very personal and poignant essays. In this chat we are going to do some unboxing and unpacking ourselves. We will talk more about Eric's column how he tries to give voice to black men and women and why he thinks his birth was immaculate - seriously. All right let us get to it. Here is my chat with R. Eric Thomas.   I was playing this game in my head today like what is the R for - R. Eric Thomas Rihanna Eric Thomas Resplendent Eric Thomas Ratchet Eric Thomas?  If - well first of all all three of those work really well. If my first name was Rihanna you know I would not be going around - no disrespect to the other Erics in the world.   True.  I would not be going around with Eric.  You would be Rihanna.  I would be Rihanna.  Rihanna Thomas - Rihanna E. Thomas.  But you know Rihanna does not even - wait. Is Rihanna's first name Robin?  I think it is. Yes.  Yeah so she is also - she is R. Rihanna Fenty. So we are...  You all are twins.  Exactly.  I want to talk more about this book but I want to talk about kind of what put you on the path to being in a place now where you are releasing a book. And I am talking about the phenomenon that is your elle.com column.   I love that it is a phenomenon.  It is - wait. What is the Wendy quote? It is a mood. It is a moment. What does she say?   And it is the moment.  I will take it. It is the moment. I try.  It is the moment. Yes.  It is some - which is so odd. You know like I write in the book that the column started with a viral Facebook post...  Yeah which is crazy. I did not know that. Tell this story for folks because when I was reading it I was like what? Really?  I know. I mean like - and it is like you know - and I say facetiously that it is a Cinderella story. But like it really is.  It is.  It does not make any sense. I was - you know there is this photo from a couple years ago of Justin Trudeau and President Barack Obama and Enrique Pena Nieto the former president of Mexico.  Yeah.  And they are...  Three handsome men by politician standards.  Exactly. And this is - you know this is back - you know we are thinking - we are talking 2016. So we were all so much younger then and all so much more innocent. And it was sort of a golden age.  We still liked Trudeau.  We liked Trudeau you know.  Nieto was still in office .  You know he did not have to blackface the music yet.   And you know - and so I put the photo up on Facebook and I wrote this long rant about how hot they looked.  I kind of want you to read a bit of the rant because people have to hear that.  OK. Yeah. All right. I have got it right here.  Whoever took this photo deserves a GD Pulitzer Prize. We may be two minutes from doomsday but thank the Lord we still live in a universe where three world leaders can strut into the room like they are the new interracial male cast of Sex And The City. Like I have already prepurchased tickets to this film. Out here in these streets looking like Career Day Ken. Looking like Destiny's DILF.   Keep going.   Looking like the alternate universe version of our current political universe. Looking like Tom Ford presents The Avengers.  .  And it went on like that for a long time.  Oh it was so good.  .  But this thing goes viral on Facebook.  It went viral. It was like 70000 likes.  Yeah.  Sixteen thousand shares. Like all these comments.  Yeah.  Like people are coming at me...  People loved it.  ...From all these different directions and they loved it.  And one of the people that came at you was like an editor at Elle.  Yes. Leah Chernikoff was formerly the site director of elle.com and so she sent me a Facebook message...  Oh my God.  ...And was like do you want to do this every day? And I was like lie in my bed and talk about how hot Barack Obama is?  .  And she is like yeah but like write political commentary. And I was like oh sure. And - but no but it was really interesting just to be able to have this platform to speak to people about our political moment in a way that was like joyful and exuberant and...  Yeah. Well and like making moments in parts of our current history that are not at all happy you found ways to make them happy. I think the column for Elle that really put you on the map was when you wrote about Auntie Maxine.  Yeah. Yeah.  This is Maxine Waters Democratic House member who was leading the charge to impeach Donald Trump way before Pelosi even thought about it. But you took this dark moment - you know a member of one party saying that the other party's leader needs to go - and you made comedy gold and made this House member an auntie. Like talk about that column.  I mean that was quite a surprise to me mostly because I - you know I had been doing the column for a couple of months at that point - maybe six months. And so if - you may recall that the - there was this one press conference that Representative Waters held where she and some members of the House had interviewed James Comey when he was FBI director. And they had a lot of questions and he did not have any answers. I guess he was saving it for the book. And so she comes out and she greets this group of reporters and her first words are like yes?   Yes?  Can I help you? What do you want? And I was like oh.   Can I help you? What do you want?  I am obsessed with this person. And you know and then she you know she - somebody says how did it go? And she is like...   Went fine.  You know her face says not well. But she is like you know the FBI director has no credibility.   The FBI director has no credibility.  And then she like throws both of her hands like she is throwing the whole press conference in the trash can. And I just screamed. I screamed in my house because I was like this is somebody who is telling the full truth and who is so over this moment in a way that I feel deeply. And I - like I had to write about her. It felt - she felt so much larger than life but she also felt like so deeply connected to the way that I as an American felt.  Well and like you did this really hard thing to do. You humanized stuff happening inside the Beltway and you made this political pomp and circumstance feel like it was coming literally from your auntie.  Well and that is the thing. Like I - you know I do not know that I set out with the project of like right-sizing different political larger-than-life figures. But like you know I am just - I do not have a political science degree. I watch the news like anybody else but I see myself as much a part of the American experiment as anybody else. And so I was like well you know at the end of the day this is just a person and she has given me license to interpret her personhood in this really familiar way. You know like we all have people in our families who have got - who always have the good gossip and who have got an opinion on everything. And I was like I know exactly who this person is...  Yeah.  ...In this like larger framework. And so it was really exciting to me.  I like - with the Maxine Waters column and some other ones you have done you give voice and imagination to the personas of famous black women. And I think a lot of times with black women in the public eye they are heroes. They are villains. They are caricatures but they are usually one-note. And you write about these women in a way that lets you imagine their personalities. And I like that because black women in the public eye - black men too - do not get that enough. We do not get to imagine multiple realities for them right?  You know I think - well one I am - we are all surrounded by caricatures of ourselves and of the people that we love. And as somebody who has been fortunate enough to be surrounded by and raised by three-dimensional people of color - particularly three-dimensional black women - my whole life I - like that is always frustrating to me. Like and that is - I mean that is the project. You know like my big project is black normcore queer normcore.   Yes.  You know like I am not writing profiles in greatness. I am interested in us being able to sort of walk into a room and be specific and authentic and have it not be a referendum on the larger system of socioeconomic justice have it be who we are because so often we are asked to identify with someone who is not like us - you know usually a straight white man who has to - I do not know - go to space to save the world.  Oh yeah. Or just even like the idea of like the films from our youth that we consider canon. That is not our story. Like I related so much to Ferris Bueller's Day Off. I had nothing in common with that man.   Yes.  And yet - and still it is one of my favorite movies of all time.  I love it.  Yes.  I feel the same way you know? And like I love - you know I am like - sometimes I am like oh am I Cameron or am I Ferris? I was like Eric you are the black kid who walked by them in the hallway like...   With no lines.  Right. And it is like I can be a Ferris you know?  Yeah.  You know I can write you know a YA novel about a kid who is like me in some way and not like me in some other way who decides to skip school. But like I have to have the opportunity to actually put that out there and say like this is valid too. This is not alternative to the canon. This is not an other. This is center of the page.  Yeah.  This is the standard.   After the break we dive into the book and why R. Eric Thomas is the queen of wordplay and literally divined to us from God. BRB.   The essays have some really really hilarious titles for instance Molly Urine Danger Girl but urine spelled like U-R-I-N-E Unsuccessful Black Hair Eggquity - E-G-G - The Past Smelled Terrible Unsubscribe From All That. I love it. I love it.  I love wordplay. I am a wordplay queen. I love wordplay.  Yes. Yes.  And titles - you know titles really allowed me to have a little bit of fun. There is way too many puns in here titles - Eggquity - I cannot believe they let me get - I mean like half the things in this book I should be arrested for. But when the - you know Molly Urine Danger Girl is an essay about my - the conflict for - internal conflict I would feel between growing up in quote-unquote urban environment that is supposed to be very dangerous and the real dangerous area which I think of as the suburbs which is where every Dateline story takes place.  Come on.  You know?  Come on.  I am like you know...  And it is always a dude you know.  It always is. It is always some dentist who like is mild-mannered and had like a two-car garage and all of a sudden he snapped. And I am like well that did not happen in my neighborhood honey. Like you know I would hear gunshots but the dentist was a nice man who went to church.  Uh-huh.  So you know it is about that. But it is also about this experience that I had with babysitting and a mysterious pool of urine that kept showing up.   Kept showing up.  Which is you know a strange circumstance. And so I was like OK well if you have this idea of like a ghost who is peeing on the floor in a suburban house you have to reference Oda Mae Brown of the movie Ghost and her famous line Molly you are in danger girl. I would be remiss to not name the essay that.  I love that you did that. I love it. I want to talk about a really really - well two interesting ideas that you lay out in the book that I love and that I think say a lot about you and who you are and your personality. To start you say like literally from the start that you thought for the longest time probably still now maybe that your birth wasis immaculate. Do tell. I love that.  One I - from like a form point of view like I really wanted to begin my book by declaring this is not going to be a parade through different traumas. This is going to be me saying oh no I actually thought that my birth was the result of an immaculate conception. And yeah like it was just a practical point for me. Like I - you know we were - we went to Sunday school. I was - we were raised Baptist. And so I understood about what the Immaculate Conception was. And my mother would tell me when she would talk about my birth she would say you know my arms used to ache for the weight of a baby. I would pray and pray and we prayed and we prayed. And then God brought you us. And so I was like well that sounds like an immaculate conception to me.  .  And you know I have not - my parents have read the book. They have not objected to this interpretation so...  There you go. Must be true.  Must be true you know?  Come one. I love that. I love that.  .  But you also said that believing that your birth was immaculate divinely ordained by God or some higher power also led you to think about a supposed perfection of your future.  Yeah. Because you know it took a while for the idea to take hold that I was not supposed to have everything that the world or God or my parents or destiny seemed to promise. It seemed to me you know there is you know this idea that we are blessed and...  But if I am blessed and if I am literally immaculately conceived should not I have everything I want and should not it all make sense right now?  Right. And I was not spoiled in any way you know but I just did not - it was confusing to me the fact that became quite apparent that life was a series of obstacles. And I you know - and this is - most of the time that I am talking about in that portion is adolescence. And so you know at a certain point I think maybe all of us get to a point where we realize oh being a human is actually about making all these compromises about what we felt we could get and what we felt we could have and to what our dreams would be.  Yeah. And so like in your youth you were wanting some of that resolution over parts of your identity that were not going to be so easy to unpack at least not in your youth. And you talk about this throughout the book like unpacking what it means to be black and gay at the same time or to work in our industry and be a Christian or whatever. And I do not know. I love that like ultimately the big moral of the book and of your story I think is that like - twofold maybe. Like one you may never have all the answers and feel completely settled in them. And two if there is an answer it kind of probably already lies in you. I hate to be so like you know after-school special but those were the vibes I was getting from the book and I appreciated that.  I think that is true. I think one of the things that I continue to marvel at and be really thankful for is that there was some delusion inside of me that thought oh well it must get better. There must be a space where being black and being queer and being a Christian and being an American and being raised lower-class can still result in a happy life. And I do not think that is an extraordinary thought. But I definitely do not think it is a thought that is a - that is not being taught in every school.  No no.  But like something in me - and I think a lot of it is my parents but I think an equal part of it is every time I walked into a library I was able to see other worlds other universes that I could plug into. And I was able to expand my understanding of my capacity to empathize with these people some of whom were very much like me some of whom were not like me at all and see that life can become bigger can attain a sense of peace and resolution. Because you know if not what are we here for?  And I mean you are downplaying this. You were - you did not just like like the library. You loved the library to the extent that like one summer did not you like work in the library the whole summer?  Oh my gosh. Yes. I love libraries. I go to a library every week. The library is - you know it is a source of so many endless possibilities. And all I wanted in my life was possibility. And so to be able to walk into those doors and see shelves and shelves and shelves of stories fictional nonfictional things that scared me - you know I remember - I would look up in the card catalogue - I would just type in the word gay before I came out to myself...  Bold .  And like I would look around like I was you know Mission Impossible or like Sandra Bullock in The Net and just be like G-A...  I have not heard anyone freely associate Sandra Bullock The Net that easily and that flawlessly in a conversation ever in my life. And I want to give you a Pulitzer and a Peabody right now sir.  Well thank you. I accept.  Yes.  I think it is very important that we recognize the - like the preeminent scholarship on what is the Internet. And that is Sandra Bullock.   Yes yes.  But yeah I would just type in G-A-Y and I would look up the Dewey decimal number that came up and I would like look down the aisle where it was. And I do not know what I expected like a little - you know little gay club in...  Oh my goodness.  Like a drag queen like in the stacks just like hello welcome.  You found me.   Right stacks on stacks on stacks. And - but like every sense of possibility that I have came from someone else's words things like you know The Color Purple and David Rakoff's book Fraud and you know CDs and movies. Like these things changed my life just by opening up my eyes to what was possible.  Yeah.   OK. Time for a break. When we come back - R Eric Thomas on why love is love is love and genderless. It is straight out of a YA novel you all. So heartwarming. BRB.   Another thing that you unpack beautifully in the book is what it means to be black and how you manifest that and how you live it and how it is interpreted. And there is this chapter in which you talk about picking what college to go to and all these elite Ivy League schools inviting you for basically their black weekend. And it was so funny and it was really this great insight into how you have kind of conceptualized your blackness. I want you to tell as much as you can of that chapter without giving it away. But I want you to specifically talk about the dude who at one of the visit weekends told you as soon as you walked in his dorm - he was a student. He told you as soon as you walked in do not talk to the whites. There is a race war going on.  So this is - oh my gosh it is - so it is 1998 right? And I you know - and we are experiencing all the things that we are experiencing in terms of like racial politics in America in 1998...  Yeah Britney Spears just showed up.  Britney Spears just showed up. People were casually calling Bill Clinton the first black president.  The first black president. Yeah.  So obviously we were all - the situation was fraught.  Yeah.  And so you know I applied to all these schools. You get these big - the big envelopes back. It is like welcome you know you are in. But then you get a smaller envelope a day or two later that invites you to the minority weekend. And some of the weekends were called things like Third World Weekend.  Stop. Which school did that? Tell me.  Oh God. They do not do it anymore I will say.  OK. OK.  And these weekends had wild names you know like More Color Weekend and you know like...  Milli Vanilli Milieu .  Exactly. Like Rachel Dolezal Fest. Like it was...   Oh my God.  And it was like - and I was like what am I supposed to do with this weekend? Because I like - I think a lot of black people of all different presentations have had experiences where someone has called into question your blackness you know? You are not black enough. You are an Oreo. And that is not blackness talking. That is white supremacy talking through blackness but I did not know that then.  Come on.  So I thought I am not black enough. And I did not know what that meant. And so then I was like well I got to go to the third - I am from Baltimore but that is not the Third World honey. Like - and so I would go to these weekends and I am just like what am I supposed to do to represent myself blackly  here? And so I went to Cornell. And I got there and they paired me with this guy who in the book I call Fredo . And the first thing he said to me - he had like a single and there is no room in his room. And he was like so you got to sleep under the bed. There is no room in here. And also do not talk to any white people on campus. There is a race war going on. And I was like...  What do you do in that moment? What do you say? I just really...   I nodded really obediently.   I was like understood. Thank you so much sir.  Thank you sir. Well and then after that he told you where you had to sleep?  Yeah under the bed. So I slept under his bed. And I was like I wish I could go back and ask that young man you know 19 20 years old...  Yeah.  ...What is happened to you here?  Come on.  What is going on that you feel the need to give me this warning? And how do we work on making you more empowered in this space?  I want to talk about the Electra chapter. You knew from an early age that you were on the path to homosexuality.   That glitter-covered path.  Yes. But you also talk about how your sophomore year of high school you literally fell in love with this woman - young woman Electra. Tell me about her and what that love was.  Electra was new at our school when I was in ninth grade and she was in 10th grade I believe. And she was a young black woman. And she was quiet and awkward in a way that I found really interesting and beguiling. She did not join the Black Student Union - Black Awareness Club. And I found that really weird and interesting.  I still cannot get over the fact you all called it the Black Awareness Club. I love it.  Hey the '90s were strange indeed.   Yes.  And so we became friendly. You know we shared a sort of nerdy sense of humor. And then we worked together all summer at the library. And so we were supposed to work separately at the library to maximize our time but we decided that we cannot yell at each other across the library so we might as well just do it together.  I love it.  So we would be on either side of the cart scanning the same books and talking about the O.J. Simpson trial. And she was obsessed with Madonna. And so every day at lunch we would go to the mall go to Sam Goody and we would look at the CDs. And there was a new Madonna album that was going to come out. And she would stare at the poster and she would say that Sandra Bernhard had gotten Madonna into Kabbalah.  Yeah.  And...  This was the Ray Of Light album.  This is Ray Of Light.  Yes.  And she is like this is going to change everything for us.  Yeah.  And I loved Madonna because Electra loved Madonna. And by the end of the summer I had just fallen completely head over heels in love with her.  And you were - and you said that you were in love with her.  I was. Yeah.  Yeah.  And you know I wonder - I am not able to ask her you know what she was experiencing. And I do not want to put on some - I think the worst thing that I particularly as a cisgender man can do is to dress up this friendship in a way that she did not consent to. What I know is that I had a deep - I have and had something that felt deeper than friendship. And it opened up my heart in a way that was new to me you know? When you are a teenager you are discovering all different parts of yourself these different little rooms inside of your heart. And the room that she opened was brighter and airier than anything that I knew before.  Yeah.  I knew that I was gay but I also knew that I had the capacity to love. And I think those two are not mutually exclusive but I think I learned them in separate spaces. And I learned that I had the capacity to love...  Yeah.  ...From falling in love with Electra.  And I love that you point out that like your love for her - it was bigger than gender and bigger than sexuality. And really if you think about it all love is bigger than those things.  Absolutely.  All real true love is bigger than those things. And it was just beautiful to see that story of love told through your eyes because so often when we see stories particularly of like young gay love in high school it is fraught and tortured and often so sad and so tragic. And like so much of your love story with Electra was just I loved her and she loved me too.  Yeah. You know there were times I read modern-day YA novels you know like Simon Vs. The Homo Sapiens Agenda or - oh The Gravity Of Us by Phil Stamper. And I am like oh why cannot I have the beautiful love the high school love? And I am like oh you did get to have it you know and with another person. And ultimately I am falling in love with people you know? I am married to a man now. And I did not fall in love with him because he is a man. I fell in love with him because he is an inherently good-hearted cheerful person who knows all the trivia answers and is obsessed with plants you know?  .  That - those things do not have gender.   Thanks again to R. Eric Thomas. His book is called Here For It Or How To Save Your Soul In America. Also check out Eric's column. It is called Eric Reads The News at elle.com. OK. Listeners also do not forget you know how we do every Friday. We talk about the news and the culture of the week. We end that episode with you your voices telling me about the best thing that happened to you all week. Keep those coming. Record yourself talking about whatever - best part of your week - and just send that file to me - samsandersnpr.org. I am very interested in best parts of your week that are kind of wacky and crazy and funny. So we like those too. OK. All right. You might hear yourself in the show. Till Friday thank you so much for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon.  