 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR reporters Julia Furlan and Sarah Gonzalez. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend. And welcome to my two guests - Julia Furlan reporter and host at NPR Sarah Gonzalez reporter for NPR's Planet Money. You all are both in New York. Thanks for joining me.  Thank you.  Thanks Sam.  It is great to be here.  I am glad you all are here. Do you hear the song I am playing?    Where they look out to the land to see...  Yes.  This is this band that I am kind of into right now. They are called Greta Van Fleet. You guys heard of them?  Yeah. I have heard of them but I have not heard this song. It is great.  It is called Black Smoke Rising. And I am just like these guys got it.  Great name.  Yeah.  Right? And so the dude - like the lead singer he looks like he is 11. But he has these pipes. Actually you are going to hear it coming in at the chorus right here.  Yeah.    And the black smoke rises from the fires we have been told.  So this band Greta Van Fleet they are having a really good week because they are up for a few Grammy Awards including best new artist at the Grammys this weekend. But the Grammys are not doing so well themselves. Last year the awards show had 6 million fewer viewers than the year before.  Ouch.  Folks think the ratings will also be bad this year. And it is kind of like this is a weird time for awards shows. No?  Right.  I agree. I feel like everybody like has realized that the jig is up. They are like oh yeah. Celebrities fancy dresses da-da-da  - I already saw that on Instagram. I do not need to tune in.  It is all about the preshow for sure.  Exactly.  And also these award shows are too long. The Grammys are over three hours. Oscars are over three hours. The Oscars cannot even find a host. They announced this week they are not going to have a host - for the first time in 30 years.  Right. They do not even have a host.  You know what Sam? I will put you in. I would - you know let us start voting right now. Everybody who is listening to this show vote for Sam as the host of the Oscars.  Let me tell you what I would do if I were the host of the Oscars...  What?  ...Or the Grammys.  Cardi B all - Cardi B the whole time?  Yes Cardi B.  .  But also I would go to the front to the mic read the awards' winners really quickly and then be like we are done. Go to the bar.  Like do not even come on stage. Just everyone take a shot.  It is just - it already seems sad. Like Kendrick Lamar and Drake and Childish Gambino are not going to perform. Ariana Grande and Taylor Swift are not even going. Like what?  What?  At this point why are you still doing awards shows like the Grammys?  I feel like I can hardly even talk about it right now because I am like what do I feel about the Grammys? I do not want to watch them. That is how I feel.  .  I am totally on a different page than you guys. I am like this is the time of Latin trap.  Yeah.  And I am here for it.  Will you guys watch it?  No.  .  No. Yeah no.  All that talk.  I will watch the performances online.  But see that is the thing. I will like catch the recaps on the red carpet the next day.  Exactly.   .  Anyway we are going to start our week as we always do. I am going to ask each of my guests to describe their week of news in only three words. Sarah you have been telling us all week that one story has really been on your mind. What is that story? What are your three words?  OK. My three words are cocaine submarines jalapenos. And I am obviously...  Please explain.   Obviously I am talking about the trial of Joaquin Guzman Loera better known as El Chapo...  Yeah.  ...Which means Shorty. He is been on trial for the past three months accused of being the leader of the Sinaloa drug cartel. So for the past three months New York has been shutting down the Brooklyn Bridge whenever...  Because they have him now. So like...  Because they have him.  They had him in custody for a while now while he is on trial in a U.S. courthouse.  Yeah. So he is in a prison in Manhattan but his court is in Brooklyn. So every time he goes to court...  Reverse commute - that is not bad.   Right. He is beating the traffic beating the traffic. But yeah. But they shut down the Brooklyn Bridge which is just like kind of like wild.  Wow.  And this week the jury has started to deliberate. They did not reach a verdict so the deliberations are going to continue next week. And in case you have not been following along I just feel like I should highlight some of the crazy things that we have...  Do it.  ...Learned.  Do it.  OK great.  Yes.  Great.  Yes fill us in - please.  These are like hinting at my three words. Please.   OK.  OK. So the people who testified against El Chapo told us all kinds of crazy ways that El Chapo smuggled drugs into the United States and drug money out of the United States. We heard from people who used to work with El Chapo saying - telling us how they used submarines to transport cocaine - so like real submarines submerged underwater filled with drugs.  OK. How many El Chapo movies are there going to be?  Well there is already a Netflix series...  .  ...Narcos Mexico...  Yeah.  Yeah.  ...Which is about El Chapo. Another just like quick crazy story - just getting at one of my words - there is a guy named - or that is called El Gordo which is the Chubby One. And he said that they smuggled drugs into the United States through tin jalapeno cans.  I saw that.  You did?  I saw that.  OK right.  Yeah.  So they basically created - and the cartel apparently created like some kind of substance using gravel and some other things so that if you turned the can upside down it sounded and felt like there was water and jalapenos in it not cocaine.  Stop.  Yeah.  Oh my God.  So Sarah here's my question for you. All that I have read about this case implies that it is a really really really big deal. There were 37 days of witnesses boxes of evidence. Apparently over his career El Chapo smuggled in at least 200 tons of cocaine into the U.S. He is an alleged mass murderer. Why do not Americans care more about this story?  Well I think there are a lot of Americans who do care about this story.  Yeah.  But it is not being - it is not in the news as much as you might think that it should be. El Chapo was like as infamous as - I mean he was right under Osama bin Laden. Like...  Wow.  ...This is the United States' big catch you know?  Yeah.  And they got him alive and he is sitting on trial. Like it is a big deal. So I think one of the reasons is just that it is a closed court so it is not televised.  Well these jurors do not want their face out there right? A lot of the jurors are scared that like Chapo will eye them and know who they are and like go after them no?  Can I say one thing though?  Oh yeah.  I do feel like people care about this case. But they are - the - like the way that they care is something that I find really interesting.  Explain.  Like I feel like people want the Netflix version of it but do not necessarily tune in to the courtroom version of it.  Well I will say that during the trial reporters and just like spectators including the guy who plays El Chapo in the Netflix series...  Oh my God.  Wow.  ...Have been waiting outside...  Wow.  ...Of the courthouse since - for like - they start lining up and sleeping at 2 oclock in the morning to try to get into the courthouse.  Wow.  So there are...  So people do care.  People - you know yeah.  So next question - if he is convicted does that like change everything about the drug trade? Or does life move on and someone else fills the role?  Life moves on. I mean the cartel has another leader which they talked about a lot in court. And the defense - or the prosecution kind of said like this guy named Mayo Zambada - him and El Chapo are believed to be the co-leaders of the Sinaloa drug cartel. Some of Mayo's kids are in prison some of Chapo's. Like - but there is still someone leading the cartel.  Yeah. Well...  Wow.  Julia you are up next. But a heads-up to our listeners first. If you are listening with kids right now this section we are going to talk about some news that involves sex workers and sex trafficking. Julia what are your three words?  My three words are not nearly as like fascinating as Sarah's words. They are sex work struggle.  That is pretty fascinating.  I mean...  Go ahead.  I am fascinated.  Yeah.   I mean it does not have jalapenos. But basically I have been spending the past couple of weeks - I am reporting on a story that is about FOSTA and are these two laws that came into effect in April of 2018 to prevent sex trafficking. It is the Stop Online Sex Trafficking Act  - is SESTA. But these two laws - the result is the law is written so broadly that platforms as a way of like doing an abundance of caution so that they do not have any possible liability are just shutting down these...  Yeah.  ...Networks that many sex workers say that they used to prevent - to keep themselves safe.  Because basically like if you were a sex worker you would use a site like backpage.com or Craigslist Personals...  Yeah.  ...And you would have ads and you could like vet people before you met them.  Exactly. So like...  But now I am reading that like without those sites and that vetting they are just on the street. And it is really...  Right.  ...Riskier.  Yeah. And I spoke to a couple of economists about this and people who study sex work and the like sex trade in general. And essentially what they say is that like this is probably going to force outdoor sex work. There is like indoor sex work which is where like you vet somebody before you meet them. And the sort of pressure that FOSTA and SESTA may be putting on sex workers is that they do not have that ability to vet people until they are already out in the world confronting them.  Yeah.  And honestly FOSTA and SESTA was a very popular...  Bipartisan.  Nancy Pelosi was in on it. A lot of folks who are like you know presidential the early presidential hopefuls - like Cory Booker and Kamala Harris - supported FOSTA and SESTA. And the sex worker community is like you guys...  Yeah.  ...Do not even get it.  So I saw a stat from San Francisco's KPIX. That newsroom reported that human trafficking crimes are up 170 percent in San Francisco in 2018. And the reason is because sex workers are now working on the streets. And because of that they need pimps. And a lot of folks think....  Yeah. That happened this week.  ...That jump is tied to these laws because it is pushed trafficking outside.  Exactly. And it is the kind of thing where you know nobody wants - all of this - literally every sex worker that I have spoken to has also said like I do not want sex trafficking. Sex trafficking is really bad. I do not want any of that to happen. But everybody is also like we have to figure out a way to legislate it so that it is not so broad that it affects people who are doing their jobs in an industry that is humongous. It is a huge industry that people feel icky sort of addressing and talking about. But you know I do not know. Here we are.  Well and then also another weird wrinkle is that these two laws that you mentioned - they were originally written to protect children from sex trafficking.  Yes.  But they have ended up affecting adult sex workers much more than I think anyone thought.  Right. FOSTA and SESTA are written in a way that is so broad. So one of the examples is like if you knowingly assist support or facilitate advertising activity that violates federal sex trafficking laws - so like the fact that it says assist support facilitate...  It is really broad.  That is where all - a lot of the folks who are calling this - these laws into question are really like focusing their attention.  Yeah. Is there any talk of lawmakers working to possibly amend those laws?  I think that that is something that really remains to be seen. I spoke with a sex worker who went to D.C. to talk to Nancy Pelosi specifically and other lawmakers. But I have this wondering - I have this like question in my mind that like are we able to address it if we are not really able to talk about it you know?  Oh yeah. I cannot imagine a committee on the Hill having a really nitty-gritty policy discussion about this stuff on C-SPAN.  You know what I mean?  Yeah.  Like nobody wants to talk about it. Nobody.  Oh yeah. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests today - Julia Furlan host and reporter at NPR and Sarah Gonzalez reporter for NPR's Planet Money. So you guys I have three words as well - Democratic Overton window. Do you guys know what the Overton window is?  No.  So it is this idea in political science that basically refers to the range of ideas that we tolerate in public discourse. So like on any given day there are certain things that are allowed to talk about in polite spaces or about politics. And good politicians are able to shift that window to their whims. We have seen Donald Trump do that a lot over the last few years. And I argue that this week AOC Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez new House member from the Bronx she is doing the same thing. I am sure you all saw this week she unveiled her Green New Deal plan. You saw that right?  Yeah.  It is this big long sweeping treatise that she says will help the U.S. address climate change and prepare the U.S. economy to deal with that new reality. I am going to just list really quickly what it calls for. They want to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the U.S. through clean renewable and zero-emission energy sources. They want to upgrade all existing buildings for energy efficiency. She says she wants to eliminate pollution and greenhouse gases overhaul transportation systems electric cars guaranteed job with a sustaining wage for all families high-quality health care for all Americans. It is this big deal. But then you realize it is just a resolution.  Right.  It is not even a bill.  It is a messaging document.  Yeah.  And so now she has in the national conversation some language in this Green New Deal where she says high-speed rail should expand to the point where air travel becomes no longer necessary.  Crazy.  You know I mean like these are things that we were not talking about two years ago. And all of a sudden we are. And I think that is AOC's probably clearest skill right now. She can set parameters of the debate in a way that I think Democrats have not been able to do for a while.  Right. So OK - so a lot of critics have been saying like this is just what she wants to do. She has not put out any kind of like policy roadmap for how she would do it. And there is been some criticism about that. But like this is step one. You say like this is what we want to do. And then like sure you have to create some bills. And then those bills have to go through all their committees and pass the House and pass the Senate. And who knows when that is going to happen or if? But like this is the first step.  The one thing that I find the most interesting is that although her style and presentation is different a lot of the effectiveness of her communication style actually mirrors some of the things that Trump does. Like Trump every day goes to the world and says today we are talking about this. I do not care what you are talking about. We are talking about this. And AOC is also very good at doing just that.  That is the Overton window right?  The Overton window she is moving it moving those windows. Yes all right you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. The show where we catch up on the week that was. Time for a break now. Coming up we are going to head to Virginia and talk with a VA native about that state's week of crazy bonkers insane blackface news in the state House.  So disappointing.  Oh my God.  This listener says that Virginia and race is much more complicated than you might think. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Sarah Gonzalez reporter for NPR's Planet Money and Julia Furlan host and reporter at NPR. Are the both of you ready for Valentine's Day?  I do not know.  I am not a big Valentine's person. I mean I love love.  I do too.  Love is my favorite thing.  Yeah.  Yes.  Well for those out in the world who are not ready for Valentine's Day or who in fact hate Valentine's Day there is a way to treat your ex on February 14.  Uh-oh.  Oh tell me more.  Yeah. The El Paso Zoo has this program where people can submit the name of an ex to the El Paso Zoo's Facebook page. And then the zoo staffers will name a cockroach for your ex and then feed it to their meerkats.  A cockroach?  Wow that is like such a genius marketing stunt like what - congratulations.  Yeah.  That is...  I did twelve yesterday.  You did?  No.  Oh good that is great.   Also the Bronx Zoo is doing a name-a-roach program but that costs. You can like pay to have a roach named after you or someone you care about.  Oh I am sorry - pause. A roach a cockroach named after you or someone you care about?  Yeah.  No no no no no. Like name a panda bear after me not a cockroach.  I love it. I love it. All right now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance...   ...Where we call up someone from around the country or around the world and talk with them about the news in their neck of the woods. This week the epicenter for crazy news has probably been Virginia. Am I right?  Oh my God.  It is this weird story that keeps snowballing. I am sure you guys have seen the headlines by now right? Like every day another one falls. Like so to catch up Virginia Governor Ralph Northam a Democrat and Attorney General Mark Herring also a Democrat - they both have admitted to wearing blackface. On top of that it also came out that the Republican Senate majority leader in Virginia Tommy Norment he was an editor for a yearbook back in the day that was filled with blackface and a lot of racist slurs. Then on top of that Lieutenant Governor Justin Fairfax another Democrat he is facing allegations of sexual assault which he denies. It was a lot to even get out. Right?  So much - so much is happening.  Also we should say that we are taping this on Friday. So news may have changed by the time you hear this. But I wanted to talk about what the heck is going on in Virginia. So I put a call out to our audience and a listener named Olivia  hit us up to talk. She grew up in Virginia. She went to school in Virginia. She is the daughter of immigrants from Iran and Argentina. Now she lives in Colorado. But she said hey I have been in Virginia like over 20 years and I have some thoughts. We are not using her last name in this conversation because her parents still live in Virginia and they do not always feel safe as minorities in their community. But anyways I talked with Olivia and she basically told me race and politics in Virginia is much more complicated than you might think.   Olivia hi. How are you?  I am good Sam. How is it going?  Pretty good - you know crazy news week per usual.  Yeah. Like I do not know if there is a word for being disappointed and embarrassed at the same time but that is how I feel. I am normally really proud to be from Virginia. But I feel like this week as the local just Virginia expert in my own circles you know I feel pretty bummed to see these headlines in the news.  Yeah. So we put this call out asking to hear from Virginians about the news of this week in their state. And when you wrote to us you said the first thing you have to understand about Virginia to really get Virginia is that there are two Virginias. Tell me what you mean when you say that.  Totally yeah. I grew up in a D.C. suburb. Right? It is like the D.C. metro area. And that is where I grew up right? So when you leave northern Virginia and you go down 95 or you go down 81 it is like a totally different world you know? There is more agriculture. There is more folks who do not make a living working for the federal government or - I do not know. Virginia's just got so many different microcosms and different kinds of people living there.  Yeah. You know one of the things you also told us is that your experience in both of these Virginias is particularly interesting because you grew up as the child of immigrants with an international background. But you said you can kind of pass for white sometimes. I mean one tell me how that is allowed you to move through the state perhaps differently than other people. And have you learned stuff that you think you might not have about Virginians and race relations there that you might not have you know otherwise?  Yeah totally. I feel like you know as NPR calls it it is code switching. Right?  Yeah .  Like I am able to code switch. And in some parts of Virginia you know I can pass as white. But yeah when I first moved down to Richmond I saw my first Confederate flags being waved by somebody. And that was one of those moments where I was like - oh - like not going to be an easy situation down here.  How do you ID yourself racially?  I usually just stick to the countries and just say I am Iranian-Argentinean. But you know I hope I can just say American and not need to explain it more .  Yeah yeah. You know one of the things that really made this story kind of hit me in the gut is that like it really underscores a question I think a lot of immigrants or people of color or minorities often ask themselves in their heads which is - what are nice white people saying about us when we are not there? You know? What are the conversations white people have amongst themself about us and what are we missing? And like seeing these instances of blackface it just kind of makes me at least like second-guess you know so many interactions and say like what are they hiding from us? What are they hiding from me? And I think that is why it hits so hard for me at least. Given your background do you ever feel like you are in the room hearing - I do not know - stuff white people might say when they know other people are not there?  Oh totally. I have had people say to my face you know - oh do not go to that bar. That is where the Latinos go or like...  Oh goodness .  ...The Latin people go. And I am like bro like I am right here.  Oh no .  Like I do not understand. Like a couple years ago I had a very you know well-meaning white woman tell me that - I think I would mentioned you know how climate change is going to be one of the biggest issues that our generation is going to face. And she turned to me and said yeah that and all the refugees. And I am like what ? Like my family's immigrants you know? They had to come here and make a life for themselves because they were fleeing bad situations. Like I am right here. Like I look - like - seriously right here. And yo like look at my eyebrows. Like I am probably...  .  ...Not from the same place you are from. And it is like what are you saying when I am not there?  Yeah. You are - you claim Virginia as your home state. I am sure you love that state. A lot of people are talking about Virginia this week who are not from Virginia and not in Virginia. If you could talk to them as a good Virginian what would you want them to know about Virginia?  Oh man. Where do I start? Like Virginia - I am so lucky I got to grow up in Virginia. It is the most diverse place I have ever lived in my life. And I have lived in New York City San Francisco Oakland. And I mean there is just so much black excellence from Virginia from like you know Booker T. Washington to Missy Elliott. Like we got Missy Elliott yo. Like that is huge. We have Pharrell and Timbaland.  .  And like I am so like lucky that out of  all the places that my parents chose to land like I am so grateful that they chose to take me to the one state that happens to have takeout kabob you know for Irani ...  Yeah.  ...Food and also like all the Argentinian chorizo I could ever want in my life. So I love Virginia - just not right now.  I hear you. All right. Besides this crazy story and thinking about that what are your fun plans for the weekend?   If I am being totally honest me and my friend were going to watch these crazy Fyre Festival documentaries just so we can see what it is like to see someone else's reputation go down in flames and not your...  .  ...Own state's. So ...  Oh my goodness. Well Olivia thank you for being a long-suffering Virginian and for sharing your story with us .  Thank you Sam. It is been awesome talking to you.   It is so weird hearing that conversation back. Like the way that she talked about Virginia kind of is how I feel about Texas. People have all of these misconceptions about my state or like often think the worst about my state. And I am like no it is home. I will always love it. And like I just love it.  Yeah.  I mean it is just interesting the way that reporters respond to something like when pictures come out. And then everyone just starts looking into Virginia. And then you are like OK that guy too. And then this guy maybe edited a yearbook that someone else had blackface in another page. And the whole time I am just like OK well what about like West Virginia and like South Carolina and all of the other places like...   Or Boston...  Right.  ...Which has a weird...  Or like...  ...Racial history.  And I do not think people think like Virginia has a problem with blackface. It is...  The country...  ...America has a problem with blackface.  ...That has a problem with blackface.  And we are only focusing on Virginia right now.  Every year you are going to see some high school kids pop up all across the country at some party in blackface. And they are not going to just be in Virginia.  Right. And I think that like one of the things that is so gripping about this story is how clueless the white folks have appeared to be in the moment where they are addressing it. Like the moment that really got me was the moment where Northam held a press conference to address the blackface and said that he did another blackface and said that he had put on blackface.   His denial was I did not do that blackface but I did another.  I did not - I know. And then he...  .  ...Looks both ways and almost start to - he is like I am going to moonwalk. Like some...  No.  Also some reporter that asked him like...  Asked him to moonwalk.  ...Whether or not he could still moonwalk. I was like...  Because he was saying...  Oh my God.  ...That he did the face darkening to look like Michael Jackson. Also moral of the story - yearbooks are bad all around.   They do not make anyone happier. Like either you are shamed and shunned because the popular folks do not want to sign your yearbook or...  Aw.  Aw.  ...There is some hidden double entendre in what they write in your yearbook. Or there is blackface in it.   All right. It is time for a break. When we come back my favorite game. It is called Who Said That. BRB.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Sarah Gonzalez reporter for NPR's Planet Money and Julia Furlan reporter at NPR as well. Now it is time for my favorite game - Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Julia you are an old timer at this game at this point. You can help explain it to Sarah. Tell her how it works.  Basically Sam takes three things that people have said in the last week. And it is a very intense game. Sarah are you ready?  I - listen I listen to the show. I know what this game is.  .  Yeah. That is true. And so then we have to guess who said it. But also the points are made up. And also I am starting with 100 points - just...  Wow. Oh OK.  ...Putting it out there.  Oh.  All right.  All right. All right.  Rule change. All right. So...  .  ...Julia starts with 100 points.  Ah yes.  The great thing about whatever happens with the points is that the winner gets absolutely nothing.  Ah.  Right.  Love it.  Yes.  Yes yes. All right. Here we go. Ready? There are no buzzers just yell it out.  OK.  The first quote is I made queso. Who said that?  Oh my God.  Oh got them - stumped you all.  Oh no.  I made queso.  My friend Rachel actually said that...   .  ...For the Super Bowl. But it is...  It is...  ...Probably not her.  ...Tied to the Super Bowl.  Oh my God. Who was it?  Should I just tell you?  Tell us.  Yes. Please just tell me.  A Fox News host named Dana Perino. She tweeted a photo of queso she made during the big game and said I made queso. But the queso looked nasty. You guys actually Google the words Dana Perino queso. I want you to see it.  OK.  P-E-R...  OK.  ...I-N-O.  OK. Oh no.  Oh yeah.  No no.  No. You are right. There is a lot of oil...  Oh yucka .  ...Or something like that.  Yucka.  So she tweets this photo Sunday. Everyone is like oh my God. That is nasty. She...  .  ...Shoots back. She calls her haters elitist. Then she says well actually do not hate on me. I got the recipe from Chili's - that restaurant chain. But then Chili's tweeted a photo back of their queso.  .  And they said actually it is supposed to look...  Oh.  ...Like this.  Aw.  Oh I love that.  Yeah I kind of feel bad for her.  Yeah.  No.  I do not like picking on people.  Yeah. Did you guys watch the game?  I did not.  No. But I did watch for the commercials. The commercials were kind of a disappointment this year.  Cardi was in one.  Cardi - yeah. But she had like one word.  Oh. I did not watch it.  She got okur . That is all she said.  Rrr .  That is a good word.  That is a great word.  Can I do that? Okur.  .  Oh I can...  Okur.  ...Do it.  Okur.  Oh.  Money.  You can roll your Rs very well. Congrats.  Money.  I am from Texas girl.  Oh...  OK.  You are a honorary Latino.   You all got zero points for that. It is fine.  No I have 100.  You - OK.  .  Yeah. You have 100 points.  OK. Julia has 100.  Yeah.  I have zero.  Yeah. Ready...  Next question.  ...For the next quote? All right. Here's the next quote. May the afterlife turn out to be a series of never-ending Fox News interviews. Who or what said that?  Oh my gosh.  It involves a politician.  Why am I so bad at it this week? Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Wait.  He is the Republican senator from Nebraska.  Oh my God. Wait. Wait. Wait.  Yeah I do not know. I am about to Google this. We are going to cheat.  Ben Sasse Ben Sasse.  Oh.  Ben Sasse - so Republican Senator Ben Sasse has been tweeting this week these fortune cookies he is been getting. Someone anonymous has been emailing him fortune cookies that have like mini hate mail inside of the fortune cookie.  Wow.  That is real creepy.  So one said quote May the afterlife turn out to be a series of never-ending Fox News interviews. Another fortune cookie said that it hoped that Sasse finds himself trapped in an elevator with people who are angry at him.  Wow.  Ben Sasse for his part has been taking this in stride. He is posted some funny photos of himself with these fortune cookie messages.  Yeah I feel like - listen. If you are going to send hate mail like - if it is not like - do not send - first of all do not send it.  Number one do not send hate mail .  First of all do not do it. If you are going to do it do it in a normal way...  Yeah. Do not be creepy.  ...Like a regular email. Do not create fake fortune cookies.  Yeah.  Yeah. I hope that does stop. Anyway last quote. It is also - it is just really hard this week. This last quote is also hard.  Oh no.  But I am sorry. Here we go. Ready. Quote We will work together with partners so you can actually lease your furniture. When that leasing period is over you hand it back and you might lease something else. What corporation said that?  Wow.  Jerome's.  Whose furniture would you least want to lease?  I mean is it IKEA?  Yeah.   They are going to lease Ikea furniture?  Is not that nasty?  I mean Ikea furniture does not seem like leasable.  Thank you. So that quote actually comes from the head of Inter Ikea. This is Ikea's branding concept arm. He made - he announced this week that Ikea will soon start leasing its furniture.  No .  I just want the Swedish meatballs. That is why - some days I will just go to Ikea for the Swedish meatballs.  I also very enjoy the Swedish meatballs. But Ikea is such a place of stress that I cannot even consider it.  Not if you just go to the cafeteria.   That is a happy place.  I guess you are right.  That is a happy place.  I guess you are right.  Anyway I am not going to say I am d