 Sam?  Hey.  Oh hey. How is...  How are you? Sorry. I am really excited to hear your voice.   I was very excited to talk to my guest for this episode. She was at a studio in New York and I was in LA And yeah when we began our chat - when the lines connected I came in kind of hot.  I will just lower the volume on this then .  I promise I will not yell that loud...  Hilarious.  ...The entire interview.  How are you doing Sam?  I am good. I am going to calm it down.   Calm it right down.   From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. That voice you are hearing - that is Michaela Coel the award-winning actress screenwriter singer songwriter poet and playwright. And yeah I am really into her work and her career. A lot of you may know Michaela from her role as Tracey on the British sitcom Chewing Gum. On that show she plays this wonderfully awkward and brazen recovering Pentecostal on a mission to lose her virginity.    I will just be having normal kind of sexy dream.  Oh Jay-Z do not you dare.  It gets too intense. And then I squirt blood - out my nostrils.  Michaela Coel is also the star of a new thriller streaming right now on Netflix. It is called Black Earth Rising. This show is all about race and genocide and international human rights law.    I do not remember my family or my country. I do not know my own name. The only thing I know is that it happened to nearly a million people and I will never forget it.  In this chat Michaela and I talk about both those shows how she went from spoken word poetry to TV and how she moves through the industry as a black woman challenging just about all of the industry's expectations of her. As I said Michaela was in New York I was in LA. Microphone levels were adjusted. Enjoy.   Before we dig into all of your recent and current work I do want to say we have one big thing in common that excites me. We both shave our heads.  How did I have a feeling you were going to say something that is changed in me - and because you know here you cannot see that my hair's growing .  Did you grow it out? How long is it now? That is fine. How long is it now?  It is like maybe an inch or two  because...  That is still short.  Oh it is still really short. I started growing it in October. I have to for an offered part. I love shaving my hair - shaving it myself.  Does not it feel good?  It feels great.  It always feels like...  It is so simple.  It is. And like it - one it is like a chance to appreciate this part of your body that you do not think about enough. Like when I shave my head I touch my head.  Yes.  And I feel it. And I am like - oh it is nice.  Yes.  I like it.  Yes I am with you. And it also - it is like - it cuts out so much time and fuss over - I mean you just get rid of that thing and then it is like you have another half an hour to do something else - like read. You know?  Yeah yeah.  Do some meditation. Do some yoga. And your hair will always look great 'ecause you do not have any.  Yes yes yes. And well - and like when you talk about it - well one I read this profile of you where you had the writer of the article a black woman...  Shave my hair.  ...Shave your hair for you .  Yeah. Yeah yeah...  That is so awesome.  ...Because I am normally like a level one and she was at zero. And I loved it.  OK.  And so I was like please do you mind?   So she sat me down and she shaved my hair. It was great.  I bring it up because I also like how you talk about how that act it is also - you - in cutting your hair off you are kind of freeing yourself from a lot of pressures and expectations that society and your industry put on women especially black women. Like when you shave your hair you shave off the burden of performing your hair.  One hundred percent. I am not just in this industry. It kind of feels like - it is - it bleeds into every part of your life. Hair - you know I think my mom - permed my hair when I was 3. And then I had permed hair till I was about 19. And it all fell out 'ecause it broke.  And we should say to the white listeners this stuff is severe. It is like...  Yeah it burns your scalp.  ...Heavy-duty chemicals burns your scalp. My mom puts some on me when I was a kid.  Of course - seriously?  Oh yeah. And I swear to God. It is burned in my head - burning my head...  Pain - pain.  ...For years.  Yep pain so that you have hair that stops defying gravity...   ...So it is straight. And I would - you know I remember I put on skirts on my head and pretend that I had this hair that moved you know?  Yeah.  And I would watch girls with the ponytail. And when they walk the ponytail swings from side to side. And it becomes this kind of epitome of beauty. You know what I am saying? And I - life is so much more.  Yeah.  It is less stressful. There is less pressure when I get rid of that thing. And yeah maybe to many people I am less attractive I am less something to bother looking at. But I am so much - I feel freer. I enjoy looking in the mirror. And I do not care about any of those people that do not look at me 'ecause I do not have the hair.  I almost see it as this metaphor for your career and for your work. Like so much of the work of yours that I have been consuming it is this process of you metaphorically shaving your head and unburdening yourself from all of the pressures that we place on women like you in a business like this one. And like when I see you in Chewing Gum when I see you in Black Earth Rising when I see you in other stuff - you have shaved your performer's head of what we expect you to be. And I think that is why people love it so much.  Yes. I wonder whether - I think you are right. I think I - I have actually - this is the third time I have shaved my head. I have shaved my head quite a few times. Yes I think I like to try and - it is a bit like transparency when you shave your head off. Right? And you allow - yeah you want people to see your mind without the dressing on top.  Yeah.  And yeah it could be said that that is what I strive to do - maybe with every character. The character is already transparent but you can add in your layers your anxiety as an actor onto things. And I try to avoid doing that to let the writer's intentions come through. I think on Chewing Gum there is a version of that I guess even though she did have a wig on for both seasons .  But she was so emotionally raw...  Exactly.  ...Which I appreciated.  She was so raw and messy and unrefined. And in many ways that is me because if I pretend to know everything I am not going to learn anything. I have to openly be here as someone who is trying to learn - openly confessing you know I do not know everything.  Emotionally shaved.  Emotionally shaved yeah.  .  Intellectually shaved.  Yeah.   Yes.  Which role has been your most transparent in that emotional way that you mentioned?  The most transparent - God that is very hard. I do not know. I mean I probably would have to say Chewing Gum 'ecause I wrote it.  Yeah.  There is a transparency in that. But then Black Earth Rising is - I think the writer is trying to be transparent and I am trying to assist the writer in his transparency. He is trying to shave a complicity that we maybe have an ignorance that I definitely had. He is trying to shave off what can be seen as a - let us not think about those things because they are a little bit harrowing and we do not know what part we had in them. We do not know anything. He is trying to kind of go - hey guys - let us just have a look.  Yeah. So I am watching Black Earth Rising right now and it starts off with an inherently very uncomfortable conversation like from the first scene...  Yes.  ...When this guy in the audience is basically saying you think you are saving Africa. You are just perpetuating the old systems that led to Africa's oppression - to which the character who plays your mother who adopted your character from Rwanda after a genocide there she says on the podium...  I know exactly what you are going to say .  ...On the stage...  Yeah.  ...She says well if it helps at all I adopted a black child .  Uh-huh uh-huh.  Whew.  And she is black African.   That is what she says - just like that.  It was heavy.  I know.  And this is - I mean like so are watchers of this show going to be on this same like emotional racial tightrope the entire time?  I - you know what.  Possibly.  .  I do not know you know? I think what you know - what did I read recently? A woman called Munroe Bergdorf I am a big fan of posted something on Instagram that says your proximity to blackness does not make you not racist or ignorant. And I think that that is completely valid. Like it takes a little bit more than that. OK. Great. You know you have a black child or your next door neighbor's best friend sister's aunt's husband is black. That is great. But what else?  Yeah.  What else?  Also you do not get a trophy for that.  I mean you literally do not get a trophy for that. That is why you do not have a trophy for that.   Yeah. You know what does that really mean? It is harder than that. It is - it goes deeper than that. And I think through the series we learn that.  Oh yeah. Give like a 30-second plot synopsis...  Oh God. You going - about to tell me to do a 30-second plot synopsis?  ...For people - well 'ecause I feel like I described the first scene but I did not describe like the show holistically well enough. So I want to give you a chance to do that. So...  I mean I cannot describe the show holistically well enough in 30 seconds.   All right. Then take two minutes.  Let me have a little go. OK.  Yes yes. OK.  The show centers around a woman called Kate Ashby who is a legal investigator. And she is trying - you know she is adopted by a white you know war crimes prosecutor and taken to England. She has no memory of her past and she is trying to figure out who she is. And she is very shocked to find out that her mom is prosecuting people who helped bring the genocide to a close - the genocide that her family died in. So that complexity drives her throughout eight episodes to figure out what is going on. And it makes her connect with her past and to find out who she is.  Yeah. It is such a departure from the work that I think a lot of Americans were introduced to you by - Chewing Gum. Like it is such a departure. How hard was it to go from that to this?  I think in many ways it is a departure. And then in kind of many abstract ways it kind of is not you know? It is about - you know in some way Tracey is a girl who is in a very religious household extremely repressed. And she wants to find out who she is her biology. She has a sexual nature that is completely repressed and she wants to figure out herself. And so in...  This is in Chewing Gum yeah.  Yes in Chewing Gum yeah. But it is a departure in terms of genre in terms of intellectual complexity. It is political. It is dense. It is - it is traumatic. It is very much - it is fictional but it is inspired by real-life events by real-life traumas and tragedies. And Chewing Gum is very much in many ways for people to laugh and feel a sense of joy and relief.  Oh yeah. I have had moments where I am crying and laughing at the same time.  At the same time exactly.   Yes.  Exactly.  Yes.   All right time for a break. When we come back Michaela and I chat about the sex song she sings on Chewing Gum. If you know you know. If you do not you will find out soon. But parents be advised. It is a song about sex parts. All right. BRB.   I do want to talk a bit about Chewing Gum. I actually was...  Yes.  ...Watching a bit of your new show before I came in here for the interview. And a colleague saw your face on the screen. And he just yelled Chewing Gum.  .  It was like - yes sir. Yes yes. OK. But OK. So that show - I will do the synopsis for this one for you.  OK.  I will take the burden off of you. It is a loud vibrant comedy all about a sexually repressed young black Christian girl in London who decides - against the will of her Holy Roller mother and sister - to have a sexual awakening. Hilarity ensues.  That is so good. Will you write that down for me so I can like tell other people? . When they ask me what things are about I am just going to have to whatever you say.  Done. Done.   I want to talk about how this thing came to be on our TV screens. I love the backstory about the show and I want you to kind of walk me through it. It started out as like a stage play. And then like over 41 drafts it became a TV series. Like...  Yes.  ...How long did it take you to get it to where it was when we saw it?  So yes. I was in drama school. And I had found - all through my time but especially in final year - we were doing all these plays that I did not quite feel like I could feel like I was being a genuine authentic representation of the characters in. And so we have the option to take yourself out of one of the main plays and do your own little thing in the studio. No one comes to it. It is like a 10-minute solo piece. Normally people kind of do abstract kind of movement-y  things. So I thought OK. I am going to do a 10-minute piece and I am going to just write down memories of being in school. And so from that came a storyline called - and it was a play called with Chewing Gum Dreams. And it was a very dark comedy. So literally when we spoke about crying and laughing at the same time it was 10 minutes of crying and laughing at the same time.  .  And - yeah. So I did that and then I left. I dropped out early because I liked writing my own thing and doing it. And I found a theater a new place called The Yard. It was happening in some industrial wasteland. This guy wanted to set up a theater. And somehow I managed to get him to read my script. And he said great. You know make it an hour and I will do it. But you have to do your own marketing you have got to build your set design your set design your flyers - do everything. And I was like oh my God - yes. So I did it. I extended it. And my play was up. It was five days and it sat 200 people. And it was sold out for...  Wow.  ...All the five days. And yeah that was Chewing Gum Dreams. One agent came and signed me. Then she sent that script around to various different production companies. And one production company got back. And they said we would like to you know try and help her develop it into a TV show. And they were a comedy production company so that meant take away all the dark things and take away the word dreams. So there you had Chewing Gum.   What I love about your character Tracey in this show is that she is physically a grown-up having the physical and sexual urges of an adult.  Yes.  But she is emotionally stunted in part because of her...  Yes yes.  ...Upbringing and her severe churchy upbringing. She was not allowed to think about or express sexuality until like she decides she has to. And so you end up with this woman trying to be a woman. But she still in many ways feels like a girl.  Yes.  And it is expressed in these wonderfully comedic moments. Like there is this song your character sings - Tracey sings when she is like...   He is entering my dome. What will he find? It is a world of adventure. It is a world of adventure. Will I smile? Will I scorn when my hymen has been torn? Dry like a desert or wet like rain what will he do to my membrane? Oh yeah.   I was going to say - I was going to have my producer play the tape of that. But you did it for us.  I will do it. I can even harmonize. Play it. I will bring in some harmonies .  Oh man. It is so - it was so good. I have played that scene probably about three or four times.  Yes. Yes. Yes.  Oh man. How much - you know the whole crux of like the character's motivating motivation for everything is that she was raised in this Holy Roller house and was not able to like learn how to be a sexual being. And then she goes about deciding to figure that out. Were you raised churchy? You were churchy for a little while. Right?  Yeah I was not raised churchy.  OK.  It is so strange. I was not raised churchy. I became churchy. When I was 18 I became a Christian.  Really?  Yes.  How did that happen?  I mean I dropped out of college. I dropped out of uni as well. I like dropping out of things.  .  And I met a girl who was a dancer. And I kind of just started following this girl 'ecause - you know when you drop out you are kind of just looking for things to do. And I became a dancer in this dance group and then found out it was a Christian dance group and did not want to leave the dance group so did not really vocalize the fact that I really kind of was not like actually Christian. So there I was kind of like - you know there is an assumed culture of being a Christian you know? You kind of say - oh like praise God. So you kind of learn like this kind of basic lingo. And you kind of - you can get away with appearing to be something that you are not.  Yeah.  And so there...  You can say - praise the Lord saints. And...  Praise the Lord hallelujah amen - like you know God forbid - all this kind of stuff you know you learn it.  Oh yeah.  You learn it and you do not even need to open the Bible. Then I went to church maybe two or three times. And on that final time the pastor said - it is the standard kind of weekly altar call is what it is called.  Oh yeah. I am - yeah.  OK. You know about these things.  Oh yes madam.  Yes. So he said if you do not know Jesus raise your hand. And...  Come on up here yeah.  Uh-huh. And I kind of thought I did know Jesus. But I discovered my hand was up in the air. And I ran to the altar and I got on my knees and I was crying. This all was happening beyond my control. And I was kind of saying to God this thing - I am so sorry for not acknowledging you for not acknowledging your presence - but what a disrespect to you to the life I have you know a lack of gratitude. And I became a - I fell in love with God. And this is all very true. And I say that in full knowledge that I do not go to church anymore. I built up a faith based on that church and based on that altar call that then was beginning to be shattered because then I was in the world. I was in drama school and you are kind of taught in my particular church things are wrong - sex...  Like what?  ...Before marriage is wrong. Homosexuality is wrong. Divorce is wrong. All these things are wrong. And I am now in drama school. And I am supposed to be spreading the word of God and their blood would be on my hands if I do not tell all the people having sex and all the gay people and all my teachers who were divorced that they are going to go to hell if they do not give their life to Jesus and go to church and go to the altar. But it did not feel like something I should say. And you know it is now - you know I have had to come full circle. It could be that my view as a Christian was two-dimensional. And maybe there is another version of being a Christian where you just believe in the character of Jesus. You believe in the things he did. I want to live my life the way Jesus led his life.  Yeah.  Do I want to live my life the way other people in the Bible led their lives? I do not know you know? I do not know if I want to be like the apostle Paul.  Yeah.  I do not know if I like the kind of stuff he was doing.  Yeah.  I do not really know if I like these rules about...  Yeah.  ...Being gay. You know I do not know if I believe that it is a sin. I do not. And I am like well what did Jesus say? Well he did not really make any comments about that stuff.  He was just - yeah he was just kicking it with people traveling around with his posse...  That is what I am saying.  ...Giving people food...  That is what I am saying.  ...And being like let me see if I can heal you in the process.  Correct. I like Jesus...  .  ...A lot.  Same.  I really like Jesus. I had to like - I kind of like had a whole epiphany last year where I was like - yo like whatever this thing is - God Jesus history the idea of the spirit of who Jesus was - I feel that is something somehow with me trying to teach me and steer me. And I look to Jesus but I also look to every religious...  Oh yeah.  ...Text. I look to everyone and everything. I think there is something to learn from everything.  So you still believe in something.  Listen. I do not know.   I believe that it is better to hope and to believe yeah.  Yeah. I am going to tell you my little Christian story now...  Ooh tell it to me.  ...'ecause you just opened up the Word for me.   I was raised Pentecostal Apostolic. My mother was the church organist. We went to like one of those Holy Roller churches where everyone's speaking in tongues and shouting.  Uh-huh yes. Me too. Uh-huh.  Oh yeah. So I was in it - like saved Holy Ghost-filled. And just like you know over time you like drift away for the same reasons you list. Like the people in your life the people you come to know in adulthood - you are like I do not think they are going to hell.  Yeah.  I do not think their lives are bad.  Yeah.  I do not think my life is bad because I do not follow these rules. And I think like for me hearing you say like you believe - like for me the epiphany was like I stopped looking for the Jesus described to me in church and the rules put upon him by the church and I stopped looking for like God - big G...  Yes.  ...The universal in the world. And so like before I think I used to have this idea that like the deity was this one thing and it was there.  Yeah.  But now I want to look at it and say God can be everywhere and anywhere.  Yes.  And how can I live a life where I see God in everyone try to create God through the work that I do try to bring God to the people that I am in communion with? Like God more as like - I do not know - something that can be everywhere and not just this thing that is on a pedestal...  Yeah.  ...And that has all these arbitrary rules.  Yeah I am completely with you. And I sometimes think you know I do not want to be doing these things that you have just described seeing God in everyone and trying to you know act out of love. I do not want to ever feel like I am doing those things because if I do not God will punish me.  Yes.  I would rather - you know when I became a Christian - and this sounds so crazy. It sounds nutty. When I first became a Christian I honestly believed for a long time that either way I was going to hell so I am just going to do - it is like 'ecause I would never - I do not deserve to be in any heaven. It is like I am just here to serve God. No no no. There is no gold - there is no trophy for me. I am a sinner. I am crap. But...  Yeah - 'ecause so much of it is shame-based.  So much of it is shame-based.  So much of the way that we learn God is shame-based.  And the church had to literally - it was almost like OK. No Michaela - too far too far. No no. You know no no no. You are going to heaven. I am like no no no. I am not no. I am going to - I am like I know my punishment. I do not deserve...  Wow.  I know. I was super - I mean it was even...  It sounds sad depressing.  It does sound sad does not it? It is like whoa girl. Are you OK?   Are you OK?  Yeah.  And so now it is like - it does not - it is not important that I know what happens beyond this life. Let me shift my focus to where I am now. What can I do now? How can I change myself so that I am of benefit to helping that helping my neighbor? That is all we have for sure are the people here is the Earth we are living on. Let us focus where we are right now.  Oh yeah.  Yeah.  And it is like when you take on that mentality when you begin to search for the God wherever you are and understanding that it can come in many forms you kind of realize like when you do find those slices of God like those moments of beauty...  Slices of God .  ...And serendipity. You know like that - like maybe that is heaven.  You know what I mean?  Maybe that is it you know? Maybe - like I do not know what is going to happen next.  Correct.  But I do know that moment of connection that moment of beauty that moment of love...  Feels heavenly.  Yes.  Right.  And maybe that is enough for the day. And if I can...  And maybe that is enough for that day. Is not that satisfactory?  It is.   OK - time for a break. Keep listening. Soon you will hear Michaela tell me about a totally different kind of church - the church of Black Mirror.   How was it doing Black Mirror? It seems like such this...  Oh yeah.  ...Weird amazing cult.   You know I think it - I am wondering if I do feel like it is a bit cultish. And I am...  .  ...In - I am like a really zealous worshiper in this cult.  .  Like I have gone - I have been baptized twice.  What am I doing?  .  It is so fun.  What was your episode called?  One was called Nosedive. The other one was called USS Callister.  Yeah yeah.  Nosedive was my first dip. I was in one scene in Season 2. And - I shot one day and it was honestly the be-all and end-all of my life for that entire year.  Wow.  And people would say what is your favorite character? This was after Chewing Gum. I would be like the airline stewardess from Nosedive Black Mirror is the best character I have ever played. I loved that one scene...  Wow.  ...So much. I...  Yeah.  Yes. And then I did USS Callister and it was incredible. It is - I am a part of that church of Black Mirror.  Have you done Bandersnatch yet?  Of course I have done Bandersnatch. Of course I have done Bandersnatch .  I am scared to.  Bandersnatch is like very - like what the hell is going on?  Now this is the - so this is a - it is like a Choose Your Own Adventure for the...  Yes.  ...New Black Mirror season.  Yes yes.  Wow.  And it is a little bit like - oh no Charlie I do not want to choose. Please please do not give me that power. I do not want to.  Wow.  Please just tell me stories. It is a little bit like I am the kid that you read the stories to. I am the attendee in the church. I do not want to be a pastor.  Uh-huh .  Charlie you do the right thing. OK? And we are going to learn from you. I do not like control. I like to be warned. I do not like to teach when it comes to technology and all those things.  Oh yeah. It is funny hearing you talk about like technology and your relationship with it because I also love how candid you are about the often pervasive and negative effects of social media.  Yes.  And it is refreshing to hear a celebrity talk about it because so much of what we see with celebrities interacting with social media platforms is - this is great look at my life it is so great...  I know.  ...Whereas you are like I took a three-week break from Instagram 'ecause ugh.  Yeah yeah. Three-month you know three-month.  Oh really?  .  Three months you said?  Yeah three months. So - but I told everybody else to - I think I said take three weeks off 'ecause you cannot tell people to stay three months off from Instagram.  Wait. You lied to folks and said you took three weeks when you actually took three months?  No no. I took three months. But I said you guys - hey why do not you take three weeks...  Oh you take three weeks OK.  ...Because three months is intense. I am like I cannot tell anyone to take three months off Instagram. I mean that is like...  How was it?  Oh amazing. You know at first it is like my - I would keep scrolling on my phone and be like - what am I scrolling for? - just kind of endlessly swiping. Oh my body is looking for Instagram. My body is looking for...  My body is looking for Instagram.  Yeah. And it is like - I deleted the app. It is like it is not there. You are just scrolling endlessly. So it is in my body. That was kind of scary.  Yeah.  So I had to get to a point where it is not in my body anymore and now I can go back. Now I like love Instagram because now I control my relationship with Instagram.  You had to detox.  It is not in control of me. Maybe many people on TV do do - oh my life is good my life is great. But I am like I feel like everybody does that on social media. They put out this version of events where everything is amazing. Just been here - is not it great? Look at all my friends. Everything's really great always really great. Look at how I look today.  .  And it makes other people feel like inadequate.  Oh yeah.  And I am like no no people need to know that that is not their lives. Nobody woke up like that.  Nope not even Beyonce.  Correct. Correct. Nobody woke up like that - not like that.  Not like that. Another thing about us we are both obsessed with Brexit - I think.  Are we both obsessed with Brexit?  Are you obsessed - you have talked about who you might choose to negotiate Brexit.  What did I say?  Remember this?  Who did I choose?  I think you chose Rihanna. You do not remember this?  .  I read all the interviews you have done.  I have definitely changed my mind.  .  I am going for like Michelle Obama now. Now I am like oh no no no. We are in a lot of trouble right now. So I am like OK. Can we have Michelle Obama? Michelle Obama I feel comfortable with that .  I would let Dwayne The Rock Johnson do it.  Who?  Dwayne The Rock Johnson - The Rock.  You would let The Rock do - I do not know enough about The Rock. I really do not know enough about him.  Everyone likes him.  I do not know enough about The Rock. You know I really do not know enough about The Rock. But I have seen Michelle Obama do live talks. I really respect her and she seems very wise. So...  Yeah.  ...I am going for Michelle Obama.  Well I am - just it was an honor. You uplifted me and warmed my heart. This was a joy.  Thank you man. Nice talking.   Many thanks again to Michaela Coel. Her latest show Black Earth Rising is streaming right now on Netflix. We are back in your feeds Friday with our Weekly Wrap. Until then email us talk about stuff - samsandersnpr.org. Let me know what you want to hear on the show what is on your mind. Send me photos of dogs and babies all that cool stuff. All right - till Friday. Thanks for listening. Talk soon.  