 Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today on the show - Black Panther. We wanted to wait to talk about it until we all had time to watch it and process it and watch it again. Also though for those of you who have not seen it yet do not worry. There are no spoilers in this episode. And it is a chat that will make sense to you and I think give you a lot even if you have not seen Black Panther. So for this conversation I am talking to two people. Glen Weldon - you know him from NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour. He writes about books and comic books for npr.org. Also talking with Evan Narcisse. Evan is based in Austin Texas and he is actually writing a series of comics right now for Marvel. They are a prequel to the plotline in the Black Panther film. It is called The Rise Of The Black Panther. So Evan got that job writing Black Panther comics - coolest job ever - with some help from Ta-Nehisi Coates. Ta-Nehisi Coates has also himself written some Black Panther comics. So in this chat we get into a lot - the comics the movie the role of the Black Panther in the culture in black culture. It was really interesting to me and I am not even a comic book person. Oh also at the top Evan and Glen and I kind of nerd out on Donald Glover and his show Atlanta. Do not worry we get to Black Panther. I promise. All right. Here I am talking with Glen Weldon in D.C. Evan Narcisse at member station KUT in Austin. Enjoy.  Hello D.C. This is Evan Narcisse in Texas.  Hey man.  Hey there. How are you?  Hey Glen. I do not think we have ever done this before.  No no no but I am a fan so...  I - likewise.  ...It is great talking to you man.  You wrote the book on Batman.  I did - I wrote a book on Batman.  The book - just accept it. Also my colleague Brent's telling me in my ear now Evan that you are a fan of the show on FX called Atlanta.  Oh listen. Do not get me started.  I am going to tell you who I interviewed recently - Paper Boi - Brian Tyree Henry.  Nice.  He was so good. He is good people.  Brian is great.  He is good people.  That whole show...  It is groundbreaking.  ...As an aside - I was lucky enough by pure happenstance to be able to go to the Black Panther premiere in LA. Sci-Fi flew me out. I was - they were doing a video package about Black Panther - Black History Month. I flew out on Wednesday supposed to go back on Friday. But a friend of mine who works at Variety says you are going to be my plus-one for the premier. I am like oh I should get back home my kid so on and so forth. She is like stop being stupid. You are coming with me to the premiere.  Yep.  And then I got to the afterparty through a similar set of weird circumstances.  Wait. Pause though. Why did not they just give you all the tickets? Because you are literally writing Black Panther comics.  .  Listen.  It is that hard?  I had that same question too. And Glen probably knows this but you might not Sam but like Roxane Gay was like - was mad online.  Absolutely. Yeah.  And justifiably so.  You mean she could not get into it?  No.  Right. Yeah. She was not invited.  Wow.  And she lives in LA to add insult to injury.  Yeah.  So crazy.  Yeah.  So you are at the after party.  And Donald Glover's there. And I am like look. And you guys have probably had this where like - when I am a journalist I try to be professional. I do not ask for pictures or autographs or any of that . But I am like I am not here as a journalist. And Donald Glover's right there so I am going to talk to him.  Was he nice?  Yeah he was really nice. What I said to him was I really - those notes that he wrote after Community. I do not know if you remember them...  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  ...Those hit me like hard.  What were they - what was this?  Well...  He was basically talking about like he was leaving the show because he wanted to create basically like a new thing for himself.  Yeah.  Like - like a new creative identity...  Yeah.  ...For himself and he was not sure if people were going to like it or not and like you know - it was basically like this really transparent chronicle of like angst and whatever. Like - like basically all the emotional churn he was going through he wrote it. And I remember the way it was framed in some of the...  Yeah.  ...Gossip sites and stuff. They are like oh he is having a breakdown. He is losing it. And I am like - pardon me -  let him live.  Let him live.  Yeah he was reaching for something and - not grasping it. It is just...  Right.  ...Amazing. It is amazing.  Yeah.  And I told him how much I appreciated him putting that - he put these notes on Instagram. I was like - how much I appreciated him being so vulnerable like that in public. And he is like look. If - that is what it is all about. If you are not going to do - be that - if you are not going to be that in your work and in your life then what is the point?  Yep.  And - yeah. And I am like I will follow you wherever.  All right.  Have you seen any of the new season yet?  I have not.  It is so good. It is so good.  Yeah. Screeners must be out there right?  There is like three screeners out and it is just great.  Yeah I - yeah I love that whole - Lakeith listen. I can go on about Lakeith.  I interviewed him too. Lakeith is the nicest guy in the world.  But did you get like - or did you get like the Andy Kaufman Lakeith or did you get like...  I cannot - you cannot tell that is the thing.  You can never tell. You know by the end of it I was like I think I get you. I feel like we are on a plane together. But yeah you never know.  Yeah. Yeah.  He was nice though. So I had him and now Brian Tyree Henry. And I am trying to get the whole cast of that show and the whole cast of Insecure. I want them all.  Oh that makes sense.  When Zazie was announced as Domino for Deadpool 2 I damn near lost it.  Yeah. Yeah.  Anyway I am not going to keep you guys. I could do this all day.  No this is good. So I should clarify - you both are comic book experts?  Yes.  Glen you write about comics a lot.  Yeah entirely too much.  And Evan you are writing some new actual Black Panther comics.  That is right.  Which ones are you writing?  I am writing the Rise Of The Black Panther. It is a miniseries that started in January.  And what is it about?  So it is about T'Challa's first year as king...  And he is the Black Panther in the movie?  Yeah. He is the Black Panther in the movie. So in the Marvel universe when we first meet Wakanda it is a hidden kingdom right? Like T'Challa has to send a fancy plane to go fetch the Fantastic Four bring them Wakanda. Nobody knows where it is how to get there right? Then a couple of years later the Wakandan Design Group is being traded publicly on the New York Stock Exchange so something happened. They decloaked after a while. And the story I am telling is the story of T'Challa deciding to reveal...  Yeah.  ...Wakanda to the world.  We are going to get more into that later.  Yeah.  But I want us to first kind of just talk about the moment that the movie Black Panther is having. So we are taping this Wednesday the week after Black Panther came out in theaters in the States. And this film has broken a lot of records already. It is already made over 400 million worldwide 235 million domestically - one of the biggest weekend openings of all time. It was - what? - over 190 million just for the weekend in the States.  Yup.  So my question to both of you guys as comic book experts could you ever have predicted this level of success for this film right now?  I will start. Given the name recognition of this particular character would not necessarily have seen it coming but everything else was pointing in this direction in a big way.  OK. Like what?  Just the buzz around it the awareness of it within certain sectors of the community and just the fact that it is overdue. This is very heartening to me as somebody who is been telling people over and over again look the superhero cinematic genre is bigger than you know it can be. We have seen a lot of films that are very similar over the years but now we are starting to get a comedy - out-and-out comedy like Thor Ragnarok. We are starting to see Wonder Woman with a female lead. And we are finally starting to see this. We are seeing a film that while it touches on some of the same checkboxes that superhero films have to touch on it does so much else. It feels different. It sounds different. And it represents something that Evan can probably talk about better than I can.  OK.  Yeah no - same. You know it is funny. I find myself flashing back to moments growing up as a child of Haitian immigrants. I was raised by my mother. And you know sometimes she would talk about black Americans in the same way - with the same stereotypes that white Americans white hegemony has promulgated about them right? So - and I would be like mom if you did not know any better they would be us and us - and we would be them...  Huh.  ...You know? And that kind of diasporan tension like the movie sees with it you know? Like the place that you think of as home do you belong there? I went back to Haiti as a teenager - and my Creole is terrible. I grew up here. But I went back as a teenager and I remember people on the street call me moun blanc which means white person.  And you are not that.  And I am not that. And it hurt.  Yeah. But what I think is fascinating is that classically in the comics the conflict or at least one of the main conflicts - the conflict you associate with this character is he is not - he - he is torn between wanting to run off in the - and be in the outer world with the Fantastic Four and the Avengers and being a king. What does it mean to be a king? And that is what the Ta-Nehisi Coates run is - all about philosophies of rule in a way. Like what kind of king is he going to be?  And Ta-Nehisi has written some of the comics.  Yes. He has written a very successful recent run of comics. The fascinating thing is that the conflict in this movie is not that. It is something a lot more nuanced. It is - we have T'Challa who has spent his life in Wakanda kind of untouched by colonialism. And we contrast him with Killmonger who is a character who is steeped in colonialism 'ecause he grew up in Oakland...  Yeah.  ...And steeped into this sort of institutional racism. And their conflict is one of differing philosophies. Killmonger wants the wealth of Wakanda to be shared with the downtrodden people of the world and T'Challa wants to protect it. So what we have here is a character who is coming to terms with his privilege.  Yeah.  And that is fascinating. And it gives a lot of white folks who are watching this film a way in.  Yeah. But it also seemed very black to me...  Yeah.  ...Because like when I see...  It is super black.  Yeah and like it is black and universal because when I left the movie I said wow I am asking myself really big questions about what it means to be a black person of privilege. What do I do with my privilege? Is it mine and my own or do I need to share it with those that are downtrodden?  Right.  But I do think we have to acknowledge that it is also very corporate. It comes from this big studio that is trying to make money. And we - everyone that is buying tickets to this film is supporting like that beast. Is it weird - and this is for both of you guys - is it weird to feel conflict about a thing that looks very much like black pride but is also very much lining the pockets of some big corporation?  I mean I feel like that is a quintessentially black diasporan black  question.  OK. Explain.  We are integrated into the fabric of this country and its - and its systems right? We built this place even as it excluded us from institutions and franchisement right? So at any level your participation is going to be like a compromise. I think one of the big triumphs of Black Panther of the movie is that it feels - still feels personal. Like this feels like Ryan Coogler is...  Exactly.  ...You know grappling with his black diasporan identity like on the screen.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And everybody who loves these characters not - it is not inflected the same way of course. But everybody who loves these characters grapples with some kind of conflict here because these are heavily-licensed nuggets of intellectual property first and foremost. And they are toys that different creators get to take out of the toy box play with for a while and then put back. And so you invest in individual writers. You invest in individual artists. You invest in different filmmakers. But the thing is - the key to it - is that Coogler - it does feel that - Evan's exactly right - it does feel personal. It feels like it is on this arc of Coogler's previous films.  Yeah yeah. All right. Time for a quick break. When we come back how much of Black Panther can be traced back to the rise of Barack Obama? BRB.   I am really interested in how a film like Black Panther fits into the state of our politics. I mean I have this really really unformed theory that some of the legacy of Barack Obama being in the White House for eight years opened up the realm of possibility as to what studio execs and TV directors and moviemakers think white people would watch. But I also think a lot about how some parts of the culture and the arts that we consume have become places of reactions to Donald Trump you know? And I am wondering is it fair to read anything into how Black Panther fits into the politics of today and if so what are your thoughts on that?  So I have a lot to say here.  OK. Good.  The first thing is knowing what we know about the Hollywood creative process this movie probably - it was announced - what? - three four years ago? And the script was probably written a bunch of years ago. One you know you have to talk about the creation of this movie and mention Nate Moore who is a producer at Disney - I believe the only black producer working on Marvel movies. He championed this movie getting made right? And so then you have to ask yourself is Nate Moore there because of the Obama effect - right? - at Disney - them deciding they need to have somebody to diversify their creative executives? That is not a question I have the answer to but I feel like it is something you could at least consider. That said I am writing Black Panther comics right now.  Yeah.  And I am very much channeling my legacy as a child of immigrants a child of people from a country that Donald Trump called a  hole - that stuff is very much going into my stories.  So that politics will definitely affect the comics that you write for the Black Panther.  Yeah. I mean - I mean part - the thing is it is not something I have to force either because Haiti was the first free black republic right? You know we were - we were the first country to throw off the yoke of colonialism. Wakanda is a country that resisted colonialism outright right?  Yeah.  So there is this idea of self-reliance self-determination which has been a large vector in black freedom struggles all over the world. So that is not that hard a jump for me to make you know? I remember my mom would get into arguments with - people from other Caribbean countries and would always get shouted down about how prideful she was. But you know for a long time in some ways Haiti being poor and being - suffering consequences of throwing off their yoke of colonialism pride was all we had. And Wakandans are prideful. Like I know how to write Wakandans because I am Haitian.   OK.  But like it is very much informed by like...  Real stuff.  ...Real stuff - black strategies of survival and self-love and resistance that have happened in all black diasporan communities. Like T'Challa goes out there in the comics. He joined the Avengers to spy on them. They thought he was one thing. He was really another. That is code switching. That is hiding part of who you are so that you can get access. That is a survival strategy that black people have done like for centuries you know? Different modes of existence where black people have had to figure out how to improvise how to live inside a system of white hegemony - that is Wakanda. So we were not calling it Wakanda before 1960-whatever-the-hell but like it is very much a series of practices I feel like that are all about black survival. So like Wakanda may not be real in terms of geography but it is been real I think in psychology for a long time.  Yeah. And that psychology is key because what superheroes are at their most basic level are tidy little morality tales to teach you right and wrong. They are also importantly wish fulfillment. They are kids who want to fly who want to be strong who want to beat up the bad guys who want to protect people. And to posit a world untouched by colonialism or at least that is been able to repel colonialism - that is wish fulfillment. That is all it is and it is powerful. That is what superheroes do. They represent ideals and to resent that is to resent superheroes. And so it is - it is always weird to me to see the most ardent superhero fans - a small section of them - very ardent superhero fans objecting to anything...  Yeah.  ...That is not theirs.  Yeah. You know you think of that backlash from those haters. But Black Panther comes after the latest Thor film was directed by a person of color. It comes after the wild success of Wonder Woman. Have we turned over a new page in what it means to make comic book movies? And have we reached this new future where this is just the way it is going to be now - there are going to be more stories told? Or could we easily see five or six years from now the landscape is how it used to be and all the heroes look one way?  Both of those things are possible.  OK.  I mean certainly we can prove - you know historically Hollywood needs evidence that - we can point to it and say this can happen. But it did not happen with Blade right? It did not happen with...  Yeah.  ...It did not happen with Meteor Man.  Yeah.   So I mean...  Well every year there is a black film that does well.  Sure.  And every year there is an article that says whoa this black movie made money. And it is like well...  Yeah.  ...Yeah that is kind of how it can work sometimes. But so I mean I guess yeah - like does this change everything or could we easily find ourselves back in a situation where it is Chris Pine and the people that look like him making all the movies with comic book heroes?  I mean that is never going to go away. That...  OK.  Yeah.  ...You know I...  And no shade on Chris Pine. I think he is great.  No certainly not. He is in A Wrinkle In Time. He gets some kind of credit.  .  Yeah.  But what worries me as somebody who is - I am in my mid-40s. I lived through the '90s where we had rock on screen - Living Color Living Single.  Oh yeah.  It felt like we had a foothold. And then that foothold got eroded right? Despite the fact that we have had Girls Trip and Get Out and Black Panther - and I am forgetting one now and I am going to feel bad about this later. But you know so again it feels like again we are establishing a foothold. It is tough to say whether that foothold's going to last you know? What I want out of this moment is I want studios to be more concerned about finding more Ryan Cooglers and Ava DuVernays than I am concerned about them finding more Black Panthers. And I say this as somebody who loves Black Panther.  Yeah. And not just Ava and Ryan but other people of color...  Lena Waithe Donald Glover. Yeah.  ...Queer people trans people. All the shades. Like all of that you know?  Right. Exactly.  I want to pivot a little bit and talk about how you came to be involved writing the actual Black Panther comics. I mean that is like - seems like a dream come true. How did you get there?  It is. So it is very much a function of me being a critic.  OK.  I have written about comics pop culture video games - mostly focusing on video games and comics - for like 15 to 18 years. And when Ta-Nehisi Coates got announced as a writer of the new Black Panther title I was stunned. I know Ta-Nehisi through Chris Jackson a good friend of mine. Chris Jackson's the editor-in-chief of One World Books a multicultural imprint at Random House. Years ago when we were both working in the same building Chris says hey you guys probably get along. You are both like nerds - you are both nerds. You like comics and stuff. So we met a few times. We never - were not really super super close because you know that is how life was.  Yeah.  But when he got announced as a writer of this book I was like son. He is like I know. I was like son - I know.  .  And we got back in touch. Being a big T'Challa fan I was of course interested in what he was doing. I never wrote anything evaluative about his book - no reviews or anything like that. That would be weird. But I did do interviews with him. And his editor Wil Moss at Marvel read those interviews and was like hey Evan really seems to know Black Panther. Do you think he would be interested in doing a project for us? And you know it was not an immediate yes. I had to think about my day job and...  Were you scared to jump into that? It is a big...  Oh very much so.  ...It is a big responsibility.  Very much so. Like some of my personal icons in terms of comics creators like have written Black Panther. Christopher Priest is a hero of mine and he was - long before this moment he wrote Power Man And Iron Fist one of my favorite comics from the '80s. He was a Spiderman editor for a while. He wrote great Batman stories. Dwayne McDuffie whose birthday was yesterday who passed away way too young - but he wrote Black Panther when Black Panther and Storm were on the Fantastic Four for a hot minute. You know other people have touched this character who I love. So I was like me?  You know I was like how am I going to follow in these footsteps? But the one thing I knew was I knew the character's fictional history and I knew that the story I am telling in Rise Of The Black Panther had never been told.  What are you most - what pitfall or trap are you most afraid of falling into writing Black Panther comics? What are you most trying to avoid doing wrong?  Man I did not want to show readers anything they have seen before which by virtue of the story I am not running into that problem. I want to have the female characters in there be well-realized. That is part of the reason I wrote issue one the way I did which was narrated by T'Challa's two mothers. So I do not want to make the mistakes of somebody who is part of a marginalized group of people who is felt ignored in pop culture - I do not want to ignore other people who I could feel I could welcome into the narrative. So I am very conscious of that.  Yeah.  I can speak to one potential critical pitfall that Evan is avoiding very very nicely. It is a little technical. It is a little inside baseball...  That is OK.  ...So it might not make it on the podcast.  That is all right.  But between you and me Sam...  Yeah.  ...When writers of prose - even those who love comics - approach comics there is a tendency to not let go of the written word to have a white-knuckle grip on the written word. Consequently you get panel after panel filled with so many word balloons...  Oh.  ...That it is like everyone's like the house in Up.  .  And it can get overwhelming.  So less words.  What Evan knows is that he is doing half the work. I mean you do not want compare comics to another medium but let us do it. A lot of writers approach it as they are the writer and director and cinematographer and the artist is the set designer. And that is not true. What the artist is doing is directing...  Building a world.  ...Building a world creating tone in a real way.  Yeah yeah yeah.  So he is writing the script and he is doing a great job of it but he also trusts his artist. And that is the most important thing.  Oh I like that.  So yeah so that is a thing - that is a pitfall that many many many many prose writers fall into.  Yeah.  OK. First I want to say thank you because that is nice to hear. Look I am writing denser-than-average comics. I know that.  Well that is the character dude. I mean Black Panther makes speeches. Like yes it is what he does. It is what he does.  And people in Wakanda they hold forth.  They hold forth exactly.  You know the first issue in particular was dense. And they get better as they go along. But I am trying to communicate a scope of history - right? - that is been unseen. So like I have you know I can only do that but so many ways visually. Sometimes there is going to be - people talk about well we do this and now we do that.  No I think it is working really really well.  Thank you. I am also blessed with really great artists but that is a whole other tangent I am not going to go down right now.  I have a few more questions and then I will let you guys go. But one of the things I was talking about what my colleague Brent is kind of the idea of how Black Panther fits into black nerd culture. There is been a little coverage recently about how - with Barack Obama in office for eight years and then films like Get Out and now films like Black Panther there is this ascendant black nerd culture. Do you guys think that is the case? Because I kind of have mixed feelings about the idea.  I am going to let Evan go.  Well I mean one I think that like all that we really mean when we say nerd culture is that someone or a group of folks is really into a thing. And that happens to everyone whether they are quote cool or not cool. Everyone has a thing that they are into. We just call some of it nerd.  Yeah. My own - my personal definition of nerd has always been like you have a disproportionate outsized passion for the thing you love to the point where it is embarrassing. If it does not embarrass you then you might be somewhere else on the spectrum. It is funny. I was talking to a friend of mine - I have been doing a lot of press because of this moment - and I was talking to this friend of mine from college. And he is like I remember when we were freshmen and sophomores and you went on a 45-minute rant about Black Panther and Wakanda and now look at you. I was like well I guess it paid off. I was not winning friends with that rant.  Do you think that there is something about the moment we find ourselves in that is allowing black men like yourself other black people to be more secure in that kind of distinct nerddom or is it - there is always been black nerds? And I do not know.  There is always been. But I feel - I do feel like there is a coalescing of this identity. Some people call it blurred.  I hate the way that sounds - blurred. I just do not.  Yeah. I hate the way it sounds - either - I do not - people you can call yourself what you want it is fine. But it does not sound like - it is not a pleasing sound to my ear.  I also hate - blipster sounds better but it is also derogatory.  Please lets not even.  Wow wow.  Black hipster yeah. I was called that so many years. Screw those people that called me that. Anyways go ahead.  But yeah like I do feel like there is whole social media networks of people who like - part of reason this movie's successful is because people who identify as blerds and black nerds. Like you know they feel like finally a character they have embraced and poured all this fan energy into is getting his day. So yeah I feel like there is - there is a sense of ascendancy. Like Black Lightning is a show on The CW now - that is DC's character - is a black superhero. And you know it is a big hit. And people celebrate it - there is a difference of scale but in the same way that they are celebrating Black Panther they are like OK this show is quality. It is about something which is the same major success that Black Panther is enjoying. It is about something. And it is about blackness. And with all the kind of mythological scope of big adventure stories but like those two things together are - feel really glorious.  Yeah. And what the film did so well is taking this thing that was in and of itself for so long a microculture and made it monoculture and made this thing that was totally inside baseball nerdy accessible to all - everyone including myself. And they did that very well. But I think my question for both of you guys is did you have any qualms with the film - anything you would have done differently the movie?  The stuff that is familiar about the film is the stuff that is in a very real way the sort of genre concepts of superheroes. So yes there is - he fights an evil version of himself - spoiler alert. That is a classic trope. Yes there are many car chases. And we have seen car chases before. And yes at one point - if I could fix anything it is when there is a character death someone else who is standing next to that person says no.   And if I - if we could just get rid of that I think we improve the superhero genre by a good 38 percent.  OK. OK. What about you Evan?  It is hard because I really really love it.  OK. OK. And I am sure you know all these folks.  No not really. I mean I knew very little about the movie going in. Which was probably for the best. Which is not to say that it is perfect but like I have not seen the movie for like a week now. I saw it last Thursday and I am kind of fiending.  OK. All right. I would - I would build out the storylines and the backstories of the two lead women warriors. They were so fierce and so intense And I wanted to know more about them. I also - and I am not sure this is true - I read somewhere some headline somewhere that they were supposed to - they were actually supposed to have like a lesbian plotline. Was that the case? Was that true?  Glen - do this Glen or should I?  No no. Go nuts. Go nuts.  Uh-oh. Sorry. No - did I step into a can of worms?  No no no. It is - it is kind of complicated because it does seem to be part of an unfortunate decision pattern that - that is been made in a previous movie too.  Ok. Tell me all about it.  So in Thor Ragnarok Tessa Thompson's character the Valkyrie character was written as bisexual. And they would shot apparently a scene where a woman is coming out of her room as they are going off to do like a big adventure thing. So like a sly nod at her sexuality. And apparently there was a scene in Black Panther - I do not know - I was not there. I was not on set. But it was a scene that was reported where - I think it was Okoye and Ayo played by Florence Kasumba were having some kind of flirty dialogue too. Now in the comics Ayo and Aneka - another member of the Dora Milaje who were the elite female fighting force in the comics and the movie - they have a romantic relationship and that is well-established. That is in comics that were written by Ta-Nehisi Coates and Roxane Gay. The problem is those are different characters than the ones in the movie.  OK. So like it was not like the filmmakers purposefully chose to remove a lesbian plotline. It is just those were not the characters in the film?  And that is where the...  Yeah.  ...Mushiness of this comes in.  Because they could have changed it if they wanted to and put that lesbian plotline in if they wanted to right?  But Sam you wanted more from those characters. You wanted more of the backstory. I heard the same thing from Gene Demby...  Oh really?  ...Who said you know I - he liked the film. He did not love it because A the hype kind of got to him. He was expecting so much. His expectations were set so high. And B he said the same thing - I wanted more of this world. Which when stepping out of a 2 12-hour film and you say I wanted more of that world that means it succeeded. That means something was going right.  Yes it did work in some ways. You know I was comparing this to the last comic book movie I really really loved which was Logan...  Sure.  ...Which I found to be amazing and like almost in some ways with my little comic book movie knowledge like genre-shifting. Like it was a true like Western you know? Has this movie in the same way changed the genre or is it just a really good film decidedly already in the genre that exists right now?  Well I will just say it expanded it in a way that it needs to be...  OK.  ...Because again genres come in and out of style right?  Yeah.  So this is a - the superhero genre is a genre like Westerns like horror like rom-coms and they are going to cycle in. And there is...  Rom-coms will never cycle out.  Yeah - they always cycle - things have cycled out and they will cycle back in.  When have rom-coms ever cycled out?  There had been a long stretch of time. When was the last like rom-com - major rom-com besides The Big Sick? What was the major rom-com that came out in a big way? It is 