 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show host of All Things Considered and NPR's Embedded Kelly McEvers and from NPR's Code Switch team reporter Karen Grigsby Bates. All right. Happy New Year. Let us start the show.    It feel good right?  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Each week we start with a different song. We will talk about this song in just a bit. But first as Aunt Betty said in D.C. like right across...  I know.  ...This little divider...  Hi.  ...Kelly McEvers. She is currently working two jobs - both on All Things Considered and her own podcast Embedded - soon just doing Embedded which tells amazing deeply reported long-form stories most recently about Team Trump. They were captivating. Check them out. Thanks for being here.  Yeah hey. It is good to be here.  You made the trip from LA...  I know.  ...Just to hang today.   Exactly. And to do some other stuff.  Yeah. Also down the line in Los Angeles you know her from NPR's Code Switch team - they cover race identity and culture - Karen Grigsby Bates. Happy New Year.  Hey Happy New Year you all. Always glad to have my name in Aunt Betty's mouth.  Oh yeah. So the song that I am playing is a song by Justin Timberlake.    Baby just remember. Sing this song with me. As not nobody love you like I love you.  This is his first solo single Like I Love You. It came out when I was gosh a wee boy. And I am playing this old J.T. because I miss the old J.T. He released a new single this week. I sent it to you guys before the show.  Oh is it tied in any way to like a Disney kid's movie this time?  No he is like doing his own thing.  Oh boy is it not.  OK. OK.  So this week he announced a new album coming our way from him. He is calling the album Man Of The Woods. Did not think of him as a man of the woods.  No.  He has a new single out this week called Filthy. I heard it. I did not like it so I am not playing it.  OK.  Unless you really want to hear it Kelly.  Does that have to do with the woods?  That is the thing.  I am so confused .  I know. I know. I know.  I have so many thoughts and questions.  Karen's heard it I think. Karen you have heard this song. It is...  I listened to it. Justin Timberlake is maybe officially middle-aged now because it was - it was not even speaking to me which is sad. And I am old enough to be his mother.  So that is why I am playing the old J.T. I miss the old J.T.  Right. OK.  Listeners if you want to check out Justin Timberlake's new song - you will not hear it here...   ...It is called Filthy. Find it wherever you hear your songs.    Maybe we will fly the night away. I just want to love you baby.   Yeah yeah yeah.  OK. With that let us get to it. So we are going to each describe the week of news - how it felt to us in just three words. Kelly apparently there is some new book out.  Yeah.  Kelly's got it.  Heard of it? It is in my hands.  .  Look. It is right here.  Yes yes.  I have got it. I have got it. I have got it.  And after all of...  Is it smoking?  It literally is on fire.  Are you handling it with asbestos gloves?  It is actually - yeah. The only three words - if these are three words that I could even possibly come up with - are WTF Steve Bannon? Like...  That is like five...  WTF is like - stands for a word.  No WTF is one word.  Sorry. I know.  WTF is...  Because we cannot say those words...  True true.  ...So we are going to put it in an acronym.  OK.  We are going to count it as one word.  WTF Steve Bannon?  Because what dude is your plan right? I mean do we need to recap or can we just sort of like...  Let us do a little recap.  Yeah let us do a little recap.  So in advance of this Michael Wolff book - now Michael Wolff is a journalist who writes buzzy sensational books. He apparently spent a lot of time in the White House this past year and he wrote a book all about it. It is called Fire And Fury. And some quotes have come out ahead of the book's release this week - quotes from Steve Bannon - Bannon who is the president's former senior strategist. And he basically spoke ill of not just Donald Trump...  Oh no.  ...But of Ivanka...  Yup.  ...Of...  Jared Kushner.  ...Jared Kushner...  Oh yeah.  ...Of...  Don Jr.  ...Don Jr.  Yeah.  And he basically said that that meeting with the Russians - that that was treasonous...  Right.  ...In his own words.  Yep.  And since then Trump has called them out in a long statement.  Oh yeah.  He is lost funding from the Mercer family...  Yeah.  ...His big benefactors for years.  Right although there is been some good reporting coming out...  Yeah.  ...That says that you know maybe that was not tied necessarily to the book but that was maybe in the works for a long time...  But like...  ...Or has been in the works for some time let us say.  Within a week though it seems like he is over.  Yeah. I mean that is what a lot of people are saying. Like I have a lot of thoughts about that too.  Yeah.  Like I bet you Steve Bannon's got a few seasons left...  Really?  ...In him.  Because you have covered him for a while.  Oh yeah.  Yeah exactly.  You had a big episode about Steve Bannon on Embedded this...  Yep.  ...Past season.  Yep.  So you think he is...  Where we looked really deeply at his time in Hollywood...  Yeah.  ...And sort of all the different iterations of Steve Bannon that happened while he was in Hollywood because there are a bunch of them.  Oh yeah.  This is a guy - this is a changeling. This is a guy who sort of like kind of like changes with the wind you know? There was like a you know a time in Hollywood when it made sense to kind of hitch up with certain producers and try to make certain kinds of films. And then he realized oh after he made this kind of piece of propaganda about Ronald Reagan in 2004...  Oh yeah.  ...That like OK maybe I am not going to win Oscars but this is the kind of thing that is going to get me recognition from the right and might get me funding from the right. And that is what kind of propelled him...  Yes.  ...Into the world he is in now. So yeah. So he is fascinating. Like he sat down with Michael Wolff. This book - this book that is currently sitting here on fire....  Fire And Fury.  You know there is a bunch of you know these fascinating quotes. Bannon has never really been like super careful about what he says right? And you get the sense from this book that he either does not know the difference between off the record and on the record or does not really care that much.  I think he does not care.  We have seen this before. I think he...  I vote for the latter.  Yeah I think he kind of does not care. I think he is sort of just like eh if there is a journalist I trust I am going to let him be around - and he only does this with a few people - I am just going to say what I think.  Now Kelly the reason that we are talking about this book so much Michael Wolff's Fire And Fury is because by the time folks hear this show you have interviewed him.  That is right.  Yeah.  I know. I got an advance copy of it. I have had it for weeks. I had to like sign a nondisclosure agreement just to read it. And who knew it was going to be this big deal?  Oh yeah. Oh yeah.  So the end of this book - P.S...  Do not spoil it.  Come on.  .  Let me tell you a thing because it is kind of like old news now.  Uh-huh.  Like the book ends right before the election in Alabama.  Oh.  So Wolff kind of has Bannon ascendant at the end of this book right?  And then...  He is backing Roy Moore. It is looking like it is going to go well. It does not obviously in Alabama. But at the very end of this book Steve Bannon's talking about running for president in 2020.  Oh boy.  No joke.  He also said Ivanka was thinking about running for president eventually.  He does say that in the book yeah.  You get a presidency. You get a presidency.  Yes exactly.  Everybody gets a presidency.  Yes. So you know I am not saying Steve Bannon's going to run for president in 2020. But I am also saying do not count this guy out.  Yeah. My biggest takeaway from the book and the revelations about the book this week - it is like the White House right now is a den of snakes. You - no one can trust anybody. Everyone thinks the other one's crap.  Right.  And everyone's talking mess about the other one.  Yeah.  But you know what? That is not such a big surprise because it seems to me that virtually every White House has...  Yeah.  ...Some snake pit-y  aspect to it...  Sure.  ...That there is always different factions that a president brings in - and sometimes I think because they really do have genuine differences of opinions.  Yeah.  In that respect the Trump White House is not I do not think a whole lot different from the Clinton White House or either Bush White House or the Reagan White House for sure. But I think the big difference is it is kind of like them on steroids.  Oh yeah.  You know it is like a bomb cyclone...  Yeah .  Right.  ...Or cyclone bomb or whatever of ambition and animus...  And smack talk.  ...And revenge seeking.  Yeah.  And yeah they talk a whole bunch of smack.  All I know is I am going to be spending more time on this book this weekend than I ever would on the new Justin Timberlake single.   Karen you are next. Do you have three words for the week?  I do.  All right.  They are - feminism is intersectional.  Whoa.  Yeah. Yeah it is - snaps.  It is. But it is taking a while for some people to realize that. And I think what we are seeing is the evolution of it. You remember last year the day after the inauguration The Women's March. And in the beginning as the media showed it it was kind of like oh this is - these are these feminists and they are thinking about doing this. And what they did not realize until things really got rolling was that the core group of women who put together planned and mapped out this march and the strategy for the march were women of color. And that is not traditionally how people think of feminists. That finally - and there was a little bit of fuss about that. But what came out of that fuss was the understanding that you can be not - I mean by a lot of women of color because they knew this already - you can be Asian and feminist or black and feminist or...  Or poor and feminist.  Poor and feminist.  What I have been seeing the last week or two - there is been this new push from Hollywood...  Right.  Time's Up.  ...To put up some money - this...  Yep.  ...Time's Up campaign...  Right. Right.  ...To put up some money to help women that are dealing with MeToo-type issues...  Right.  ...Who do not have money.  Farm workers hotel workers...  Exactly.  ...People who do not have the resources. Right.  They are more vulnerable to this. And they need to be made visible in this struggle. And so we have to say this is what a feminist looks like...  Yeah.  ...Not just a sliver of what a feminist looks like.  You know the same time I hear this conversation about the Time's Up movement which seems like a good development there is a lot of talk about women on the red carpet in an effort to raise awareness of all these MeToo issues. They are going to be on the Golden Globes red carpet.  Oh yes. The black dresses...  They are going to wear their black dresses at the Golden Globes...  Golden Globes - wearing black dresses. And it is just like OK. Oh fine.  I know. Right yeah - well like...  Like that feels a little superficial.  Well what will be interesting is if the ladies who are vacuuming up the red carpet afterwards have on black clothes.  I have three words. They are resolve to unplug.  Yeah.  Good luck with this.  Oh I know.  2018 I hear you.  But let me tell you though. Here's my thinking around this. Everyone is having their New Year's resolutions. In spin class this morning the class was full which it never is and I was mad about that. I had to sit in the back. Whatever.  Right.  But...  All you resolutioners .  .  Exactly.  I see you.  I have been here before.  Exactly.  I have to sit in the back.  All year.  I know.  The ignominy.   But I was thinking this year about what I want to resolve to do. And my resolution was to manage and temper my news and cultural consumption. I realized over the last year a lot of the way that I would consume media was just me spinning my wheels and not getting substance. This week...  Close it.  ...For instance on Wednesday or Thursday Anthony Scaramucci began to trend.   Cough cough.  The old Sam would click the links.  The old Sam.  I said we are not clicking.  No Mooch no Mooch no Mooch.  No Scaramucci clicks this week. I am not doing it.  It is a no-Mooch 2018.  Yes.  You never know.  So it is just like be aware of that trigger finger. Watch how you click America.  I hear you. I hear you.  That is what I resolve to.  Yeah.  Yeah.  But you know you could always do it the old school way and actually read a newspaper or a magazine.  I do that too now Karen.  Wow.  Yeah.  I have been reading a physical newspaper for the last few months. It is life-changing.  Yeah I was on break and I like read...  Radical.  ...Things I held in my hand and turned pages...  It is still weird to fold.  No it is great.  And it is loud and noisy. Anyway - all right - three words done. Time for a quick break. Coming up we are going to talk about a story that was not in the headlines this week but will definitely be a big story in 2018. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders talking this week with Kelly McEvers from All Things Considered and Embedded. You are the hardest working woman in show business...   Public radio show business.  The James Brown of public radio.  Its own - very very very particularly .   Karen called you the James Brown of...  I have - like my clothes are not nearly as cool.   Also Karen Grigsby Bates of NPR's Code Switch Team - guys before we get back into it quick yes-or-no answer to this question. I have been seeing this week in multiple reports that President Donald Trump plans to attend the CFP National Championship game between Alabama and Georgia on January 8. Here's the catch though. At that very game the halftime show will be performed by one Kendrick Lamar. So yes or no - do we think that either of these two men will acknowledge the other's presence?  Whoa.  Do you think they will both show up...  I do not even know.  ...Is the question I have. Do they know?  I think Kendrick will probably do a shout-out to...  Really?  ...DJT.  .  Is Kendrick Lamar going to say we are going to be all right or not? You know like...  This is like the anthem of the Black Lives Matter movement.  I know. I know. I know.  Yeah. I...  Right. Like is he going to change the words? Like...  I predict...  ...Are people going to kneel? Like what?  ...I predict Trump leaves before halftime. Anyway now it is time for a phone call for a segment that we call Long Distance.   This is where we call a listener somewhere out in the world and talk to them about their week and what is going on in their neck of the woods. Today on the line we are talking to a listener from Virginia Beach because of all places there is a massive explosive snowstorm in Virginia Beach this week. This listener is a realtor named Jeremy Caleb Johnson . Jeremy you there?  I am here.  You are on the phone with me and two of my friends Kelly and Karen.  Hey.  Hi Jeremy.  Hello everyone.  So what is the weather like out there right now?  You know for a place that has beach in the name it should not be this cold or have this much snow on the ground. Looking outside right now my street is still just packed with snow.  How much snow?  Here in my - well some parts of our area here in southeastern Virginia got about 11 inches.  Wow.  And that is...  Wow.  ...Absolutely ridiculous for  this part of the state.  So this might not be Virginia Beach's first blizzard. But I do believe it is the first time we have been calling whatever's going on down there a bomb cyclone. Do you know what that even is? Because I am not quite sure.  Please help us.  You know I do not know. My wife leaves for snow days and she is saying that this is the bomb.   From my advanced research from what I can understand it is called a bomb cyclone - or correct me Brent - a bombogenesis. Is that what it is?  What?  A bombogenesis.  It is called - bombogenesis I think. It is called that because...  That sounds like...  ...The pressure inside these storm cells falls so fast that it gives the storm this explosive strength. That is why. I am not going to go any more into it but that is why.  .  And this storm so far has led to literally thousands of canceled flights on the East Coast lows of negative 35 degrees in some areas record coastal flooding. I have even heard - and you tell me if you saw this too Jeremy Caleb Johnson - it is so cold water from the tide on the beach will come up on the sand and freeze before it goes back out.  Yeah I have seen that on the news but I have not ventured outside.   Smart man.  I do not have thermal flip-flops to wear.  I do not think any of us do.   But I have seen videos on Facebook and the local news from the Outer Banks N.C. and here Virginia Beach on the coast where yeah the water is sort of you know not even rolling up onto the beach like a regular wave does. It is sort of just shoving sheets of ice...  Oh my goodness.  ...You know and chunks across the beach. And yeah it takes a lot for that salt water to freeze. So...  Oh yeah. So it is really cold.  Yeah it is pretty significant.  OK. So then of all this stuff this week what is the weirdest thing you have seen? Like what is the craziest bombogenesis bomb cyclone thing you have seen this week?  You know I think it is still the people that are trying to get to work or venturing out on the highways when they really should not. I saw a news story this morning here from the local paper where the U.S. Navy which is our biggest employer in this part of the state ceased all maritime traffic and operations for the naval bases here. And...  That is a big deal.  ...You know if the Navy is smart enough to stay off the roads I think you know the rest of us should too. And you know I am fortunate you know mostly self-employed as it were so I get to work from home. And I do not have to go out in this. My wife works for a local university. They closed.  OK.  You know so we are fortunate in that regard. And I know some people got to get out there but it is just not safe.  It is not safe. So then you are going to have a weekend. You and your wife may be holed up in the house. What are your plans for your weekend?  Well I have made chili. I am making beef stew now.  Oh.  We have cleaned out a closet changed the sheets on the bed...   I like this.  ...Doing a little more extra laundry. We might actually start to dust things if it goes on too long.  So I must ask you - as a Texan everyone has a secret ingredient for their chili what is your chili secret ingredient? You can tell me.  Well just between...  It will will be a secret on the radio.  Just between you and me. Just us.  Yeah. Yeah just the two of us.  A little bit of cinnamon.  I like that. I am going to try that.  Yeah.  Is that Texas OK?  I mean I am cool with it.  All right. Well good. It is Texas OK.  All right. Jerry Caleb Johnson thank you so much for your time today. Stay warm. Stay dry. Send some chili my way.  I will do my best. I will put a stamp on it and put it in the mail right now.  All right man. Have a great weekend.  Thanks so much. Take care.  Bye.  Bye.  Bye.  Everyone does though have a secret chili ingredient.  Really?  Some folks do coffee.  Sometimes several.  Oh.  I made...  I guess I do not make enough chili.  ...So I made beef stew this week. And I crowdsourced Twitter to say what do I add to it?  And?  Fish sauce.  Yes umami.  Oh yeah that gives it umami.  Umami.  Umami.  It is also...  Wait. Was that a good use of your digital time...  .  ...Is what I want - now I am policing you.  I had food that I could eat.  I am policing you.  Yes because it resulted in something concrete.  Now every story that you tell me in 2018...  Yes. Was this a good use of your digital time?  ...That is related to the Internet - I am going to be like now Sam...   Now Sam...  Now Sam...  Listeners I want to talk to you for this segment chili or nah. If you want us to give you a call and talk about anything going on where you live drop us a note. Tell me what is happening. I am at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. Also just send me your chili recipes. I am cool with that.  Go ahead. Yeah.  Do it. Yeah.   Now it is time for our main story. We are going to talk about an issue that has not really been in the news for the last few weeks but it is still definitely one to watch in 2018 - immigration.  Yes.  Does not it feel like last year it was all immigration?  Yes.  Right?  Yes. But I think 2018...  It is not going to change.  It is not going to change. It is not going to change. This is an issue that like a lot of people care about in a lot of different directions.  Yeah.  And so - yeah.  Immigration is intersectional too.  Oh yeah.  So it is not going to change.  Oh totally totally. And so like let us just recap the last year in immigration. January 2016 Trump puts out his first version of this travel ban. There was chaos at every airport.  So begins the saga of the travel bans.  Right?  Yes yes.  And so we are now on version three.  Right.  Then after that there was the wall. Trump kept saying he was going to build it. There were prototypes that popped up in San Diego. Then in September Trump announced that he is going to roll back the DACA program. This is Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. He - and he basically said Congress you figure it out.  Right.  So 2017 was a year of big change in immigration policy. But it feels like - at least in these first few days of this new year - we are talking about it less.  Well attempts at big change right?  Yeah.  I mean Trump hit a wall - sorry...  .  She is going to leave.  ...Every time like you know the court stopped his - you know his plans and...  And is not he still being challenged like right now this minute?  Oh yeah.  Yeah.  And you know there is - actually you know going back to this Michael Wolff book that is so explosive this week about the Trump administration there is some...  Are you getting a cut of this Kelly? You know...    I am sorry. But there is some...  Like 5 percent will go to Kelly McEvers?  There is a lot of juicy tidbits in here. And one of them is early early on in the Trump administration you know there was an attempt to bring the Mexican president Enrique Pena Nieto to Trump. But early on before things completely fell apart - and there is this sense from the book and I want to get more details from this - from Michael Wolff on this. But that the idea was like let us just all make this big immigration agreement where Mexico looks like it is paying for the wall. But you know I think this confirms I think a lot of the things some of us were thinking about the wall that like you know we are going to build a wall and Mexico's going to pay for it - I think it is starting to show...  Yeah.  ...That some of that was rhetoric.  It is true.  So that will be a really interesting thing to watch I think in 2018.  And all of those stories that we outlined from 2017 - they are still issues in 2018.  Sure.  Very much so.  Just to update all of us you know - in early December the Supreme Court allowed Donald Trump's third version of that travel ban to go into effect.  That is right. That is right.  And a lot of folks do not realize right now the ban's in effect.  Yes.  There is a travel ban in effect.  Yes.  It applies to citizens of Iran...  Right.  ...Libya Syria Yemen Somalia Chad and North Korea and some people from Venezuela.  And we have heard some interesting you know conversations about Iranians in particular.  Yes.  Here you have the Trump administration saying we stand with the Iranian people who are currently - have been protesting this week.  But you cannot come here.  Yeah you cannot actually come. You know we would not welcome you to the United States.  Well and then it is like - I mean Karen you were there in LA when there were protests over the first travel ban all over LAX.  Oh the airports were totally locked up. I mean...  If the ban is happening now why are not they still protesting?  Because I think there is probably confidence - and I think it is not unfounded confidence - that there will be pushback at the state and local level that will tie things up in the court enough that it will not be imminent. It is hard to believe that it was only a year ago but this time last year - literally almost to the day...  Airport - they were shut down. Airports were shut down.  I agree and...  The airport was shut down. And what some people told us - because we did a podcast episode on it - was that the thing that they found most heartening was the number of non-Muslims who came out.  You know it is interesting if you think about a year ago though it was right after the Women's March there was a ton of momentum.  There was some fervor in the air yeah.  You had this feeling - the resistance. You know after a third iteration of this travel ban you have to wonder if there is a little news fatigue.  Yeah.  If you are like wait do I protest or is the court going to do it? Like I do not know. And I think the administration's kind of counting on that right? The people are kind of losing - they are losing interest to some degree.  Well that was a lot to happen in a year. I was listening to - you know a lot of the shows did roundups of what went on in 2017. And I was listening to one of them on the way to work and I kept listening and I thought all this stuff happened last year?  Oh yeah. You know what I found the most fascinating around the time of the first rollout of the travel ban - in spite of all the protests at all these airports across the country the first wave of polling about America's response to that ban - about 50 percent were for it.  Yeah.  This is the thing about immigration right? This is the thing about immigration that I think the Republicans and the Trump base are counting on. I mean this is you know something going back to old Steve Bannon.  Yeah. People might not say it but they think some things.  ...Knew that resonates with people.  Yeah.  This is something that matters. And this is something that I am watching so closely in 2018. What are the Democrats going to do with that? What are they going to do with that? You know because when you talk about how immigrants are stealing our jobs or immigrants are you know affecting our towns like what I think we should do is get down and interrogate that. Is that true?  Yeah.  You know some of the best journalism I think going on right now is like in this Iowa town where there is a meatpacking plant and people from Laos and Mexico and the Philippines...  Yeah who has it hurt or helped?  ...Are doing these jobs. A do you want these jobs? B has it hurt the town or has it helped the town?  Exactly.  These are some questions to ask.  But that is not what people are really worried about. I am - you know call me a cynic. Jobs - yeah sure. It would be nice. Basically - I am trying to think of a polite way to say this.  It is the changing face of their communities.  The browning face of their communities. They are worried that America is no longer going to be the sort of Euro-descended-majority country that it was a hundred years ago. And it is not. Even if they closed all the borders...  Right.  ...And kicked everybody out...  Too late.  It is not - it is too late. The ship has sailed. And so the question is can you adjust to the fact that your future is going to look different than you thought?  Yeah.  And can you do something to make that future better?  You know another story that was big for a while last year and then kind of fell off the radar - DACA.  Yeah.  I think they are still waiting for Congress to have a fix for this.  Right.  And I - you know there was a lot of rhetoric that like oh it is good till March. It is good till March. Actually at this point every week hundreds if not thousands of DACA recipients lose their status.  Fall off yep.  And right now we are up to about 14000 DACA recipients who are now in limbo until Congress or the president acts on this issue. So I called up Joel Rose an NPR reporter.  Nice.  ...Who covers immigration.  Yep.  And I was like Joel what should we expect in 2018? He said a few things. One expect public interest to stay where it is at. He said two expect all this stuff to be in court throughout the year. And we have already seen that. One appeals court has already said that Trump's travel ban is outside of his authority. A second court's going to rule on the ban soon. And then the appeal will most likely for sure go to the Supreme Court. We will see court challenges on the status of sanctuary cities and their federal funding.  Yep.  We will see court challenges from DACA recipients. So the place to look if you want to see where the change is on immigration this year is probably not in the streets but in the courts.  Right and one other thing though I think that is going to be interesting too is ICE and where arrests and raids are happening.  Exactly.  We are hearing some talk that there might be workplace raids in 2018. These are things that we know when they happen - I mean you want to see people protest...  Oh yeah.  ...And get angry about stuff - but there is some talk. I mean we at Embedded we have been talking about like getting out and getting on the ground with ICE agents and doing some of these arrests. And the word - what we are hearing is like all right we are going to be going to workplaces next.  That is something.  So look out for that.  One phrase I do think that we are going to hear more of in 2018 is chain migration. Now Donald Trump and his team have been using this phrase more often. They describe it as a policy that basically means if you are here in the U.S. as an immigrant you can bring members of your family here too. The Trump administration - they paint this picture of giant families moving here after just one person comes. But it is really not like that. Only spouses and minor children are relatively easy to get in. And for aunts and uncles and cousins it can take decades. And that is still only a fraction of the majority of immigrants who come to the U.S. every year. That said historically the policy has not been called chain migration. It is been called family unification.  Exactly.  And in getting ready for the show Brent and I discovered a really interesting tidbit about family unificationchain migration. It was never ever ever meant to diversify...  No.  ...America.  No.  It was not. So I...  It was actually meant to do the opposite.  Exactly.  Right. It was like to let more European...  Europeans in - yeah.  Yes.  ...Immigrants bring their families.  Oh yeah. So I talked with Tom Gjelten NPR reporter who is written a whole book about it. And I was like Tom give me the history on chain migration. So - got to go back to where it started - 1965 the Immigration Act began this policy. And the Immigration Act of '65 was a reaction to some of the cultural trends of the moment aka the peak of the civil rights movement.  Yep.  ...When lots of Americans and the world community were saying your immigration policy is racist. And at that point the policy of the U.S. for immigration - it was determined by national origin. And they gave priority to those from northern and western Europe basically keeping America as white as possible. So they knew they had to change that. And so as a compromise Tom Gjelten told me that to keep the demographics the same - keep them white - they added chain migration to this new act.  So this guy Michael Feighan a congressman from Ohio came up with the idea of giving priority to those immigrants who already had relatives in the country. His thinking was that if you prioritized immigrant candidates who already had relatives here you would get basically the same population you already have. In fact the American Legion which was a very close ally of his called this idea a naturally operating national origin system.  So that idea totally backfired because Tom told me Feighan and his allies they assumed that the folks that wanted to come to America in 1964 would always be the same people who had come previously - Europeans. Turns out that changed.  But by the late 1960s there was really no