 Photographer Randee St. Nicholas first met Prince in 1991. She had no idea what to expect when she met him. But she does recall his first words to her.  And he walked up the stairs and he looked at me. And he said hi I am Prince.  We know .  And I said really?  .  As if you would mistake him for someone else.  There were scheduled to do a photo shoot together - their first one together - and Randee was very nervous.  I love shooting so it is kind of where I lose myself. So I never feel that way. But for him I was a little bit nervous because the mystique of him is he may not talk to you he might leave before you get his - ever take his picture.  She had to find a way to you know lock in with Prince get on the same page with him very quickly. To do that she set the mood with a simple mixtape.  Jimi Hendrix was the first music on the tape.  Which Jimi Hendrix song?  I think it was The Watchtower .   And I was in the zone. I kind of got all these plants and just put some fans on him so it looked like it was part of the studio environment. And I told him to stand in the center. And that first picture is the first picture I ever took of him. He looked directly at me. The rest of the day was just some kind of magic. I was in some kind of other world.  Randee ended up shooting Prince that day for almost five hours.  I mean it was like we would worked together for years already. It was so comfortable. And he was such an incredible being that you feel like at the same time you are looking at him he is looking at you. And I know everyone that is ever had that kind of connection with him feels exactly the same as I do. He sees you.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. On this episode of the show more stories like that one. We talked to Prince's photographer Randee St. Nicholas. She caught Prince at his highest from sold-out shows around the world to his most vulnerable - late at night in hotel rooms - to his sexiest like directing the music video in 1991 for the extremely provocative Prince song Gett Off. Randee has published photos of a lot of these moments in a new book called My Name Is Prince. All right. Let us get to some more stories behind those pictures right now. But first if you are wondering whether Prince liked that music that Randee chose for that first photo shoot together...  When he went to leave he looked back at me when he was walking away. And he said - by the way great music.  More after the break. Heads-up - when we come back there will be a discussion of sex and suggestive lyrics around that Prince song I mentioned earlier Gett Off. All right. Be right back.   I read that there was one particular photo of Prince that you shared with L.A. Reid after Prince's death that was the inspiration for this book.  Yep.  What is that photo?  It is a photo in the burned-out building of him sitting at a piano.  You cannot just say that and not tell the story.   How did you and Prince and a big old black piano end up in a burned-out building?  Well...  .  I was driving down Beverly Boulevard in Hollywood one morning. I want to say maybe like '93...  OK.  ...Or something like that.  And so you are driving through West LA.  I am driving down the street and I come to a stop light. And I look over and I see this building has smoke kind of wafting off of the rafters.  OK. So you see a building on fire and say...  Yeah.  ...Art.  And I look at it. And as soon as the light changes I just turn and drive down the street and park my car and got out and walked in.  OK.  And there were no flames. There was just like this smoke. And it sort of - I thought to myself wow it must have been on fire last night or the firemen must have just left. And as I was there I had one of those first cellphones. And it rang in my bag and I opened up the phone. And it is Prince. And he goes Randee hi. It is me. Right - I know who it is .  Yeah I know.  He goes what are you doing? And I go well I just saw this building I think was just on fire. And it is got smoke coming from the rafters. And it would be so great to shoot you with a baby grand piano here.  OK OK OK OK - that jump.  Yeah.  I see a lot of burned-out buildings. I have seen a lot of them in my day . I never think something like that.  You might now.  Yes. What about the space and the way it looked and felt made you say - oh this needs to be a Prince photo shoot?  Because it was just an incredible building. Like - and you could see the sky and the smoke was still there. And it had all these beams everywhere. And the way the light came in - and he goes all right. Call Studio Instrument Rentals. Get a piano over there and I will meet you there in about an hour.  He shows up.  He shows up...  What happens?  ...Thank goodness late 'ecause...  .  Think about it.  Yeah you had to set up.  I had to get the cameras get an assistant over there. And so I got it all together. And he - the way he is in the picture is how he came walking in. His...  Let us look at them because you have them. What page are they on?  Yes. Let us see.  Burned-out building - Page 104. Oh my God. I looked at this earlier. But seeing it again it is like - there is this one shot you have. He is wearing that Prince outfit with the lacy Seinfeld blouse.  Yeah.  And he is at this big old baby grand piano.  Yeah.  What was the first song he played on the piano in the burned-out building?  He played just some kind of classical jazz that I would never heard.  Really?  He might have been composing something I do not know. But it was this kind of haunting music that just echoed through the building.  Really?  Yep.  Did he ever play any of his songs at the piano there?  No.  Really?  Nope. And he did not sing.  He did not sing.  He just sat down and played this amazing music.   The experience was kind of haunting. And it was emotional. And it was really introspective. And the music he was playing was just really beautiful and kind of ethereal.   I want to find this building now and see what happened to it.  So I went back the next night thinking this will be an incredible night landscape. It was a full moon. And I thought I would love to just shoot this building by itself at night. And it was completely boarded up - no way to get in.  Stop. Stop.  Gone.  So had you not done it that day...  Had we not done it that day - had I not been there that moment after the firemen had left where I could sneak in and shoot it - and you know that is the story of Prince. If you can hang and be spontaneous and show up wherever and whenever with some kind of inspiration there are these moments that can never be duplicated.  Hearing you talk about how good he was at being photographed and how game he was to do it I have also read that he never allowed people to actually have pictures of himself or photos of himself.  Yeah.  Why? . That is interesting.  I mean the same reason he did not like to have his music played on all the new ways that people play music these days.  Yeah.  You know a lot of people think that people that are powerful and charismatic like that are control freaks. But it really was not about that. I mean Prince lived his music. I mean this was him. This is who he was. And so I think it was private to him in some ways. And it became public when he decided to play live when he made albums. That was his way of sharing it with the rest of the world. And I think he wanted to - the respect from everyone of being able to decide when that would be.  I miss him so much. Oh my goodness. I want to talk about a song of Prince's for which you directed the music video. Anjuli we are going to pull this up. It is a little ditty called Gett Off.   I want to pull it up play it a bit and have you talk me through that whole experience because it seemed like it was a riot.  .   .   Yeah.  So this song - this was like raunchy Prince.  It was raunchy.  And you directed the video for it. How raunch-tastic  was that video shoot?  Well it was my first video I ever directed...  Oh OK. OK.  ...First of all. He literally forced me to do it even when I said I do not think I want to be a director. He said yes you do.  OK.  In the beginning he says I want you to direct this video. It is a song called Gett Off.    All I want to do is wrong - gett off.  Twenty-three positions in a one-night stand.  And he said someone from the record company's going to call you and put it all together. And I said OK. So the person from the record company called me and said there is no way we are doing a music video for this song.  .  We are not putting this song out. So I am just telling you right now.  Wow.  And I said OK. Thank you. And I hung up. And like 20 minutes later Prince calls me goes - so how did your conversation go? I said well here's what he said. . And I told him. And he said I will call you right back in five. So in five minutes the same person from the record company called me back and said correction - we are going forward with that song...  .  ...And we are doing the music video.  Yeah.  Prince had this idea based on the movie Caligula...  OK.  ...Which is a movie - I do not know if you have seen it...  I have not.  ...Set in Roman times.  OK.  And it is all about a group of people's sexuality let us say.  OK.  It is pretty avant-garde and ahead of its time. The set was the - many floors of all these different rooms with people having sex people making out people drinking wine people eating grapes. And it was a...  Like a bacchanal.  Yes.  OK.  Very much. And when I got there I walked into Paisley Park. I would never been there before. And all these people came running up to me - extras saying we will get naked on set.  .  We will have sex on set if you want. We will have - make out with people of our same sex if you like.  What did he coach them to be doing on this set? .  Well first...  Lord.  ...I was just - I go to myself I am a legitimate photographer.  Yeah.  Am I - am I making a porn film?  .  Am I in Hollywood? I mean I am in Minnesota.  .  I just did not expect it to be this...  Raunchy.  ...Well free. I looked at it...  Yeah that is the word for it.  Prince he would sort of have an outline of what he wanted. We would talk about it a bit. But then he sort of just gave you the freedom. And he was so great at being spontaneous.  Was there any stuff where you were like stop that? I will not photograph it. I will not record that. Stop.  No .  OK .  I figured I am there I am going for it .  OK. Were you pleased with the video?  Yeah. I mean - the video when I left Paisley was different than the video that actually aired because he kept working on it after I left. See I did not know this about him then but he would always try to make little tweaks and changes without me on some of the projects.  Uh-oh. Were you OK with that?  No - because I felt that - he once told me that I was going to be the person who was going to change how he was perceived visually. And I never felt that his visuals lived up to his music - not that any visuals could really live up to his music. But I felt like his visuals could have more depth and more of him...  Yeah.  ...After I knew him...  Yeah.  ...The him that I knew. And so I was never happy when he made changes - two of the projects we worked on - without me. But most of the time he would call me to fix them in the end anyway.  OK.  So...  Because of the changes he made he could not finish it himself.  Well 'ecause he said - oh they did not match the lighting that you did. Or something's wrong with the color. Can you fix them? And so...  Bring in the pros.  So you know we would eventually come around to meet in the middle .   All right. One final break here - when we come back Randee tells me about the time Prince played at Coachella and shocked the audience into silence with a cover song that he loves. All right. Be right back.   You are an artist working with another artist. You both have visions. You both are good at your jobs. How do you make peace with an end result of a thing that you were a big part of not being exactly what you wanted?  You let it go because there is other projects to do. And also I sometimes think that when someone else collaborates with us our vision can become better 'ecause we get stuck in our own ways. And I think this is one of the things I learned from Prince so much is one to be able to let go and just kind of flow with whatever was happening at the moment even if - I am a perfectionist obviously. I am a photographer. So lighting is hugely important to me and composition. But when you are working with a lot of artists things change all the time. And they are not standing where you want them to stand. Especially if you are directing live action they are moving all over the place.  They are moving and grooving.  And I would really - whenever I would shoot him live I wished I could just tell him to hold still for a second so I could get the exact picture - you know I mean? - that sort of...  No one tells Prince to hold still though.  No.   And you do not really tell Prince what to do. You do not - he does not need direction. But what I would try to do was whatever he was going to do make it better and capture it in the light he called - he used to call my light the light we deserve. So I would try to capture it in the light he deserved.  Show me the - tell me the page in this book that has a photo that best shows the light he deserved.  Many .  Pick one out and let us talk about it.  Oh my goodness.  I mean they are all good.  Pick one out?  They are all good. Oh this one's good.  Which one?  This one.  Oh yeah.  Where is that?  That is in the Dorchester Hotel in London.  Describe it for our listeners that cannot see it.  It is Prince coming down a really spectacular curved staircase. And that was his own staircase that led to his own room which was the sultan of Brunei's suite...  Oh.  ...At the top of the Dorchester Hotel in London.  Wow. And like he is - so visually he is stunning. He is wearing this epic little peacoat and he is got this faint goatee. There is a chandelier beside him. But his hair is slicked back.  Mmm hmm.  You rarely see him like that.  Never. That is the only time I have ever seen him like that and I shot a few pictures that night with his hair like that.  Why do you think he was doing that look? I love that.  I mean why was he doing any of the looks?  .  Think about - this is like basically a hair book...  Yeah  - yes yes.  ...If you start from the beginning to end. You see the many hairs of Mr. P.  What was he like that night in this shoot at this hotel going down this staircase of this fancy suite. What - go back to that night if you can recall it.  Well in London in general he was very kind of quiet during that. Maybe it is because he performed 21 nights in a row for maybe four hours a night - and then every night afterwards would do an after show for three maybe hours.  Oh my goodness.  So maybe that is why he was quiet .  Yeah. Yeah I could see that.  But that particular night was one of the many nights where we would shoot from - let us say he did all those shows. He would get back to the hotel maybe at like 3 or 4 in the morning. And then we would shoot until 9 or 10 in the morning stills.  Wow.  Yeah. And we did that pretty much every single night.  Would you still play music doing those shoots?  No. In - we would - 'ecause we would be shooting around the hotel when everybody else was asleep.  Oh. .  And so - no we were like tiptoe like little elves .  Really? If you could play music for this shoot where he is coming down this regal staircase with his hair slicked back what Prince song would you play for that moment?  Maybe like - because there was another shot that I did at a piano that was Elton John's piano that he gave to them...  Wow.  ...Maybe it would be something more like Purple Rain.  I like that. I mean it is always a good time to play Purple Rain - always a good time.  Well because it - again it was - that night was really really intimate. The pictures were really - had a certain kind of mood to them as you can see.  Yeah.  He leaned on the piano and he played. And the piano was in this very small room at the back of the Dorchester Hotel. And a lot of people do not even think - know the room is there and Elton John donated this beautiful piano that was made out of cut mirrors. And he was particularly quiet that night.  Can you recall what he played there at the piano? I am like seeing him now leaning over this mirrored piano looking at himself in the piano. It is beautiful.  A lot of times he would not play his music.  What do you think that was about?  And maybe it was his music that he was just writing. But he - he would just play music and not - he never was one to really just sit down and sing and play music - in my presence anyway. I mean he did that at home when he would have little - sometimes late at night you would get an invitation to go to his house at like 1 or 2 in the morning.  Stop.  And there would be maybe like 10 people there.  Stop.  And he would play music all night and play some of...  Stop.  ...His songs. And he would play Sly. And he would play Radiohead and all kinds of...  I have heard that he loved to cover Radiohead's Creep.  He did it at Coachella.    When I was here before you could not look me in the eye...  It was mind-blowing. And that Coachella crowd is the perfect crowd for a song like that because there was so much alternative music at the same time. They ate that up. I was shooting standing on my little apple boxes in the middle of 60000 people.  So you were at the Coachella set.  Yeah. I - there is a whole section on Coachella pictures that had never been seen before that are in the book. And when he played that song everyone went silent. There was 60000 people there - 'ecause I think they were just blown away...  That he was doing that.  ...That he was doing that song.  So at Coachella that night you write that he played past his time. He did a bunch of encores and he was about to get fined like a 100000 because they got to shut that stuff down at a certain hour.  Yeah.  What was that like? He just blows past the post?  He got there when he got there. He played as long as he wanted to. And you know being backstage with the promoters and people who are very nervous and thinking about money when Prince had not shown up yet - his private plane had not gotten there - they were pacing around back there. And they were really nervous. And they are - everyone's like is he going to show up? When is he going to show up? Once he was onstage I think they were so mesmerized by his music and everything.  He is like a Pied Piper.  Yeah.  Everything else fades away.  Yeah everything fades away. I do not know if they ever fined him. He went past the deadline...  I am sure he did yeah .  ...'ecause he does not know about those things. He does not...  I mean does he even believe in time? .  No I do not think he does. And so - but I - so I do not know if they ever fined him or not. I do not know whatever happened. But everyone seemed euphoric...  Really?  ...Back there while he was performing. So it - you know...  What do you - so you have got this book of photos. You have spent so much time with this man. You have told me some stories just now that kind of give me a peek into his world. But I think my last question for you is like - you know for fans like me and for other folks hearing this show who feel as if we have known Prince for decades now because he is been in our consciousness but do not really know him what is one thing you know about Prince from your time with him that we should know about him too that we do not know already?  He had this ability to be deadpan and just say the most remarkable things and then wait to see everybody's reaction. I mean his humor kind of led him through his life. And I think it is an important thing to know about him because everyone feels that he is this dark mysterious character. And he is. But he was also incredibly light funny warm. He mentored so many other artists.  Artists that we are still listening to today.  Yes.  He mentored Janelle Monae. Did not he co-sign Lizzo before she really blew up?  Mmm hmm.  Like all of these artists that are in our consciousness - he stanned Beyonce for years. Like he had his finger on the pulse up until the end.  Yeah he really did. And I think that he honored talent. And I think a lot of people think when you become an artist like that where you are adored by the world that you are not conscious of other people - that it becomes a very self-centered world. But he actually was the opposite of that. He really honored and mentored talent. And it is something that he did up until the very end of his life.  I love it. To close what is your favorite Prince song?  There is a song that he did years ago that he wrote and a girl named Martika did it. And it is called Love... Thy Will Be Done.    Love thy will be done. I can no longer hide. I can no longer run. No longer can I...  What do you think the song is saying to us?  Do not ask me that .  Why not?  I would not even begin to try to interpret Prince's lyrics. But I feel like - one of the things I love about this song is you feel his sensitivity in a completely different way - in a quiet way.  Will you remember him quiet rambunctious loud? How do you remember him? When you - like what is the image that comes up in your mind the most when you think of him now?  I think of him laughing at me...   ...All the time...   ...'ecause he used a roll his eyes just like - oh my goodness Randee what next? Now what are you doing? Now what are you making me do? So I remember a very joyful side of him.  I love that. And I love that you shared that with us this book full of photographs. I love it. I miss him so much.  Oh me too.  Thank you for this.  Thank you.   Thanks again to photographer Randee St. Nicholas. You can see a few of the photos that we talk about from her book which is called My Name Is Prince. Those photos are on our website at npr.org. The book is out now wherever you get your books. This episode was produced by Anjuli Sastry and edited by Kitty Eisele. Listeners back in your feeds Friday for our Weekly Wrap. As we depart now I want to share my Prince story you all - the time I went to a super secret surprise Prince show and got kicked out. Here's that story. Talk to you soon.   It was probably five or six years ago and he was doing a few little pop-up shows. And like he would announce them the day before and tickets would go out and you could go. And he was doing one - I want to say - at the Palladium downtown. And one of my colleagues through some of his contacts got two tickets but he could not go. So he ended up giving them to me and another colleague - my good friend and colleague Shereen Meraji who hosts a separate NPR podcast. But we go to the concert and I am just so kicked out so ready for it. And so he comes on with the band. And of course it is magical. He has a full band a 12-piece horn section - I counted it. And he is leading that band like no one's business while also singing all the things playing the piano going back and forth between the guitar and this and that. It is amazing. And so I am taking these photos. I am loving the concert. And eventually I am like I want to get some video of this. So I start shooting a little video on my iPhone. I am like this is going to be great. And before I know it this big Suge Knight-looking bodyguard lifts me in the air takes me all the way out from the front of the venue near the stage outside - does not say a word. I am too scared to say a word. I am just like - . And as I am being tossed out I was like what happened? What was the matter? What did I do? And he says you cannot take no videos of Prince. And I am like I did not know. So anyways that happens. But as I am being dragged out I tell my friend Shereen - I was like you stay. You do not leave. One does not leave a Prince show. So once I get kicked out I just go to my car I sit in my driver's seat and I take a nap. And I say she will get back when she gets back. She got back to my car probably around 1 or 2 a.m. ...  Yeah exactly.  ...Because he played that long.  Yeah.  And still even though I was literally ejected from this concert that show was the best concert of my life.  