  Hey you all. I am Sam Sanders from NPR It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy new year to you. I hope you are enjoying some collard greens and black eyed peas. We took some time off the show this week for the holidays. So what we have for you today is a great episode to hear or re-hear. It is a chat from 2017 with Jenifer Lewis. You might know Jenifer Lewis from Black-ish. She plays the grandmother Ruby Johnson on that show. But this role was just the latest in her long amazing career that has spanned decades on TV and in movies and on Broadway. We spoke about Jenifer Lewis' memoir. It is called The Mother Of Black Hollywood. And it is called that because Jenifer has played the mother of basically every black actor in the biz. When Tupac was in Poetic Justice Jenifer Lewis played his character's mom.    I as not got to be doing this Post Office  forever.   Do not be cussing around me boy. Who do you think I am one of your friends? Be glad you got an honest job.  When Whitney Houston was in The Preacher's Wife she played her character's mom.    All right well Mama you can look at me from behind.   Girl do not be talking to me about your behind. I gave you that behind.   When Angela Bassett played Tina Turner in What is Love Got To Do With It yeah Jenifer played Tina's mom there too. And of course along the way she has worked with Janet Jackson and Denzel Washington. And you definitely know that she played Will Smith's Aunt Helen on The Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air.    You know how some men are animals in bed?   Yes.   Well I do not.   Anyway when Jenifer Lewis and I sat down we had a conversation that was wide-ranging and fun but also touched on some adult themes. So parents out there listening might not be a good one to play if there are kids around. All right. Here's me and Jenifer Lewis talking in New York City in 2017.   For younger folks that might just be getting to know you through Black-ish they might not know that you had a long career on Broadway.   Yes I did.  What are - you did so many shows.  I did Eubie! on Broadway with the Hines brothers Comin' Uptown with Gregory Hines and then Hairspray.  Yeah. And you had a bunch of one-woman shows.  Yes of course.  And you had some cabaret acts.  Yeah I have toured in concert all over the world.  That is so amazing.  People do not know me as a singer.  Yeah.  But they are now because of the Internet.  Yeah. The thing with the Broadway stuff that I love you know people forget even if you were not getting the role you were paving the way. Like you pretty much piloted Effie White for Dreamgirls.  Yes I did.  You made that role.  Yes I did.  So much so that they still had to pay you once what is her face got it.  Oh yeah. Well Michael Bennett was a genius.  Yeah.  He started this whole thing where he would workshop a production before you went into rehearsal for Broadway. And if you were part of that workshop even if you did not get the role when it went to Broadway you would be paid...  Yeah.  ...You know a percentage.  And you were workshopping Effie White for the...  Absolutely I was one of the original Effie Whites and they - Jennifer Holliday was fired. I was hired. And then they hired her back. Honey let me tell you something. I could sing. But nobody could sing like Jennifer Holliday. So...  But I would love to hear you sing. I mean you could sing that song.  Yeah I could. I could.  You could sing that song.  Well today I would have to lower the key.  That is all right. That is all right.   But no I sang it a couple of times.  Yeah yeah.  But usually it is just as a joke you know?  Yeah. I love how in the book which we will talk more about in length you talk about almost - at many points in your career - having too many talents. And folks were like well what are you? Are you a singer a dancer a comic?  In those days you had to be one thing...  Yes.  ...So they could market you as a...  And you could dance. You could sing. You could do Broadway. You were classically trained.  I was funny. I was pretty. Oh my God I was a classical actress. I had my B.A. in theatre arts from Webster University. And I came to New York shoulders back  first. I was unafraid. I really did.  Yes madam.  My first review in New York City - the headline was Hurricane Lewis Hits New York.  Look at that.  I had been a hurricane all my life. And that was of course because I was bipolar and did not know it. And I was you know the mania took control. When you are on stage and when you are performing you are heightened and it is an extreme.  Yeah.  It is an unstoppable force mania and then of course the depression came with it also. And it was just as dramatic just as intense. It is a very dangerous disease.  And you did not figure it out until...  No I did not know until...  ...Later in life. How old were you when you...  I was 32 I think when I was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. And of course I did not want to hear that. I am like what are you - I have been crazy all my life. What are you talking about? You have a name for me? You know I am Jenifer Lewis. You are not going to take my edge.  That is just what I do exactly. This makes me me.  You know yeah this is what I do.  Yeah.  But no it had become dangerous. And it was stopping me from what I wanted - what my dream was.  Well 'ecause you would write about having these fits of just crying crying crying nonstop...  Oh yeah I cried all the time.  ...Not being able to get up.  I cried all the time. I stayed in bed under the covers. But when I fell apart at an audition for the show Thirtysomething I will never forget I just - I crumbled.  I remember that scene.  And Peter Horton who was the director he said come on Jenifer you can do this. And I could not. And that is when I really knew I was in trouble. Something was wrong.  Yeah. One of the things that you write about in the book is that that thing that was wrong would manifest itself in - how should I phrase it? - you had a lot of sex.  Oh yeah. Well I had a sex addiction.  OK.  You know my drug of choice was sex. And thank God it was sex. And thank God you know I was not doing coke because you put that coke on top of that mania oh it is over. So when I asked somebody how do you do it? They would pass around coke. And I said how do you do it? He said well you just snort it. I said well then what happens? And he said well then you feel a drip down your throat. I said my throat? I said listen fool I have a matinee tomorrow. As not...  I have got to sing.  Look as not  going down my throat you know but some rest so I can get that ovation tomorrow.  Yeah.  But here's the thing. The sex worked as - what can I tell you? The intensity in your depression with that disease - with this disease bipolar disorder the depression is as intense as the mania. So I used a gorgeous guy to have sex with to bring me down. It was the night-cap. It settled me. Well as not that the purpose of an orgasm? Come on now you all. Come on now let us keep it real in these streets.  .  But of course it was excessive in my case.  Yeah well you write about having like sometimes in one night a few suitors.  Well OK...  Hey listen I am not shaming you.  Well actually there were five at one point. But no I am just kidding just kidding. I was not crazy crazy. I mean after all I had...  You were in control.  Yeah.  I admire like every time - like it was on your terms.  I chose the where when how.  Yeah.  Oh yeah I was a big old control freak. I did not know it.  Yeah.  But I had to - when you are out of control inside you create that world for yourself.  And so you start to work with your therapist Rachel.  I went and got into therapy.  Rachel sounds awesome.  Yes Rachel was...  Rachel gave you some tough love.  Honey Rachel is fabulous. Rachel do not play honey. You can imagine - you know you know she went to her shrink right after my sessions.  .  You know damn well she planned her session right after me honey 'ecause I came in the Hurricane Lewis.  Yeah.  You know but I tell people you have to have patience.  Well because you write about how it was not just like you got the diagnosis and then things were great. It was a process. Talk about that process.  Well first of all I had to get there. You do not want to go because you are dealing with those deep dark secrets. And I of course since then I have come to the conclusion that we are as sick as our secrets.  Yeah you write that.  You know there is no shame in my game baby. I tell it all.  This book you tell it all.  I lay it on the slab. I lay it on the slab. Yeah I did it.  You name names.  I did it.  You name names. There was one point I was like Jon Voight girl.  That is right. Would I do it again? I most certainly will.  .  Yeah Jon Voight and I had you know a one-night stand. It was wonderful. Look he was a gentleman.  Yes.  He was - you know we talked. We went on a handsome carriage ride through Central Park. We met up at Studio 54.  I love it.  And it you know what can I tell you? I had my midnight cowboy hey.   I got you off track. We were talking about your treatment and that process.  That is OK.  Walk us through briefly those steps to being diagnosed and you know working on it.  OK well I found out. Of course she diagnosed me. And I did not pay any attention to it you know. But I started reading about it. And I had all of the symptoms so I could not deny it.  Yeah.  And I went to a health spa.  OK.  And you know it is wheat grass in every functional hole in your body - you know grass grass grass - you know sprouts and grass. So when I left there I was like I do not need medication. I am fine. Oops cannot get off of it.  Yeah yeah.  So I had a nervous breakdown literally. When I was filming The Temptations I crumbled.  Oh man.  It was the dark night of the soul. And I called my therapist Rachel and I said OK I am ready. I am sick. I am sick...  OK.  ...And will you...  Yeah.  Will you please help me?  Yeah.  And those are the hardest words in the world to say.  Well because you are being so vulnerable in that moment and because so much of your persona that you had built from childhood...  Yeah I was the diva. Oh honey...  And tough and strong and yes...  That was a mask with the tears of a clown. I was the class clown. I was the president. I was the captain of the cheerleading...  You were like class president for how many years?  From seventh grade through 12th.  Yeah.  When I became a senior I only won by one vote.  One vote.  Oh honey I cussed them out.  .  I said where is the loyalty up in here? But...  But yet this strength you know you had to kind of crack that shell.  I was an alpha female. And I had to put up a steel wall because I was so vulnerable. And I wrote a show called The Diva Is Dismissed that helped me take that mask off...  Yeah.  ...And be vulnerable and be human.  So this book is called The Mother Of Black Hollywood in large part because you have played a lot of mother roles.  Oh my God - Tupac Shakur Whitney Houston who else? Oh my God Taraji P. Henson's mother. Oh my God I cannot even think of all them.  You were the mother in What is Love Got To Do With It.  That is right Tina Turner.  And you were - what were you in Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air?  I was Aunt Helen.  Yes.   Everybody loves Aunt Helen oh my God.  Yeah. You did so much. I am sure you must have - what was the favorite mother role?  What is Love Got To Do With It.  Really?  Yes...  Yeah.  ...The Tina Turner biopic because - and I will tell you why.  Yeah.  I had fallen in love right before the movie.  With who?  Oh well he was a young - well he was an Armenian guy. And he was gorgeous. He looked like Richard Gere. And he was - he just loved me. No names. I do not even know - yeah I know his name but we do not need to call his name.  You are right. You are right. Do not call him out.  That is over.  Yes.  He is married with children. But that is who it was. And I was in love. And when you are in love you do not have a lot of fear in you.  Yeah yeah.  There is no room for it in your heart and soul.  Yeah.  So when I arrived on the first day of shooting What is Love Got To Do With It it was two big Zelma Bullock scenes. So I walked in and the house was Zelma's house - all the cable and the cameras. And I stood there I was like - 'ecause it was my first big role in a movie.  Yeah.  And I stood there and I went wow this is all for me.  Yeah.  And I knew I had a big responsibility to deliver a great performance.  And you did.  And because Zelma Bullock Tina Turner's mama was from St. Louis hey...  You felt that role.  ...I gathered up my aunts and my own mother. Honey I created Zelma. And you know I met her years later.  Really?  Tina Turner's...  Yes yes yes.  ...Mother in a health food store.  In a grocery store yeah.  And she hugged me. And she pulled back from me and she said in that Tina Turner - oh my God Tina looks just like her.  Really?  And she had Tina's form. She was very fit for a woman of her age.  Yeah.  And she hugged me. She said - and I understood this 'ecause she was from St. Louis. She said I wanted to be so dressed up when I met you. As not that the sweetest thing in the world?  That is. That is.  Oh my God.  I love that.  It is so sweet.  I love that. So there is so many great stories in this book but I want you for our listeners to talk about the time you got yourself onto the floor of the DNC in Denver to see Barack Obama...  .  ...Receive a nomination from the Democratic Party to be president.  Oh my God. Well they got me a ticket and it was on the top row behind Obama behind the podium.  And you were like we cannot do that.  Oh honey I started carrying on. I was like not on this day.  But even before that you were outside in line.  But I was doing Hairspray on Broadway. I was playing Motormouth Maybelle. It was written by my good friends Scott Wittman and Marc Shaiman. They did the music and lyrics. And I told Hairspray - I said honey a black man is about to accept the nomination to run for president of the United States and I am going. So get my understudy. So I flew up there. I stayed with a friend. You could not get a hotel room.  Yeah.  And I left early because I know when there is...  You know.  Yeah honey...  Yeah it is going to fill up.  ...I am in the theatre. I know to get there. So it was so fun. I got off the bus and 40000 people were in line to get into that stadium. And this very beautiful woman she said Lana Hawkins which was my name in the TV show Strong Medicine...  Strong Medicine yeah.  ...On Lifetime television for women. And I was like Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Somebody knew me. I knew somebody was going to get me in.  Yeah.  Thank God I was famous. Oh my God I was so happy.  But first you had to skip the line.  Yes I had to skip the line honey. And I walked - she said the only way I can get you across this parking lot baby is I have to put you in a wheelchair. So honey I start sliding my right foot like Igor you know Dracula's assistant.  Oh Lord.  Oh yes honey. I put on a performance. And I had to go through security. I kept telling them I am with the Jesse Jackson people. I just told any lie I could think of.  At one point you said that you were Michelle Obama's best friend from college.  Yes. I said oh darling - he said Madam are you a delegate? - because I had sat in the wrong section.  Because at that point you are like on the floor.  Right I am on the floor.  Like in the heat of the action.  Oh my God. And he said Madam are you a delegate? I said oh yes I am one of Michelle Obama's old college friends lying through my teeth. And he looked at me like I as not seen you at none of the parties. I said oh my God. So I saw Jesse Jackson Jr. on the front row.  Yes.  And he was being a politician shaking people's hands. And I touched him on the shoulder. And he turned around and before I could say anything he was like my favorite actress. And he said it is so good to see you. I said Jesse they are getting ready to throw me out because I snuck down here. And he pulled me back by my shoulder looked me in my eye. He said no they are not. Sit down.  And look at that.  Oh my God. So there I was...  Yeah.  Ten feet...  Wow.  Right in front of him in the Illinois section between Jesse Jackson Jr. and Spike Lee...  What?  ...Watching the greatest speech.  Did you think it would have you know - to see that happen in '08. You grew up in a very different America. Did you believe that it could happen?  You know you want the truth?  Yeah.  I voted for Hillary because I did not want my vote to be wasted. This is the first time I am admitting this.  OK.  I thought in myself there is no way...  A lot of folks thought that.  ...They will elect a black man...  With that name.  ...As president of the United States. Obama? No. Now I loved him but I wanted Hillary.  Yeah.  Now and here's how that ended. When I was at Oprah's house I went up behind Michelle. And you know she turned around looked down 'ecause I am so short...  .  ...And the first words she says to me - oh you make us laugh.  Look at that.  That she even knew who I was it was just so wonderful. So when she embraced me I whispered in her ear. I said you know black people do not like me. They love me...  .  ...So put me on the front line for Barack Obama. And she looked at me and she said I am going to hold you to it.  Wow.  And baby I was blessed to meet him at a Christmas party at the White House. You want to know what he said to me?  What'd he say?  OK. OK. Here's what Obama said. And I am going to try to do him.  OK.  .  You can do it. You can do it.  Yeah. He said she plays everybody's mama...  .  ...And sometimes the mean mama.  .  And then he looked around the room and he said but look at her. She is sweet.  .  Oh my God.  She is sweet.  And somebody captured that moment.  I love it.  I am telling you I have never seen my body language - I looked like a 15-year-old girl.  Really? What were you doing?  Gushing.  .  I just could not believe I was looking into his eyes. And I was there at the inauguration too. I could not put every story in the book...  Yes.  ...But it was similar to the convention.   All right. Time for a break. We are talking with the legendary actress Jenifer Lewis. She has a new book out. It is called The Mother Of Black Hollywood. After the break we will talk more about Jenifer's small-town dreams in Kinloch Mo. where she grew up and how she never stopped believing that she could make it big in the Big Apple. BRB.   Let us talk about your upbringing. You were one of seven children grew up like literally dirt poor - taking stuff to an outhouse taking the pail of whatever outside.  Absolutely.  How did growing up where you did - in a segregated town outside of St. Louis that poor - how did it affect the artist you are today and make you who you are? I can feel a lot of the church in everything that you do obviously.  Yes absolutely. My mother was a great woman.  Yeah?  She worked two three jobs to feed all seven of us. I was the baby. So by the time I came along honey she was exhausted. She was 26 with her seventh child.  Oh my goodness.  And she was like you go tell your big sister. So I was starved for attention. She had time to feed us clothe us keep a roof over our head...  And that was all she could do.  But there was no time for affection.  She was kind of a tough woman.  Yeah she was tough honey. She told us she said one of you all land in jail I will leave you there.  OK.  Like I said when my mother said something you listened. But she also instilled work ethics in us. My mother got off welfare purposefully.  Yeah.  She did not want nobody coming to her door and asking her for this and that and then telling her how to live.  And then like she eventually you say scrubbing floors - she saved up enough money to buy a house for you all.  That is right. We got a new house. We were so happy. We were running through the house. We had more than one bathroom. We had running water. You know and she took the stairs. That is where I learned how to take the stairs to be patient for what it is that you want.  Yeah.  And I admire her for it. I admire her for it.  And you know it is clear that you love her but you also had to acknowledge some of the negative traits that you saw in her...  Absolutely.  ...Were in you.  Absolutely.  Talk about that and how you reconciled that.  I most certainly will. I was molested by the pastor of my church when I was a teenager and my mother was in love with him. And I ran in the house. I told her. I could clearly see she was angry.  Yeah.  And she attempted to have a conversation about it but you know...  She did not want to.  She could not.  So she did not confront him about it.  And then we - oh no. She confronted him.  OK.  But then we never talked about it.  Oh.  See? So I was left with it.  Yeah.  And we never discussed it again. So she was not the type of woman that would sit down and talk about things.  Yeah.  She just kept moving through life.  Yeah.  It was another time another generation.  Oh yeah.  Only five generations...  You suck it up you move on.  ...Five generations from slavery child.  Yeah. Yeah.  We had to eat.  Yeah.  My mother had to make sure we had food...  Yeah.  ...You see? So I confronted him years later.  You called him up.  I also confronted her in a letter. And years later - you know it was rough times through that - we talked through it. And you know you can only go so far. I would had a lot of therapy. She had not.  Yeah.  You know so - but she did acknowledge it. She did apologize.  Did you forgive her?  Oh God yes. I do not know that I even like that word - that I forgave her.  OK. Why?  Let us just put it like this. I became forgiving...  Yeah.  ...In my own soul.  And it is an active thing.  Because honey let us face it. When somebody hurts you that bad you do not forget that .  Yeah.  But I became a forgiving person.  Yeah. Yeah.  Let us put it like that. Now him - he also apologized.  And you sure did call him out in that book.  I sure did.  By name. Yes.  The name of that chapter.  Yeah.  And I know you will bleep it but when I called him it was like hello Jenifer. Oh we have seen you on television. We are so proud of you. I called - I said it as not that kind of call . I sure said it.  Yes.  And I said you hang up this phone I will fly back to St. Louis and I will blow that pathetic little storefront church of yours. I will blow it up.  Wow.  I was so mad. But I got - I felt so free after I confronted him. And I want to say to everybody out there...  Yeah.  ...Nobody has a right to touch you or emotionally abuse you.  Yeah.  So you tell and do not let that suffocate you and your life and you are sitting somewhere eating yourself to death or crying yourself to death. You are worthy of a good life. And guess who I had to be forgiving of? Myself.  Yeah. Yeah.  You know?  What does that process feel like 'ecause the hardest part must be forgiving yourself?  I will tell you one thing. It is hard.  Yeah.  And it is a process. It does not come overnight.  Yeah.  I wanted to do it because I wanted to see on my face what was on everybody else's face which was laughter and a smile.  Yeah.  'ecause when I left I do not leave a room unless I leave them laughing.  There you go.  So I wanted to laugh and I wanted to smile. I did not want to be depressed all the time. And I was when I was untreated bipolar.  Yeah.  So I worked hard. I worked hard.  Time for one more break. When we come back how Jenifer discovered her love of performing at church in Missouri. It includes some singing. Stick around for that. BRB. So let us go back to you being a kid and performing in front of an audience for the first time. You describe your 5-year-old self in church in Kinloch Mo. And you wanted to sing and you wanted to sing. And you begged them and they finally let you sing. And you describe your full diva-ness at 5 years old. What was the song you sang?  It was called Oh Lord You have Brought Me A Mighty Long Way.  And you talk about...  And I was 5.  ...Rearing that back...  That is right honey. I did a back bend. I snatched the church fan from the usher and fanned myself. I was so dramatic coming down that aisle because you have to walk down the aisle...  Yeah I know.  ...To get to the choir stand which represented the ship that would cross the River Joy .  How long was your walk?  Oh well I stretched it out to about five hours.   Can you sing a bit of the song?   Whoa oh Lord you brought me a mighty long way.  I endorse that.   But I was doing all that screaming. It was like yahhh  you brought me Lord you know?  So you knew then.  Yes I did.  You knew you had the bug then.  When I saw the reaction of the congregation...  Yes.  ...It washed over me like a tsunami...  Yeah.  ...A tsunami of love. And honey I put my thumb in my mouth my eyes crossed. I went back to my seat in the choir stand and I was thinking that this is life. And I never looked back.  Yeah. I want to talk about Black-ish.  Hey Black-ish.  That show is so good.  Oh my God. You want to talk about a cherry on the top of my career? Wow.  Yeah.  They are addressing all the modern-day issues...  Yeah.  ...To push these boundaries. ABC - I am so proud of them. I am so proud of Disney. They are allowing it to manifest to help. We need these conversations now - the police brutality the N-word depression.  Yeah. Deal with it all. That is good.  Kenya Barris the creator of Black-ish is a genius.  I love it.  The cast is amazing. Anthony - my chemistry with him - we are just damn fools together Anthony Anderson and I. Tracee Ellis Ross...  You knew her from Girlfriends right?  Yes we did Girlfriends together. Our Ruby and the Rainbow relationship...   You hate Rainbow on that show.  ...Is just - we have so much fun. Child we come in there and laugh.  Yeah.  And then we have to go at each other. The children are great.  So good.  And I describe working with Laurence Fishburne in the book. I tell everybody. They say oh my God how was it working with Laurence Fishburne? I say honey it is ice cream cotton candy and Christmas morning. Hey.  That sounds good.  Yeah.  So your character Ruby - how would you describe her?  Ruby is sassy.  Yeah.  She is a hot mess.  .  She is got a good heart though...  And she loves those kids.  ...And that is why everybody loves her.  Yeah.  She loves her grandbabies. You know she just went through a lot in her life too. Come on. She done shot her husband.  .  She done drove the car through - done scammed her son you know? She got scammed then you find out she was a scammer. And then she scams her son.   What is the scene where you are trying to scam on the street as Ruby? You are like a veteran who cannot walk.  We re-did Eddie Murphy's scene in Trading Places...  Yes.  ...Where he is begging for money on the streets pretending he cannot walk. The policemen pick him up and his legs come down to the ground.  And he says I am healed.  It is hysterical. Yeah I am healed black Jesus. Black Jesus. You know she is constantly calling black Jesus.   I love that.  But everybody loves Ruby and I am having the time of my life playing her.  Yeah. You write in the book though that - so they asked for you personally to play this role. But your first day on set you write that you were kind of terrified. Why?  I was so nervous.  Why?  Well I had just come off vacation and I had eaten so many desserts.  But the way you describe that fear the first time on that set - how did you get over it?  Well I trusted what I had done all my life...  Yeah.  ...Which was to make people laugh. And when I delivered that first line...  What was the first line?  Oh I cannot remember what it was.  That is OK.  But whatever it was...  It worked.  ...Everybody broke into laughter...  I love it.  ...And all of my fear went away.  And the show has this unique role in the culture right now 'ecause like you said it is not just a comedy show. They are teaching people things.  It is the magic of the writers.  Yeah.  The writers are the stars of Black-ish. When we get those scripts we are excited.  Yeah.  We are getting ready to do something that is going to make a difference and not only make a difference but it is going to make people laugh.  Yeah.  It is going to make them think.  Yes.  It is going to pull out - it is going to make conversation around the dinner table.  Yeah. Yeah.  But the thing is is that I am honored...  Yeah.  ...To be on Black-ish. Like I said - I cannot say it enough it is a cherry on the top of a very long career.  So then if this is the cherry what is next?  All right. Something's brewing.   OK. OK. OK.  I cannot - I swear to you Sam I cannot announce it yet. But something really big is brewing.  I am excited for it.  Yes I am excited too.  I am so excited for it.  And you know I do not announce things honey until that contract is signed...  .  ...Because in this business...  You never know.  ...It comes and it goes.  Yeah. Yeah.  It goes and it comes.  Yeah. Well I want to thank you for sharing your story in the book and sharing it here with me now. And I want you to - last question. How is your art different and your work different now that you have gone through this process of being vulnerable...  Oh my God. I am free.  ...All of your mental health - you are free. What does that mean?  Well let us just say it like this.  Yeah.  I am not scared of too many things.  I like that.  I am like bring it bitch. Let us talk through it. Let us work through it.  Yeah.  Or you go your way and I will go mine.  Yeah.  Because I do not go in for stress. I am 60 years old baby. I got about 35 more summers left. You do not get it if you are coming...  Yeah.  ...In a negative way. I do not have time for it anymore.  Yeah.  I have a beautiful life now. I am knocking on wood.  Yeah.  I am very grateful. You know I lived the American dream.  You did.  I went from a poor little girl in Kinloch Mo.  And now look at you.  And now 70 movies later.  That is right.  Come on .   I did it.   OK. That was the original diva Ms. Jenifer Lewis. Her new memoir is called The Mother Of Black Hollywood. It is out now. Put it on your must-read list pronto. She spills all the tea. There is so much in there. I loved loved loved this book. Also thanks to Jenifer for calling up my Aunt Betty. Hey Betty. A friend wants to say hi to you really quick.  OK.  Hey Betty. This is Jenifer Lewis. How you doing babe?  Oh my God.   Girl no. No. Somebody else sounds like me. Now you know damn well it is me. As not no other voice coming at you like this .   All right. That is it for us. We will be back in your feeds on Friday with our weekly wrap on the news. A reminder to all of you - send me the best thing that happened to you this week. Email me at samsandersnpr.org and do not forget to brag. All right. Thank you for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon.  