 Hey a quick announcement. If you stick around to the end of the show we will announce three winners of our Twitter ticket giveaway for the It is BEEN A MINUTE live show that is happening here in D.C. next month. If you still want to come even if you did not win a ticket through the raffle there are still some tickets for sale. Go to nprpresents.org to get you one.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show reporter for NPR's breaking news blog The Two-Way Laurel Wamsley and NPR's tech and retail reporter Alina Selyukh. All right. Let us start the show.  50   I get money...  Got it right.  That was amazing.  .  I have been waiting for this day.  She is very meticulous about getting the names right. And she is always proud when she does. Thanks Betty.  She is wonderful.  All right. Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Each week we start with a different song. But first two great guests here in studio with me. Both are returning from vacation. And both are fighting some nasty coughs. So thank you for your service.  This will be great.  We are going to make it work. NPR news desk reporter Laurel Wamsley. NPR tech and retail reporter Alina Selyukh. Glad you all are here. Where did you guys go on vacation?  I was mostly in Mexico.  Where in Mexico?  I went to Mexico City...  Nice.  ...And Oaxaca. And then I visited friends in Tucson and we also crossed over the border into Nogales. So I got to see a border town.  Nice. So Alina where did you go for your vacation?  All of my vacations are always taken up by trips to visit my family in Russia.  Where in Russia?  And - a town called Samara.  OK.  It is southern part of the European part which is how I usually describe it.  All right.  It was warmer there than here.  .  So I thoroughly enjoyed my time.  Yeah. Yeah. And now you are back in an artificially lit studio in cold Washington D.C. So much fun.  I have been looking forward to this.  So this song is by 50 Cent.  50   Money money money - I got...  It is called I Get Money...  I know where you are going with this.  ...Because he got some money this week.  This is like the best story of the week.  But also I do like this song. I am playing this song because turns out for 50 Cent's last album - or 2014 album called Animal Ambition which nobody bought he was...  Some people bought.  . Yeah he was paid for the album with some bitcoin. And that bitcoin that he was paid is now worth more than 7.5 million.  And the best part is he forgot about it.  Yes.  That is the best part.  Yes he said in response to a story about this I am going to keep it real. I forgot I did that S .  This is just the best bitcoin story that is ever been written.  It is amazing.  I just want someone to come forth and be like also Laurel - yeah I paid you back for that pizza in bitcoin.  50   I am heading to the bank right now.  So let us get into it. We are each going to describe how this week of news felt in just three words. I will go first. They are the whole map.  Map.  The whole map - because we have seen leaders from all over the world descend upon Davos Switzerland for the World Economic Forum.  A lot of really powerful people hanging out.  The elite of the elite.  The elite of the 1 percent coming together to talk about how they can solve the world's problems. Also like...  And hang out.  And hang out.  I am just going to keep saying that...  Yes.  ...Because it seems to be what they do.  It is what they pretty much do. Yeah. So Trump went to Davos this year which was the first time a U.S. president has gone since Bill Clinton did many many years ago. And there was all of this preamble in the run up to him being there about what might be an antagonistic match-up and faceoff between him and this world elite. Turns out the way he was behaving at this conference this week pretty much contradicted all the disdain he claimed to have for the global elite during the campaign.  That is so surprising.  Yeah.  I cannot believe that the wealthy Donald Trump...  Sarcasm alert.   ...Enjoyed being with other wealthy people.  Yeah. You know he described having a great relationship with Theresa May Prime Minister of the U.K. after he disparaged her multiple times over the last year for her response to terrorism. He sat down with African leaders after he called a bunch of their countries S-hole countries. He even said that he might be open to entering a trade deal with multiple Asian nations which sounds a lot like TPP.  That definitely sounds like a reversal from a few months ago when exactly that was in the news - the withdrawal from the TPP.  Yeah. And we should clarify TPP stands for the Trans-Pacific Partnership. It is a regional trade deal with a bunch of Asian nations. And Trump and others campaigned on not having the U.S. in that deal. So he was literally all over the whole map this week. Laurel you got three words?  Yes.  OK.  So these are not uplifting words I am afraid to say.  That is OK.  The three words this week are culture of abuse. And that comes from an essay that was written by - it was a blog post written by the UCLA Women's Gymnastics coach. Her name is Valorie Kondos Field. And she is coached her teams to multiple NCAA championships. And a number of members on her team are women who went through the USA Gymnastics system you know...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...Were Olympians. And then they go into college gymnastics after. And she talks about how just for decades college coaches have basically been picking up the pieces of these just like broken young women...  Oh my.  ...Emerging from the world of elite gymnastics.  Really?  So for those who maybe just started following this case this week Larry Nassar who is the former USA Gymnastics team doctor and was also a doctor at Michigan State University was sentenced on Wednesday - to - up to 175 years in prison.  Wow.  So he is essentially going to be living out his life in prison.  Right. And he would already received 60 years for a previous child pornography case. And so only a few of the cases - like seven women were actually a part of this case. But the judge in the case allowed 150 women - anyone who wanted to - to give victim impact statements.  So he molested at least 150 women.  There are at least 150 women who accused him of...  Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness.  Yes. And probably many more.  Yeah.  And it is just so frustrating with this case. If you go back and read the articles - just some of these women and girls did speak up and they were just told by Larry Nassar or by the other adults...  Yeah.  ...Around them that this was a legit medical treatment.  Yikes.  And so - like so much of this was just sort of like swept under the rug under the guise of oh he is a well-respected doctor. You should trust him.  And the reason I think this story has hit me hardest - just because these are girls - this is extra-complicated because these are...  Children.  ...Twelve-year-olds 13-year-olds. They do not know how the world is supposed to work.  Yeah. And I mean in terms of preventing this it is complicated. In terms of the outrage this is uniquely uncomplicated...  Yeah.  Sure.  ...Compared to some of the other stuff that is happened. Some of these girls are 6 years old 10 years old.  Oh my goodness.  It is so crazy. I was a gymnast growing up. I did competitive gymnastics.  Really?  And I was never that good but I loved the sport.  Yeah.  And I have still followed the sport all these years. And it is so crazy and sad to me to look back on that time and think God I am glad I was not better - because you see...  You would have been in that world.  Yeah. And to look back on like all these girls who were my peers in terms of age and whose careers I followed - and to look back on memories of those Olympics and now know what they were going through at the time it is just - it is so troubling. And it is just so...  Completely changes the picture.  It is so sad to have to revise all your memories now that you know.  Yeah. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We are going to catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two great guests Alina Selyukh who covers tech and retail for NPR and Laurel Wamsley who literally covers everything...  It is true.  ...For NPR's Two-Way blog. Alina three words?  So my three words are power of numbers. And there is two ways I am looking at this. One is just the extremely powerful context that some numbers provided for me this week of some of the biggest stories - the school shooting in Kentucky.  Yeah.  And the extremely powerful headline to me from The New York Times was School Shooting In Kentucky Was Nation's 11th Of Year. It Was Jan. 23. They think it really tells extremely powerful and sad story...  Yeah.  ...Of how many shootings at schools around schools and college campuses have happened...  Yeah.  ...Before the first month is even over.  Yeah.  And then in my patch on the business desk here at NPR we have also been looking at some powerful numbers that are telling the story of the workforce. We had a poll that was conducted by NPR and Marist that looked at the people who are working these days...  Yeah.  ...And what they are going through. And what we found was that 1 in 5 American workers are contractors.  That is a lot.  And of course it is going to get bigger as time goes by. The predictions are a few years down the road we will be looking at more temp workers than full-time workers. And of course there is so much that comes from that.  Oh yeah.  Contract workers do not have reliable benefits like health insurance retirement savings. More than half of contract workers have no benefits.  Wow.  About half of them live month to month on fluctuating income. So one quote that really stuck to me was feast or famine. Feast or famine right? So one month you have a lot of money. You can pay the bills. You can figure out your future. The next month your contract does not come through. You do not have a job. You do not have the money.  Yeah.  You do not know how you are going to pay the bills. And then there were other elements from that story that I specifically looked at because of my interest in the retail industry. And that was automation right?  Yeah.  The more we buy online the more of our stuff comes from warehouses. And right now warehouses are hiring a ton of people because of our booming online shopping habit.  Yeah.  Well if you ask labor economists automation is the thing that is looming over these warehouses just like it loomed over manufacturing and factories.  Well even - just I mean thinking like 15 years ago - no one would have ever thought that cars could drive for us. And we are pretty much almost there.  Almost.  You know?  The one thing I will say is that automation does take longer.  Than we think it will.  Tends to be - right now it seems to be taking longer than we thought. I thought - I have been looking forward to a self-driving car...  .  ...For like the last 10 years and it just has not arrived yet. And I think similarly in the warehouses that is what people feel - it is like I do want to actually put it into numbers since I am talking about the power of numbers.  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  Our poll asked all workers across all industries whether they would lose a job due to automation.  Or they thought they would.  Whether they expected to lose their job...  Yeah.  ...Due to automation. Ninety-four percent said no.  Oh no.  No.  Oh.  Almost all of them said no it is unlikely I will lose a job due to automation.  I am totally OK if a robot hosts this show.  I wonder if robots will listen to your show.   I hope so.  I am not looking forward to that.  .  Will you at least tell me when the robot takes over?  I will. I will.  OK.  Yeah. As long as it looks like me.  Well...  As long as the robot...  ...I was going to say...  ...Like looks just like me.  We will  know by Sam just kicking back with his feet on the desk .  Oh yeah. Yeah. I welcome the day.  Sam just eating oatmeal back there.   All right. On that note as we wait for our robot overlords time for a quick break. We will be right back with Long Distance Who Said That and a big old main story.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two great guests - Alina Selyukh who covers tech and retail for NPR Laurel Wamsley who reports for NPR's breaking news blog covering literally all the things for The Two-Way. Hello to you both.  Hello.  Hey Sam.  I have a quick yes-or-no question for you guys.  All right.  It was just announced this week that for season 2 of Big Little Lies Meryl Streep will be joining the cast.  What?  I know right?  As if that cast could not get any...  Right?  ...Stronger.  Does this make you more or less likely to watch?  I have never seen this show.  OK. Out.   I will show myself out.  All right yeah. Thanks for playing. Have a great day.  I am still working through Season 1.  What is wrong...  Hey. Hey. It is been busy.  Oh my God. Has it?  It is been a busy year.  It is never too busy for great prestige TV.  It is true.  All I am saying is I am probably taking off a day or two of work when they drop that new season.  OK. Use that comp time.  Oh yeah. Oh yeah. You heard it here first. All right. Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance.   Each week we call up a listener somewhere across the country and ask them how things are going in their neck of the woods. Today on the line from San Francisco we have Kelly Zweibel . Hey there.  Hey Sam.  You are on the line with two friends of mine Alina and Laurel. Say hi guys.  Hi.  Hey.  Hey guys.  So what do you do there in SF?  I am a travel nurse.  What exactly is a travel nurse?  OK. A travel nurse is a registered nurse that gets licenses in different states and then is contracted from a third-party company to work in different hospitals in different areas depending on the need of a hospital. So right now I am in California and I am covering maternity leave. So I have been out here in SF since August. And I will be here through April now. I extended a few times because I did not want to go back East to the bad weather.   Good call.  Very good call. Very good call.  Yeah .  So you wrote us back in November about a story that has been affecting a lot of hospitals all over the country. Turns out the hurricane in Puerto Rico affected some medical supplies for hospitals. Puerto Rico is actually a big manufacturing hub for a certain kind of small-sized IV bag. Who knew? But since...  Yeah right?  ...Hurricane Maria last year there is been like a nationwide shortage of these small-sized IV bags. And you are telling us that flu season makes it even worse.  Yeah.  Why is that? And like how bad is this problem?  So flu season makes the IV bag shortage worse because when someone comes to the emergency room or to the hospital or to the doctor's office with flu symptoms the first thing you are usually going to do is hang a bag of fluids because they need to get hydrated.  Yeah.  So with more people coming to emergency rooms with flu symptoms you are going to be hanging more fluids which puts more pressure on the hospital system to have the bigger bags which were not affected by Maria because the bigger bags are not made in Puerto Rico. So now in addition to having shortages of the small bags which - we do not have any at my facility - we are also being told to like be conservative with the bigger bags because we do not want to be in the same problem where we do not have any of those either.  How has this affected you and your hospital specifically?  So at my hospital I am in an outpatient cancer center.  OK.  So we have been doing medication safely but in different ways that I had to learn how to do that I never knew how to do before.  Like how?  So instead of hanging a small bag to a patient and letting it sit there for a half hour and run into the patient we will pull up medications and syringes and directly push them into their IV lines...  Oh wow.  ...Their central lines over like five minutes eight minutes.  Can you use small bags and big bags interchangeably? It is probably a really dumb question. But like if you are out of the small bags could you just halfway fill up a big bag? Or is it not easy?  No.   OK. All right.  It is not that easy because the small bags are mostly used for mixing medications in.  Got you.  So medications have to be in certain dosages with certain amount of fluids to make the concentrations right.  Got you. Got you.  And usually too if somebody's coming in with flu symptoms they need a lot of hydration.  Yeah.  They need like a liter or two. So you cannot just give like - I do not know - 17 small bags instead of one large bag or whatever that math would end up being.  Yeah. Yeah.  Have they told you when the shortage might be alleviated?  So my hospital has not but I have been keeping up with it. Just every once in a while I will Google what is going on with it. And I think as of last week the FDA has announced that plants in Puerto Rico were starting to make the small bags again. Usually when there is bag shortages the East Coast gets things first because it is coming from Puerto Rico. But apparently also from a light Google search I did recently...   ...They are opening up the bags - the large bags the small bags - to other companies in other countries...  Got you.  ...Because in the United States we could only - FDA approved only one company...  Oh.  Oh that explains it.  ...To make our bags. So there was a pretty large monopoly.  That seems problematic in cases like this.  Yes.  I have an unrelated question real quick. We were just talking - I was just telling Sam and Laurel here about a project that we did here at NPR studying the contract force in the U.S. And we found that 1 in 5 Americans are contractors. And it sounds like you are in that pool.  Yes I am.  How long have you been working in contracts? And was that sort of your personal choice or did you just fall into it?  It is something I have always wanted to do. There are a lot of travel nurses kind of throughout the country. I graduated nursing school. I worked for four years in New York City. And I loved my job.  Yeah.  But I have a travel bug. And I wanted to see some other places and be able to on my days off feel like I had to go have adventures every day.  Yeah.  So since moving out here I have had adventures every day on my day off which is really fun.  Can I be a travel nurse?  Please.  And do you get benefits?  Yeah. I get health benefits.  Great.  OK.  When I drove here from New York...  Oh wow.  ...I got a stipend for gas and hotel. So there is a lot of nice...  I want to be a travel radio host.   Yes that would be awesome.   So what are your plans for the weekend? You going to have some fun?  I actually am. I am going to Reno this afternoon. I have a friend from the East Coast who lives out there.  OK.  So we are going to go see him. We were supposed to go skiing but it looks like it might be close to 50 degrees tomorrow in the Tahoe-ish  area...  OK.  ...So there is no snow. So we might not. But I am really excited. It will be fun.  Nice. Nice. Well I hope you enjoy it. All the best.  Thanks guys. Have a good weekend.  Thank you Kelly.  Thank you.  Have a good weekend.  Thanks Kelly.   All right. Listeners I want to hear from you for this segment. If you want us to call you and talk about what is going on in your neck of the woods hit us up. Send me a note - samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. I also seriously though - like travel radio host. That would be so much fun.  I just - like I am picturing your little mobile studio...  Right?  ...In the back of a little air stream.  In the back of my Prius.   Not to be a downer here but I think there is a much greater need for travel nurses than travel hosts.   Zing.  OK. All righty . All righty.   So guys it is now time for our main story. And the team behind the show allowed me to really geek out on an issue that I have been kind of obsessed with for the last week. It actually came up today in Donald Trump's speech at Davos. He talked about Apple announcing last week it is going to move a lot of money back to the States and pay a pretty hefty tax fine on the money - 38 billion in taxes on a total of 252 billion that they have been keeping overseas. So I want to talk about that deal and what it and the tax overhaul say about the relationship between Donald Trump and big tech one year in.  There is a really big word for what you are describing - bringing in the money from overseas.  Repatriation.  That is the one.  It sounds quite complex. It is really quite simple. We will get into all of that but I want us first to flash back...  Oh no.  ...To the heat of the campaign. And it seemed like every tech leader that you could imagine was coming out against Donald Trump. But it got even more sour afterwards. You will recall after the Charlottesville tragedy he said some comments that led many tech leaders to leave his tech advisory council and denounce him in very very strong words.  There is a big exodus. This was following his immigration stand. And the companies in Silicon Valley were looking at their staff. And the staff and the employees...  Immigrants work there.  Many of them are. And they were up in arms. I think Uber took a big hit at the time. But also Apple and Facebook and others felt like they needed to take a strong stance in support of their employees. Microsoft spoke to my colleague Aarti Shahani and basically said if you want to deport our people you have to go through us first.  Wow. Yeah. And so you see that rhetoric that level of tension. Meanwhile those big tech companies spent some 50 million last year lobbying the government lobbying Capitol Hill lobbying Congress and the White House. And one of the big things that they were active on in their lobbying was having a say in this tax overhaul. And one of the biggest examples of how the tax overhaul affected tech was in this talk like you said of repatriation. So basically big global companies like Apple stored a lot of their profits and their money overseas because they did not want to have the money come back into the States and have it be taxed at a rate that was some 35 percent. And so for years companies have been doing this hoping that one day a Congress favorable to them would change the rules. So in this new tax overhaul Congress basically said wherever you have been hiding that money now you have to pay taxes on it to the U.S. at which point you can move the money back into the U.S. you can leave it abroad whatever you want. But that tax rate will only be 15.5 percent.  Which is like half of what it would normally be.  Literally half yeah. And so I was like this - it is - what is really going on with this? So I called up a few economists. I talked with Matthew Gardner. He is an analyst at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy. And he basically told me do not let anyone try to tell you that this is a bad deal for Apple.  They are basically having more than half of the tax they owed on these profits forgiven.  Wow.  In the short run - yeah. In the short run it looks like and is reported as a tax hit. They are paying a bunch of taxes. But it is a tax break that looks like a tax hike.  And it is a tax break that they wanted. They wanted this for a long time. Tim Cook has said before that this kind of corporate tax rate would help them be competitive. And they got it. But my big question is like all right if they got what they wanted why are they OK with Donald Trump making it seem like they did not?  But what is the downside?  Right? Yeah.  Yeah.  I think there is also a bigger context - that this comes as part of a huge wave of corporations announcing these nice things they are doing for their workers and for the American economy.  The bonuses...  In the wave of - you know following the tax bill passage. Right exactly. I mean I wrote down a shortlist of companies. I am sure others have come out. ATT Comcast Disney JetBlue American Airlines Boeing J.P. Morgan Bank of America Verizon...  Wow.  ...Walmart - they have all come out and issued some kind of announcement about things they are doing for their workers.  Reinvestment or bonuses or whatever.  Exactly. They are giving bonuses raising wages for some folks. They are giving people shares as gifts.  Yeah.  And all of it comes as this sort of acknowledgement that they are going to benefit quite heavily from the tax - the corporate tax rate...  Oh yeah.  ...Being dropped from 35 percent to 21 percent.  Wow.  And so they are getting on this front end to say look we are investing in our people we are investing in the economy.  Yeah. I talked to a tax attorney at USC. His name is Edward Kleinbard. And I was like why are all these companies Apple included really going out of their way to say that this tax bill is so good for all Americans? And he said part of the reason why is because they know that most Americans who were polled say that they think the tax bill is only helping corporations. So it is in these companies' best interest to convince America that the tax bill is good for them because they want the tax bill to stick around. And they are very aware that if Democrats take over Congress or the White House some parts of the tax bill could be rolled back. And he also told me that no matter what the rhetoric was between big tech and Trump before he won at the end of the day Trump won and it is in their best interest to play well with Trump.  It does not cost Apple very much to couch things in these terms. And in fact it worked. The president virtually immediately touted you know Apple's announcement in a tweet of his own. So why not?  Why not?  I think there was an interview with Cook a little later where he sort of acknowledged that a lot of the moves that they were announcing - for instance the second campus...  Yeah.  ...That sort of investment in the economy - that that was a long time coming.  Oh yeah.  ...That that may or may not have happened regardless of whether the tax bill passed or not.  Exactly.  But I think there is a really important point about the tech industry broadly and President Trump specifically and it is that these companies are really large corporations.  Yes.  They are not startups anymore.  Yeah.  And any large corporation worth its salt invests in lobbying invests in policy debates gets really heavily involved with politics.  Yeah  And that is what we are witnessing.  And like at the end of the day no matter how idealistic companies like Apple purport to be the money matters first. And they are businesses and it is about the money.  It is just sort of par for the course I think in Washington.  It is the game you play. It is the game you play.  ...If you are one of the wealthiest companies in the world.  Yeah. You got to cover your bases. So one of the things I wonder though and the skepticism that some economists are placing over this whole tax overhaul situation - well is the 38 billion good for Apple or bad for Apple? Are the bonuses because of the tax cut or not? At the end of the day it is 38 billion back into the U.S. It is bonuses going to American workers what does it matter if Trump did it or not?  I think it is really hard to talk about the 38 billion one day falling out of the sky into the American land but it is relatively easy to talk about the bonuses because it is you know hard cash.  Yeah.  ...That is going to be in the hands of...  Real people.  A lot of - thousands of American workers this year. I do have one point though which made me laugh when I covered this. It is not tax-free. The people getting bonuses still have to pay.  The bonuses are taxed.   Yes they still have to pay taxes on their bonuses.  That is life .  And it is everybody right? It is like every person at the Genius Bar or whatever.  Right. Exactly. But it is - I mean at the end of the day if I am a worker for Walmart and my wage just went up or if I am a worker for Verizon...  I am going to spend some more money.  ...And I have a bunch of Verizon shares...  Yeah.  Good for me.  Yeah. So one of the biggest questions I was left with was how companies like Apple that have now become truly global - how they fit into Donald Trump's rhetoric of America First. I talked to one economist Jennifer Blouin. She studies tax Penn's Wharton School. She kind of had a bigger question basically saying when you have a company like Apple where two-thirds of their business is taking place outside of the U.S. is that actually an American company?  It is fantastic that that started in the United States and I am pleased that we can take responsibility for yeah that intellectual capital coming out of the United States. I think we should be proud of that. But I do not think we necessarily get to tax every dollar that they ever make in the future forever and ever - right? - which is the way our tax system effectively worked.  And I think that is the question that Apple and Donald Trump do not have an answer to yet. Like what is an American company anymore when everything is global?  That is kind of a painful question.  Right?  But I think Apple also wants to be known as an American company you know? Like I feel like on - stamped on all their stuff is made in California right? Like...  Except for the stuff that is made in China .  Right. But they are still - like but like that idea of California I mean I think is part of their branding. And they do not - I do not think they want to be known as some multinational corporation. People do not like multinational corporations. They want to be seen still as this you know sweet fruit-related company that began in a garage.  Fruit-related - I love that fruit-related company .  ...You know with - you know and that is part of the PR of all these companies.  Yeah. It is interesting. You know to end this like for anyone that would feel bad about Apple having to pay a big repatriation tax turns out - side note - Apple has eight years to pay back that 38 billion or to pay that tax and they have no interest or fees or penalties on however they pay it.  I will take that deal.  Yeah.   Wow.  OK. I gave you all the facts I learned this week from talking to smart people.   I think it is time for a break. All right we are going to take a quick break right now. When we get back no more economics - some fun stuff - my favorite game Who Said That and we will also hear from our listeners sharing their best parts of their week.   All right now it is time for my favorite game - my favorite favorite game - Who Said That.   Who has been saying that?  Who said that?  It is so simple it hurts. I share the quote from...  I feel...  You feel what?  I feel utterly unprepared.  It is OK. Everyone freaks out about this game.  I crammed.  But here's the thing.   So did I.  Everyone freaks - you know there is no prize. You know there is no prize.  You say that.  No. There is actually no prize .  There is the flip side. There is the burned ego.  Yeah OK.  Self-respect.  Yeah yeah. It is quite simple. I share a quote from the week. You guys have to guess who said that. We will do three today. The winner gets absolutely nothing.  All right.  I am still scared.  First quote - she is not very integrated with the group as bison act like one organism and she stands out.  It is the cow.   Yes.  .  You are doing good.  Aw. I was thinking it was a deer but you are right. It is the little baby cow.   It is a cow.  This is the cutest story that I want to be a Pixar film ASAP.  Which is so wonderful.  A Polish cow on a cow ranch escaped and has been wandering with a herd of wild bison all winter. The photos are so - have you seen the photos?  No.  Google bison cow right now. I want you to see it.  .  It is - OK.  And so that quote was from a biologist who was talking about the case of this cow. And someone else said of the cow - she quote chose freedom.  .  So she is been - she ran away from this Polish was farm late last autumn. She is been lingering on the fringes of this herd of some 50 bison in the forest on the Belarusian border. And the thinking is that like the herd of bison has actually kept her alive because had she been alone some wolves might have like killed her. But they are going to take her back to the ranch soon.  No.  Here's why though. If she mates with the bison the calf will be too big and it will kill her.  Ooh.  Wait it is possible?  Yeah. So they got to get her back.  Oh.  She is just taking a year off college. It is OK.  That is right.   Alina has one Laurel has zero. But it does not matter guys.  All right.  . 