 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show...   ...Retail columnist for Bloomberg Opinion Sarah Halzack and NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners and my guests - Sarah Halzack my good old friend who covers retail at Bloomberg Sue Davis who covers Congress for NPR. Happy New Year.  Happy New Year Sam. It is so good to see you and hear you. And it is so good to hear Aunt Betty's voice.  I know. And it is so good to have you back Sue. This is your first appearance on the show since becoming a mother to a very very beautiful baby girl.  It is true. And this is only my third week back at work...  Oh God.  ...From maternity leave. And I came back to cover a government shutdown. So it is truly like I never left.  . Sarah great to have you here as well.  Yeah. Happy New Year Sam. Happy to be here.  We are joined in studio by another friend. Her name is Taylor Swift...    You are so gorgeous. I cannot say anything to your face.  ...Playing one of her songs right now...    'ecause look at your face.  ...Called Gorgeous from her latest album Reputation.    And I am so furious at you for making me feel this way.  And there is a reason I am playing it you all.  Tell me.  What is the reason?  So this week Taylor Swift and her empire announced that they were going to - or that they are going to shut down her social networking app The Swift Life.  I did not even know she had a social networking app.  Nor did I.  Is it a dating app for Swift fans?   No. It was just like a social media meeting ground for Taylor Swift fans to talk about Taylor Swift and come together as one fandom.  Did they determine that they could just easily do that on other existing social networks?  No. It is even sadder than that.  Oh no.  So they launched this website at the end of 2017. It is kind of a promo vehicle for her album that came out around that time. And within two weeks it had become a cesspool.   Like there were these nasty debates about politics and sexuality. And what they wanted to be this marketing tool with like Taymojis and like video content it just became like online bickering which is...  Like Kim Kardashian's app.  Yeah yeah.  Right? Like she created an app that is just like her lifestyle brand. They were trying to do that.  So basically this week they announced that Swift Life is dying. It is going to shut down February 1. And it was just like this one more instance proving to me that given enough time everything about the Internet and every social media app and every social media space turns to trash.  .  The Internet cannot stay pure.  Except Instagram maybe. I am still holding out for Instagram. No? Am I wrong?  I do not know. I feel like now that is getting sullied with ads too...  Oh good point.  ...That it is making it - I just - yeah. It is just an open sewer - the Internet. It is just how it is you know?  .  Although did I just come up with my million-dollar idea for a Taylor Swift dating app for Taylor Swift fans?  .  I - absolutely.  I think I have got to go guys.    You are so gorgeous it makes me so mad. You are gorgeous.  All right. We are going to start the show as we always do. Going to have each of my panelists describe their week of news in three words. Sue Davis because you cover Congress - and this is a big week for Congress - you get to go first.  Sam I also think that the fact that you started with Taylor Swift - like we are always sometimes on the same page on some things and...  Yeah.  ...I was feeling that vibe. And you will soon understand why.  OK.  The three words that I had this week are they as not ready.  Never ready.   And they as not ready was the three words in a tweet by Ilhan Omar who is one of the new members of Congress. She is a Muslim - one of two Muslim women elected to Congress in the 2018 midterms. So she is a groundbreaker in her own way. But she tweeted they as not ready. And along with it was...  .  ...This image from the new Vanity Fair where they have done this photo spread of the new power players in Washington.  Oh I saw that.  And she is one of six women all elected to Congress this year - women of color. People like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez who is gotten a lot of press attention a Democrat from New York. Sharice Davids who beat Kevin Yoder who is a Republican from Kansas - just these really high-profile women. And the image is really beautiful and really striking. I mean we have talked so much about diversity and women increasing in Congress but also - and it goes back to my Taylor Swift point - it is so visually to me the way that like Taylor Swift had and has her squad this group of like younger diverse women are totally coming into Congress like as a squad right?  Yeah.  Like Ocasio-Cortez and Ilhan Omar - like they are tweeting with each other on - like taking like selfies and promoting them on their Instagram and social media channels. They have these huge social media followings already. Like they are already kind of superstars coming into Congress. And it is - also what I think is striking about it is this kind of ballsy attitude among younger women coming into power where I think a lot of times younger members female members always kind of came in - I do not want to say humble but quiet you know?  Yeah.  Learn the ropes. Do not try to like be loud. Get a mentor. Figure out how to be effective here. And these women are just kind of like boom like kicking in the door and coming to the Hill.  Yeah. Do you think this gives them - the fact that they are banding together in this way and kind of hooking arms so to speak does it give them more power to shape the legislative agenda than typically freshman representatives would have?  I think it can to the extent that when you form a voting bloc of some kind and say we 10 we 15 we 20 are going to vote together on X or Y. Yeah it can certainly have an impact. I think they need to know what they want to do. They need to stick together. And it needs to have an actionable result right? Like protest for the sake of protest does not necessarily move the ball forward.  And I mean in thinking about the Democratic women in the House with swagger the queen really is Nancy Pelosi.  Yeah.  She is not new. She is not young. But she is in charge. And she was sworn in again as speaker of the House making history again. What is her biggest challenge going to be? Is it going to be Donald Trump? Is it going to be the new Democrats? They are in the House. Like what is going to be her biggest fight?  I do not believe that the next two years are going to be about necessarily legislation. We still have divided Congress with Senate Republicans and Trump in the White House not to say that there is not certain things that they might be able to get deals on or move forward on. But I do not think this is going to be the same kind of legislative productive era that we saw when Democrats all controlled Washington under Barack Obama. I think the big question and the thing that Washington will be defined by in the next two years are House Democrats now have oversight authority over the Trump administration. And they plan to use it. And they are going to launch dozens and dozens of investigations into how this administration has conducted itself. And there is a lot of smoke there. And we will see if there is fire - and also how the House and how Congress will respond to the eventual report by Robert Mueller and the special counsel investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Those two things will keep feeding the conversation of whether there will ever be enough to move forward with impeachment proceedings. And the answer to that question will always come down to the speaker because the speaker will be the one that almost has the singular decision-making power to decide whether to bring an impeachment resolution to the floor of the House. Now I am 20 steps ahead of myself here.   But I think oversight investigations and the I-word are going to be the debate that is really defined...  Yeah.  ...By this next Congress.  Sarah Halzack do you have three words?  I sure do. My three words are choppy waters ahead.  Ooh.  And that is what I think is in store.  Evergreen tweet.  Yeah right. That is what I think is in store for the retail industry in 2019. So surely you have read tons of stories about the so-called retail apocalypse. Amazon is stealing everybody's lunch. Malls are dying. Well 2018 was kind of this weird Goldilocks moment of respite from that. The consumer was so strong was out spending in force. And these long-term investments that retailers like Walmart and Target had been making for several years and being better at online shopping - they really started to pay off in 2018. And in fact Brian Cornell the CEO of Target said the consumer environment he saw in 2018 was the best he would seen in his entire career. But 2019 promises to kind of rain on that parade a little bit.  OK. Why?  So one big thing is the uncertainty around tariffs. So there is a batch of tariffs on 200 billion worth of Chinese goods that was supposed to originally rise from 10 percent to 25 percent on January 1. Well that has been temporarily delayed. But there is just a big question mark around when that might go into effect if it will be delayed again.  Yeah.  The other thing is the economy. They are - look. We did just have a jobs report Friday morning with 300...  Pretty good huh?  Yeah.  ...Three hundred twelve thousand jobs added. That is a blowout...  Wow. Yeah.  ...Far exceeding analysts' expectations. So we should not panic yet. But there are some signs that perhaps the economy is softening including what is going on in the housing market. And there is also some signs that globally there are some risks ahead with the Chinese economy. And we all saw - so this kind of cauldron of trouble kind of landed with a bang this week when Apple informed its investors that the revenue guidance it had previously given - it was going to need to reduce. And that is because it had much weaker sales in the China market than it had expected recently.  What this Apple news this week made me think about a lot was you know a lot of Donald Trump's rhetoric around this escalating tariff trade war is that like China must be punished in order for America to rise. But what Apple is kind of saying is companies like Apple need China's economy to do well for them to do well. And the fate of these international corporations multinational corporations relies on not just America doing good.  That is absolutely right. And we see so many examples of this. There are a lot of major American companies where they expect much of their growth to come from China in the years ahead. Nike is a strong example of this. Under Armour is an example of this. Luxury brands like Coach Kate Spade - they really rely on the Chinese consumer enormously not just in mainland China but as tourists right? So Tiffany gets a pretty significant amount of its sales from that Fifth Avenue store near Trump Tower. And a lot of what is going on there is international tourist spending. Its tourists coming from China or other markets. And so if those consumers stop taking vacations to the U.S. that is no good. Another interesting example of this is Starbucks. We all know here there is a Starbucks on every corner. Starbucks does not have a lot more room...  Sometimes there is two on a corner.  Right - exactly. We all know Starbucks does not have a lot more room to grow in the U.S. market. And so China is very key to their forward-looking business strategy. They are opening a store there - I think it is something like every 15 hours right now.  Wow.  Wow.  And so if the Chinese consumer is not confident is not in good shape you know that does come back to haunt this large U.S. business.  Yeah. Do they have pumpkin spice lattes at the Starbucks over there too?  Ooh I wonder if they have got some like Chinese popular flavors that would not be popular in the U.S. the way that like Japan...  Yes.  ...Has like green tea Kit Kats and things like that.  Yes. And McDonald's has special menus...  Yes...  ...For international markets.  ...For each individual location.  I do not know if the PSL translates to the China market. That is a good question.  .  That is a good - you need to - that is a good scoop.  For sure .  You need to be like...  I would read that column.  ...I need to go to China and go deep on this one.  Anyway I have three words.  Tell me.  To the moon - and this is also about China. This week Chinese state TV announced that the country put a lunar explorer on the far side of the moon. Some folks call it the dark side of the moon. It is actually not all the time dark because sunlight hits that side too. But this was a big deal and big news. The thinking is at some point down the road China will send Chinese astronauts to the moon. So far only 12 humans have actually ever set foot on the moon. They have all been American. But China's saying we are coming for you all. And I wonder like are Americans seeing this and worrying about it? Or is it a thing that kind of politicians worry about? I think I hear a lot of rhetoric in D.C. from the parties about the ascendance of a country like China. But is this a thing that everyday folks think about every day?  I do think that politicians think about a rising China way more than we probably cover or give them credit for. I think the hard part is nobody has a good answer for what to do to it. I mean there is something about a rising China that is just an inevitability. China is a...  Yeah.  ...Major world power that is rising. And how we respond to that is unclear.  Yeah. The thing I wonder about is that you know I think here the faces of the space race are no longer the government. They are these private titans of industry. It is Elon Musk with SpaceX. And it is Jeff Bezos with Blue Origin. They have become the face of the space race here I think. And...  Yeah.  ...That is kind of interesting - right? - these Silicon Valley swashbucklers kind of getting their tentacles in other spaces. And you know I wonder how that resonates with voters seeing that you know go into the private sector and seeing the attention drawn away from the federal government in that space.  Yeah. All I want is for all of us to get excited about the space race again. I was mad about this before because a few months ago the U.S. sent the InSight to Mars. And no one even talked about it.  I know. Also I am like in for all these countries and all these companies doing whatever they want in space because I have watched enough movies about...  Yeah.  ...Meteors coming to earth to kill us all.  .  I am big...  That you are ready to move to Mars.  Yeah. But like I am like - I love the destruction porn genre like anything that is like a meteor's coming to Earth and we must save it. And those movies like always ultimately have a lesson about like if we do not rely - if we do not work together to save the world we are all going to die. So...  Yes.  ...I am very much for it. Get up there. Figure it out.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show - I never know if I should say it is been a minute or it is been a minute. Because I feel like some people cannot understand the whole thing if I do not emphasize minute.  It is been a minute.  I...  It is been a minute.  It is been a minute.  I think the been. I think I...  I think it - yeah. I think...  ...Emphasize the been.  ...It is the been. It is been a minute.  Mmm hmm.  It is been a minute.  It is WNBC .  Yeah.  Yes yes. All right. It is the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Sue Davis who covers Congress for NPR and Sarah Halzack who covers retail for Bloomberg. Glad you both are here.  We love being with you Sam.  We sure do.  Sarah Sue I know this is literally the first week of the year. But I am going to go out on a ledge right now and make a big statement about 2019. I am going to say that this year will be the year of CBD.  Interesting.  You have heard of it.  Oh...  Yes.  ...I have heard of it.  CBD - the word actually stands for cannabidiol which is basically weed without the high. It is a part of a marijuana plant - or a hemp plant being marketed very heavily right now to like suburban aunties. Folks say it is an anti-inflammatory that it can relieve pain that it can soothe anxiety. And right now - at least at the federal level a CBD drug approved by the FDA can be used to treat epilepsy. One industry group says that CBD will be a 2 billion industry by 2020. I wanted to understand more about CBD. So I called up Allie Conti. She is a reporter with VICE. And she is very familiar with the CBD. Yeah you know me. Allie hey. How are you?  I am doing well. How is it going?  Pretty good. Thank you for your time. We are here to talk about three buzzy letters in the zeitgeist right now. They are C-B-D. I want to ask you about that because you have written about trying CBD yourself.  I did.  What did it do to you?  That is a good question. I will say...  .  ...I have tried it many more than one time...  Oh OK .  ...To varying degrees of success right? So I have tried vaping it. I have tried ingesting it as a tincture. I have tried eating...  A tincture - that is...  ...It as a gummy.  ...Just like a little drop or what? What is that?  Sure. Yeah. It is like a little dropper bottle. And you put it...  OK.  ...Either under your tongue or in some water. And then you drink the water.  Such a great word - tincture.  I know. You do not get to use that very often.  .  It is a good one. But yeah. So I would say that I have had varying degrees of success with it. And that you know is in part because this is not regulated. And it comes in various potencies and - a lot of which are not accurately labeled.  Yeah yeah. And it is like - it is also like besides just the stuff that like looks like medicine like a dropper or a pill or whatever it is also in drinks. Like I have seen bars around Los Angeles that have CBD cocktails. My favorite internet person - Gwyneth Paltrow - talks about CBD cocktails on her wellness site Goop.  Oh. I would also - going to mention CBD coffee. I do not know if you guys have that out there.  Oh my goodness.  I find that to be the funniest one because...  That is absurd because it is like...  ...If you are drinking coffee...  Yeah.  ...Are not you just kind of negating the effects of the coffee if it alleviates anxiety? I do not really understand...  Yeah.  ...What the purpose of that is.  Coffee's an upper.  Right - not sure what you would mix that with CBD for.  So you have written about trying CBD. You work for VICE. And VICE gets shipped a lot of CBD products. But you tried it in this thing you wrote where you use some CBD - I do not know - essence oil in a JUUL pen. These are the pens - the vape pens that are famous with the kids.  That is the other buzzy thing out there right now - is the JUUL. So I mixed the two biggest fads together...  Yeah.  ...To see what would happen.  Yeah. You wrote in the piece quote It felt like the internal volume turned down a little bit. And you compared it to having exactly one glass of wine.  Exactly.  Yeah. So it is kind of like a naturally occurring Xanax maybe.  Sure yeah. And the guy who made those CBD JUUL pods that I wrote about actually used almost that exact phrase to describe his product.  OK.  Yeah.  So I mean the reason why there is a lot of conversation about CBD is not just because it is buzzy. But there are also a lot of questions about whether or not you can actually legally consume this stuff. I do not want us to go too far down the rabbit hole but there are big gray areas that surround CBD and its legality correct?  It is incredibly confusing.  .  And it is almost impossible not to go deep deep into the weeds once you even bring up that question. But the short answer is that the stuff that you are seeing on the shelves - and it is ubiquitous like you mentioned before. But that stuff is not legal.  It is not legal.  Correct - it is like in a gray area. It is not something that you know the DEA before was going to go after. But...  Yeah.  ...It is not - it is still like a scheduled drug just like heroin or meth.  Yeah.  But also on December 20 the newest iteration of the federal farm bill was signed into law.  Yes.  And that actually descheduled hemp.  It descheduled hemp but did it deschedule CBD that is derived from hemp?  Yes. But there is not any yet.  OK.  So basically the CBD that will be descheduled and that you will be legally able to carry around does not really exist yet. It has to be made using this very specific method that has just been codified. So that stuff is not on the shelves yet. But as early as next year we should be able to see things that have been made you know according to these federal regulations - that you should be legally allowed to take even you know on an airplane anywhere that you would want.  Got you.  But also it is very - it is going to be very expensive to make this stuff. And...  Really?  ...A lot of the companies that are making the stuff you see right now are simply not going to be able to withstand the process of making this stuff above board. It has to be FDA-approved. And that is an expensive process.  And so moving past legality basically it is in a murky legal gray area right now. But it is moving towards a space in which it is more legal. But besides that I want to talk about why it seems CBD is having a moment. A friend of mine was telling me that when he was home in suburban Pennsylvania over the holidays CBD was like in the malls you know? Middle-aged aunties were buying it.  Right.  What is that about?  And I agree with that. It really is having a moment. I was just in Florida. Same thing was going on. But you know first off the concepts of snake oil - that is not exactly new to human history. And I think a lot of this kind of boils down to people wanting to believe that something's out there with so much untapped medical potential you know? That does not surprise me at all really. Like it is a nice thought to think that such a thing exists.  Yeah.  This does dovetail interestingly with the kind of wellness and self-care movements of the past couple of years. But you know maybe if you wanted to get a little bit deeper...  Yeah.  ...It is worth kind of noting that you know the recent rise of CBD kind of coincides with the dissolution of public trust in institutions.  Oh wow.  I do not know. Like this is - yeah...  Go there. Go there. Keep going.  No I do not know. I mean maybe if there is a thing that you can buy that kind of circumvents you know Big Pharma and the government and provides you with either you know real or imagined relief you know it is tempting to kind of go that route.  I do find it interesting - when people write about CBD they talk about how some of the effect it has on people might just be a placebo effect. And whenever I hear people say oh well it is just a placebo effect I kind of say to myself and what is wrong with that? If a placebo effect means that you feel better cool?  Yeah I think it depends what the person is taking it for. If they are taking it because they feel slightly elevated levels of anxiety then no I do not think it really makes much of a difference whether or not it is a placebo or not. If someone's taking it because they have cancer and do not want to go to the doctor it does matter a bit more you know? It depends what the stakes are really.  Well thank you so much for being a CBD guinea pig and talking to me all about it.  Absolutely - glad to help.   So Sarah Sue there is a lot to unpack there. What do you think about that?  I have heard a lot about it. I will say I do have one good friend who has been using it for a long time because she has a really medically complex kid and have used it to treat seizures as a...  Yeah.  What you were talking about Sam the medical reason for CBD. And it has helped her son a lot. I have had some friends. And I will not name them...   But I have had some friends who I have joked - and I think that this is going to be a cultural story about this in that it is like the new mommy's little helper.  Yeah.  That it is for like moms who like you know - the wine culture but if you do not want to like drink alcohol or you do not want to - or you do not drink alcohol but you do not want to take pharmaceuticals - that it is like this mid-ground thing of things you can do to relax that does not make you feel bad for taking it.  Yeah.  Yeah. So I have been following this story from a different angle from the business angle.  OK.  So big beverage and food companies - this is something they have to think about very carefully because particularly as you talk about this idea of like the suburban auntie turning to this as a wine alternative that sends a chill down the spine of...   ...Every big alcohol maker right? So we have seen companies like Constellation Brands - this is the parent of Corona and Modelo. They have made investments in a Canadian cannabis company.  Really?  Yes Molson Coors is working - its Canadian unit is working in partnership with a cannabis company to create a CBD beverage that will...  Really?  ...Be for sale in Canada because they have legalized there. So for all these big alcohol companies - and also big tobacco right? - this presents a very interesting and difficult business question because we do not know when this gray area is going to end in the United States. And we do not know in other Western countries when this may be legalized or not.  This is why I was saying CBD feels like the thing in the next coming years that we are going to start to see everywhere the same way that like different things have moments like rose.  Remember...  Like...  Oh I am still having my rose moment .  Oh no. I am still in the rose moment too. But I would probably try CBD rose. So...   ...The marketing - the beverage companies get me. And they are probably - know what I want before I know what I want.  All right. It is time for a break. When we come back we will play my favorite game - no CBD involved though. It is called Who Said That - BRB.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Sarah Halzack who covers retail for Bloomberg and Sue Davis who covers Congress for NPR. You all it is time for my favorite game. You have both played it before. It is called Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  The game is very simple. I share a quote from the week. You have to guess who said that or get the story I am referring to or just get close. I will give you some hints as well. Of course as you both know the winner gets nothing but bragging rights. Which of you is most prepared to win? Who is most ready?  I want to win. But I am also - like have been out of the news for a while. So I feel like Sarah is entering this contest with a little bit of an advantage but...  Oh no. Now I am going to look bad if I do not win.  .  First quote ready? - Boy and girl have just one wish for 2019. And it is that you not end up in the hospital due to memes.  Oh is this the - Bird Box?  Bird Box.   Yes. Oh that is a tie .  Yeah.  Yeah.  So that statement was an official statement from Netflix given on Twitter basically urging all of us to stop recreating scenes from the newest hit movie Bird Box.  Have you seen it?  I have seen it several times.  I cannot. I will never see it. I still have nightmares about The Blair Witch Project.  Oh my...  .  So what are people doing? Are they blindfolded themselves and like...  They are.  Oh.  So the whole premise of the film is that some weird spirit or virus or something makes you want to commit suicide if you see it. So to avoid the demon you have to like have your eyes constantly covered. So Sandra Bullock and two children are trying to escape to freedom while blindfolded . So there is just this whole movie of Sandra Bullock...  So they are blindfolded for like 80 percent of the movie? Is that...  Yes so she is leading kids through the woods in blindfolds. So people because of the Internet have been recreating those scenes. There was one I saw where this guy dresses up his two toddlers in blindfolds and started running through the house with them. And one of them runs into the wall.  Oh no.  One of the little kiddies. He was fine but it is like stop doing that.  Yeah.  Just take CBD.   There you go.  That is like dangerously stupid. And if you are going to do it do not involve children you weirdos.  Come on.  Right.  All right this is a tie. It is one to one. Next quote you ready?  Yes.  It was cold and I needed a coat so I went shopping in my closet. I had no plan or intention...  Nancy Pelosi.   OK.  Yes.  The coat.  This is a new speaker of the House talking about that coat she wore a few weeks ago to the Oval Office for that Trump shutdown meeting. It was a rusty-red Max Mara jacket. Was is - it was not quite a peacoat. How would you describe it?  I describe it as peacoat-like.  Peacoat-like a strong tall collar.  With a luxury cut.  Yes. Yes. Very nice cut. But this jacket became the thing of a thousand memes when she walked out of the Oval Office like a Charlie's Angel just strutting in that jacket. And she talked about it this week with Elle magazine and said there was no big plan. It was just a jacket that was clean in my closet. She said quote Clean should be the first criteria. It was just clean.  This is my thing too with that. Like if you try to - if you make decisions to try and become a meme it does not work. Like the best memes are happened by accident.  Yes Max Mara the brand that made that jacket says they are going to bring that jacket back.  But like who is that consumer right? Because that - how much is that jacket cost? Like a Max Mara coat...  I was going to say that is got to be high three figures or low four figures yeah.  You know like I do not think that is like young millennial women buying that coat. Or they think they are going to. And they look at it and they are like oh never mind.  No. Well and the other thing is you know how long is it going to take them to reproduce it and get it on shelves?  Yeah.  All right Last quote for all the marbles. You all ready?  Yes.  I am ready.  OK. Quote We find the passenger acceptance of floppy ear dogs is just better. It presents just a little bit less of a concern does not scare children. Who said that?  Emotion oh. Is it about emotional support animals? Is that where we are going?  It is about the kind of dogs that you see in airports.  Bomb sniffing dogs.  Yes but who is in charge of those?  TSA.   Yes oh.  Is that a tie? I do not know.  You can give it to Sue.  Oh OK.  Did I win?  I think you did.  Yeah.  In your face.   So this week TSA the Transportation Security Administration they announced that they are going to begin phasing out pointy-eared dogs for searching and stuff at airports...  Like German shepherds?  Yeah - and replace them with only floppy-eared dogs.  Like golden retrievers.  Yes. Because they say people are just less scared of floppy-eared dogs.  I think that that is probably true.  That checks out. Sure.  'ecause I am thinking of like Doberman pinschers that can have pointy ears or German shepherds or - I think that sometimes those dogs do seem more like authoritarian than like a golden retriever or a Lab.  Seem like they are at alert right?  Yeah.  But as a dog person I got to say there is no such thing as a bad dog only bad people.  I agree with that.  Kind of hurts my heart.  That is about - that is definitely true.  I know. Anyway that concludes Who Said That? Sue you are our winner but you get nothing. Now it is time to end the show as we do every week. We ask our listeners to share with us the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. We asked folks at the end of 2018 to send us the best parts of their entire year. We got so many of those responses. We are going to air some more of those this week as well. So right now you are going to hear some best things of the week and some best things of folks' last year. Let us take a listen.  Hola Sam. It is Maggie .  And Megan  from Minnesota. The best part of our week is being in Mexico celebrating our 40th birthdays and the new year with our be