 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week the role of tech in American democracy. All right let us start the show.  Hey you all. From NPR you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am Sam Sanders. And this episode more on the fallout from this month's insurrection of the Capitol. Today we are going to focus on the Internet and social media where a lot of the pro-Trump extremism behind the attack has flourished. So I am not sure if I can even remember what Twitter was like before Donald Trump but this month I got a taste of that life again. Trump left Twitter. I mean actually Twitter kicked him off in the aftermath of the attack. After warning for what seemed like all of Trump's presidency Jack Dorsey finally did it. This set off a ripple effect. A lot of other social media platforms did the same and it seems like these bans could be permanent. These bans have already led to some big shifts in who talks where online and it is also led to some big questions about how it all might permanently change the nature of the Internet as we know it. So to talk about all that is happened online since the Capitol siege and what it means for all of us going forward I am joined now by two people who cover this stuff for a living Shannon Bond and Bobby Allyn NPR's two rock star tech reporters. Hello to you both.  Hey Sam.  Now you all are both in the Bay Area because you cover you know Silicon Valley and tech stuff. But how far apart are you all - like miles - as we tape this show remotely?  I think we have a body of water between us. I am over in Berkeley in the East Bay.  Yeah I am over in San Francisco. And I have only been here I think for like nine months. And I have seen Shannon - what? - maybe three times in person. We are mostly Slack friends.   Yeah. It was like a really big deal the first time we actually like - he like - Bobby came and hung out masked at a distance in my yard. And we like had a beer. And we are like oh wow. It is really nice to actually see you.  Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah.  You are real. That is good to know.   I love it. I love it. Well you two have been so busy I am guessing these last - what? - two weeks. I think the way that the Internet and social media has worked for years is now entirely fundamentally different. Trump being off of Twitter and off of Facebook - like how big of a deal is that you all?  Yeah. I mean what you said about it suddenly feels like it is a different Twitter - like I totally feel the same way. It is sort of bizarre because there is been so much over the past four years and you know even I guess five years thinking about the campaign where you know like for reporters - certainly for you know White House reporters political reporters but also for tech reporters and I think for almost anybody who is at all conscious online - like your day was so driven by like what did Trump tweet last.  Yeah. Yeah.  And he is silent. And I just think you kind of cannot underscore - as much as we - and we can talk about this. Like this was a long time coming and there is lots of legitimate criticism of the companies of like why did this not happen sooner? It was a huge moment for this to happen. Like it is a really big deal.  So you know it was not just Twitter and Jack Dorsey and Trump getting kicked off Twitter. A lot of other platforms were involved in the sweeping bans that we have seen across the last week or two - Snapchat YouTube. Amazon Web Services is involved. Facebook's involved. Can you all just catch us up Bobby and Shannon on all the bans and where they have happened and who is shutting down what so far?  Yeah. So if we start with social media - right? - so Twitter has booted Trump permanently. Facebook has what they describe as indefinitely suspended him. We have also seen sort of a more sweeping crackdown on QAnon the QAnon conspiracy collective delusion whatever you want to call it. And then - and it is true. And there is like smaller platforms. Reddit got rid of TheDonald subreddit. Twitch banned Trump although I do not know that I ever think about like Trump using Twitch. But...  I thought I saw somewhere that Pinterest banned him.  Right.  Is there...  Does he have a Pinterest page? Like what is happening? What is Donald Trump doing on Pinterest? And then as you mentioned there is this whole - you know there is other companies too that are kind of getting involved in this. There are the payment providers right? So PayPal and Stripe are no longer processing payments and donations for some like Trump-supporting groups. So there is sort of this whole like kind of ripple effect across a lot of other companies...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...That started to take action not directly just about Trump but about other - kind of other...  Yeah.  ...Things in the Trumposphere .  Yeah. Talk me through what Amazon Web Services has been doing around these bans. They have been involved with this saga over Parler which is a newish kind of right-wing social media site for folks that are either leaving or getting booted off of Facebook and Twitter. But Amazon has shut down Parler. What is going on there?  Yeah. So you know when Trump got kicked off of these major platforms and then a bevy of smaller platforms fell in line these sort of niche social media platforms that sort of you know tell the world that they are a more welcome place for free speech than Facebook and Twitter because they have far fewer content moderation - basically anything goes in terms of what you can say or post. But many extremists and many far-right folks went to these services and one of them was Parler. And pressure started mounting when people you know took a look at what was happening on Parler in the lead-up to the insurrection attempt. And people were getting very specific about plans you know sharing maps of the Capitol. I mean on apps like Parler and Gab people were you know figuring out ways of how they could best break into the Capitol. I mean there was all...  Oh wow. So they were casing the joint on Parler.  They were. And it was the way that...  Wow.  ...You know they were talking to each other. They were documenting it. And so Apple and Google said OK enough is enough. We are pulling the plug. They made it so it is impossible to download Parler on like a smartphone or an iPad. And then Amazon Web Services totally pulled the plug basically took them off the Internet by saying we are not comfortable hosting you guys anymore - so flipped the switch off. And then Parler went dark.  And this is what is interesting. I do not think - you know I do not really think about it that much but this Amazon Web Services story kind of showed all of us that one company run by one man can basically take a platform like Parler off the Internet entirely because they own the servers.  Well you know there is this whole kind of infrastructure layer that I think people - you know average users do not really think about a lot. There is actually you know a company - other companies involved that are you know hosting the site or providing like security services. And we have actually seen these kind of things happen before. So back in 2017 CloudFlare which is one of these companies that offers these kind of services - they terminated their account with the Daily Stormer which is this neo-Nazi Web site. And they said you know we just do not want to do business with this website anymore. You know Bobby mentioned Gab which is another alternative social network that is really sort of you know pushed itself as being all about free speech. Back in 2018 the shooter in the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh you know had apparently used a Gab account. And GoDaddy which hosted Gab - it pulled service with Gab and took it down. So you know a company like CloudFlare or like Amazon Web Services - right? - they do have this kind of power to basically decide you know can these sites or these apps exist on the Internet?  Yeah. The question now as all of this deplatforming of the alt-right is happening is whether this makes them stronger or weaker. You know their microphone may be smaller now and they are on these smaller more obscure platforms. But I am guessing when they are on the Parlers and the Gabs of the world there is no moderation or pushback on them and they can be even more fringe or radical.  Yeah this is a huge conversation happening out here now. I mean if this all like you said you know gets pushed of these niche platforms these Gabs and these Parlers of the world it still exists right? It is still on the Internet. It is still part of the tide of garbage that is on the Internet. But at least its visibility is really reduced. Like you know your uncle or your grandma or even you - you know you might not you know run into it on Facebook and Twitter and not being able to get to you know millions or billions of people. So that is a good thing right?  Yeah.  But there is this - you know there is this thorny question of - like you know if extremists are on these extremist platforms you know that is like the echo chamber effect on steroids. That could have like some pretty scary ramifications. And one thing Sam that I think is just super-fascinating to watch in real time is if you really zoom out here I think nobody really knows what the rules of the road should be for the next you know generation of the Internet right? And we are seeing you know what is allowed and what is not and what the response is going to be. And some of the tech companies are saying all right we have some rules. You know all the other tech companies have their own rules. Maybe government should come in and help us write like some rules that everyone...  Well the - yeah.  ...Would follow. And then...  Yeah.  The government has not. So now it is just a bunch of private companies with a bunch of private rules and it is just kind of a mess.  And these dudes who never wanted the responsibility - lest we forget Mark Zuckerberg founded Facebook to be like a hot or not...  Yeah.  ...Ranking program for students on his college campus.  That is correct.  He was not asking to like be in charge of communication for the free world.  Yeah.  And now here he is in this position. You know I wonder watching us have this like existential crisis over who needs to be in charge of the American Internet - it is fascinating. Like you will see America - we are just like banging our heads against the wall figuring out how to moderate this stuff. Meanwhile these same companies Facebook and Twitter - they censor on behalf of governments already. You know it can be done and it is being done. It just depends on what country and where and how strict they want to be.  Right. And that I think comes when you have like regulation with real teeth behind it. I also - just to step back a little bit on like to thinking specifically about this incident I also - I think one of the problems is like we are in this incredibly heightened moment understandably of like national crisis. And we are like trying to have these like fairly nuanced policy discussions. But like let us not forget that Trump was banned from Twitter for inciting you know violence against...  A riot.  ...Another branch of government. So also like...  Yeah.  The idea that you would sort of - like I think it is absolutely legitimate to say like you know we should be asking questions about you know and wondering if this is really the right way to do it. But I also kind of think we can say - and this is also like an incredibly hopefully unique case. And...  Yeah.  Like you know if there is ever a time to like kind of act unilaterally maybe that is the time to do it.  Yeah. And - but another thing is Sam you know you cannot talk about this without talking about the fact that Trump is kicked off these platforms just when Trump is about to lose power. There is going to be Democrats...  There you go. Exactly.  ...Controlling Washington and Democrats controlling you know the congressional committees that are tasked with coming up with the future regulations for their own industry. So I do not think that is lost on them.  Oh yeah. Well I am sure these tech companies are saying hey Democrats we kicked Trump off. So like be nice to us again.  Yeah exactly.  You know? All right. So...  I cannot believe you guys are so cynical.   So this would usually be the part of the conversation where I have us spend about 20 or 25 minutes on net neutrality and Section 230 because I love that stuff.  Yeah. Yeah.  But I am not going to do that but I am going to ask kind of an existential question about how the law should look at companies like Facebook and Twitter. And that big question is are these tech companies just private companies that can do whatever they want? Or have they become utilities meaning that they have to be accessible to everyone because they are so integral to daily life? What does the law say? What is the current debate over that tension? And will it ever be resolved?  I mean a lot of this focus - so it is hard to talk about this without talking about Section 230 a little bit. So I will try to talk about it really fast...  .  ...Which is just that it is this legal shield that does two things. One it says you cannot be sued for what people post on the platforms. The second is that Facebook and Twitter have wide berth to basically set the rules for what is allowed and what is not and enforce it themselves. And this law is the cornerstone of the Internet. And let us remember - this does not just help Facebook and Twitter operate the way they do but it helps Wikipedia and it helps Yelp and it helps every single website that has some kind of comment online operate the way that they do. And so that is the legal landscape in terms of you know liability. Now in terms of further regulation I mean that is sort of a separate conversation. But I think most of the focus is going to be on - what should we do to Section 230? Should we amend it? Should we completely scrap it? So there is a lot of different kind of proposals. But I think the Section 230 debate - and I am sure you know Shannon could talk more about this too - is going to be I think center stage.  When I think - Sam you kind of put your finger on it like when you were talking about that sort of thing - you know are Twitter and Facebook kind of utilities? I think one of the problems is - because as Bobby says - you know the current legal framework with Section 230 applies to you know any online forum. So it is like your local community - if you are a local newspaper and they have like you know comments on the articles it applies to them. It applies to like - I do not know - the like dog owners' forum. Like it is all these little guys too where this applies. And I think part of the problem is we are trying to craft a set of rules that applies to them as well as to a company like Facebook which is much more like a utility. It is much more universal. And so I think one of the questions is like do we need to think about these big big companies differently?  You know I think especially with this QAnon stuff I feel like a lot of it goes back to education and media literacy. And as George W. Bush once said is our children learning?   Like I think a lot of folks would be less susceptible to this Internet foolishness if you know they knew a little more about how the Internet and the news works. I digress. I have learned so much from this chat. We are going to take a little break right now. But listeners stay with us. Coming up Shannon and Bobby and I will take a break from the serious news and play my favorite game - Who Said That? You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   Your knowledge of the Internet and social media apps will probably help you both out in playing our next game. It is called Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  The game is quite simple. I share three quotes from the week of news. You got to guess who said it or what story I am talking about or even fill in the blank. There are no winners. There are no losers. And I do not even really keep score because what does anything matter? It is 2021.  .  OK that was dark. Sorry.   Cut that in post. Anyhoo  let us start. OK here is the first quote. This one is a fill-in-the-blank. The Obamas did not use the garage so the extra traffic to and from the command post caused no problem. Yet this solution too was short-lived after a Secret Service supervisor from the Trump-Kushner detail left an unpleasant mess in the Obama blank.  .  Their garage bathroom.   Yes. Shannon you got that point. This is from a real doozy...  .  ...Of a Washington Post story out this week that talks all about how the Secret Service which was tasked to guard Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner at their home in D.C. they were not allowed to use any of the Ivanka-Jared bathrooms in the house of which there were I think 6.5.   So their fix was to use the restrooms at local restaurants and coffee shops and also use the restroom down the street at the Obamas' house? It is just bonkers to me.  It is so embarrassing.  Here's my favorite graph from this Washington story all about toiletgate . It reads - after resorting to a port-a-potty as well as bathrooms at the nearby home of former President Barack Obama and the not-so-nearby residence of Vice President Pence the agents finally found a toilet to call their own. They began to rent a space from one of the neighbors down the street.  .  For like 3000 a month right? Like it is not cheap.  Imagine Michelle Obama looking you in the face and saying...  Yeah.  ...I am sorry sweetheart you cannot use my bathroom anymore.   Because of course she would say it with love. She seems very nice.  Yeah.  You would be so ashamed though.  I could not. Anyway Shannon you got that point.  Woo hoo.  Here's the next quote. Guess who said it. Our administration would also work to attract content creator collectives such as TikTok hype houses where young artists collaborate. We need to help create similar artists collectives that utilize new technologies.  Hmm.  This is a candidate for New York City mayor.  Is this Andrew Yang?  Oh it is Andrew Yang.   Yeah. Shannon for the win again.  Sorry Bobby skipped you there.  So this quote...  I think we said at the same time. You are going to go through the recordings and see who said it first.   So this quote comes from Andrew Yang's campaign site for New York City mayor. We know Andrew Yang from his previous run for president. Now he is running for mayor of New York. And he says that part of his platform is helping the kids the Gen Zers the creator collectives to establish TikTok hype houses. I know what a hype house is. For those who are listening but do not Bobby Shannon tell folks what they are.  Well it is - a lot of them are in LA. There is some of the Atlanta and some other cities. And it is basically where a bunch of young influencers live in usually like a palatial estate and they just do TikTok videos all day you know to try to go viral. And they are ridiculous. And they often cause lots of problems for neighbors. And there is been a crackdown on some of them for being boisterous and out of control. But it is a pretty ridiculous concept if you think .  Also it seems unclear to me that why they need government support. Like I do not know - what is he saying?   Like these already exist .  The hype houses are flourishing. The hype houses already have enough hype.  Right? Like why do they need - like why is this part of his platform?  Also I do not understand - why does not every candidate for mayor in New York have the platform of just I will fix the subway.   Exactly yeah.  Seriously.  Yeah. All right. Here is the last quote. For this one you have to guess the Internet phenomenon I am alluding to. OK here it is. Soon may the Wellerman come to bring us sugar and tea and rum. One day when the tonguing is done we will take our leave and go.  Sea shanty TikTok.   My fav.  Yeah. Shannon is on a roll. Shannon is like Michael Jordan 1990s-era Bulls.  I am just super-competitive.   So those are the lyrics of a 19th century sea shanty sung by someone named Nathan Evans on TikTok. His first post went viral with this sea shanty and a lot of other TikTokers added harmonies and instruments on top of that. And now apparently the biggest trend on TikTok are sea shanties. Gen Z has fallen in love with .  It is impossible to say it. It is impossible to say it.   Sea shanty sea shanty sea shanty.    The winds blew up. Her bow dipped down. O blow my bully boys blow.  The thing that I love about it - it is like the thing that I think is most fun about TikTok. It is why I love the - like the Ratatouille musical thing is just - like the collaborative tools that they have built really are genius.    Soon may the Wellerman come to and bring us sugar and tea and rum.  Like it is so easy just to kind of layer it on. And so to see sort of the evolution of something - right? - to go back and find like the first video and then like see people adding on and it just becomes - like there is something really sweet about that. And then also I have a 4-year-old who is obsessed with pirates. So like...  Really?  ...I played him the sea shanty and now he like only wants to listen to sea shanties.   I want Lil Nas X...  .  ...To make a hip-hop sea shanty. That is what I need in my life.  It is only a matter of time before these are like charting right?  Yeah. Yeah. All right Shannon you have got the Olympic gold...  Woo hoo.  ...In this game. Congratulations.  Thank you.  Just coming in hot.  Stop the steal.   Bobby is going to start a disinformation campaign.   We are going to have to kick Bobby off this platform.   Oh man. This was so much fun. I learned a lot. I laughed a lot. Thanks to you both Bobby Allyn and Shannon Bond NPR's two tech reporters. Let us do it again soon.  Sounds good. Thanks Sam.  Thanks Sam.   All right for this next segment we are going to move away from the news we are going to move away from work. We are going to talk about laziness.   You know for me in January 2021 I am already feeling so much pressure to not be lazy. But my next guest they say we all got to try to let that pressure go in 2021. In fact they wrote a book all about it. It is called Laziness Does Not Exist. Hey Devon.  Hi. Hello.  How are you?  I am doing all right. I am fiddling with the audio a little bit.  That is Devon Price. Their book - it is about the obsession with work and being productive not just here in the U.S. but throughout the world. Devon calls this obsession the laziness lie.  And it has three main tenets. And those tenets are that one your worth is defined by your productivity. Two you cannot trust your own feelings of exhaustion or your needs and limitations. And the third tenet of the laziness lie is that there is always more that you could be doing in basically every realm of life - not just work but showing up for other people activism you know not exercising enough whatever it is.  Devon did not always see laziness this way. For most of their life they were very productive - like very.  So I finished my Ph.D. when I was 25 year old and I was...  Wait stop.  .  How does that even...   I did not have a life.  OK.  I took college classes in high school.  But after grad school while working as a researcher Devon got sick with a fever that just would not go away for months.  What ended up finally happening was I just needed to like stop going so fast. I needed to actually rest disappoint people on my research team eat more and just stop looking at my life in terms of...  Yeah.  ...Like how much I was doing.  Yeah. What did that look like - the slowdown - for you? I mean like I am guessing you cannot go from 100 to zero overnight.  Yeah. I had to learn how to get kind of sneaky about it. I think especially professionally we kind of have to do - like use the language of busyness to get away with doing less in the workplace in a way.  Uh huh.  So I would make sure I had something to bring to every week's lab meeting that like sounded like it was like a lot of impressive charts and statistics. And it was important stuff. But I was like if it looks impressive...  Yeah.  ...Then I can kind of cover up how much time - you know maybe it only took me a day and then I can take the day after that off - and really just rethinking how I looked at other people too right? Like are my students lazy? Or are they overwhelmed like I am...  Yeah.  ...And so on and so forth.  You know you saying that there was something you wrote in the book that really really stuck with me. And I wrote it down and I want to read it for our listeners. You wrote that like a lot of the people that we deem lazy are actually going through a lot that we cannot see.  Absolutely. So much of what we call laziness is actually a person being held back by a ton of barriers. And we cannot see those barriers or they are barriers we have been conditioned to think are not legitimate. And so then we just reach for laziness as an easy explanation. So you know are my students skipping class because they are lazy and there is something wrong with them? Or are they working a full-time job dealing with - you know I have had students who are dealing with like a sexual assault case with a classmate so of course they do not want to come to class you know? Like...  Yeah.  And I think that really gets to the heart of most of the things that we write off as laziness - is just we need to look at the person's context and what is getting in their way.  Yeah. So you in the book look into where the word lazy even comes from. You trace the word's etymology. Where does it come from? When is - like what is the first utterance of the word lazy?  Yeah. So lazy seems to have two roots from around the 1500's. It has like an old German and archaic English root. And basically one of the meanings is - for one of the root words is feeble or weak. And the other root word is morally corrupt which really gets to the heart of like the weird doublespeak that is at work whenever we call someone lazy. We are saying that they have some kind of weakness or limitation but at the very same time we are saying that that is making them evil. And it does not really make any sense when you think about those two things. Like how can they exist at the same time? How can somebody be evil...  Yeah.  ...For needing help you know?  Yeah. What do you say to the folks hearing the two of us right now? You know we are kind of in lockstep. I am hearing what you are saying. I am picking up what you are putting down. But there is probably a good number of our listeners who are saying this is bogus. Just work. Get a job. Figure it out. When you encounter those folks that cannot even wrap their head around the big idea of your book how do you talk to them?  One - well the first thing is I was surprised at how little I am hearing that pushback. The only time people really push back with me they come to me to say sure this might all be true for other people but I am lazy. I know deep down I am lazy. Like people say it about themselves not others which is really interesting to me.  Wow. What do you say to those folks when they say hey secret I am lazy?   Well I say you are really not giving yourself credit for all that you are doing. Like what are you dealing with that in somebody else especially someone else you loved you would give them some latitude for that you are not taking as a reasonable context or excuse for yourself you know? Like there is something both kind of martyring and kind of grandiose to say I have to live up to the standard that nobody else that I love would kind of live up to.  Oh my God totally. Do you think our productivity crisis and our maybe unhealthy views about laziness - do you think it changes? It feels as if the whole country and the whole world is shifting a lot right now - our politics the way we commune with each other. I mean between the pandemic and the last four years of national politics it seems like everything is up for grabs right now and could be changing. Do you think in all these shifts that our views about work and productivity change as well?  I think so. I think we have reached a moment where the absurdity and the unwinnability  of these beliefs are being revealed to more and more people but I think we are also not out of the woods yet right? So Forbes had a report that came out a couple months ago showing that worker productivity had gone up about 40 over the pandemic because now...  What?  Yeah yeah.  Wait. Stop. That is - no. Come on.  Yeah yeah because people do not have a commute. They do not have as many meetings. Like a lot of - and because people are like working to distract themselves from existential dread.  Life .  Yeah. So worker productivity had gone up. But this was also at the same time - especially like early into work from home a lot of companies started buying screen logging software for their employees or key tracking software...  Oh my God. Oh my God.  ...To make sure they were not cheating and being lazy and still working really hard during a pandemic. And so I do think more and more people are seeing how absurd and unfair and unjust it is. But most of us are not like free of those pressures as much as we recognize that they are absurd. So I really hope we can...  Yeah.  ...Do something with this to get some momentum and actually change things 'ecause I do think more and more people are really ready for the conversation which is good.  Yeah. For folks that heard this chat and just do not know where to start in combating over-productivity and our bad ideas about laziness what is one quick and dirty piece of practical advice on how to begin to break free from this stuff a quick and dirty thing they can do beginning right now?  I think find someone in your life that you see in a uncharitable light and see if you can think about why they are making choices that do not look ideal to you. So that can be something as simple as if someone's on the corner asking for money maybe instead of wondering about what they are going to do with the money just give them the money if you can afford to you know?  Yeah.  Just - 'ecause I think it is easier for us to practice this stuff first on other people and then we can start realizing hey maybe I am not lazy either. Maybe I am OK and worthy...  Yeah.  ...No matter what I do.   Devon thank you so much for this book and for this conversation. Listeners Devon Price's book is called Laziness Does Not Exist. I think it is going to be quite helpful to you. Thanks Devon.  Thanks for having me Sam.   Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.  Hey Sam. My name is Jenny . I live in Burlington Vt. The best thing that happened to me this past week actually happened to my husband. He was able to get the first of the COVID vaccine shots. And he is an infectious disease doctor so his risk is a little bit higher. And I have a form of leukemia which puts me at much greater risk. And I am just really grateful for science.  Hi Sam. This is Linda  from Salem Ore. This week I got to see my parents. They are both at end stage for their various conditions. And after nine long months the facility gave us compassionate visit so I was able to see them in person. I do not know if they realize what a significant thing that was or even that I was there but I know and I believe their soul knows.  Hey Sam. This is Shannon  from San Diego. The best part of my week happened today when over Zoom we got to watch my baby brother get married to a wonderful woman in a backyard wedding in Seattle. What makes it extra hard is that our father died in March and so we know that he would have been so proud watching our brother get married.  Hey Sam. My name's Grant  from New Jersey. And the best thing to happen to me this week is I will go home tonight go to sleep and wake up tomorrow with 31 months of continuous sobriety from heroin after 19 years battling it. And that is something to be proud of.  Hi Sam. This is Sarah  from Orlando Fla. I just got a call letting me know that I would been admitted to Harvard Law School. My mom sacrificed everything including her own career as an attorney in Colombia to give me a chance to succeed in this country. She is been my motivation and my rock through everything I do and I cannot wait to share the good news with her. Anyway thank you for the show and thank you for everything you do.  Thanks a lot.  Thank you for all you do and for getting me through the week in the news.  Thanks for your wo