 Hey you all just a quick warning - in this episode we are going to discuss music that the youths listen to. And we are going to hear some lyrics that you might not want kids to hear. That is in the section of this interview where Jeff plays the piano. So feel free to skip that. It is about three minutes long. It starts when you hear the piano.   All right so a couple of months back in Los Angeles I met this record producer up in the Hollywood Hills.  Hey.  This is nice.  Yup you like it?  His name is Jeff Bhasker. I have been obsessed with this guy for years.  It is nice. This is a nice place to make music.  He is the guy behind some of the biggest pop songs of the last few years. You know these songs. We are talking Kanye West.    All of the lights.   Cop lights flashlights spotlights strobe lights streetlights...  We are talking fun.  FUN.  Whoa.  We are talking Bruno Mars.    'ecause uptown funk gon'  give it to you.  Mark Ronson.    'ecause uptown funk gon'  give it to you...  Jeff Bhasker's sound became a real thing in pop music. These huge songs with big pounding drums has been called the quote stadium sound.   What - would you care for an espresso or a water or anything like that?  I am good. Thank you though. That huge huge huge music comes in part from Jeff Bhasker who is this mild-mannered half-Indian dude who grew up in the desert in New Mexico. I actually met met Jeff Bhasker once a few years ago when I was helping out on an NPR story. He was in a very different place back then. He had just produced the fun. album. He was still riding high from producing Kanye West's opus of an album My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy from 2010. And since then his life has changed a lot. He has a kid now with his girlfriend the artist Lykke Li. And they had this like half-studio half-home set-up in the Hollywood Hills where I met him. Bhasker was doing a round of press for the new self-titled record he produced by some guy named Harry Styles. You may have heard this single.    Just stop your crying. It is a sign of the times. We have got to get away from here.  The album was an instant No. 1 hit. So I talked to Jeff about working with Harry what makes him tick all those songs I just mentioned. You will even hear Jeff Bhasker sit down at the piano and break down a few of those tracks. And during those moments we went ahead and mixed in the studio versions of those songs he is playing so you can know what we are talking about. Anyway that'ill get you started. Here is Jeff Bhasker and me with a very quick drop-in from one of the artists I just mentioned in the intro there. All right enjoy.   OK we are on this sweet little midcentury mod lovely olive green sectional couch looking out this humongous window onto the pool. Then like - what is this? Like this is kind of Hollywood Hills right? This is - yeah.  This is east Hollywood Hills. And we you know we do not really have the city view but we have got these kind of Dr. Seuss hills and vegetation blocking all that weird Hollywood energy. At first I was like oh man I wanted to have the city view. And I have really grown to love it being blocked. And you know on this side - on the other side it is all...  You could see the Hollywood sign.  ...Hollywood sign and Griffith Park you know so there is no houses there is no - although there are some power lines that I would like to take...   Are you going to be that guy who is like calling the city?  I am that guy.  What?  I am that guy. I called them.  OK so you called city of LA and were like fix this.  It is going to be a little more expensive than I thought it might be yeah.  So they are like OK you can move them yourself if you want.  Oh yeah that is how it works. That is how it works.  Really?  They are like OK if you want to fund it this is what we can do but you got to pay for it. And it is a little out of my price range.  Yeah yeah.  Yeah.  One of the things I am noticing already - one you were right on time. Two this house is impeccably kept. Three you are well-dressed to the nines. You are perhaps one of the more put-together rock 'n' roll hip-hop producers I am guessing in that...  I have come a long way since our last interview.   Well last time we talked you were still punctual but you were wearing - I think I remember this correctly - white jeans white T-shirt the apartment was all white. Was your piano white?  No it was black.  It was black. But it was a very like rock-star vibe. Have you changed since that last conversation we had?  I have - sure. I think I have changed a lot you know. Like I had a kid. Like that will change you.  How old's the kid?  He is 16 months.  Aw.  He is amazing.  Aw.  It is like yeah. I think all the things that you noticed are signs of like there is a woman in my life.  .  I am not going to sit here and pretend that I have grown so much and I - it all comes from me. There is a woman in my life who deserves pretty much all the credit for me dressing better having better furnishings. Lykke deserves most of the credit for all that stuff and...  So like Lykke's influence your child's influence you know - this different part of your life has that influenced your work?  I mean big-time. And you know like the big difference from - you brought up like last time we were talking about fun. And you know this latest project with Harry...  Harry Styles for those who do not know.  It is - exactly right - is - you know on the fun. project - well let us just say I did a lot more.  You were more hands-on.  Hands-on and mixed some of the songs. I mean I - that was unusual too. It is like I do not usually mix. But I was like I am just going to mix it because I care. So I was very hands-on. And this project I was quite hands-off in a way was a bit more editorial. I was...  OK so you had some helpers under you that you were guiding?  I had a lot of helpers. Well not a lot but you know that I had - there is two producers that worked under me Tyler Johnson and Alex Salibian who - when I met Harry and he asked me to work with him on his project I had just had my child too.  Oh really?  And we met here before any of this was finished like this or anything.  Which room? Oh so it was like not this.  Yeah in there. It was kind of - was a lot more raw and kind of like unfinished. And I was just kind of like you know I understand what you - I think I understand what you want to do - after he kind of explained it to me - which was kind of create like a rock band you know. And being like a 43-year-old new father it was just...  Wait you are 43?  Yes.  Dude give me your genes.   Yeah right come on. So just kind of understanding that I played a couple of things from Tyler and Alex for him that very much kind of aligned...  What he was trying to do.  ...With what he wanted to do. And he was like I mean I think he literally said - he was just like well I should take you up on that. And I said OK to them. I said find him a guitar player. Find him a drummer you know. And let us not - we are not going to like make the tracks like we usually do and him sing on it and we are going to make some pop thing. We knew that I could literally create the band.  So the band played in studio together?  Yeah.  I love it.  And we just pretty instantly had like a full band that knew how to record and were cool with each other. And I think in the first week they did like 10 songs and really hit it off. And then I would come and give my feedback. And you know the first time it was like OK like this is good. You guys have got some stuff going. And then the second time I went they played me Meet Me In The Hallway. And I was like oh . You guys are really on to something.   Something's there!  And yeah - and just the vibe that they had together and also just Harry being excited and happy. And also he got to kind of be the one in the room that was leading the project and it all came from him.  Which is interesting because like you usually do not think of former boy band members as being in charge of their creative lives.  Absolutely.  Right? Like because they come from this very managed empire you know and like - were you skeptical of that and skeptical of the One Direction-ness  and skeptical of Harry even when you first met him?  Kind of. I mean I would not necessarily say skeptical. I just - I had no idea what he would want to do.  Did his folks call you up first and say hey?  Well I think his manager and my manager are kind of friendly. Like they must have kind of talked about it. And Harry you know like you say like he - this is kind of the first time that he is done this. Or maybe - you know he had a band before this White Eskimo band. And I think he maybe started off - he is a really creative guy. And then he got sucked into that lane of like what One Direction was which must have been a fantastic...  Which was good for what it was it was. It was really good.  Well I mean it was phenomenal. I mean and to be on that level and to experience that amount of pressure and - I mean I cannot imagine what it was like. I cannot even imagine. But it was just one of the easiest and most fun projects to be a part of you know. It was not like - which is not necessarily always a good sign.  What is been your hardest project to work on?  The Lady Gaga tour. That was...  What did you do with the tour?  I was the music director.  Which tour?  The very first one.  Oh.  The very first arena tour.  Yeah.  Yeah. That was hard.  What made it hard?  Not enough time - just craziness. Just crazy - not her like she is lovely. But...  She is a performer. She can do it.  Or like Dark Twisted Fantasy where it is like...  The Kanye album.  Yeah like...  Where you all went to Hawaii for a while and just camped out and wrote.  And it was like pressure is on. And hard is like good. Actually if it is going too easy...  That is a problem.  Yeah like it does not - it is not - it is the friction that makes things great.  Was there friction with Kanye? I imagine there was.  I mean there was not like friction between us. And he is actually quite good at like managing the pressure and alleviating the pressure from everyone and just being like...  It is interesting to hear that because his public persona would indicate differently.  You know what? And also like he definitely like cares so much. And I think that is what kind of comes across as brash sometimes is like his passion and him caring so much. But there is a huge lesson I definitely learned from him was like to come from a creative place you cannot come from this place of pressure and stress. You need to be like a kid just playing that does not have any cares. That is when the most creative things happen.  That is when it happens.  You need to be in that - then you get something great that you are excited about. Then the hell begins because you got something great and you have got to make it 2 percent better.  .  And like well you know this is good. You do not need this part. Take that out. This line needs to be better. Yeah I did not quite know how Harry was going to react to that. You know like we had our maybe little moments but it is tough to build someone's trust too like right off bat. You know that is kind of another thing I learned from Kanye was like if you are say the smartest guy in the room all the people I have met who are the smartest guys in the room they are asking everybody else what they think. It is never about like I...  Giving you the dictate I am giving you...  Yeah like what I say goes. It is about exploring like every angle of it or really trying to find the best idea wins. It is a very Zen thing like...  I like this.  ...To care about your idea...  But not be wedded to it.  Yeah.  So speaking of Zen like you do this thing where you take the artist and the team to like an island to just figure the music out. You worked with Kanye for the Fantasy album in Hawaii. You worked on this Harry Styles project in Jamaica. Is that you know to get to that childlike playfulness you spoke of? Is it to get to that Zen that you just said right now? What do you get when you go out to somewhere like that?  Well I mean full disclaimer like neither of those island ideas were my ideas.  Really?   No no.  Whose idea were the islands?  No. Kanye was like I want to work in Hawaii. I was like great we get to go to Hawaii. Harry was like I think I want to do my album in Jamaica. I was like OK.  OK. Let us do it. How long are you out there when you do these things?  I mean yeah we were I mean we were in Hawaii for like years with Kanye. We did so much there.  What?  We did 808s there. We did Blueprint 3 there. We did...  I did not know you did Blueprint 3 there.  Yeah. We did tons of  in Hawaii it was not just Dark Fantasy. And I actually wanted to do Harry's album here in LA because I thought that for what the type of music it was...  It feels very LA.  Yeah. And I think the album kind of came out - at least I got a lot of comments that like the album sounds quite British which I am very proud of.  Well there was one track where I was like oh this is giving me Elton John vibes.  Yeah.  Woman. I could find that song easily transitioning into like Bennie And The Jets.  Well yeah it is got that piano thing. I mean that is...  It is such a good vibe.  OK. Good. I am glad. Yeah. I am just glad just because he is from England that it has that identity. That was like a positive thing for me.  Totally. Yeah.  So when he said he wanted to go to Jamaica...  Were you like we as not making a reggae album dude?  Well I was like I have a baby .  You have a baby.  I have a baby. That is the kind of the other reason I wanted to just do it here because it was like easier for me. But also knowing how that Kanye experience was being in Hawaii and trusting that like that is what he wanted to do I was just kind of like OK great I will make it work.  Is it freeing to be on an island as opposed to like in LA or like what is the difference?  Well I mean it is very isolating. And you can - if you got the right team it is just fantastic because there is nothing else to do but get creative and be in that zone. And there is no distractions you know especially for someone who is like quite famous you know. Being in LA or New York is like very difficult to be productive because there is so many people that want a piece of them all the time. And it can be very distracting. I think it seems obvious once you think about it. It is like there is no one there except you. And it was - it was great. It was a great experience. And I definitely - I fell in love with Jamaica and like the people of Jamaica. And yeah we had - we did that. And then we came back to LA and did like a couple more weeks. And it went into mixing. Voila there it was.  And you got this - I have been listening to it. It is - I love that it is 40 minutes 10 songs bam. And every one packs a punch. You know it is like I had forgotten but like Harry Styles can sing.  Yes.  He can sing...  Big time. Yes.  Like that was great.  I mean for one thing he is a pro. And just like yeah the quality of his voice like is really - I was very excited once we started recording those first few things. It is like wow he is - he is the real deal. Yeah.  Hey time for a quick break here but we will be right back to talk more with Jeff Bhasker about growing up in New Mexico how that influenced his music. And he will play some music for us as well. BRB.   I want to talk a bit - I mean so like you have worked with so many different kinds of artists - Kanye Mark Ronson fun. Harry Styles Gaga - like you have spanned all the genres it seems. And like looking back through your history like you went to Berklee College of Music. You played - what? - in a wedding band. You played in a jam band called Lettuce. You played in an RB '70s band called Tavares. Have you always just been all over the map musically?  I mean that is interesting. I never really thought of it that way. Maybe it is because I grew up in New Mexico...  Yeah.  ...And in a bit of isolation.  Where in New Mexico?  I grew up in Socorro N.M. which is a pretty small town of like 10000 people.  And your dad was the mayor?  Still is the mayor to this day.  How many years has he been the mayor?  I think he is been the mayor for like 30 years like the longest-running mayor in New Mexico.  That is amazing.  So yeah.  And he is not from there right?  No he is from India matter of fact.  What is his name?  Ravi Bhasker yeah good old Ravi Bhasker - Dr. Ravi Bhasker.  Doctor what kind of doctor?  He is like a family practitioner you know. And that is how he kind of like got maybe popular and trust - people knew he was like a...  You trust your doctor yeah.  You trust your doctor. And he is a you know he is a good guy like that. He is like a - you know he is good at what he does. And he is a brown guy in like a brown town. You know like when I moved there I like...  Different kind of brown though right?  Different brown but brown you know brown is brown.  Brown you know .  He looks like you know he would always get stopped at the border when we would go to Mexico and be like - they would be looking at his ID like...  Bhasker what is this like...  ...You are not American. There is no way you can be.  .  And then when I moved to New Mexico then I was the gringo.  Oh.  Then I was the white guy because they are all Hispanic there. And I was - now I was so - when I am among white people I am not white enough and I am among brown people I am not brown enough. And...  Does that influence your music?  I mean I think more than anything like the musical influence has been kind of coming from like a culture of like - and do not get me wrong it is not as if I am like feels like I am some minority or something. I am also half-white and kind of like a - when you look at me I am a white guy. So I am not trying to for one second be like hey I am one of these oppressed minorities. But I grew up like that - that like I looked at it from that side and - but now as a grown man and knowing - understanding culture and society like and - you know one of my friends reminded me recently that like you know you are a white privileged male. Like you do not get to complain about anything. You know it is like...  But you also have an experience that was informed by a minority experience.  Exactly exactly. And I - you know when I got into jazz the emphasis on it being an African-American art form and the only true art form that America has is very impressed on you that this is the music that came from African-American slaves. And also then this whole thing of kind of like white guys cannot swing is like...  I am guessing you can swing.  I can - I was accepted at swing.   OK.  And then also when they found out that my dad was Indian...  They were like oh snap.  ...I got the in. I got the in.  .  So I have been you know slowly integrated.  You have got to use what you got.  Exactly you know. So it - and also I think you know so I mean - what were we talking about? - like the idea of...  The diverse musical stuff you know.  Right the diversity - my musical core as a American person making American music. I have a deep sense of tradition of American music and at the core of that is that it is black music. And American music is what you will hear if you go into a gospel church in Mississippi. But then you reminded me also when you say about the diversity is like yeah growing up in New Mexico is just kind of like isolating. And like when hip-hop hit...  Yeah.  ...We saw like Electric Boogaloo the movie. And we had some cardboard and we were trying to break dance. But we were not like growing up in the Bronx. Like it was not this social - we are seeing buildings burning and  graffiti artists and. You know I am a bit like in a vacuum to some extent. And I was also growing up on like Pink Floyd and ACDC and the Eagles and the classic rock station and then also being in the '80s like MTV exploding and Michael Jackson and Madonna and Guns N' Roses and Culture Club.  Yeah.  So...  All of that is in the mix.  ...All of that is totally in the mix for me.  Yeah. So like - I do not know. It feels like - just hearing you talk about this - are you making music for that kind of kid the kid who has a diverse experience but grows up in isolation somewhere in some pocket of America?  Maybe.  Are you making music that can like take them away?  Maybe.  Because when I hear your stuff like when I hear the Fantasy album when I hear fun. when I hear this Harry Styles every single one of those albums it takes me to a place that is not where I am. I feel - you know?  That is nice to hear. That is nice to hear. I guess I am definitely very aware of like - certain music feels very trendy and makes you feel like you belong to something. And I think it is more like the you know like the kind of feeling you would get from Nirvana that is speaking to the person that does not belong anywhere. I feel like that is where the money is.  Yeah.  Or like that song people are like that is my song. Like we are all kind of really alone you know?  It is getting deep.  Like I mean it is true. We are all pretty alone. We - and it is you know I think that is what makes having like a - your best friend is someone who understands your loneliness in a way and that is comforting. And that is why you are friends. You know maybe that is what a great song should be is like a friend that understands your loneliness.  It is funny as soon as you said that I thought of Runaway from Fantasy a song that if - for me it is - one I remember exactly where I was when I first heard it. And I remember it being like my song that I played for me. And it was mine to experience alone over and over and over and over again.  That is a great example of that for sure.  Yeah. Yeah. Who was the first one that was like ?  Yep.  Play it. I want you to play it. Can you play a little bit?  We can play that yeah.  Let us do it. You going to take your coffee?  I think that was like actually Kanye's suggestion - like it should go like this. It should be a sound like this. And then I changed it to a piano and then I actually changed the - I made - by accident. Yeah we could play that.  Can you carry it out? Thanks man. You know what? You are the engineer. Where do you want this? I want to put this on you. I want to get you and the piano though.  Let us see here. Why do not we just put it right...  Yeah.  .   And the sweeping bass comes in. And like the song builds.    Let us have a toast for the douchebags. Let us have a toast for the assholes. Let us have a toast for the scumbags every one of them that I know.  . I mean that was a tough one because we worked a long time on the - for a long time - I mean the song used to originally be  let us have a toast to the douchebags. Let us have a - like the song was written - the chorus was written and it was a little more of a jokey-sounding song.  Really?  Yeah.  ...Because I mean the final product's very serious.  And then - yeah - and then it was like a long search to find the right music for that. And I think actually like it was very late at night. It was like 4 in the morning. And me and Kanye - I think everyone was kind of asleep. And we were just talking about it. And I think he kind of had that revelation. He was like oh it should be that Pete Rock break. The drums...   ...In Runaway are the same break from a very famous Pete Rock song.  Whoa Pete Rock.   And he kind of realized like oh...   That is what it - and I forget maybe - you know we had my set-up that like - that is kind of one of my like patented like bass sounds that are on a lot of records that now I have kind of...  It is a big...  Yeah right.  It is a big sweep - so what is that bass sound called?  That is well - that is the Living Bass patch in the Moog Voyager yeah.  And now your bass has changed? I mean because the bass on the Harry Styles it is like bass guitar right?  Exactly. You know I have kind - there is - actually that Moog makes one appearance on Ever Since New York. But it got a little you know little overused. I then tried to go somewhere else with it. But yeah then we kind of found that music. I do not know. .   It is like being at church. . Mike Dean made that line - string - line. . But kind of cracking the code on it having that - yeah that is a very - like we were talking about earlier about the loneliness you know that is from him being in this lonely place of I guess telling his lover like you should stay away from me you know because you do not understand me.  And I am bad for you.  And I am bad for you. And at the same time like feeling kind of bad about yourself maybe being remorseful. And that is - you know that is emotional. And then maybe some kind of redemptive quality in it so that it is just not totally a downer. But that is funny you bring that song up because that is like - yeah that is a really good example of like trying to just like reach into your - like a harshly honest place.  What is the loneliest song you have ever written?   I do not know. I mean Try Sleeping With A Broken Heart is pretty lonely.  Yeah.  That is a pretty - yeah that is a...  It is the Alicia Keys song.  Yeah.  Can you play a little bit?  Yeah that is - I mean that one was - what key is that in? . Yeah.  Even if you were a million miles away I could still feel you in my bed near me. Touch me. Feel me. And even at the bottom of the sea I could still hear you inside my head.    Telling me touch me feel me.   And all the time you were telling me lies yeah. So tonight I am going to find a way to make it without you. Tonight I am going to find a way to make it without you. I am going to hold on to the times that we had tonight. I am going to find a way to make it without you. All right that is pretty lonely.  That is lonely. I never realized how lonely...   It is like...  ...Lonely that...  ...Damn that...  ...Song is. Damn that is lonely .  That is funny.  What is like the...  Thank you.  What is the through line in all of your music? Like what are you trying to convey? What are you always doing? What is present in all of it?  The throughline kind of varies. But I guess the through line is kind of really trying to dig down to the most vulnerable part of the artist and the song delivering that kind of vulnerability that moves somebody you know? And music can have a lot of functions. I think that is the part that I gravitate to. I think it is also great like a song like Uptown Funk that just kind of brings people together and is a celebration...  Yeah.  Like that is so powerful...  Yeah.  ...And great too.  Yeah.  You know it can have different kind of dynamics. But most of all like I mean I think the commonality between those two is maybe the best answer to the question is the...  Someone's here.  Like - come in. Oh yeah that is Mitch.   And Harry Styles.  Mitch is here.  Is he going to say hi to us?  Yeah probably.   Go ahead.  You know just really...  I cut you off I am sorry.  You know just really - no that is OK. Yeah like really connecting with someone...  Yeah.  ...On a...  Yeah.  ...In an emotional level and bringing out the best and digging past the superficial...  Yeah.  ...Kind of like - hey Harry we were just talking about you.  Yeah. Hi I am Sam. I work for NPR.  Harry. Pleasure.  Pleasure to meet you. I am enjoying your album.  There is a...  Oh thank you so much.  It is really good.  Thanks.  Yeah I was telling Jeff how much I like Woman.  Oh cool.  That is really good song.  Awesome.  Yeah so we are in the middle of an interview. Do you want to join us?  Are we in the middle or are we - or...  We are near the end.  ...We are near the end.  We are near the end.  OK.  .  You are leaving. OK. All right.  We are leaving too.  We should - we will...  That is all right.  ...Wrap it up.  Unless you guys want to sing a song over here at the piano.  That might be...  That is too much.  Yeah it might be.  I know.  It might be too much.  No worries. Anyway I have asked all the questions I have and this has been a treat but any parting thoughts you want to give to our listeners to aspiring singer-songwriter producers whatever?  Parting words.  Yeah.  Parting words of wisdom.  Yeah.  I do not know. I think just like you know discover yourself and discover how you communicate yourself. Like things are not always instant. I think also in today's day and age like we are so used to things being so instant and like you know the idea of like a singing contest that like you are going to win the singing contest and all your problems are going to be solved. It is like well it does not necessarily work like that. And most of the people that are successful you know like Bruno or Kanye or a lot of people that I have worked with like their stories are all the same. They struggled. They were dropped from their label. People told them that they would never be this or that. And they persevered and found their voice and...  And found you .  ...And found me. Well I mean that is another part of it is also like you know look out for those people that click with you and - like people need a partner. They need a - and they need someone to do it with. When you think you found that person...  Hold them close.  ...Hold them close work with them a lot value them. Because that is the person that is going to say like oh I get it. Like you are great. You are - I dig you.  I like that. I am not going to ask you to play anymore because I would have you here for hours.  Thank you so much.  I cannot wait for...  Thanks for coming.  ...What you do next.  It was fun talking to you.  What is next for you?  Oh man got some like really incredible projects. Like...  Tell us all about it.  ...My first artist I signed with Tyler  who just walked in...  Yeah.  ...Cam  who is a country artist. And we had a big hit song called Burning House.  Oh yeah.  Angelique Kidjo. I do not know if you know...  Yeah I know who she is.  ...Who she is. Yeah.  You are working with her?  Yes.  So I saw her. I was covering the opening of the National Museum of African American History and Culture. She performed there.  OK.  And that was just magnetic.  Oh she is...  Magnetic.  She is just a special special like artist and energy.  What island is she on when she records?   She is on her own island.  .  She is in her own world. Like that woman has just like - oh I mean she is just a ball of fire...  Yeah.  ...Just like tearing through everything just inspiring. So a lot of things a lot of things. And I am like you know doing more things like we did with Harry for Harry's projects - I mean like recognizing talent in people and being that person like I was talking about that like wow when you come across a partner. Like being stuff that like I find it really turns me on and being able to - having gone through the experience and kind of having learned from like Kanye since we were talking about him how to take an idea from just an idea to a finished product. Just having gotten better at that it is fun and rewarding to like help other people do that.  You are busy.  .  I am not going to make you play Negative World even though I would love to.  .  I am sure you are busy and you have got to go.  Rip it off of SoundCloud. Throw it in there.  Oh I love that song. I have played it so much.  I appreciate that.  Thanks man.  Cool.   It really is a good song Negative World. Go YouTube it search for it. It is cool. Anyway Jeff Bhasker big thanks to him for letting me meet up there in the Hollywood Hills. Harry Styles' self-titled record is out right now. Of course the dude can sing I am telling you. Also go get all of Kanye's back catalogue all of Fun.'s back catalog. It is good stuff. All right back on Friday with our wrap on the news and the culture and everything of the week. Thank you for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon.  