 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. Today on the show NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis and VICE News correspondent Evan McMorris-Santoro. All right. Let us start the show.   Aunt Betty has really taken to her role.  She is been asking for a contract.  .  I am not even lying to you guys.    Mr. Worldwide to infinity...  That was a great read of my name. People usually do not read my whole name that well.  Agents call her. Get at her. OK. Hey you all. Sam Sanders here. It is BEEN A MINUTE. That was Aunt Betty and this is some Pitbull.    Tell her tell her baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby I am...  I kind of like Pitbull.  You know a back story to 2016 is if we had had President Marco Rubio we would have cultural ambassador Pitbull because they are very close...  Oh. Wait they are close?  Pitbull's like you know the artist that Rubio would say was on his iPod.  .  And then Pitbull was like totally into it.  I love it.  He is super social media-friendly. I once...  Yes.  ...Tweeted at Pitbull. And he tweeted back or his people tweeted back. But if you tweet at Pitbull he engages.  Listen I am about to do it right now.   I am going to tell you why we are playing Pitbull in a minute. But first to clarify we do not do theme music for these Friday episodes. I pick a different song every week. We will get back to this in a bit. But first we are here in NPR headquarters in D.C. on a muggy nasty Friday morning with Sue Davis who covers Congress for NPR Evan who covers all of the things for VICE.  America.   I cover the United States of America.  It is pronounced 'Merica .  I cover 'Merica .  Yeah. So we are here to talk about everything that happened this week. The news the culture all the stuff. Trump emails health care France. As always we will call up a listener and talk about what is going on in their neck of the woods. And we will end the show with the best thing that happened to you all week.    Fireball.  So this song. We talked about Pitbull briefly. I am playing Fireball by a little rapper named Pitbull featuring John Ryan. I am playing this song because Pitbull was living his best life this week as he always is. He did a few songs at the Major League Baseball Home Run Derby. And he wore an outfit you guys. I am going to give you some pictures. I thought it looked great.  That is Miami...  This is...  ...Fresh.  ...So Miami.  Miami.  Describe the outfit for us.  That is - those are - appear to white pants...  White slacks. Kind of tight.  ...White slacks kind of tight. And he is wearing a Marlins...  At Nationals.  ...Jersey and you know the thing is...  It is tucked in.  Yeah it is tucked in.  The jersey's tucked in.  Of course it is. Miami.  I like it. He got some hate...  I also - the signature Pitbull gloves? Solid move - even in like the heat of a Miami summer rocking some leather gloves.  He is wearing the gloves. Pitbull we are rooting for you. We are always rooting for you. OK. All right. We are going to start the way we always do. I want each of us to describe our week of news and culture and stuff in just three words. Our very special guest Evan can go first.  All right. My three words are a good boy...  A good boy.  ...Which is how our president described his son Donald Trump Jr.  Who is 39 years old.  With five children.   Five?  I think he has five.  Whoa.  But this is sort of - it is interesting because I pick these three words because it is sort of - the week that we have had has been discussing Donald Trump Jr. and his motivations to take this meeting that he took and then the emails that he then sent out proving that he took the meeting. You know the basic way that the White House has been pushing back on this story is that you know...  He made a mistake.  ...He is a good guy.  He did not know what he was doing. Yeah.  He is a good guy trying to help his dad. And so this is sort of - this has been - the storyline of the week has been - you have seen a lot of conservatives that are coming to Trump's defense jumping on this bandwagon of like hey who would not take the meeting? I mean you know...  And Trump said that. Yeah.  ...Your dad's running for president. Who would not do it? Well not just him but like Ted Yoho the congressman from Florida.  Florida.  Ted Yoho?  Yeah he is a large animal veterinarian.  .  And he talks like one looks kind of like a large animal veterinarian...  Wait what does a large animal veterinarian talk like...  He takes care of large animals.  But what does he talk like? You said he talks like one.  He - you know hey how is that cow doing? You know what I mean? Like that kind of...  OK.  Looks like you got that - cow's got a flu. I do not know what they say.  .  Whatever. But anyway so this is basically the crux of the argument that we are having right now. It is like...  He was a good boy.  ...Was Don Jr. a good boy just trying to help his dad or was he trying to be part of a coordinated effort to work with the Russians to affect an American election?  Friend of the show Alexandra Petri at The Washington Post wrote a column all about whether or not Don Jr. gets to be a boy. She had a really compelling graph that I want to read a little bit of about this. She says  some boys never got to be boys. This is the price of men like Donald Trump Jr. who never have to be adults. All this prolonged boyhood must be squeezed out of somewhere. For all these adults to get to be children forever some children are not permitted to be children or allow time to grow up. Tamir Rice never got to. Neither did Trayvon Martin or Tyre King. There is a whole long sad litany of names of people who never got to make rookie mistakes.  Well I cannot - I mean that is very true. Those are very sad stories that are being talked about. But I have to say you know I am 36. My dad will probably call me a good boy still. He is my dad.  It is a dad.  He is my dad.  That is a dad. You are right. You are right.  Yeah I mean my dad - I mean my dad still you know kind of yells at me as is totally necessary in the way that one would...  Yeah.  ...A boy.  Yeah.  But that - which is not to say that like you know the thing about the Trump children is quite interesting because the White House uses this very effectively where when things are bad they are just kids figuring out what they are doing...  Yes.  ...In the big wide crazy world. And when they are not...  But when things are good they sit in at the G-20.  Right. Or they are running a massive multinational billion-dollar corporation on their father's behalf. So it is a interesting sort of dichotomy. I mean that is definitely true.  Yeah.  You know someone else pointed this out. But I will steal the data point - is that as he is talking about his 39-year-old son being a good boy youthful indiscretions maybe that he is the same age as French President Emmanuel Macron who...  Yeah.  ...The president is standing next to this week. So the idea that 39 is still too young to know better is kind of laughable. Also it is important to remember because what we are talking about is a very serious potential offense here that ignorance of the law is not a defense of breaking the law...  Exactly.  ...If you have broken the law.  Also if anybody has access to a lawyer it is the folks in Trump Tower.  Yeah and...  Call somebody.  ...Know how to wield a lawyer.  Yeah call somebody.  I mean this is very serious interfering with an American election. The reason why a foreign government would want to talk to somebody like this...  Come on.  ...Would be so they could have something on them down the road.  Also we are living in a era where it is going to come out. We are going to find out. Like everyone's leaking in that White House. I am surprised it did not happen earlier.  There is also this element about the Trump family too to me where they are their own worst enemies you know? We would not have a special counsel investigation if the president had not fired...  James Comey.  ...Jim Comey. Donald Trump Jr. is in the trouble he is in because of the email where it was laid out in his own words...  Which he tweeted .  ...Which he tweeted out of his own accord in which it says there are people from the Russian government who want to meet with you. And he says I love it and particularly if it is later in the summer. I mean he is his own worst enemy here. This was not someone...  Yeah.  ...Innuendo or someone leaking something against him. He was an active participant.  Yes. What are your three words?  My three words of the week are just keep going.  OK.  That was my mantra this week.  Yeah?  I just - this was just one of those weeks where you feel like you like trip on the curb and then get a bloody nose and then rip your pant leg. Like that was my...   Oh no.  ...Kind of week. But a couple years ago when I was doing a bunch of races and training for like 10-milers and things...  Yeah.  ...I had a coach who was like everybody needs a mantra when you are training for something...  Yeah.  ...Three words that like when you get close to hitting a wall what are the three words? And my three words were always just keep going.  I love it.  And I just kept coming back to that this week because every day I would wake up and just - and I was off last week. So I could not take any days off this week because obviously the news is crazy too. But every day I was like man just keep going.  Just keep going.  And you know what? It did. And today's Friday and I am in the studio with you all. And I feel good.  Can I suggest...  So just keep going.  ...Three additional words?  Yeah.  Turn up Pitbull.  Hey. Turn up.   Turn up Pitbull.   .  Yeah.  Yeah. Exactly.  You cannot feel bad.  No I feel better...  You feel bad playing Pitbull.  Listen to Pitbull.  I love it. My three words very simple. Sir and Rumi.  Or Rummy?  Or Rummy.  We are going with Rumi.  The Knowles-Carter twins have been unveiled to the world. We saw a picture came out last night. And I think they are great. She showed the babies in a way Beyonce did where you cannot tell which one is a boy and which one's a girl which I love.  Yeah.  Nonconforming. On the spectrum.  How do you feel about the names Sir and Rumi?  So the Sir I am confused about because they have been saying Sir Carter. So is the baby's name Sir Carter Knowles-Carter?  Oh.  I do not know. And then Rumi I think is beautiful. But yes Sir I am going to have to get used to.  You know it is - listen. As a guy with a really long name I got to say Sir sounds awesome.   I would take Sir as a last name any day of the week.  Yeah. And what I love about Sir and Rumi this week is that I am able to enjoy them totally absent of any engagement of them with politics. They are separate. They are apart. And I like them for them and I like Beyonce for her. And they just give me joy outside of that. And this whole week I have been trying to find things where I do them and they take my mind like off of politics. So this week apropos of nothing one night I just watched Bridesmaids again.  It is great movie.  That is a great movie.  That is a great movie.  So good.  I also watched Superbad again last night does not hold up well.  Does not hold up?  It does...  Aw Sam.  ...Not hold up well . Anyway OK. That is it.   That is sad.  It really does not hold up well.  .  I was like cursing at my TV. It is so bad. Anyway three words are done. Time for a quick break. We will be back with Long Distance when we call a listener and see what is up in their neck of the woods. B-R-B.   OK. Before we get back to the show if you are looking for another show to try check out Hidden Brain. Each week Hidden Brain tries to get at why we do what we do. Like for example why are some people really great at recognizing faces? Why do some of us lie more than others? Host Shankar Vedantam delves into the latest research to get answers to these questions and so many others. Check out Hidden Brain on the NPR One app or wherever you get your podcasts.   All right. We are back. In a moment we are going to go around the table and each share a news story from the week. But first a thing we do every week it is called Long Distance.   This is where we call a listener out there in the country and ask them what is happening in their neck of the woods. Today on the line from Tuskegee Ala. we have April . April are you there?  I am here.  Hey April. How are you?  I am doing great. How about yourself?  Pretty good. It is Friday. We almost made it.  Almost. Almost.  First you are on the line with me and my good friends Evan and Sue. Say hi guys.  Hey.  Hey.  Hi.  My mother is from Birmingham.  Oh that is where I am originally from.  Stop it. Where in Birmingham?  Oh that is awesome.  Where abouts?  I am from the east side. I grew up in East Lake. And now I live over in Huffman - almost Trussville area.  Yeah.  So over in that area.  My mother is from Whilom.  Awesome.  Yeah. And then we used to always go eat at Niki's West.  Yes. That is where I tell every...  Yes.  ...All of our visitors who come down here to my museum. Every single time they say I am going to Birmingham I typically tell them...  Niki's West.  ...I say go to Niki's West.  Yes.  They are the bomb dot com.  The bomb dot com.  Them and Green Acres.  Yes. OK. You said that you work at a museum.  Yes I do.  What is the museum?  So this museum is actually on the Selma to Montgomery National Historic Trail.  Wow.  So it is called the Lowndes Interpretive Center. And here we tell the story of the 1965 voting rights movement and more specifically in Lowndes County we talk about Tent City which was settlement of African-American tenant farmers and sharecroppers who were kicked off of their land by the white landowners at the end of the voting rights movement for trying to go out and register to vote here in Lowndes County or trying to participate in the voting rights movement down in Selma or as it was progressing through Lowndes County to get through Montgomery. And then this is also where a lot of the foundations of the Black Panther Party started.  Cool.  Sounds like you do that for a living.  I want to go to this museum immediately.  Yeah. Please do. Please come.  Yeah. Yeah.  We have we have lots and lots of fun and everyone who is down here and all the interpreters are really passionate about what they do and just being here to tell this story because it is part of American history that we do not really learn in school. So being able to come to the place and really see where this stuff was taking place seeing some of those real consequences is mind-blowing and life-changing.  Yeah. So there is some news happening in Alabama right now.  Yes there is.  There is an open Senate seat.  Yeah. Yeah. When President Trump what is that - was I guess appointed?  Yeah.  It is not - like he was not elected but he was appointed...  Appointed.  Jeff Sessions to the - who actually is from Selma. It is kind of funny.  Oh did not know that.  But he appointed Jeff Session up to the attorney general spot and left an open Senate seat. So there is this huge race now going for the U.S. Senate from the state of Alabama. It is like 11 Republicans like eight Democrats. And that is going to be whittled down I guess soon because we have a primary coming up.  Yeah. It is surprising to see eight Democrats run. That is going to be a Republican seat right?  Like I do not want to say there is a chance in hell but no.   99.5...   ...I think it is going to be a Republican seat because we are Alabama and that is what we do.  Hi this is Evan. I want to ask you a question about your job and how...  Yeah.  ...It might relate to things today. So you operate - you know you work at a museum that documents one of the toughest times in American political history when we were dealing with a country that was really divided I mean there was violence being perpetrated by one political side against the other. There are people who say that we live in a time kind of like that now. And I wonder if you see any parallels between what you study in your museum and what we are going through here now in the country.  To a certain degree. The thing that I like most about 1965 is there was a lot of action. And it might have just been regional. But we do not see that same type of action going on now. And this is just again my view. We do not see the overwhelming like OK. Let us rush to these voting polls. We do not even really know how the political system works. And that is kind of one of the things that I try to focus on changing for the people at least who come here. It is just how can you be more involved so that the people that you say you do not like that do not represent your interests why are they still in office?  So something else that is really important in the history and the culture of your region is football.  Yay.  And that is happening soon right?   Sam. Football. What is up with that?   Football. It is a thing.  OK. So football here is like religion. I do not like any other sport. So I have been without cause for the last six months since the Super Bowl ended. I have not - I have been looking at my TV screen like what is there to watch? So pretty much nationally I am a Dallas Cowboys fan.  Texas.  Boo.  And I just love being able to say that now because there was so many years where I was ashamed. And it is OK.  Oh yeah. Like a decade that I was ashamed to root for them.  Exactly most of my life. I am only 25. So you know I am pretty young.  Yeah.  So I have not been able to be an outright supporter. But I am happy to be out there now. So I am a big Cowboys fan.  Now what about college football?  College football first and foremost I have to rep my Tuskegee Golden Tigers...  OK.  ...One of the winningest  HBCUs out there. Woo  TU as I love saying. But I am a diehard Auburn football fan. War Eagles to the fullest.  My mother was roll tide.  I love them. They are right down the street. Really?  Yeah.   You know that is - them cussing words around here.  I love it. Come hang out with us sometime. Oh my goodness.  Shoot yeah.  Yeah.  Shoot yeah.  April so you talked to Brent yesterday. He told me a little secret. He said you are really into Hamilton.  Yes.  And the new Hamilton instrumentals dropped recently.  That they did.  And we found out your favorite song from the soundtrack. It is a song called The Room Where It Happens.  Yes.  Brent you got them?   That sounds so good.  Oh. I am going to try my best not to sing.  No that is perfect. Hey thank you for your time today. I hope you have a wonderful Friday. You made my day.  Thank you all so much. And keep up the good work.  Thank you. Blessings. Have a good weekend.  You too.  All right.  Bye.  Bye bye. All right we are going get to our stories from the week soon. But first a quick segment my producer Brent has named The Sam 15. Basically he says that every day I come into work with something new to complain about. That is actually true. He challenged me to do it here in the booth but only in 15 seconds. And then he cuts the mic. We are going to do it now. The clock will start when you hear Lil' Jon.  LIL'  OK.  Let us get over Game Of Thrones. The show is not that good. I do not want to watch it. I am tired of seeing naked dragons. Get it out of my face and out of my life. I do not believe in that.  Naked dragons.   Naked dragons. It is all these - it is everyone's just naked and sexifying .   I do not need it. I do not need it.  As a person who appears nightly on HBO I have to say that every show on the network is excellent. And all the...  And award-winning.  ...And produced. You know some are for other people - some tastes. Some are for other tastes. I personally prefer a Curb Your Enthusiasm to a...  Do you watch...  ...Game Of Thrones.  ...Game Of Thrones - G-O-T?  I have watched it. I mean I am not obsessed with it.  Exactly. So the show comes back this Sunday. And everyone's freaking out about it. Do you watch the show?  OK. So I watch it. My...  No. Do you watch this show?  My husband watches it. And I watch it along with him. But I am also the - I would not say annoying wife - but I am the the person you watch a TV show with that only mildly understands the plot.  And you are like what is going on?  So I am always like is that the dragon lady? Is the the brother-and-sister couple? You know I am like asking all these questions like why are there dragons here?  Yeah.  Is this make-believe? Like where is Hogwarts? Like I - so I think that he is very patient with me with when we watch the show. So I am not a super fan. But I watch it and just ask questions throughout the entire - because there are like so many plots...  So many.  ...In that show that it is really hard to follow sometimes.  And I just do not think the show is that good. My theory of why we consider Game Of Thrones now to be prestige TV is because the lifecycle of all the prestige shows before it went away. You will recall Game Of Thrones did not start getting Emmys until Breaking Bad was done like this is just a fill-in. We are slowly leaving peak TV. We are on the downward slope. And Game Of Thrones is on that downward ride. It is not as good as Breaking Bad. It is not as good as The Sopranos. We pretend it is because those are gone. I do not think the show is that great. Get the dragons out of my face. I do not have time for it.   All right. Now it is time for the part of the show when we swap some news stories from the week that was. A piece we have been working on a piece we have obsessed over whatevs . Sue I always end up picking your story whenever you come on the show because I want you to explain the part of the world I do not get...  Sure.  ...Which is usually Congress. So I want you to just...  Lucky you.  Yeah. I want you to catch us up on what in the world is happening with that GOP health care Obamacare repeal thing.  Thingy  going on.  Yeah.  So it is - it was a pretty dramatic week and it is setting up to go into pretty - another dramatic week...  Yeah.  ...Next week on health care. I mean this is sort of the final showdown.  Yeah.  Can the Republican Party make good on its promise to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act?  And they might do it?  They are - you know Mara Liasson our national political correspondent emailed me this week and said what do you think the odds are? And you know after this election you kind of give up predictions.  Yeah.  But my joke has kind of been I feel like the chances are the same as the split of the Senate 52-48. It is really narrow and a little bit of a thumb on the scale for it passing just because of all of the political pressure coming down on the Republican Party to deliver on this. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell unveiled an updated version of the bill this week with the expressed intention of sort of trying to thread that needle to keep 50 of his 52 senators on board.  What is that bill? How is it different?  It is essentially the same.  OK.  You know the core of the bill has not really changed. It repeals a lot of the taxes that were in the Affordable Care Act. It gets rid of that individual mandate that tells people they have to buy insurance. And more significantly and more - the bigger impact potentially of this bill is that it completely recreates the way the Medicaid program is funded and how the federal government sends money to the states.  It makes it a block grant not an entitlement program.  Yes. It changes the funding formula so states will not have an open-ended guarantee...  Got you.  ...That the federal government's going to come in and give them whatever they need. They are going to be put on more of a budget. And from that perspective if they pass this bill it will be a tremendous victory for conservatism. I mean this would be the most significant remodeling of an entitlement program since the United States government established entitlement programs and has been a goal of the Republican Party for a generation.  But rollbacks of programs like that rarely rarely happen right?  They have never happened. They have - an entitlement program has not been remade in any dramatic fashion since their inception and that includes Medicare Medicaid Social Security. They are fundamentally structurally the same as they were when they started. And the Republican Party has argued that these programs need to be dramatically changed in order to make them sustainable in the long-term because entitlement programs are really expensive. And what I think is really notable just from a political macro standpoint is this updated version keeps in place a lot of the taxes of the rich that were implemented under Obamacare...  Wow.  ...Which are you know back of the envelope is it is about 200 billion worth of taxes that are off of the investment income of wealthy Americans. And these are a part of the taxes that the Republican Party and every Republican in Congress...  Hated.  ...Campaigned on repealing that these were stifling and that - you know it turns out when you are trying to do health care policy you need money to pay for things. And...  It is hard. It is hard health care is not it?  And that is not - yeah it is very hard.  It is a real toughie.  And these taxes are not in there because Democrats wanted them. These taxes are in there because enough Republican senators said we need to keep these taxes in place.  Because the Republican governors are like do not take this money that funds things and the people in my state.  And at some point you just need money to pay for things.  Well it is interesting I mean so over the Fourth of July weekend I went to Maine to go...  I did too.  ...See Susan Collins.  I did not go - I just went for fun.  Oh no no I went to Maine just to go - no I was working unfortunately though Maine's a beautiful place to go on Fourth of July by the way.  Yeah.  Maine is like the most beautiful - I would never been there Fourth the July. But I went because it was supposed to be the big weekend where the progressive groups were going to push hard against senators like Susan Collins to keep them from voting for the health care bill. But when I got there what I found was a bunch of Republicans who voted for Trump and Susan Collins who wanted Susan Collins to vote against the health care bill.  Wow.  It is not just that it is the politics sort of like on the sort of level up here in Washington where they are sort of thinking about what it might look like in 2018. It is actually Republican voters who know what is in this bill who live in states that are actually kind of poor and having a hard time economically.  Yeah.  They are the ones who are telling their Republican senators not to vote for this bill.  And there is...  And as long as that is - or at least the previous version of the bill. Now of course it is changed and we will see what happens. But Susan Collins seems to be kind of concerned about this bill as well.  She is already come out - I mean to your point...  The new version.  There is only two Republicans that get to vote no. And they have already claimed their tickets.  Yeah. They cannot lose anybody else.  Rand Paul of Kentucky and Susan Collins of Maine for that very reason have already come out and said they are a no. They are not...  Yeah.  And they are not going to get to yes. There is nothing they can offer them. So what does that mean? It means every single Republican in the Senate now has to vote for this or this Republican effort to repeal and replace Obamacare is over.  We probably cannot answer the question today but some of the thinking was if Republicans can pass this bill it will open up doors to pass lots of other bills. And they will get some momentum to have a GOP agenda move through the halls of Congress. But my thing now is even if they do pass it every day every story is overshadowed by Russia and Trump and Trump's son. Does this really give them anything? Does it up the fortunes of Donald Trump and the GOP even if they pass this? I do not know.  Well the president still has a Twitter account so the answer is no...  OK.  ...Because this president tweets whatever he wants...  And overshadows everything else.  ...And changes the news story every second...  Exactly.  ...Of every day.  All right Evan you have got a story about a guy.  I do. I spent a few days in California with Minnesota Senator Al Franken.  Why was he in California?  Because he is selling a book...  What is the book called?  ...Called Giant Of The Senate...  .  Oh...  ...Which...  ...It is about him.  It is his memoir.  Lord.  And it is actually kind of an interesting story about Al Franken sort of in like in the modern era of politics that we are in. When Al Franken ran for Senate in 2008 there was a big concern among a lot of Democrats that he was too much of an entertainer...  Yeah.  ...And had sort of a past of telling jokes that might have been sharp-elbowed or maybe not in great taste.  Just some back story on him - he was on SNL...  Right.  ...For years. He ran as a Democrat in Minnesota and won. And he is been a senator for Minnesota now for how long?  Since 2008.  Wow OK.  2009.  Yeah yeah.  2009.  OK for - so a while.  A while a long time.  Yeah.  And so this book - so the thing is the first era of his Senate term his first Senate term he actively decided not to be publicly funny at all because the lesson from 2008 for Democrats they thought from his campaign was that you cannot be funny. You cannot be yourself. You cannot be the sort of wild entertainer type.  Yeah.  Obviously we no longer...  Times have changed.  ...Feel that way about politics.  .  Yeah.  And Franken sort of feels like he can sort of let his satirist flag fly.  Is he doing that now?  He is. So actually the...  Is it good? Is he still good at that?  Oh he is hilarious.  OK.  I mean honestly he is hilarious. But it is also fascinating because he is also a very sort of strong establishment Democratic politician now too. So it is...  He is been around for a while.  So - well this is a guy who was - you know who used to be sort of a poke-the-bear-type satirist. And now he is a guy that raises more money for Democrats than like I think anybody else in the Senate...  Really?  ...Caucus and things like that. So the story that we are doing - and what I spent these few days with him - was sort of tracking these two storylines of his life which is the first one going from a guy that people were worried might hurt the Democratic Party to a guy they think could actually maybe lead the Democratic Party. And then this idea where he writes in his book he is kind of proud of the process that he took to become a Washington insider. I mean a lot of senators a lot of politicians write books about how well I went to Washington and it never changed me. I do not know what that accent is...  .  ...But that is my Senate accent.  OK.  That is generic not-from-here accent.  Yeah.  I - It did not...  I as not from these parts.  I do not know.  It did not change me I will tell you what right? Franken's book is like it changed me. Oh it changed me. I listened to my consultants. I listen - I changed the way I talked. I changed the way I answered questions when reporters asked them. He even talks about how like lobbyists are maybe kind of not so bad all the time and the way they are talked about. A lot of the stories in the book are him - his attempts to and successfully making friends with Republicans. There is a...  But not Ted Cruz.  That is right not Ted Cruz who he does...  He hates Ted Cruz.  But there is a part that we - so he is sitting there in San Francisco - well no sorry this is actually in Los Angeles. So we are in Los Angeles with him and Marc Maron. So it is a very...  What?  ...Liberal...  .  ...Audience. And Marc Maron says you know you have to work with all these monsters like Mitch McConnell. And Al Franken says he is not a monster.  Wow.  He is just a guy that does things we do not like and we have to work with him. And this...  What'd the crowd do?  They laughed. But they - you know this is sort of what they are hoping for from him. So it is a quite - I just find his story especially in the time that we live in now where the idea of political decorum is totally out the window - right? - is a very fascinating one. And the story that we are going to do for VICE - should air next week...  OK.  ...I think really delves into that into that...  Yeah.  ...Into his tension really well.  Is he going run for president?  That is what I was - my - I was going to ask. Do you think he has...  Yeah he said...  ...Secret ambitions?  He said several times no. His answer is - as I - which I kind of like this. His answer is look I know we live in a time where you 