 Hey you all. From NPR It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am Sam Sanders. It is Tuesday and I have got a conversation for you. This week I am talking with Uzo Aduba the Emmy Award-winning actress. Uzo plays Suzanne Crazy Eyes Warren perhaps my favorite character on the Netflix show Orange Is The New Black. Crazy Eyes is the kind of character that you cannot forget the kind of character you find yourself thinking about and wondering about long after the show is done. This role is a stark portrayal of the realities of mental illness and how someone with mental illness survives prison. But it is also full of these really big universal themes that we all experience like love and this idea that all of us contain multitudes and can be more than one thing at once. Uzo describes Crazy Eyes as a woman who wields quote a sledgehammer and a pacifier all at the same time.    Hey you are a real woman Chapman a real grown woman and not like all these other girls around here. I need a real woman.   I am sure that you will find one.   I wrote a poem. You want to hear it?   You know that is fine.   Before I met you the sun was like a yellow grape. But now it look like fire in the sky. Why? Because you light a fire inside me.  Netflix is dropping the sixth season of the show on Friday. And this chat will for sure help superfans get ready for that. But trust me you will still love this chat even if you have never seen the show. That is because Uzo and I get into a lot. We talk about what it is like to grow up dark-skinned and black and Nigerian in a very small very white Massachusetts town. Also Uzo tells me about how she was just about to give up on acting right before she got the gig on Orange. And she has this really cool story all about that moment. It involves Oprah and Lorne Michaels and a little bit of the supernatural. This was a very fun chat. Uzo was in NPR's New York bureau and I was here in LA. All right enjoy.   It is such an honor to talk to you today.  And you too. Thanks for having me.  Oh my God no thank you for making the time and dealing with trying to get to Bryant Park and...   It is a pleasure.  I do not ever get mad at folks in New York for being late to the studio because I tell folks like trying to commute in Manhattan is like an American Ninja Warrior obstacle course...  Yes.  ...With the smell of piss.  Yes. And to do it from Brooklyn is like - I might as well have brought a passport and visa and like every other world of commuting.  Oh yeah. And like for me it is - like I always wonder do I enjoy the hellishness of like a subway public transit commute that is 45 minutes or an hour or the hellaciousness  of driving in traffic for that long?  I will go with traffic because...  Oh really?  Well you know here's the thing - it is like we automatically are eliminating the urine out the gate.   That is true. There is that.  We are automatically eliminating that. We are also automatically eliminating the like dodgeball like adult game of like...  Oh yeah.  ...Musical chairs of like really trying to negotiate is that person getting up at the next stop? Are they? How far away is that person? Do they see that they are getting up? Can I get in that seat before them? I am going to have to like strategically start moving towards the seat indicate to the person who is about get up like are you getting up so I can get that seat? And I need to do it like pretty visibly so everybody is clear like that is my seat.  Oh yeah. It is a lot. You are right. There is more variables. I am so excited to chat with you about your show and your stage work and everything. But I got to start with a weird hopefully not too creepy question.  Uh-oh.  I know. I know. So before I moved back to LA I was in Washington D.C. and I was covering the election. And I will never forget one night I was walking out of the office kind of late maybe like 8 or 9. But I saw this amazingly gorgeous statuesque woman with perfect hair perfect makeup in this like gorgeous like ballroom dress.  You flatter.  And I looked over and I was like who is this statuesque woman? Is it the mayor of something Senator something? And I looked closer and I was like is that Crazy Eyes?  No. Where was it? Oh at the White House correspondents' dinner.  That is what it was. And so I will never forget how different you looked in that moment than you did on your show. And then I was reading up on this - like apparently there is a whole phenomenon for the doubletake people have when they see you all dolled up because they are used to seeing you in this Netflix show where you look entirely different. It is - who called it the Crazy Eyes double take?   Well that is good. You have me taking my shoes off. I was like sweating for a second.   I have my shoes off too. That is my good-luck charm for the studio. I do not wear shoes.  Oh yes. I am taking them off.  Do it.  Yeah. Like I think - I mean let us just call it what it is. It is like you are in prison garb. You obviously are not like wearing makeup. Your character is named Crazy Eyes. There is not too much glam prep that is happening. And in fact you know I go to work and they fill in my eyebrows. Like the only makeup I get is to make it worse. Like it is like - you know what I mean?  Really?  Yes.  What is the most worse-making makeup thing they do on you?  OK so they fill in my brows. They make them like fuller and more intense. They make my skin look a little blotchier because when I started on the show our department head for makeup - Michael at the time - my bag still says on the outside when we had to do our you know assessment and tests she was like your skin is too nice. And she...  Wow.  My notes were make skin look worse.  Oh my God.   I was like - make skin look worse. So they take like black shadow a little bit. And they like - Karen who is our head now she says it is like - it is called breaking it up - breaking up the skin.  Oh my God.  And so they break it up to make it look like less even and nice. I do not get any - I sit there in envy because it is like - sometimes I am like - there are girls like getting foundation put on and like eyeliner - mascara. And I am like wow OK. Well - but it is freeing at the same time because you know no one's being like super glammed up on our show. Everybody is - you know it is pretty minimal for television. And you know one of our cast mates Natasha Leone said it really right once how it sort of takes the pressure of the designers and the bags and the shoes and heels and the dresses and the couture and all of this off the table. And it just becomes about you know doing the work.  Does it make the acting better?  I do not know if it necessarily makes it better but I certainly think that it makes it more equitable you know because in line with what Natasha said you know it is like - she said it so like spot on. It is like you know back in the day like the James Caans and you know the Gene Hackmans and you know the Brandos and the Hoffmanns - all these guys you know in that golden age - new golden age just got to show up and do the gig you know?  And show up drunk .  Well they got to show up. And I do not know if women have always had that opportunity to just show up and be their not-most-prize-winning self or their most glamorous self their most beautiful self on that day even when they are telling something maybe sort of tragic. So it is great to see that that equity is sort of playing out on our show and Jenji is really - who created our show Jenji Kohan - was really keen on you know it being about the story you know? And she did not - she wanted to tell a real and authentic story. And I think we have that there. I think we get to see also women in this scenario exist authentically.  Yeah.  And that is cool.  And exist in such a nuanced way. I can recall devouring the first season of the show and saying to myself this is so groundbreaking because I have never seen character development with the level of nuance and substance and detail and care for poor women for women of color for women who are not highly educated. And you do not see that level of detail and nuance for those stories. And this show did that. And even now you know watching Season 6 it still feels just as groundbreaking. Like I really cannot compare it to any other show in terms of the way it treats seriously the story of marginalized women.  Well we do not give them space in the world - you know like it is prison and you know monasteries are these two worlds we kind of like shut - take people and we shut them away right? And we are always very voyeuristic in that way. We do not get to ever see in. So we - for ourselves we imagine who we think these people are. And since the only information we have about them is their sentence and the crime that they are committed we paint on them all these other ideas of who these individuals are. And you know I loved so much - our first season logline was every sentence has a story. And I thought that was so true because they are more than just their crime...  Exactly  ...And their circumstance.  Exactly.  You know these are people who come from - some of them challenging backgrounds some not.  Exactly.  And you get to really sort of dig into who they are - into their humanity. And I certainly do not think we get the opportunity enough to see such a wide array of women of color of different colors existing in a single space. You know that is still something I have not yet seen copied yet in this golden age of television. You know Orange is unique in that it is not only a female-driven show telling this particular story but such a wide makeup of different women.  Exactly. It is beautiful.  And it is exciting.  Yeah you know because I find so often that there are certain emotions that are given to characters of a certain class that we do not allow poor characters or not as intelligent in our minds characters have.  For sure.  We do not allow poor people on TV to experience ennui or ambivalence or conflict about a thing. Like we only let the rich ones feel more than one thing at a time. And I really appreciate how the show shows that like we all feel love and conflict and this and that and want and need. Like that is not just for upper-class folks. Everyone feels these things.  Everyone feels those things. And I would even layer in we never even get to let the people in our society who are the most disadvantaged serve as the teacher you know? Whether that is from financial disadvantage or you know mental disadvantage it is always they who are being taught like they have something to learn from the more affluent or the highest person of status you know? That is the order of things that we experience it and that is not always necessarily so. I think it is interesting on our show where the lessons can be learned particularly with - you know you think about Piper and I think it is an education for people you know who watch our show and have been following our show season after season - you know they come in thinking this is the woman I am going to identify with.  And this was the white woman who is blond and kind of upper-class.  Yup. And we have decided - right? - because of how she looks and where - the world that she is from that her story is the one I will say connect to or her story and her life is the one that is comparable to my own.  Exactly.  And actually what she learns and what we learn as viewers is no everyone in this world has purpose and everyone in this world has something to share and to give and to benefit from. And she discovers that as the world - you know season after season that you know she does not know everything. In fact she can mess things up.  And she is trash . Like her character compared to the other ones - I am like I do not like her. I like Crazy Eyes.  No.  I like my girls. Like she for me is - and like I know that she is a vital character in that show.  Yes she is.  But I do not like her like I like the others.  OK. Well I do not know what to do for you.  I know. I know.  Take an Advil and call me in the morning. But I think...  But they kind of want to make her problematic right? Like they want to make her hard to love.  Well because - well here's the thing. It is - you know again I think it forces a reflection back at us right?  Yeah.  She - what Piper does is - and her function and need to exist is so vital because she is the one who actually - she - not only does she hold the mirror she is the mirror you know? She is the mirror. She challenges your preconceived notions and ideas of who these people are. The very fact that you might come in and be like oh I am going to understand the story through this vantage point challenges how you see people in the prison industrial system at large.  Yeah. And I should clarify Taylor Schilling is a delightful actress who plays the hell out of that role. So whatever ill will I have is for the character not for her. Taylor we love you.  Yes we do.  OK. Time for a break. When we come back Uzo tells me about how you get it right when you are portraying mental illness on screen. BRB.   One of the things you do really beautifully on the show and I know that a lot of folks would like you to unpack it is how you portray you know mental illness so poignantly and thoughtfully. I think it is very easy when someone who is not dealing with those disabilities tries to portray them. You can do it in a ham-fisted way or just make it not work. And the way you do it it works. One I guess describe what Crazy Eyes' mental issues are and then talk to me about how you get into those roles.  Well firstly thank you. I appreciate that. I think as a person of the world and having to take on this character I feel responsible probably because of social media even more these days because I have so many people who write me saying you know I have a student like this or I have a child like this or I am a psychiatric nurse at such-and-such hospital and I have had patients like this. And so there is a care there I think that starts for me in - now in the building of this character. And those stories - I read them online. When I see them in my comments I see them and they touch my heart and certainly help me to understand not only Suzanne but the people around Suzanne who care for her and people who have cared enough for the people in their own lives to write me.  And to clarify for those that do not watch the show who are missing out Suzanne is Crazy Eyes' real name.  Yes so - exactly - Crazy Eyes. So there is that part of it for the work coming in. But for me when I started really I felt like it is - you know it is too on the nose to now trying to play crazy. Her name is Crazy Eyes. So every time somebody says her name we are aware that she is looked at as crazy. So I do not need to do crazy and be like blah blah - crazy crazy. I am crazy. Like I do not need to do that.  We get it yeah.  We get it right? So what I was more interested in when we started the show and it still remains is this is a person who is in love. And this is a woman who is trying to know love get love the best she can...  Yeah.  ...The best way she knows how. That is my central focus. And it has...  And it is universal.  ...And that is a universal story. In the season 1 she is trying to understand intimacy and love and connection in an intimate way with Piper. Season 2 it is maternal with Vee. She is trying to get her head wrapped around that. Season 3 it is self-love. You know she is trying to understand and find that. Season 4 is what happens when you do get love? Are you ready for it when it comes to you? And five is friendship the loss of - when love leaves - you know? - when love leaves you. And six will come too when six comes out .  No spoilers.  No spoilers at all. Yeah and it is a different walk you know? Like that is Suzanne. And I also - so that was where I really rooted myself in for her you know? I rooted her in love. And what I also know for Suzanne is she is a person who is haunted. And she has her demons like all people have. And she is just trying to navigate through those waters as best she can navigate through her feelings as best she can. And she is someone that I - who acts before they think. And that is where her mental health is in question because what - that pause button that nanosecond that we all have to consider a choice and consequence she does not have. She just moves.  Yeah.  And it is not until after she is moved...  And then she thinks about it.  ...That she thinks about what just happened.  There is this scene in Episode 10 of Season 5 where Suzanne ends up in like some white-faced clown makeup.  Oh yeah.  And then she ends up in the bathroom. And you see her looking at her face and thinking about her black skin and whiteness and then she is scrubbing off the white makeup and talking about black being beautiful. And it just hit me like a train. We actually have a cut of it right here that I want to play just for a second.    Your skin is beautiful like walnut wood and soil and western coneflowers and old metal and dark maple syrup in brown jars. But wear a hat or else your skin will get darker. And always always moisturize.  It just - seeing that scene this is something that every person with dark skin has done for themselves at some point in their life. You have had to look in the mirror and tell yourself in this world that might not love what you look like that you are beautiful. And regardless of her mental illness this is a reality for so many black people so many brown people. And what I love with what you did with that it was not just a hey yeah sister girl black brown skin affirmation. You see her struggling and being ambivalent over - she is struggling with whether she actually does love her black skin you know? And she is struggling with knowing that she is beautiful and knowing that black is beautiful but also probably having internalized a lot of messages that say otherwise. And you go to that kind of ambivalent space so wonderfully. How did you get there?  Well I mean I think you started it in a pretty clear place you know. When you are not being validated or affirmed through society you know it challenges every child every brown black little child into wondering well am I enough? And for myself you know I grew up in a very traditional New England town very few people of color in my class growing up and even fewer black people in my hometown.  Yeah.  And you know when you are in your formative adolescent years and you know - like the big deals are crushes - right? And the big deals are you know whether you have Sambas or not you know? Like these are like the big deals the Banana Republic shirt or not you know? And you know when it comes to dating this was an easy access point because when I was growing up and around me beauty was defined - the girls who boys liked had blonde hair blue eyes brown hair green or hazel eyes. And that was looked at as beautiful.  Oh yeah. And the body types were different. They were not having the curves. They were not having the lips the nose.  None of that any of that. And what happens automatically - and this is why things like representation and visibility matter - initially you think well if this is what is beautiful then the antithesis must be ugly.  Yeah.  Right?  Yeah.  Or not as beautiful. And you know so I had that wrestling of course as a kid. And then if you want to layer on top of that additionally and everything about your blackness my parents are from Nigeria like your Africanness - let us not even take black. My Africanness is additionally a hinderance. You know you are not even fair-skinned. You are not - like you have a gap. You have all these other things you know what I mean? You layer that in - your name sounds - it becomes even more complicated and challenging to see where you fit. And you have to do the work. And you know I thank - really truly I thank God for my mom I thank God for my family because these are beautiful strong chocolate gorgeous phenomenal women who just kept pushing and pressing and forcing myself my sisters my brothers everybody to be like no no no no no no no no no we are not going to buy into this narrative. This not where we are from or who we are from - whom we are from. And so eventually it starts to tick the other way and you start to realize as you grow up you are like wait no no no no no.  I look good.  I look - not good. I look great.   I look great you know? And I am perfectly fine the way that I am in my blackness in my power in my skin in my face. And it is beautiful. And so when Suzanne is staring at that mirror Uzo and Suzanne are simultaneously - I was playing it for myself more like she is both mother and daughter simultaneously in this moment...  To herself.  ...To herself.  Wow.  She is both listener and speaker. And it was our director on that episode Laura Prepon who you know we would done a couple takes and I was like this is you know the version it could be like that like this and this. And you know she came to me on one take and she just said take as much time as you need because this is more. Take as much time - we will wait. And it is interesting what happens when you wait.  What happens?  Well heart and mind connection first of all and truth-telling comes out rather than representative telling - representation right? So now I can give you a representation of it and that can be moving and people can connect. But when you wait now the actor feels something.  What did you feel in that moment? I knew you felt something watching it.  Free. I felt free. And I felt like the twisted pain and joy of what it feels like to break free almost like a butterfly before it comes out of the cocoon you know? We know there is beauty on the other side but it must hurt a little to break out that first puncture through you know to break through out of that confining...  Because that is been your skin.  ...Space yeah.  It is your prison but it was also your skin.  Yes. And it is so confining. And to feel that release when you come out of the other side and your wings are these gorgeous gold and blues and you know wonderful oranges like all of that is like vibrant and alive. Like on the other side it is like wow yes. I felt free.  I am not crying. You are crying.  Who is crying? This is water I threw on my face.   All right after the break Uzo talks about her journey as an actress moving from the stage to the screen and getting to Orange Is The New Black. We will be right back.   Special special announcement. You have heard me say it before I am going to say it again. We are having a live show in Los Angeles on Monday July 30 me in conversation with John Cho the actor you know. He is got a new movie we are going to talk about. The movie is called Searching. And it is a tech thriller unlike any you have ever seen before. Also his director Aneesh Chaganty will be onstage with me. It is going to be great. And I want you there. Get your tickets at nprpresents.org nprpresents.org. To all my SoCal listeners come hang with me Monday July 30 in Los Angeles.   Talk to me about your upbringing child of immigrants from Nigeria. You grew up in Massachusetts. Where in Massachusetts?  This small town called Medfield.  Why'd your parents pick there?  My parents picked Medfield because of the education.  OK.  Well A I am one of five children so they were not about to send us all to private school.   So they needed a really great public school. And Medfield had - if it was not the best at the time it was certainly one of the best public schools in Massachusetts at the time. They you know they were very - my family is very traditional...  OK.  ...Nigerian. We are proudly Nigerian as the expression has come to become a hashtag now.  I love it. I love it.  We are proudly Nigerian in terms of food in terms of language in terms of dress...  OK.  ...In terms of cultural upbringing - all of it - very very very proud. And so it was - I guess I would say it was - it is this mashup. You know people talk about code switching all the time. And I am like I have another code from which I can switch you know. You know like...  Yeah.  ...It is a mashup of being very American but also being very Nigerian at the same time...  Yeah.  ...And having your foot in both places I guess I would say and having to learn how to navigate it as a kid people who are not used to people with accents or...  Yeah.  ...If we are having you know a house party like the music that is playing - blaring out of the speakers and they seeing lines of cars parked all the way down the block...  .  ...You know my neighbors. And they are seeing all these people coming out in what they consider to be funny outfits but I look at then and now as the most beautiful and royal and kingly way in which I have ever seen my family...  Most definitely.  ...Dress.  Most definitely.  Yeah you know and it is something I have always been proud of. I have always been very proud to be Nigerian - my whole family. I remember my high school graduation. You know we are inviting our family and we are having graduation party. And my mom's asking me you know what is it that she wants - what is it that I want her to cook for my guests...  Yeah.  ...And have there. And I was like I want macaroni and cheese and I want burgers on the grill and hot dogs and lasagna. And I was like but I also want jollof rice...  Yes yes yes.  ...With fried beef...  I know what you are talking about.  ...Rice and red stew. Come on somebody.  You better.   I want...  You better.  I want egusi soup and onugbu soup.  Yeah.  And my mom I remember being like OK like kind of excited quietly. Like oh you want all of that out...  She is like...  ...Or do you want it in the house?  ...My baby loves it. Yeah.  Yeah. You want it in the house or do you want it out? And I was like I want it out on the table everybody to have some you know. And I want...  Yeah.  ...Everybody to try it. And then you know a little while later she came to me and she asked you know and how do you want us to come dressed? Because if my family is going to a formal event...  They going to do it.  ...They come traditionally dressed.  Yeah.  But they also know they are coming to this very small graduation in this very small New England town. And I told my mom - I said I want you to tell every single person in our family who is coming...  Yeah.  ...I want them to wear traditional clothes.  Yeah.  And she said why? And I said because I want everyone in that audience to know where we come from.  Yes.  And...  Yes.  And my mom - I will just never forget. She just had the biggest smile and just this...  I love it.  ...Immense pride...  Yeah.  ...That - and my family as well there at the graduation...  Yeah.  ...That they got to stand in celebration of who they are...  Yeah.  ...And...  Who you are.  ...Where they are from...  And...  ...And who I am.  And all of those things coming together in you.  Absolutely.  That is beautiful.  Absolutely. And I have so many pictures from it it is like - it was - yeah it just makes...  Please tweet them. I want to see them.   I will. They are actually on my dining room table currently because I just went through...   ...Like a whole group of pictures that my uncle just sent me.  I love it.  Yeah.  I love it.  It made me so happy. I look back on it now and I am like yeah I am so glad like that that happened.  Yeah.  You see - there is no mistaking from where I come...  Exactly.  ...You know...  Own it.  ...So...  I love it. I was reading that before you got the role on this show...  Yeah.  ...You literally had - you were late for some audition and ended up like praying to God to let you find your other path because it was not going to be acting. Tell me that story. And like wow.  OK yeah. So the day I got - the day that I got this job I had another audition for another show.  Which show?  TV show Blue Bloods.  Which you also got.  ...Which I wound up getting.  .  But at the time I obviously did not have as I was auditioning. I was - I got the wrong directions to the audition.  Who gave you the wrong directions?  The - does not matter.  It is not important.   OK OK OK.  I was given the wrong directions. I showed up at the wrong place.  Oh no.  And I had to - yes. And it was like the first time I would ever had an audition in Brooklyn so it was like already - I did not live in Brooklyn at the time - so it was already like out of my wheelhouse. So I had to get back on the train go - whatever. I get there. I am like 20 minutes late 30 minutes something like this...  Yeah.  ...Which is like...  Not good for auditions.  ...Tab - at all.  Yeah.  This is huge taboo...  Yeah.  ...In actor world.  Yeah.  Actors out there - who are the actors?  Just so you know kids.  We are not late for auditions...  Yeah.  ...Ever. And so I get there and I was you know sweating. It was a hot September day...  Yeah.  ...Like...  Yeah.  ...Crazy hot. I am standing in front of this huge industrial fan trying to like...  .  ...Dry off. I am not joking.  Oh my God.  Trying to dry off. Casting director comes out and is like are you ready? And I am like yeah. You know I go in. I read my audition. And I had a great audition.  OK.  And I remember leaving thinking that was a really good audition but you are not going to get the job because you were late...  Yeah.  ...And this is God the universe telling you that this is not for you.  Wow.  It is been no all summer long. And so I was like you are not supposed to be doing this. And I am on the train. And immediately I walk out of that audition. I burst into tears.  Oh.  Not like loud tears but just like those tears that you cannot stop from coming down your face you know?  Oh yeah.  And I get on the...  The like chest-heaving tears.  Yes. And I am like boohooing on the train. And I just closed my eyes and I said this is not for you God is telling you this is not for you. And I said I am giving it up.  Wow.  And it was the first time I would ever quit...  Yeah.  ...In this business. I would never quit before.  Yeah.  I doubted before or questioned but I had never like in my heart quit. And I said - you know growing up my parents - you know just like classic like immigrant parents - are like thinking you are going to be like a doctor a lawyer whatever - all of this.  Yeah.  And I said if you can figure out a way for me to go back to school and become a lawyer I will go.  You are talking to God at this point.  Yeah. I was like I will go.  Wow.  And I just kind of like let it go. And I got home and I put on my favorite person in the world Ms. Oprah's Master Class.  Love her.  Love Ms. Winfrey.  Love her.  She is everything.  Yes she is.  And I had...  Talk about talking to God.  I mean...  Talk to Oprah.  OK.  .  And I scrolled through my DVR and I saw an episode of Master Class with Lorne Michaels.  SNL...  And this is like...  ...Lorne Michaels.  SNL Lorne Michaels. And he - I had been skipping over his for some reason.  OK.  I do not know why. Like I kept skipping and I was like am I going to watch Oprah's? And I was like no I have seen that recently. I was like...  Yeah.  Am I going to watch Jane Fonda's? No I just watched that. I was like you know what? Let me just watch this Lorne Michael one.  Yeah.   ...Because I have not been watching it. I keep skipping over it keep skipping over it.  Yeah.  And I put it in and he is talking about starting SNL. And like when it came out like it was panned and people like critiqued it. And it was like - they did not like it. And he was like sitting in his confessional and he was like I am going to give it one more chance. I guess he did some bit about bees - like the bees - like giving birth...  .  ...To bees or something. And like people were like what is this? And he was sitting there and he was like I said to myself I am going to give it one more chance and if I can just keep the faith - and he said keep the faith. The screen dissolved into what looked like a Country Time Lemonade commercial.  Whoa.  I kid you not - true story. The words keep the faith scrolled across the screen.  OK.  And it was like the sky had all these like purples and oranges and reds you know like the sun setting like a Country Time Lemonade commercial..  Yeah yeah yeah.  ...With like Donald Sutherland in the background...  .  ...You know like voice-over.  Yeah.  And it said keep the faith across the back - the - scrolled across the screen from left to right.  OK.  And I said to myself oh I like that. When I am done with this episode I am going to rewind back to that pause it and tweet that...  Oh yeah.  ...Because I had quit. And I said on Monday I am going to call my manager and e