 Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. It is Tuesday which means we have a conversation for you. Today's guest - Al Roker. Yes Al Roker longtime weatherman for the Today show on NBC. But besides that work what you do not know about Al or might not know about Al is that he is an author. He is written a lot of books and he has a new book out. It is called Ruthless Tide. This book is all about one of America's deadliest floods the Johnstown Flood of 1889. Johnstown back then was this steel town in central Pennsylvania. And the story of this flood is epic. It killed 2200 people there and it has all these lessons about climate change and greed and infrastructure and the power of nature. So I talked to Al Roker about that book and what lessons that book and that story have for us today. We also talk barbecue his cousin who is very very famous - we will talk about that - how he bikes to work. It was a really good chat. Al was in New York. I was in Culver City. All right. Enjoy.   You actually biked into the NPR New York studio today.  I did not only because I was told I could not bring my bicycle inside because I...  Why not?  Well that - I do not know.  I bet you could. You are Al Roker.  They said I could not. And I just had a bicycle stolen and this is a new bike and I did not want to leave it outside so I did not.  What kind of bike do you have? I have a Bianchi.  I have a - I am nothing quite that - as fancy. I have a Specialized. So it is - I am not racing bikes .  Nor am I. I just got duped by the bike shop. They are like you should buy this. And I said OK sure fine.   And here is this form-fitting lumpy Lycra suit to go with it.  Where would you have biked from? So - because our office is...  I would have...  ...In Bryant Park in Manhattan.  I would have biked - Bryant Park - I would have probably biked straight - I live on the Upper East Side. I would have biked down from the Upper East Side down Fifth Avenue. I might have gone through the park and then you know cut through on Seventh or...  Biking in New York City can be scary.  You know the - I am not worried about cars. I am worried more about pedestrians these idiots who do not look up because they are walking...  Yeah.  ...On their phone...  Yeah.  ...And get indignant...  When you bike past.  ...If you block their way. I just - I - sometimes I just stop in front of them and let them bump into me. And then...  .  ...Just to see what happens.  What did they do when they realized they have bumped into Al Roker?  Well they - I do not think they even know. They just - like they are so annoyed that I would interrupted their electronic reverie.  Oh man.  And then they go right back to their phone you know? So...  You know Ruthless Tide is not your first book. How many books have you written? I have been looking. It is a lot.  This is my 12th book.  Look at you.  Yeah look at me.  What are they all about? Yeah.  Well the first - the very first one was called Do not Make Me Stop This Car! Adventures In Fatherhood. It was about my journey in adopting my oldest girl and then going into - my second wife Deborah and I were having trouble conceiving and it was basically our journey with IVF.  Yeah.  And you know so that was the first book. And then I wrote another. I wrote a couple of cookbooks and I wrote a series of essays and edited some essays from other folks about fatherhood. I have written three murder mysteries.  Wow.  My wife and I wrote a book together about parenting and the mistakes we have made . It is a wide variety.  Did you write a barbecue book?  I did.  You wrote a barbecue book. I am from Texas so I feel very strongly about this.  Al Roker's Big Bad Book Of Barbecue.  What is your favorite barbecue joint?  Whatever's in front of me.   But if you had to go to one.  If I had to go to one - boy that is a tough one. I like - I mean I like Arthur Bryant's in Kansas City.  OK.  ...And Austin Franklin Barbecue.  Franklin's is really good.  You know I am...  You know what is up.  There is some great barbecue all over.  There is a good spot in LA called Bludso as.  Oh yes. Yeah oh yeah.  It is real good. It is real good.  Yes.  Your book Ruthless Tide - tell folks what it is about.  Well it is about the Gilded Age in this country. This is 1889. This is when America was moving in and taking over as an industrial powerhouse. And the center of that was Western Pennsylvania. And some of the big boldface names of their time - Carnegie Frick Mellon - they all wanted to have a nice idyllic getaway from the pollution and the noise and the hustle and bustle of Western PA so they were able to buy some property and created the South Fork hunt and fish club. And they wanted to be able to get up into the mountains and you know breathe clean fresh air. And so they got this piece of property. It had a dam on it and the Conemaugh River ran past the area so they decided let us use this old dam we will rebuild it and we will dam it - dam up the river and create a lake. And we fast forward a couple years to May 31 1889. They got a big big rainstorm that dumped almost 12 inches of rain in 24 hours. And the dam basically just could not hold it. It burst and within a half hour 20 million tons of water...  Wow.  ...Went speeding down at speeds of 40 miles per hour and some heights - at times reaching heights of 60 feet. And it wiped out four towns and the city of Johnstown kills 2200 people and...  My goodness.  ...Which to this day...  Worse than Katrina.  Yeah it is the worst flooding catastrophe in American history.  So there are many many factors that led to this - deforestation which helped exacerbate the flooding the actual production of the steel the way they made it it clogged the rivers which made the rivers more prone to flooding and the dam itself that was there was pretty shoddy. So there were many man-made factors that kind of converged to make this happen no?  Well besides the dam you also had you know overpopulation. This was a very dense crowded area. And what really struck me was you know we are at a point now here some almost 130 years later where we are - we are doomed to make the same mistakes because we are - we are all at once relaxing or repealing environmental protections zoning ordinances and protections building codes. All these things are being taken down or weakened just as we are becoming more susceptible to extreme weather.  Yeah. I am thinking about Houston and like Hurricane Harvey...  Yeah exactly.  ...And this place that is like full of McMansions basically under sea level.  Built on a flood plain basically.  Yeah. They all get flooded about a year ago or less and they are already rebuilding back on the same plots.  Yeah. I mean we saw - in fact even as we are speaking right now massive flooding going on in Texas. We are seeing an increase in extreme rainfall amounts in the last 30 years. I mean that - there is a better than 47 percent chance in the Northeast that you will have a rain event that exceeds expectations. In the Southeast it is about 35 percent. In the Gulf - in central Gulf you are talking anywhere from 25 to 30 percent greater chance of extreme rain events.  Yeah.  So you know you start putting all this together and where - are we going to see an event where 2200 people are killed? God I hope not. But we are setting ourselves up for you know a lot of casualties a lot of fatalities and a lot of property destruction.  Yeah. What is it about us that we do not get the lesson?  Well you know I think we are. I think the average person is. I do not know that our average politician is or whatever special interests they are beholden to. You know I think people care about their environment. I think they care about their safety and well-being. They care about their family's safety and well-being. They care about their town and their surrounding environment. But you know if we do not pay attention all of a sudden we turn around and regulations are revoked or reversed or weakened. And when something happens people are looking around and going hey wait a minute. I mean you look what happened in Ellicott City Md. I am sure you saw the video - these I mean raging rivers. I mean the town - it was almost like that attraction at Universal where there is a flash flood and all of a sudden there is all this water. Well that was a thousand-year event. They had one just like it two years earlier - you know two thousand-year events in two years.  Yeah.  And I think people forget the power of water or they either do not realize it or they do not understand it. I mean it only takes about 4 to 6 inches of water moving at about 4 miles per hour to knock you off your feet.  But not you - I have seen you out there in the water. You are tough.  Well yeah back in the old days. Although back then I floated. I really displaced more water.  .  And water will find its way.  That is right. It goes everywhere.  You think you can do whatever. It is going to find its way. And in Johnstown - I mean this thing people described it as an unleashed monster. And what was interesting about it the normal course of events would have been that this system - this roiling seething mass of water - would have expended some of its energy on the way down - on the 14-mile trek down to Johnstown. But because of what - the physicality of what was happening this thing was taking - was stripping forests boulders rocks buildings people livestock locomotives. It took out a barbed wire factory. So there were literally miles of razor-sharp wire in the water. And halfway down it hits this viaduct that is made of stone. And because of all the debris - the tree trunks and all the - it basically damns itself up against the viaduct. And all this water is getting a chance to pile up whereas it would have dissipated some of its energy on the trip. But now it has a chance to literally regroup and regain strength. And eventually the viaduct gives - the stone viaduct gives way. Now it is got all that debris in there and it just keeps going. So it is obliterating everything in its path.  Yeah. What does that sound like this like locomotive of water with all this stuff in it?  Yeah and that is - you know that is as best anybody could describe it - was really a hundred locomotives. You know it just had this incredible roar. The people who were standing to the side of it along hillsides could not believe it. It was - suddenly there was quiet and then this deafening roar for a matter of minutes and then nothing just the sound of gurgling water.  Did anybody in this community or across the country before this disaster happened say hold on this could end badly?  Well you know there were a number of people in Johnstown a number of movers and shakers who actually went up to the dam to watch as they were building it. And they even - the town even had their own engineer come up who told - who said this is not adequate. It had been a dam that had been used by a canal company and it actually had valves that allowed them to release water if the dam got too high. Well these folks made two mistakes. When they rebuilt on this - the foundation of this old dam the pipes were removed but there was nothing put back in. And they lowered the height of the dam so that the rich guys and their families could drive their cars and their horse carriages across the dam so that they could have this beautiful view of the valley and the lake. And so there was - you know there was less dam and what dam there was there was no way to release water to relieve pressure.  Yeah.  And this is before the zoning laws environmental impact studies things like that. You know money talked.  Yeah. You know so much of the runup to this disaster is a story of class divisions and how rich people in this you know part of the world got to kind of run amok to the detriment of poor people. But you talk about in the book how the aftermath of this flood kind of exacerbated and highlighted some anti-immigrant sentiment. Talk about that.  The people that made the wealth for you know the chosen few were living in squalor were living in these tenements - you know Irish Italian Eastern European Jews. And they were packed in with not a lot of room and not a lot of places to go. So when this did happen - and there was very little warning because the state of the art of communication at that point was telegraph. The phones were just coming in but there was nobody to use the phone. And so when one young man who risked his life knew that the dam collapse was imminent rode like a bat out of hell in horrific weather conditions to get to the closest telegraph office to send word downline. But when they posted it outside the telegraph office people kind of scoffed at it. First of all they did not know who the guy was.  Wow.  And there had been some dam breaches before nothing catastrophic like this. So they lived through it. They said we are not worried. And so those folks who were - who had the least amount of resources and the least amount of time to get out were the ones who suffered more greatly.  Yeah. You write in the book about several heroes of this Johnstown disaster. Which one was your favorite?  You know I think Clara Barton you know who was one of the founders of the Red Cross. Up until this point in this time in our country's history - you have got to remember this is 1889. I mean there are still a lot of people alive who had fought the Civil War. And the Red Cross was mostly dealing with helping returning veterans soldiers folks like that. But here was an opportunity. Clara Barton saw that this was the biggest disaster that had befallen this country at this point. And it was in all the newspapers. And she saw an opportunity that she could help that her organization could help. They had the skills. They had the know-how. And you know look at that time it was a very chauvinist society. She came in and the guys in charge thought oh what can we do to help this woman? She says no no I am here to help you. And in no time her army - people who had come in from Philadelphia from New York - all got together and came in and formed hospitals tent cities commissaries clothing - basically warehouses with clothing and supplies. And it was the template really for what would become the greatest and most well-known relief organization not just in the country but as we have seen now internationally and in the world. And I think out of something so terrible that something that has - to this day is saving life upon life and helping people is pretty amazing.   All right - time for a break. When we come back - some lessons from the Johnstown Flood about climate change. BRB.   So you know thinking about all of this and the disaster and Johnstown it is about how this ascendant industry set up this community for a big fall. And steel was big and steel was changing the country and steel was making money for a lot of people. What is our steel now our industry that we allow to run unchecked because it is so successful and makes us so much money? What is our steel right now? And what is the Johnstown that that industry could bring?  Well you know look I think there is - I think people are ignoring industries that could alleviate problems for - with the Johnstown. You know when we talk about mining and we talk about certain fossil fuel exploration all these folks who work in our coal industry - which by the way is not a healthy industry - I mean from the coal miner's standpoint. If you could move people into - retrain them and get them into solar and clean energy wind power things like that which are going to just continue to grow you know...  Yeah yeah.  ...And not have a detrimental effect on the environment...  You know I could not help but thinking when I was reading the book about fracking.  Yeah.  ...And how - about how this new method is linked to earthquakes and other weird stuff.  Yep.  Is there a fracking Johnstown coming? - is what I am asking.  You know I do not know. That is a good question. That is a very good question. And we will not know until it is too late.  Yeah. What is Johnstown like now?  You know it is a beautiful area. There is a wonderful national park dedicated and a terrific museum dedicated to the heroes of this place. And yeah look it never reached the - returned to the level of manufacturing that it once had but that whole section of Pennsylvania has really moved into more service IT medical. You know they have gotten into industries or businesses that are more of a growth industry.  There are so many lessons in this book...  Yeah.  ...About what we do as humans to the earth what we allow rich people to do to poor people. What for you is the biggest lesson from your book Ruthless Tide?  You know I really do think that - you know there is that old saying those who do not learn from history's mistakes are apt to repeat them. And I think we are at a juncture right now. And I am not trying to get on a soapbox or anything. But you know we are experiencing climate change. Now you can - I will give you that OK maybe - can we prove it is being caused by human activity? Well I think we can. But I will just let that one go. Let us just go with the idea that our climate is in fact changing.  Yeah.  By every metric it is changing. And it is not changing for the better - and that if we do not protect ourselves - because at a certain point we are going to pass the tipping point. So now we have to start preparing for that future.  For that tipping point.  ...For that tipping point and for what that means. I mean look if for no other reason if you want - if you look at it from a homeland defense point of view no less than the Department of Defense in a study last year said that of the 3500 military bases and installations in this country and around the world a full 1700 are susceptible to damage or destruction because of climate change. Now that - if nothing else moves you it should be that.  I think - and I am speaking especially for me - you know? - as one person knowing that that tipping point is very well ahead of us it is hard to take seriously the idea that if I just recycled more or got a Tesla that I could prevent it. Like something really really big has to change for all of us...  Yes.  ...To change things.  But it also has to be - you know it is also the smaller things. I mean the company I work for - Comcast - they have got a whole division about sustainability. And I am trying to get them to you know install just those water fountains you see at the airport that you know you - everybody gets a stainless-steel bottle instead of the plastic. I mean the amount of plastic that is in our oceans...  Yeah.  And that is just one little thing.  Yeah.  But if everybody does it then we make - we have a big effect. And that is what - I think that that is what - you know it is that oh well what can I do? Well you can do those little things because if everybody does a little thing it adds up to a big thing.  Yeah. You know thinking about this kind of hubris that allows for a Johnstown to happen or allows for us to ignore things like climate change is that something that is uniquely American? Or is it just uniquely human?  I do not know that it is - I do not know it is us them. I mean I think that there are people of goodwill. I mean you know you look at - what was it? - 147 nations signed onto the Paris climate accord. One left. But you know I think that there is goodwill and good intent by people by governments. And I think people themselves - I think people are ahead of their own governments when it comes to this sort of thing. I think most Americans want us to be good stewards of the environment.  Yeah.  I really do.   All right - one more break here. In a moment we set the record straight on a very tall tale about how Al Roker became America's weatherman. We will be right back.   I think that a lot of our listeners look at you and your career and kind of admire it so much because you have been this kind of beacon of kind warm smiling stability for so many viewers for decades. And you keep going at it. You always have an upbeat outlook on all of this stuff. You are always smiling. You always know what you are doing and on your A game. How do you stay motivated? And how have you not just quit the whole thing?  Well A because the money's great.  .  So I am not going to quit that. I mean Willard Scott says you never get off the train until they throw you off.  .  You ride to the last stop. And even then you hide in the bathroom until they come find you.  .  You know listen my dad was a New York City bus driver and he always had a great attitude. He knew his customers his passengers. He eventually worked his way into management. But he was always upbeat. He was always positive.  Yeah.  And that is who I try to be. But you know listen this is a terrific gig. I get to go places and do things I never ever dreamed possible. And so you know there is no reason to be ticked off. Oh it is funny. This is about - I do not know - a couple years ago. My daughter who is 19 now but she was like 15 16 - and she did not do something. And I do not even remember what it was. But I just kind of lit into her. I just was yelling at her. And all of a sudden she burst into tears and she goes this is not fair America only sees the happy Al Roker they do not see this Al Roker.  .  I said well if America did not clean their room this is the Al Roker they would see. Clean it up.   I love that. You are from Queens?  I am from Queens N.Y. We lived in Brooklyn for a little bit but most of my time was spent in Queens.  Where in Queens?  St. Albans Cambria Heights right near the Nassau County border.  Growing up when did you say I am going to be a weatherman?  You know I did not really say it. It was more by accident. I had no intentions of being on TV. I wanted to be a writer or producer. And in fact I went to SUNY Oswego in upstate New York right on Lake Ontario. And I took my first television performance class and my department chairman said Roker you have got the perfect face for radio.  .  But he also put me up for my first TV job. Also another classmate in that same class was one young man named Jerry Seinfeld.  Really? How was he in school?  He was terrific. He was a great guy. But he left after sophomore year transferred down to Queens College because he you know wanted to do stand-up and obviously the opportunity is much greater down in New York.  Wow.  Can you imagine what he would have become if he had stayed all four years...  In Oswego.  ...At SUNY Oswego?  I mean he might have have still made it.  He might have made it. I have not heard from him. I do not know what he is doing these days.   I read that you wanted to be a cartoonist for a bit growing up.  Yes I still do. I - you know my dream job would have been to be an animator for Walt Disney.  Really?  You know oh gosh yes.  Well Pixar these days.  Or Pixar - well both. I mean you know because you know Walt Disney animation is doing some amazing stuff too.  Yeah.  You know they have - now that they have kind of moved into there - I mean I am a big big fan of that stuff. I love it.  Well then - OK so then I am sure you have in your mind the Disney animated film that you would make if you had all the budget in the world. What is that movie? What is main character? What is the plot?  It would be called Incredibles 2.  .  ...Which by the way is unbelievable.  I have not seen it yet.  Oh my gosh.  Noted. I will check it out. I got some other life facts of yours to fact-check - these weird relationships in your life that I was reading up on. David Letterman helped you get on the Today show.  No.  Why did not I read that?  I do not know how that came up.   OK tell us the myth then tell us the truth.  Well I do not know what the myth is but a number of people have asked that. I mean I would cross - David Letterman and I would cross paths because his studio was literally across from ours when I did the local news here in New York - Live At Five and News 4 New York. And he would send like Zippy the Chimp and the mobile monkey cam into our studio while we were on live. And I would make appearances on his show. And that was - but really the person who was most responsible in a way for me to be on the Today show is Willard Scott who took me under his wing when - I first met him in Washington D.C. when we were both local weather people. But you know I started filling in for Willard on the Today show. And that is how that happened. But David Letterman you know - I mean and I adore the man and I just think he is terrific - do not - still do not understand the ZZ Top thing going - but...  Wait what is the ZZ Top thing?  Well you know the beard. I do not know what is going on there.  Oh him. Him - well you know...  He is got woodland creatures in there. I do not know what is going on.  Yeah. He is a little - his show was always a little bit too weird for me.  That is what I liked about it.  OK.  He had a - you probably do not remember. He had a daytime show.  I did know that.  ...On NBC at like 11 a.m. and it bombed horribly.  It was too weird for daytime.  ...Because he was - yeah it was - I mean if you thought it was weird at 30 at night or 30 at night when it was originally on it was weird at 30 in the morning.  Oh I bet. Well then I am going to ask you another question. It is probably a myth as well. Lenny Kravitz is your cousin.  True.  OK. All right. I got one. .  Second cousin.  OK. You all hang out?  His grandfather and my grandfather are brothers. And the answer is no we do not hang out.  You should hang out.  I mean I will see him like when he shows up at the Today show and I have gone to a couple of concerts - and hey cuz you know? But that is about it.  OK.  But he is Lenny Kravitz for gosh sake.  He is.  And the kids - my kids are very excited because it gives them some street cred.  I am sure. He is amazing.  Uncle Lenny.  I love that. What is the next book?  I - you know somebody just asked me that today literally on the way over here. I do not know. I really do not. I do not really plan them. When I did - my first historical weather book was three years ago. It was Storm Of The Century the Galveston hurricane that wiped out the city of Galveston. And I did not know that I would do another one and then this came up. And to be honest I was shocked that there was this much interest. I was worried that people would say ah who cares? But it is - because of - I mean ironically I mean we have had these crazy floods this year that I think there is been some interest and I think there is a parallel to today. And I am not sure what is going on but it got some good reviews so I am very grateful for that. But I do not know what the next one is. I really do not. But I - that is the way I kind of amble through life. I do not know what is coming up next. I do not - I always admire these people who are oh I have got a five-year plan.   I agree.  Five years geez. I do not even know if I will be alive in five years.  Tell me about it. Well I tell you what if you want to make a book of your own cartoons I would gladly...  Well thank you.  ...Purchase said book.  Thank you very much.  Most definitely.  I would like that.  I am...  This is so much fun being on NPR and podcasts. This is just - it is so hip. It is happening you know? I love it.  Well you know I appreciate that - hip and happening.  Hip and happening baby.  Well this was truly an honor and a pleasure. I am telling you the truth. I have been a fan of yours since as long as I can remember. So just thank you for doing you and being you and being just this wonderful role model of a positive black man on screen for so long.  Well thank you sir. I appreciate that.   Many thanks to Al Roker. His new book is called Ruthless Tide. Also before we end this episode - one more plug for a live show that is happening. It is BEEN A MINUTE live and in person in Los Angeles. I will be talking with John Cho about his new movie Searching - July 30 at the Line Hotel in Koreatown in Los Angeles. I want you there - tickets at nprpresents.org. All right. As always do not forget to share your best thing all week. Tell me at any point throughout any week what the best part of your week was. Record yourself. Send the file to me. Send the file to me at samsandersnpr.org samsandersnpr.org. All right - back on Friday with our Weekly Wrap. Until then thank you for listening. Talk soon.  