 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR reporter Vanessa Romo and writer and host of the podcast Keep It Ira Madison. All right. Let us start the show.    I am not throwing away my shot. I am not throwing away my shot.  Hearing Aunt Betty say Keep It...  .  ...The thing I did not know that I needed but I actually needed.  .  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders - It is BEEN A MINUTE - here as Aunt Betty said with two great guests - Ira Madison culture writer and host of the Crooked Media podcast Keep It. Also can you say this yet? You are doing some things on a TV show.  Yeah I...  Tell us.  I write for a Netflix show called Daybreak.  OK.  It is a teen sci-fi drama.  So you have got 12 jobs.  I have...   I have too many jobs.  Also here with Vanessa Romo friend of the show breaking news reporter at NPR covering all of the things. What did you cover this week?  I do not know - a slew of things. It is so many things I cannot keep track.  We are going to talk about all of those things today.  Let us do it.  So I am playing a song for you guys which I am sure you both know.    I am not throwing away my shot. Hey yo I am just like my country. I am young scrappy and hungry and I am not throwing away my shot. I am not throwing away...  Yeah.  Yeah it is from My Fair Lady.   This song is from the Hamilton soundtrack.  .  It is called My Shot. And I feel like over the last three years I have heard this song 17000 times.  Probably.  Same. Yeah.  Yeah yeah. And no shade on Hamilton. It is a catchy song. I like Lin-Manuel. But I am playing this song this week because the work of art that is Hamilton is receiving the Kennedy Center Honors. And it is the first time a piece of art and not an individual is getting the honor. And so it is one more jewel in the crown of Hamilton. And I am kind of just like when does this stop?  And Lin-Manuel - like...  Yes.  Lin-Manuel - how much more do you need?  Hamilton.   It is going to run for president.  I am sure that a few...    ...Of us going to see the cast of Hamilton show up in Iowa...  .  ...Bust out of a barn...   ...Scream Alexander Hamilton.   And they announce their candidacy.  No I just - I am happy for Lin...  Yeah.  ...Because he is doing so much now and he is just like a genuinely nice person. And it is nice seeing nice people...  Win.  ...Win.  LESLIE ODOM JR.  You have got to be carefully taught. If you talk you are going to get shot.   Burr check what we got. Mr. Lafayette hard rock like Lancelot.  All right. Vanessa and Ira are here with me to look back on the week of news culture and everything else. We have so much to get to this week. The Trump administration says it will send funds to help farmers handle the fallout from its own trade policies. In the same week the president says that he is reached an agreement with the EU to actually lower some tariffs - lot of questions there. Meanwhile Trump's former lawyer Michael Cohen is laying it all out there. There are audio recordings of him and the president appearing to discuss purchasing the rights to a Playboy model's story about an alleged affair that she had with Donald Trump. Vanessa you are going to have to help me with this in a bit. It is a lot.  Absolutely.  OK.  I would be happy to do it.  Good. Also Friday listeners - want to send you back in our feed to our latest Tuesday episode. It was a great chat with Uzo Aduba. You probably know her as Suzanne aka Crazy Eyes on Netflix's Orange Is The New Black. The new season of that show drops this weekend. It is out now. And this conversation is required listening before you watch. All right. Let us get into it. I want each of my guests to describe their week of news in only three words. Vanessa you can do this. Go.  Floodgates opened.  See I am going to have to call the referee on this one. Floodgates is one word yo.  What?  It is a compound word.  I support women so...   ...I think it is two words.  OK. We will allow it.  I should have...  We will allow it.  ...Gone to the AP style guide.  Go ahead.  OK. The floodgates...  .  ...Opened.  .  Yes.  So CNN got ahold of this secret recording between Michael Cohen and at very least Donald Trump. There seems to be other people in the room at the time that this recording was secretly taped by Michael Cohen.  What is on the tape?  So it is Trump and Cohen talking about making a payment to - OK it is going to get very...  To buy the rights to a story of a former Playboy model who says she had an affair with Donald Trump.  Not exactly to buy her rights - but it is to pay off in - but this is what Cohen is saying - to pay off the company that was paying her off.  And this contradicts what Trump had been saying for months. I did not know about this. I was not involved in this. It was not me.  Right. And Karen McDougal for those of you out there who do not know is the former Playboy model who said she had a months-long affair with Donald Trump.  Like I need a flowchart. I am like...  Yes.  ...Where does Stormy Daniels fit into the timeline?  .  Oh yeah.  But anyway part of the reason that I am saying that the floodgates are opened is because this is proof now that there are no holds barred. It is a free-for-all at this point. So now...  We are already hearing that Cohen says he can talk about this infamous Trump Tower meeting.  Exactly. So now we have Rudy Giuliani who is now Trump's lawyer - he said Michael Cohen is a liar. He is been a liar this week. He is been a liar last week. He is been a liar for years.  As someone who is covered this story for a bit - you have covered Michael Cohen for a few months now...  Yeah.  ...In your reporting. Does any of this stuff with the tapes surprise you?   I do not know how to answer that. I mean...  Yeah.  I guess it is surprising that Michael Cohen was secretly recording a man whom he has characterized as a very very good friend of his...  Yeah.  ...You know sort of like a father figure to him.  Yeah.  If someone is doing shady stuff for you...  .  Yeah.  ...They are probably doing shady stuff to you.  My three words for this are this too much.  .  I cannot do it. Like it is too much. We will come back to you soon for even more on this stuff.  OK.  You guys I have three words.  All right.  They are pay them off - not because of that story you just told me Vanessa but because there is another situation this week in which the Trump administration made some payments. I am talking about this 12 billion that the White House earmarked this week for farmers. And the whole reason for this money is to help farmers deal with the fallout from the trade war that Trump started. As we all know by now he has instituted tariffs on steel aluminum ag products all kinds of things with countries like China members of the EU Canada Mexico et cetera. It is hurting some farmers in America. So to help them the administration announces it is going to give 12 billion in assistance to farmers. And it is interesting because the program that they are using for this - it is actually a Depression-era program called the Commodity Credit Corporation. It just feels really strange to tap into a program tied to the Depression to help farmers.  At a time where the economy is booming right?  Doing so well.  It is doing so well. There is all this GDP growth. So it is it is bizarre to have these two...  It is a weird contradiction.  Yeah.  But doing it this way allows Trump to get the money without asking Congress for it first because there are members of his own party even in Congress saying do not do this right? So anyways it is happening and it is happening in the same week that Trump met with the president of the European Commission the EU. His name is Jean-Claude Juncker. Trump said the two agreed to quote work towards zero tariffs. But they left that meeting him and the EU leader with nothing on paper. There was no actual agreement. There was no actual treaty. But it made me wonder this week - you know we see a president who has been someone who makes payments and it is been a bit more difficult for him to make actual deals.  Absolutely. And he can be - you know people who meet him - I know lots of reporters who have done lots of interviews with him. He can be incredibly charming and disarming...  Yeah.  ...You know? And so in the moment in the room perhaps he is able to persuade someone to come over to his side or say that they may at some point agree to it. And then he is not averse to then turn around and say this is a done deal...  Yeah.  ...Right?  Yeah. Yeah. And he is - he is not - like part of his strategy from the start was to be someone who was not afraid to contradict himself later on down the road. That is part of the strategy. Anyway we could talk about this all day.  Is that a strategy?  I mean...  I do not see him mapping it out at night.  It is like the strategy of a tornado. A tornado has no strategy.  I know. I have seen Twister.  Yeah.  .  Ira do you have three words?  I do.  What are they?  Exhausted angry thirsty.  There was drama in all of those.  The dramatic pauses...  Yes.  I liked that. What do you mean by those three words?  So R. Kelly is in the news again. And...  Yes he is.  He - so he released a 19-minute song this week.  Yes which is exhausting.  And he was addressing what in the song?  He was addressing the rumors of him having sex with underage women the rumors about him having a cult and holding women hostage...  A sex cult.  Yes a sex cult. He addressed the fact that he is illiterate twice.  Still illiterate?  I did not know people were saying that about him.  He mentions it twice. It is just like the thirst of trying to be relevant again.  Well and this is something for years people have known.  Of course. Yeah.  And to see him release this kind of song in the midst of this MeToo moment - it just seems so tone-deaf. And I mean you have written about R. Kelly before. Why does he get to stick around?  I mean he gets to stick around mostly because his victims have been black women you know? And largely in America we do not care about black women as victims - or not as victims.  Well there is also an element of race that plays into the way that we view black men being treated by the justice system. You know...  Of course.  ...You heard the same things with Cosby. You know the justice system is out to get black men period. We have to defend our black men. It seems as if that is at play here too right?  Of course. Yes there are plenty of black men who are abused by that system. But he is not one of them.  Yeah.  Or it is a thing where like oh maybe he did it but like how many white people get away with it? Like...  But is that the kind of...  But...  ...Thing you want to do with this kind of topic? Do you want to do what-about-ism on sexual assault?  No.  Right. Right.  That is my thing.  And so he released this 19-minute...  Did you listen to it?  No.  OK.  Nineteen minutes...  I am shocked.  There - I do not even want to listen to 19 minutes from Drake.  .  A 19-minute song - like the - who has the time?  I have some larger questions about the way the music industry is treating some of these problematic artists. You know there was word for a while that Spotify was going to start removing artists like R. Kelly from their curated playlists. But they announced this thing and that happens but R. Kelly was still always on the platform.  They removed him from...  He did not go.  ...Playlists.  He was off a playlist...  Yes.  ...But he is still on Spotify.  Suggested playlists to people - and then they tried to do it to like triple X...  Oh.  ...Tentation .  XXXTentacion.  Tentacion.   XXXTentacion.  .  Tentacion - OK.  And then people were upset about that and other artists were too. And so...  Kendrick Lamar almost quit Spotify over XXXTentacion being removed.  Yeah. Imagine - woo.  But what is it - OK so like my question is we have seen Hollywood start to in some ways clean house post-MeToo. Men that are problematic - they are gone. We have seen less of that kind of point-blank you have got to go in the music industry. What is the difference Ira?  Well one large difference too is that it is still a very male-dominated industry and it is still an industry where - that is largely - artists of color are driving a lot of music culture but they are not the people who are in control you know? And so it is the people in control who are deciding what goes you know? And it is a case where - like a Dr. Luke thing you know where he was accused by Keha. It is - men in control can decide we are still going to employ this person. And I do not know you know why it has not truly affected the music industry the same way it has affected Hollywood. But it is also because you know people still buy the music.  Yeah.  Right. And I mean a lot of artists these days become super-famous - like XXXTentacion right? - like on the Internet - just self-made people. And they grow their own following and people do not necessarily care about their politics their message their past.  Yeah which is much different from Hollywood where you could fire Kevin Spacey because him being involved in the production makes you liable if you have people working under him who are abused or bring up complaints you know? It is like the legal aspects of that and just the optics of that look much worse than like here's just this musician off making his music. Here's this fanbase that he is built himself. The fans still want him. So...  Yeah.  ...What are we going to do about it?  Yeah.  Yeah. If I ever make a 19-minute song rebuke me public .  I will not even listen to a 19-minute podcast.   Then you are out of luck with this one.  Fifteen minutes 15 minutes - keep it as 15 minutes.   With that we are going to break. Coming up we talk to a volunteer who has been translating for families seeking asylum at our southern border. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   All right one more plug on this. If you are in Los Angeles listeners or anywhere in southern California Nevada Arizona close come to our live show on Monday July 30. I will be talking to actor John Cho and director Aneesh Chaganty about their new movie Searching. I have already seen it. It is good. It is this tech thriller filled with lots of twists and turns. We will be at the LINE hotel in Koreatown. Come through. Get your tickets at nprpresents.org. Get them before they are gone. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two great guests - Vanessa Romo breaking news reporter for NPR. Thank you for being here.  Happy to be here.  Ira Madison culture writer at large host of the podcast Keep It writer for Netflix haver of all the jobs. How did you find time to be here this morning?  You know I am not really here.   He is a hologram.  I have a body double.   So before we get to our next segment I have one quick question for you all. Have you heard about this reboot of Cats?  I have heard but I forget who is starring in it.   They are trying to make a movie of the Broadway musical Cats. Jennifer Hudson Taylor Swift James Corden and Ian McKellen are all going to be in the movie. Are you all going to watch it?  No.  What if you have to write about it?  I am not going to watch Cats with anybody in it.   Beyonce could be in Cats.  .  I would watch it...  But think...  ...If she was in Cats.  You would watch it...  Yeah.  ...If she was in Cats.  And she would be fabulous and the whole thing would be so good. Yes.  She would be fabulous but Cats would still be...  Her hair would be...  ...Bad. Cats is a bad musical.  I just - what I do not understand is like why keep rebooting stuff? Why are we stuck in this rut where everything has to be rebooted and redone and remade? Make some - make Dogs.  I will say that I always as a kid - I grew up in the '80s so I always really wanted a Cats sweatshirt and if this opens up a small window...  .  ...For me to get a Cats sweatshirt...  Oh those were so cute.  I am kind of in. Right?  Those were cute. Yeah.  Do we have any Cats music cued up?    When you notice a cat in profound meditation the reason I tell you is always the same.  Can you sing it Vanessa?  No.  Sing it.  I am the worst - no. Uh-uh.  They are even - they are just talk-singing.  Uh-uh.  I mean this does feel like I think...   When you are a cat you are a cat all the way from your first cigarette...  .   ...To your last dying day.   That is West Side Story.   Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance...   ...Where we call up someone somewhere in the world and talk with them about the news. Today we are talking about migrants at the country's southern border. For weeks the Trump administration has been working to reunify families that were separated at the border under the administration's zero-tolerance policy. A federal judge ordered those reunions and put a deadline on those reunions. That deadline has passed. The Trump administration said Thursday that it was on track to meet that deadline and reunite all eligible migrant families. But the key word here is eligible. Hundreds of children are still in government custody and not with their families for a few reasons - their parents are already out of the country their parents are considered ineligible for reunification or the administration says their parents have waived their rights to their children. We wanted to check in on what is happening to families that have been reunited. A lot of them are going through a very complicated process of applying for asylum. So we called up someone who was helping those families in that process. He is a listener named Pedro Guerrero. His day job is as a legislative aide in the Missouri House of Representatives. But last week he spent six days volunteering as an interpreter at a migrant detention facility in Dilley Texas. He was working with an organization called the Dilley Pro Bono Project. They offer legal services to migrant families.   Well I was a few miles northeast of the border at the South Texas Family Detention Center. And that is where they sort of - that is where they await their asylum proceedings. So what we would do as volunteers was they would come to us and we would prepare them for their asylum interviews. And that was pretty brutal because we would spend just grueling hours with these women as they talked about their brutal rapes and the domestic violence that they experienced and the gang violence that they became subject to and that their children were subject to.  So a typical day for you what time would you show up? What time would you leave? Was it just back-to-back conversations about asylum all day for you?  For the most part yes. I mean the center itself is like - it is like a Martian dystopia. Everything...  Explain.  ...All the gravel is white floodlights. It is very much a jail - like a jail vibe. So our typical day could look - it would start early. We would get there anywhere between 30 and 00 in the mornings and we would show up at the center. And then one by one we would take a woman into one of the offices and start the preparation process.  Wow. So run down the list for me the countries these families and these mothers were coming from.  So our clients were exclusively from Guatemala and Honduras. There was one case that we had that was from Nicaragua.  All right. And of those families and mothers from those countries what was a typical story?  I can tell you about one client that we got particularly close to. She had separated from her husband. And even after she had separated from her husband her husband turned to drinking would go and seek her and her daughters out on a regular basis. He would find her in the street berate her and then beat her publicly. And people would constantly be around because it would happen in a pretty populated city. But they would always disperse when this happened because her husband had a tie to one of the most dangerous gangs in the community who would then extort her and threaten that if she did not pay it money in a certain period of time that her daughters were going to pay the consequence. That was hands down one of the biggest reoccurrences that we would see is that these parents would be threatened with the lives of their kids because they knew that the best punishment for a parent was to threaten to kill their child. And that way they would inflict severe suffering upon the parent.  Did you get emotional yourself during this process?  Oh my gosh. It was so hard not to. A little bit of my background - my family brought me to the United States when I was just under 2 years old. And we claimed asylum because there was some pretty gnarly political instability down in my home country of Peru in the early '90s. And so this insurgent group they took me from my mom.  Whoa.  They gave me back a few - I do not know how long I was taken from my mom but they gave me back. And then they contacted my dad and said that that was just a warning. And so...  My goodness.  ...We picked up and left.  This is - so then you are someone who came to this country seeking asylum with your family. You were separated from your parents as a child not by the government but by other forces. And now you were just down at the border helping families seeking asylum. Some of those families had kids separated from them as well. So there is a personal connection I am guessing you must have to these people down there at the border.  Oh absolutely. And it is just like - I mean my experience down there last week was just such a crazy full-circle moment. I had never really understood the trauma that my parentS experienced because I was so little. And it was crazy just like seeing these mothers and children who were able to process what happened to them.  Got you. Now you worked with some mothers who were still with their children. Their kids had not been taken from them. But there were some mothers you worked with who had had their children taken from them. I think you told one of our producers that one family you worked with the child had been separated from the parents for 55 days.  Yes. So whenever we would need a break from listening to these terrible stories and you know accounts of what these women went through our way of de-stressing was to sit down with the kids and color with them sort of just to recharge the batteries and you know...  Yeah.  ... Get ready and do it all over again.  Yeah.  And I was sitting down and coloring with this kindergarten-aged boy who was around 5 years old. And he was so full of life just had - was so rambunctious and was just incessantly making fun of me. It was hysterical.  .  He was like oh mister you are so old. I am going to draw you really ugly on this...  .  ...Piece of paper and it is going to be so funny. And we were just exchanging laughs all morning. And then we broke for lunch. And when we came back from lunch this little boy and his mom were coming back into the center and it looked almost as if he had just woken up from a nap. You know he was hazy was super clingy to his mom. So I went up to him and I said - hey buddy. What is going on? Did you just wake up from a nap? And...  Yeah.  ...His mom said oh no. He just saw a man in a green shirt. And he always gets this way when he sees men in green shirts. And so I asked oh so what happened with the men with green shirts? And the mom goes on to say well it was the men with the green shirts that separated me from my son at the border for 55 days. And I do not know what they did to him. He will not tell me. But ever since I got my son back he has not been the same kid. And even throughout the week whenever employees of the center were walking through with blue shirts or green shirts in some cases you would see these kids hide under tables or hide under desks.  What is it been like for you since you have been back home? How long have you been back home? And also tell folks where home is for you right now.  So yeah I flew into St. Louis which is where I grew up. But now I live in Jefferson City. I have - I got back just this past Saturday.  OK.  And it is been pretty tough.  Why?  You know I - at the end of the day I am one of the lucky ones that the system just happened to work in favor for because I have had access to resources. And you know even today I just had my naturalization interview which I passed.  Congratulations. We should pause right there to say congratulations. So you had a green card...  Thank you.  ...For a while and now you are one step closer to citizenship.  Exactly. Exactly. I am one step closer to being a gringo.  .  But I cannot - you cannot help but walk around with a heavy heart you know looking into the eyes of like a little 2-year-old running around and thinking like that could have been me.  Yeah. So it sounds like you have had a heavy two weeks. Tell me what you are going to do this weekend for fun.  I am going to enjoy Kansas City because this is where I am for the weekend.  Yeah.  And I am going to go to this awesome disco club called Funky Town and really...  .  ...And just dance...  I have heard that song before .  ...Really hard. Oh my gosh. I was born in the wrong era to be completely...  .  ...Honest. And...  So you are a disco fan.  I am a disco fan and it is very poignant timing because the new Mamma Mia movie came out - so disco all weekend.  I love it. You know Cher is going to make an album of ABBA covers.  She just released the tracklist.  .  She dropped - that thing was probably like hotter than like Jay-Z and Beyonce dropping their new album.  I love it. I hope you dance your weekend away and have a really good time. Pedro thank you for your call and I am sure we will talk again soon.  Thank you so much Sam. You take care.  All right man. Bye.  Bye.   Thanks again to Pedro Guerrero from Jefferson City Mo. He just spent a week volunteering as an interpreter working with a group that helps migrant families apply for asylum in the U.S. One thing not mentioned in that call is that the administration has recently tightened the rules on who is eligible for asylum. So it is no longer enough to be a victim of domestic violence or gang violence. Now to seek asylum you have to prove that you have a credible fear of persecution in your home country and the fear must be based on the grounds of race religion nationality membership in a social group or a political opinion. That basically means it is going to be very unlikely that a lot of these families will be granted asylum. This is a story in which the White House says we finished it it is done. But it is clearly not done Vanessa. It is not done.  It is clearly not done. And as of Thursday evening there are about 400 and some change parents who were already deported...  Wow.  ...Without their kids. And the government argues that in those cases parents are bringing their kids because they are trying to get their kids a better life. So they would rather go home and be deported and then designate someone here in the U.S. to then look after their kids apply for asylum. On the other hand on Thursday I was on a conference call with some government officials and a bunch of reporters. And one of the reporters asked what proof do you have that the parents have waived their rights?  Is there proof?  So there seems to be a lot of cases - the ACLU which is arguing this case is saying we are talking to a lot of people who say they either did not sign anything before they were deported - so they are already in their home countries - or they were pressured into signing the waiver. So in some cases these Central American asylum-seekers or refugees do not speak Spanish or English because they speak a local native dialect. Some people are illiterate and they sign anyway so they do not necessarily know. This is what the ACLU is arguing. And you know it is something that people are working on finding out.  This is not over. It is not over.  It is definitely not over. And for these kids who are here alone or you know in a shelter or with foster parents who they do not know it is definitely not over.  Listeners I want to talk to you for this segment. If you have a connection to the news and the headlines let us know. We might call you up. Email me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. All right time for break. When we come back my favorite game Who Said That?   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests Vanessa Romo breaking news reporter for NPR and Ira Madison culture writer and host of the podcast Keep It. It is time for my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  It never gets old. The game is quite simple. I share a quote from the week. You guys have to guess who said that or at least the story it refers to or a key word. Just get close. I am not a stickler. It is not Jeopardy!. The winner gets absolutely nothing.  .  You guys ready?  I am ready to win something.  Oh. Are you ready Vanessa?  Ira wants a trophy. Yes I am ready.  OK OK.  I think.  This as not Pose. There is no trophies here.  .  Here's the first quote Democrats please please do not lose your mind and rush to the socialist left. This president and his Republican Party are counting on you to do exactly that. Who said that?  Someone with the DNC?   No this is someone who was really caught up in 2016 put out a book - it was all over the place.  Bernie Sanders?   No he was involved with the email situation. You all did not see this tweet?  Oh James Comey.   .  Yes. So James Comey had a lot of folks scratching their head if not yelling at their computer screens this week because he tweeted out to Democrats political advice. And everyone kind of said who asked you?  James Comey is - you know what? I am not surprised because...  Why not?  ...Everyone has come out of the Trump mess and tried to do you know a flipping of the script. You know like Sean Spicer thinks he is Jonathan Franzen now.   You know you got...  Omarosa.  Omarosa is about to...  She is coming out with a book.  She is dropping a hot new single...   ...A hot new audiobook. Get that on your Kindle...   ...On Audible wherever.  Sean Spicer as Jonathan Franzen is going to be stuck in my head all weekend.  And now Comey is like - you would think somebody that tall would have enough attention.  .  Sit down.  Ira you are up 1 zip. Ready for the next quote?  Yeah.  In this one just tell me who they are talking about the name of the person they are talking about. That is all I need. OK? Here it is. Can you imagine you just moved to D.C. for school from like rural Pennsylvania and you find out a couple of months later you are sitting next to a Russian spy? Who said that? Who was the spy?  Maria Bettina .   Yes.  Yes.  I did not see that Jennifer Lawrence movie The Red Sparrow .  It is. It totally...  Butina - Maria Butina.  Oh Butina.  So there was a big story in The Washington Post this week basically detailing what Maria Butina's time was like when she was a student at American University. And all these other fellow and former students were like yeah she was all up in our mix and we did not know she was a spy.  What I want to do is talk to the students she was paying to write her papers.  .  And I want to know how much they were getting.  Right? So apparently while she was at American University in D.C. her cellphone case had a picture of Vladimir Putin shirtless on a horse on it. She would buy her friends rounds of vodka at the Russia House - it is this Dupont Circle restaurant and bar that was very popular with Russians. She would make her male friends down horseradish-infused shots with her. She even bragged to her classmates that she had worked for the Russian government. This is the worst spy ever. You guys just tied 1-1.   Ah - oh my God.  This is the tiebreaker. You ready? This is a really good one. Quote I can monetize those eyeballs. It is a cultural firestorm when it is about a woman's vagina. Who said that?  Gwyneth Paltrow.  Yes.   Ira you won.   Escort mother to her throne. Live. Work. Pose.   So did you guys read this big New York Times profile for this week?  Yes I love Taffy...  It was epic.  ...The reporter.  Great writer great writing.  Yes she is amazing.  So good.  She got into the inner workings of...  Goop.  ...Goop which is Gwyneth Paltrow's booming business of beauty and self-help and self-care. But a lot...  And woo-woo ideas.  Yeah a lot of folks say it is pseudoscience and fake and bad and not good for women. And so this story really dealt with that kind of tension.  The 