 Hi. This is Reggie. My mom's Ayesha and I am her son. This week why are so many people quitting their jobs?  All right let us start the show.  All right let us start the show.  Very good.   Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Ayesha Rascoe filling in for Sam Sanders. This week on the show we are talking about quitting. At this point you have probably heard that we are in a labor shortage despite high unemployment. And actually we have talked about that topic before on this show. But have you also heard that we are deep into something people are calling the great resignation the big quit the era of epiphanny quitting? And right now it is happening across all sectors of the economy. People are quitting their jobs in record numbers. During April of this year nearly 4 million workers decided they would had enough and quit their jobs for a lot of reasons. Last week we asked for your stories about quitting. Here's what you sent us.   I was working in a local substance abuse hospital and I quit at the start of the pandemic.  I quit my job at a nonprofit about a month ago and transitioned into something different at a university.  I am going to go back to school and hopefully get a job that I do not have to work this many hours.  Basically it was not really for me but also the pandemic was causing a lot of anxiety for me.  Yeah I would say because I did not feel valued. And once I sent my resignation email they did not even respond with a thank you. They just removed me from the online portal. So that is why I left - a lack of pay lack of communication.   So I quit my job. My last day was Friday - this past Friday. This year was crazy. I am the director of operations for a restaurant group in San Francisco. This year my mom had COVID. She spent 51 days in the hospital 22 days on a ventilator and about 30 days in ICU altogether. We have a 10-month-old. Me and my wife just had a baby in August. And about a week after she gave birth she almost died as well. I love my job - I did. I was leading people and I was training a lot of people to grow. You know being a Latino in this industry and being an executive you know you are able to have an impact on people. But I realized that everything kind of hit me at once. This whole year has been crazy. You know I think I had a bit of a mental health crisis and so I quit my job. I do not have another job lined up. I just needed to stop.  Why I quit - I quit because I did not feel safe in the environment that I was supposed to come back into. I quit because I did not feel like I wanted to sell anymore. I quit because I wanted the work that I did to have meaning.  So I was really drained and then the pandemic hit. My job was causing so much depression so much anxiety and I decided it was time to put myself first to quit this job to live for this dream that I have and to be honestly the first person in my family that gets to decide and put themselves and heal from a lot of things.  To do the most good. So yeah I made the change. I am happy about it. And I am never looking back.  I do not think I have felt more relief in my life.  I am so glad that I made the leap and quit when I did.  So I am feeling good and I am happy that I quit.  Thanks to Sean  Jill  Chris  Rob  Laura  Tricia  Julio  Kayla  and Carolina  for sharing their stories with us.  And I heard a lot of echoes you know of what I found in my reporting.  This is Irina Ivanova.  I talked to you know people who quit for a number of different reasons. But you know this issue of burnout you know just needing to step back needing to take time for yourself it came up a lot. I would say it is nearly you know universal.  Irina is a reporter at CBS Moneywatch and we called her up to get a broader view of this quitting story.  I was really moved by the gentleman who talked about liking his job and enjoying his job and needing to take time for himself. I think that is right on. And I feel like you know when you read sort of a lot of reporting around the economy there is a certain level of hysteria from some sectors around this idea that oh people do not want to work anymore. You know I mean one person I talked with she was an online learning specialist. And you know she was just tired of putting in 55-hour weeks you know? So she has a different job in her field now putting in 40-hour weeks. It is not about people sort of rejecting work. It is really about people - a lot of them needing to find a balance.  So it is not about people - I think there is almost this idea - there can be this idea that this is almost - I mean I am going to age myself here but this almost is kind of like hippie like find yourself whereas you know what people...  .  What employers may want is button up your shirt and go to work right? But this is a very personal thing. And also it feels like because this is such a complex moment - like a lot of people did hit their breaking point during the pandemic.  Mmm hmm.  But the situation is so complex that it feels like it does not really lend itself to tidy explanations for why people are quitting. Like do you feel that way?  Yeah. No you are absolutely right. I think there is a lot of different things going on and they are all sort of coalescing now in this moment. If I could generalize just a little bit there are sort of a few major categories of people quitting. A big one was people quitting for better conditions so especially in the lower-paying jobs and the jobs where we are hearing a lot about a labor shortage like food service you know hospitality also retail a little bit of you know warehousing. People are getting new jobs. They are quitting to find a job that you know pays more where you know the hours fit better to what they want to work. The new job maybe feels less abusive. I talked with one woman who had been a shift supervisor at Starbucks. She is 28. She has a young daughter. And she told me she really liked Starbucks. You know she thought it was a model employer. She took advantage of a lot of their benefits. You know she contributed to the 401. She was using their tuition reimbursement program. But she told me that you know the pandemic just made her completely stressed out and you know preparing for the worst every time she went to work. You know she describes this store that was understaffed. She described having to sort of fight with customers all the time about the mask issue. And she did not feel like her managers were supporting her. She did not have a sense that it would get better. So she made the decision in June to leave not having another job lined up.  It seems like there is - like there is a split sort of like what I am hearing from you. It is like for people like the woman you talked to who were working in like a food-beverage establishment retail these hospitality leisure those are jobs that require a lot of contact with the public. Those are some of the jobs that were - like restaurants and what have you were hardest hit by the pandemic. But those are some of the jobs that seem to be the least attractive at the moment - not that they are not hiring because they are hiring and people are going into it. But that is the sector where there is the most quits. Am I right?  Yeah that is absolutely right. And the quit rate right now in accommodation food services is about double the overall average. So it is very very high. It is the highest on record. And that is a good thing sort of from a macro standpoint because it means that wages will go up. It means that people are confident enough that they can find a new job that they are quitting. And we do see that in the numbers. There is been a lot of wage growth in the industry. That said you know it is still a very low-paying field.  Yeah.  I was talking with another woman who was a bartender in California. She just decided you know I am going to leave. And she did not have another job lined up. But what she told me was you know I am confident in my skills and I am confident I can get a new one which is nuts .  Well it is a bet on yourself.  That is right.  Right? It is a bet on yourself.  Mmm hmm.  Like so you leave without something else lined up because you are betting that you will land OK.  Absolutely. And I say nuts 'ecause you know it is not something I could do. I am not that brave .  No it is not something - I know. I am not either. But you know but people who bet on themselves I admire that. Yeah. Do you - so we talked about like workers in lower-wage jobs. So the white-collar workers part of what they are looking for is more flexibility. Is that what you found? And they are not leaving at as high a rate but they are leaving - are they leaving at more than normal?  Yeah it is a little bit higher than average. It is not like food service where it is double the average but it is a little bit higher. So the average is like 2.5. And professional business services is like 2.8. And yeah you know flexibility was a big issue with people I talked about. There was one from Morning Consult that said something like half of remote workers if they had to go back to the office would quit. And when I was talking to people who got new jobs or who had quit their jobs that issue came up again and again.  Is this a good thing for workers? Like how should listeners view this who are hearing about this trend? Do we know yet whether this is actually a good thing for workers?  In some ways that is a political question but - because is it better for workers to sort of be able to get more money or is it better for employers to be able to get the labor they need for the least that they want to pay right? So that is kind of a loaded question. But you know my personal feeling is that it is great for workers. You know a lot of good things come out of a tight labor market. You know you get wage growth. If people can be choosier about their jobs not only do they make more money you know but they tend to find jobs that are a better fit for them. And what that means long term is you know they are more productive in those jobs. They stay in those jobs longer. So that reduces turnover which also has a cost for employers. Tight labor markets tend to be best for people who usually do not do great in the economy - you know women with children people with criminal records workers who are Black or Latino you know the people who are generally last hired first fired. So a lot of people will say you know this is a good thing but it is also not going to last forever. We are having more people who were out of the labor market come back in and that'ill make it easier for employers to be more choosy to you know not pay as much et cetera.   OK. Well thank you very much. This has been really informative. And I loved hearing from you about the people that you talked to. I feel like this is a very interesting time that we are in and like why people are making the decisions that they make.  Yeah. Thank you so much. Yeah we are in an amazing time. And who has not had the fantasy of like you know quitting? Like .  Yes. Yes. Saying I am done. I am out and just...  Mmm hmm. Yeah yeah yeah.  Yeah. Monday morning I am done.   Yeah.   Do not call me no more. I am out.   Thanks again to Irina Ivanova. She is a reporter with CBS Moneywatch. Coming up we talk about one of my very favorite things horror movies. And we will also play our favorite game Who Said That.   OK so you need to know something about me Ayesha Rascoe. I love demons. I love zombies. I love ghosts. I just love horror you all. My favorite horror movies include The Exorcist...    The power of Christ compels you. He brought you low with his bloodstained cross.  ...The classic slasher film A Nightmare On Elm Street...    I am your boyfriend now Nancy.  .  ...And the creepy psychological thriller The Silence Of The Lambs.    It rubs the lotion on its skin. It does this whenever it is told.   Mister my family will pay cash. Whatever ransom you are asking for they will pay it.  And even though horror sometimes makes me scared - or maybe all the time - I love it because I love the chaos of it. And it takes me from the real world that is confined by physics and gravity and takes me into the unknown. So because of all of that and because I have never really heard Sam talk about horror on this show before - no shade - I decided to call up Jo Livingstone cultural critic and staff writer for The New Republic. They write all about you guessed it horror.  It is a very genre-busting genre if that makes sense and that is kind of why I have always been drawn to it. You know you really never know what you are going to get because the point is surprise you right?  Yes.  Otherwise you are not going to be scared.  Jo tells me exactly why the horror genre provides comfort. Just go with me on this one.   You wrote about the latest installment of The Conjuring franchise. So for those that do not know because they are not watching the movies the way we are The Conjuring is about a married couple that fights demons. Like that is it. It is not really complicated.    Ed something terrible happened here.   Lorraine. Lorraine.  You have a theory that people are drawn to this sort of movie because there is a comfort in it. I think I get where you are going with that but can you explain that theory? Because a lot of people may think scary movies are the opposite of comforting.  Here's how I would put it. Horror movies by their very nature they are scary. They are alarming. But they often technically have happy endings right?  Yes.  You know it is often the main character might survive. They might get a big like redemptive arc. You know Get Out has a really classic example of this at the end right? Like the powers of good surge back just in time and...  Yes just in time.  Even though a horror movie's content might be kind of transgressive you know in terms of violence well and more violence there is something kind of comforting I think about that ritual that catharsis. You know as a group you are in the cinema or you are you know the audience at home tuning in. And then together you go through this extreme experience and then it is all kind of wrapped up at the end in a nice satisfying way for the narrative. But I think that also has kind of the emotional effect of you know exposing you to the scary thing and then showing you how to protect yourself.  Yeah. No. I get that because - and the weird thing about it is that they are often - even though as you said they are very transgressive they can be very violent and like bloody they can be also very conservative in a way. You know Scream dealt with this this idea that a lot of the slasher films of the '90s the people who ended up dying were the people who did like the quote-unquote bad things morally you know whether it was drinking smoking sex. And then they would end up getting killed by Jason or Freddy or whoever. But there is also this conservative thing in movies especially like The Conjuring and it is like you know God is going to prevail over the devil which is like a very conservative theme that is not something that you see in mainstream Hollywood very much right?  I totally agree right? Like spiritual warfare is not necessarily a concept that we take that lightly out there especially you know like in the political world.  Yes.  You know like that is when culture becomes something more than just entertainment right? But I think in the case of The Conjuring the conservative themes are kind of so extreme that it is kind of camp you know?  Yes.  Vera Farmiga has these great bouffant hairdos. And the demons when they show up you know in this franchise they always have long nails.  .  They even technically kind of appear in drag at first because they often possess the ghost of an old lady or a little kid.  Yes. Yes.  You know or they are infiltrating somebody's body. And then right at the end they bust out and it turns out that they are like a ripped demon from hell you know...  Yes.  ...With like big horns on its head. So you know those demons like they are threats to the household...  Yes.  ...With their like you know their manicures and their like hypersexuality...  Yes.  ...And the fact that they love to create fountains of blood and stuff. But they are also kind of funny and you know it is a jump scare that is - it is not a serious jump scare. It is here's some kind of entertainment that is going to invade the home - you know? - like the bad forces getting into the Christian home. And it is all going to get wrapped up by the end but we are actually going to have a lot of fun with these demons whilst they are here right?  Yeah. And see I think that is interesting but I am actually like really scared of the demons. Like when you described them as like campy and...   Like I see that.  Well they tend to move really really fast you know?  They do.  And I think anything can be scary when it is moving just really really fast.  Yes. So you mentioned Get Out. Get Out is Jordan Peele's movie. That is a movie about a Black man with a white girlfriend. He goes to visit her family and things go left.    Get out.   Sorry man.   Get out.   Yo. Yo. Chill man.   Get out .  And it ended up being a huge movie even though I am sure it did not cost too much to make and it was also very well-reviewed critically because it dealt with issues of race and all of these things. And you talked about how Get Out has inspired this trend of prestige horror movies. And so what do you mean when you talk about prestige horror?  OK. So you know as you said horror is generally a lot cheaper to produce than a lot of other genres you know? You can have every scene take place in one house.  Yes.  And so when there is a little craze that happens people tend to kind of - well there is a chain of imitation. Now I would say...  They pile in.  Exactly. Now I would say in the case of Get Out it is kind of ironic because that is exactly the kind of movie you can never replicate because the script is so good.  Yes.  At the same time it definitely proved to a lot of people in Hollywood that it was possible to make money off of what people in entertainment might have considered themes that were too like serious or political to make entertainment that has a little comedy in it out of for the mainstream.  Yeah yeah.  Unfortunately I think this has led to the situation where there was some - let us say some entities who are trying to speed up the process and may be going too fast and rushing right? Because...  Yeah.  ...If you are going to invoke serious themes like race or use say a theme like sexual assault - in an example of a movie like Promising Young Woman right? - you really need the right thing to be all the way up to par to make it worth it. And honestly I do not know that the prestige horror movie is taking us - I do not think it is the most exciting place in the horror movie landscape right now.  Yeah. So what are the trends that you do like that you feel like where horror is moving now that you really do enjoy?  So as I said horror movies are pretty cheap to make. And this means that they - you know they go through golden periods if you will.  Yes.  And I think that we are in a really bright moment for...  Yeah.  ...Young filmmakers seeing opportunities specifically within the horror space. So for example there is a streaming service called shudder.com. My accent probably made that sound incomprehensible - S-H-U-D-D-E-R.   Shudder - which only does horror movies. And they have got a great deep archive and they have also got a lot of new movies. So for example one movie that they acquired is a movie called Slaxx. So that is Slaxx with two Xs at the end. And it is about a clothes store that sells jeans. And one day the jeans just start attacking people.  Oh no.  I know . But the great thing about it is that this movie basically - it pivots off the idea that zippers are kind of scary. And if you get a good animator you could totally show a jean zipper flying at somebody's throat and you know munching it. It is really evocative because it draws in something super small something super-everyday. And the movie does not pitch itself that much harder beyond it except to say - oh well where does the cotton in our jeans come from? Maybe there is a horror movie there right? Maybe there is an idea...  Yeah.  ...About the chain of supply that we could weave in. So horror provides so many cool opportunities for ambitious talented young people to just - to find little moments of critique of insight into society through things that are little or gross or not particularly highbrow - right? - just a little idea. And sometimes it can just be so effective that it is a lot deeper than say a really overwrought drama.  Well and now I will never look at zippers the same.  .  I am always afraid of getting myself caught in a zipper so a messed...  They are the new demons.  Yes. That - I mean that is the thing. Like horror can make you look at anything and go oh no. Like you know it could be light bulb...  .  ...Mirrors whatever. And you go...  Allison Williams.  Yes . When we come back we are going to play the best game ever with Jo and a friend of theirs. The game is of course called Who Said That.   This week I am joined by cultural critic and staff writer for The New Republic Jo Livingstone. And we have a special guest and friend of Jo's joining us for this segment of the show. Welcome to Danny Lavery author and host of the podcast Big Mood Little Mood. Daniel's been on the show before so welcome back.  It is so great to be here. And I am especially pleased to be here in my capacity as Jo's friend .  Oh yes . That is the best capacity to be in. We are going to play a game and it is called Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Here's how the game works. I will read you three quotes from the past week and you have to tell me who said it or what it is about. Whoever says it first gets the point and whoever gets the most points wins. And what you get is the ability to brag about having won something today. That is what you get - nothing else.  That is all I need.  Here's the first quote.   First I want to say I am beyond honored and humbled to be here today to help spread the message about the importance of youth vaccination.  Who is the youngest child actor who can speak?  .  Well it feels slightly more like it is just somebody who in general wants the youth to get vaccinated which could be you know many people. Like it is not Jenny McCarthy but beyond that I feel like that opens it up to...  It is a youth. This person had a hit album for millennials and teens.  Like I was so old .  Oh that young person. I saw people making jokes about that. Olivia Rodrigo I want to say.   Yes. Ding ding ding. Danny got it . But - so Olivia Rodrigo was at the White House and she was there meeting up with the president to talk about trying to get young people vaccinated. Are you guys Olivia Rodrigo fans?  I wish her well generally but I have not listened to any of her music.  .  She is going off against Courtney Love. That is you know that - she is a hero. She deserves a medal.  Like they are fighting or...  Oh yeah 'ecause she - Courtney Love accused her of ripping off her album cover imagery of you know sobbing into a bunch of flowers. That is her thing.  Oh boy.  Oh. Oh wow.  I love - I do love Courtney Love but I believe I am aware of the album cover that you are referencing and that is itself a nod to Carrie. So I am not quite sure where she gets the idea that she was the first person or it is somehow exclusive to her to riff on a crying prom queen.   Wow.  Everything Courtney Love touches belongs to her. That is how it works.  Exactly. Exactly. So we got one point for Danny. OK. So let us see. Let us see if we can tie it up. So - and for this one I want you to fill in the blank. When you pull a blank about the size of a football out of the lake it makes you wonder how can this even be the same type of animal?  .  Is it too straightforward to guess fish?  Fish but can you think - can you get a little bit like - type of fish...  Trout.   ...That might be the size of a football but...  Salmon.   But it is - you do not think of this animal being the size of a football.  Goldfish.  Goldfish.   Ooh. OK. OK. OK .  Danny I got that first. That was me.  You got that first. Jo got that first so a point to Jo. Jo got it. Jo got it. This is a quote from Caleb Ashling a natural resources specialist in Burnsville Minn. talking to The Washington Post this week about a bunch of giant goldfish found in a lake. So listen to this. Now this is something I never knew. Apparently your pet goldfish they are only limited in size by like their - the bowl or the tank that they are in.  You are kidding me.  They can actually become huge monsters. Is not that crazy?  Holy cow.  But importantly you are saying there is an upper limit to their size. They cannot expand infinitely until they are a size of a submarine.  We do not know that.  We just do not know.  That has not been tried.  .  Thank God that there is somewhere science is not willing to go.   Exactly. And apparently they can live to be 25 years old because I thought they died like at the drop of a hat . But apparently...  That is been my experience too to be honest.  Have you guys been able to keep any goldfish alive for any amount of time?  No. No.  You know I thought I had a goldfish that lived about seven years. Unfortunately when I was about 13 I found out that it had died in the custody of my aunt while I was on a holiday and it had been replaced. And then having realized it could be replaced my parents continued to replace the fish every time it died. So I thought I had a record-breaking number on my hands but it was all a lie. It was a horrible horrible shattering...  It was a horrible lie. Yeah.  Exactly .  OK. So we are tied up. This is the type of game I like 'ecause it is tied up. The quote is how can I benefit from this mistake and still get a chance to pitch my amazing ideas for 'Shark Tank' even though it was clear that this was not 'Shark Tank'?   Boy that is a great quote.  OK. This is kind of a tough one but this is a man and his last name rhymes with smooth.  Wait. I have heard about this guy - J.B. Smoove.   Yes. OK Jo you got it. Yes. So the...  You said it rhymed with smooth.  .  I know. That is what is written in this script for me .  Truly I had thought well my guess would be J.B. Smoove but that more than anything does not rhyme with smooth.  Well that is what I was thinking. I was like it does not really rhyme. It is kind of like the same but they changed a letter.  Yeah. It is Smoove like groove.  Smoove. So you feel like that was like - that was a bit of cheating. OK. Well you can both win.  I think Jo's victory will always be tainted as a result.  You know it will have a asterisk. It will have a asterisk. I cannot say that word. It will have a little star.  That is all I want. I just want to be a dark cloud that follows Jo around forever.  So this is the actor and comedian J.B. Smoove said in an interview with Entertainment Weekly that when he originally accepted the gig for Discovery's Shark Week he mistakenly thought he would be on ABC's Shark Tank two very different shows. For people who may not know Shark Tank is about - you go and there are these people with money and you pitch your idea. And Shark Week is obviously about sharks. So which one is better? Which one do you like better?  Shark Week by a country mile. And I was thinking actually in the story about goldfish expanding to infinite size it was reminding me of the film Deep Blue Sea. Have either of you seen that one?  Yes.  Sure yeah.  Yeah.  Absolute classic with the key line that the scientist Saffron Burrows goes we genetically engineered the sharks to make their brains five times the usual size. As a side effect they got smarter.  .  Now this is the same principle behind basically any out-of-control animal research film. It is the perfect entertainment field. J.B. Smoove is going to do fantastically among the sharks.  He will be great yeah.  I cannot wait to see him flourish.  So Jo won but we are saying that there is going to be a little star by their name.  'ecause I am a sore loser.  .  Well we kind of gave it away.  That is why.  Thanks for stopping by.  Thanks a lot.  Thanks for having us. I had a great time.  Thanks again to Jo Livingstone cultural critic and staff writer for The New Republic and Danny Lavery author and host of the podcast Big Mood Little Mood.   Look into the mic.  This is Reggie.  Ayesha Rascoe is my mom.  Ayesha Rascoe is my mom.  Now's the time to end the show the way we always do.  Now it is time to end the show like we always do.  Every week listeners share the best thing...  Every week the listeners share the best thing that is happened to them. And we encourage them to brag and they do. And the best thing ever that happened to me was when I got three video games.  .  Goodbye.  Very good . Very good. Very good.  Hi Sam. This is Donna ...  And Morgan  calling from Raleigh N.C.  ...Calling from Raleigh N.C. The best part of my week was I retired after 43 years of working.  Woohoo.  This is Chad  in Indianapolis. The best part of my week was finishing six weeks of radiation therapy to treat my cancer.  Hey Sam. This is Alex  from Seattle Wash. And for the best part of this week I am calling on behalf of my girlfriend Bevan  who a month ago received her degree a doctorate in nursing practice and just today passed her board certification exams. And now she is all set to be a nurse practitioner.  Hi Sam. The best thing that happened to me this week is that I got to take my kids into the library for the first time in 15 months at least. It was a lot more emotional than I thought it would be and it was wonderful.  Hi Sam. This is Beverly  in Durham N.C. The best thing that happened to me this week is watching as my daughter gave her presentation to her doctoral committee virtually. She began with the memory of listening to NPR in the car with me. That was a proud mama moment.  Hi Sam. This is Ali .  Miles .  And...  Rex .  And we are calling from the Netherlands. And we are here with...  Oma.  Oma Penny .  Oma Penny is my mom. And the best thing that happened to us this week is about two hours ago Rex and I picked my parents Oma Penny and Opa Ross  up from the airport for the first time since 2019. And now we are all going to spend the summer together. And it is the best thing that is happened to us in a really really long time. Thank you for everything you do and we hope you are having a good week too.  Thanks for all you do. Love the show.  Take care.  Thanks to those listeners you just heard there - Ali Rex Miles Beverly Julie  Alex Chad Donna and Morgan. Listeners you can send your best thing to us at any time during the week. Just record yourself and send a voice memo to samsandersnpr.org.   This week the show was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Andrea Gutierrez and Liam McBain. Our intern is Manuela Lopez Restrepo. We had engineering support from Josh Newell. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss the senior vice president of programming at NPR is Anya Grundmann. All right. Till next time I am Ayesha Rascoe. Talk soon.  