 Where should I sit?  Do you want to sit on this one?  Yeah. I will just put my stuff in the corner.  Yeah.  My guest this episode was very very chill and friendly when I interviewed her recently.  Oh...  Just introduce yourself and then...  My name is Candice Carty-Williams. It is a very nice day today. The sun's out. It is quite hot.  You would have no idea upon first hearing her that she is one of the buzziest authors of the moment with the best-selling fiction debut on her hands but that is exactly who Candice Carty-Williams is. And today we talk about her moment and her very very buzzy book. It is called Queenie.  Hi.  Hey. Are we good?  We are good on my side.  I am Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   Now this book Queenie it has been called a black Bridget Jones's Diary. The main character Queenie she is a 25-year-old black woman living in London. And she is not having a very good year. She has a job at a newspaper but she hates it. She is got a close circle of friends but she kind of hates them too. She is got a long-term boyfriend and he just dumped her. It is a lot. And in this book Queenie tells all. The opening scene for instance in the first chapter it has Queenie in stirrups at an OB-GYN's office having a most awkward exam. But the thing about Queenie is that this book is hilarious all the way through in spite of the oversharing in spite of the drama often because of the oversharing and the drama. Candice Carty-Williams and I talk about all of that and more here - interracial dating family drama generational trauma how your 20s are just a hot mess et cetera. It is a lot. It is a good chat. OK. Let us get to it. As a warning listeners we do discuss sex and dating in this episode a lot - probably not best for kids OK? All right. Here's Candice. She was in London. I was in LA. Enjoy.   Thank you so much for your time. I know you are super busy with the book rollout and the audiobook rollout. But too just thank you for the book. I devoured it...  Aww.  ...On vacation recently. And what I also enjoyed were the credits and the thank-yous and acknowledgments in your book.  Oh yeah.  I found out by reading them that we both like the same podcast The Read.  Oh my God. It is just my dream. I was saying - I have a best - I have - one of my best friends we were talking about The Read. And I just called her up just out of nowhere. And I was like I just want to talk about the fact that we are just so lucky to have this because how lucky are we to have like...  Yes.  ...Two people who every week talk about the things that we want to talk about?  Yeah. What I - so for me it is like all of them are good. But there is some episodes that they do where I am just like put this in the Library of Congress right now.  Yes.  Like when they - the first episode they had after Beyonce's Coachella set a year ago.   I was about to say the same thing.  The Beychella episode was literally...  .  I think I played it three times.  Yeah. I still play it now. I played it after watching Homecoming.  Yeah.  And listened - so listened to them talking about Beychella and Homecoming.   Yes.  I would pay for The Read. I would pay money...  Yes.  ...Every week for it.  Yes.  I am - I - honestly it is like probably the most consistent thing in my life.  Really?  And I am so grateful. Yeah.  I love to hear that. I was thinking more about us both liking this podcast. And what I love about that show and what I found in reading your book was the similarity. You know the podcast is led by two queer black people. And the whole show was about them talking about what they want to talk about and not overexplaining themselves or their culture just to compensate for someone else's ignorance.  Yeah.  Like The Read is just unabashedly black on purpose but still accessible to everybody...  Yeah.  ...Which is kind of what I felt with your book. This is a book that is black on purpose but not just for black people.  For sure. And that is the thing - I was talking to someone about that at lunchtime today. It is - you know I can only and will only write through the lens that I know and understand. And also you know in terms of the culture that is I guess the mainstream here which is still white Western culture I have had to do so much learning around stuff that I do not understand or stuff that is not part of my culture. And so yeah it is all part of it. It is kind of like you know if I have had to learn these things then so should you. And that is fine.  Yeah. And it can still be a fun read. And it can still be accessible because like a lot of the stuff that all of us go through like bad sex and bad dates in our 20s that is for everybody.  Like it is just for everybody.  It is true. No one can escape it .   So we should take a step back and just set up the book Queenie as best we can without giving everything away.  Yeah.  Describe in about like 45 seconds what the book is.  So Queenie is about a black British woman living in south London. She is 25. And we basically meet her when she is about to have what I can describe best as a quarter-life crisis. So she is living with her partner who is white. And when their relationship hits a bit of a - well a big rock things start to unravel for her. Things in the past that she is been pushing down come out and she basically goes on a big messy spiral. But it is fun.  .  And there are really fun sort of supporting characters helping her through it.  Yes.  And so she is - you know and also - you know Queenie she is - she is meant to be frustrating. And she is meant to be quite irritating because she is in this period of her life where she is like I do not know what is going to happen and I am really scared. And so I am just reaching out and pulling onto everything and anyone I can so I do not fall.  Yeah. When you say that Queenie is meant to be frustrating and irritating how do you - like is there ever a fear that you are giving readers too much? Because you are saying all right Queenie's going to be unashamedly black and also frustrating and also irritating. I could see some publishing houses saying I do not know Candice might be too much.  .  Did you get any pushback like that?  No I did not actually which is really nice .  .  I think it is also because you know I really did set out to have a character who was not - she was black and she did not have to be strong. She did not have to be sassy. She did not have to click her fingers. She was somebody who was going through stuff. And actually I think there is a lot about women being likeable that I kind of push against myself because I think that women just in our everyday lives we have to be polite. We have to be likeable. We have to be nice. And I think that we can be many things but we also do not have to adhere to social norms just to get through the day. I think if you are feeling something you are feeling it. And you have to go through what you are going through. I am a nice person but there are...  .  ...I - you know but I also have boundaries and I do not take a lot of rubbish.  Yeah. Queenie has very few boundaries.  .  Yeah.  Very few boundaries. But yeah so no pushback from that. Actually my editors were really kind of like yeah this girl is kind of going through her thing. And she is kind of got to be this person who is going to kind of split the crowd.  Yeah. You - this book has been called for a few - for a while now the black Bridget Jones's Diary which is actually a descriptor that you came up with yourself from what I was reading. Tell me why you did it. And tell me if that comparison or - and that labelling ever tires you.  So it is interesting. A lot of people have been like you are doing the book a huge disservice by saying that.  .  But I think - just because you know obviously like shout-out to Bridget Jones's Diary by Helen Fielding an amazing book and amazing film.  Yeah. Yeah.  But in terms of the comparison that was me being like I know that publishers are going to be quite scared of this because we do not have any really in the commercial space at the moment mainstream books by black women. And I mean black on both sides. So my - both of my parents are black. I do not have fair skin. I do not have loose curls. I do not have freckles. I am black on both sides. And by saying look this is like you know hopefully going to be a commercial success...  Yeah.  ...That was the Bridget Jones effect. That was my like stealth - that was like my sneaking into a - but yes I mean it worked out well. I got it through the door .  .  And so it is all going well. It is all going well.  Yeah. Does that stealthifying  though ever get tiring? Because black people have to do it all the time. Like...  Yeah.  ...How do I present myself in a way that they get that does not offend them that does not make them stop and scratch their head? And like you want to do it so your work and you have the greatest reach. But also some days are you just like - I mean I find myself being just like I do not want to have to do it today.  Yeah for sure. I mean there is a lot of - code-switching is the main thing so obviously speaking differently. And I am speaking like this because I am doing a podcast so I need to be proper .  Wait. No no no. Stop stop stop. Give me some unproper  Candice for just a little bit. We can go there.  .  We are the slightly drunk NPR podcast. We are like a little bit buzzed. That is our vibe. So feel free.  OK. Well I could drop it...  Let it all hang out.  I could drop it a bit.  OK .  So you know - so basically it is just - so there was code-switching which is - and also just like in terms of dress so basically I will always wear - I will mainly wear a tracksuit because I just want to be comfortable.  Yeah.  But I have to - when you - like when you do these things you have to like be acceptable just like appearance-wise and voice-wise. You have to make sure you say the right things. And so like when you are doing press that is like a triple thing because you are like OK so I have also got to not swear. And I have got to like not give things away and I have got to think about who my audience are going to be. And so - yeah. So it is a really - like I have - you know it is a lot of work a lot of the time. But I talk to like my friends who are - I speak to my actor friends basically who like have been doing this and kind of are shaping how - have helped me to shape how I can see myself...  Yeah.  ...And understanding like you know your identity and what that can mean. But...  What is the biggest tip on all of that?  It is that being all things for all people is not sustainable. And that is really helpful...  Yeah.  ...Because I go to - so here obviously I do lots and lots of events. And even if I am like exhausted I will be like all right do it because there is going to be like three or four black girls in the crowd who are going to be grateful that you have gone there. So - yeah. So it is a lot. It is all been a good time but it is also a lot of work and a lot of like policing yourself in ways just so you know - also my nan is watching all this stuff.  .  And you have to like - I cannot ...  Cannot be slipping.   She is so strict. So yeah exactly.  Really?  Yeah. The book in itself like I was - I gave her a copy. And I was like but you cannot read it.  .  But you can have it in the house. And she was like...  Did she read it?  No she has not because she knows - she was - I do not want to be...  Wow.  I do not want any reason to be disappointed. So...  Wow.  Yeah.  Do you think she will - will you allow her at some point to read it and will she ever read it?  I do not know. I think she might - you know she might do a sneak read and never talk to me about it.  Wow.  And that is fine.  OK.  But my mum is kind of - my mum does not read. She is dyslexic so she is like - it is quite hard. So it is like effort for her to read. So she is like oh Can  you know I am trying. And you know I would like to have read it. She is on page like seven or something.  Get her the audiobook. Get her the audiobook.   Oh my God. That is such a good point. She...  .  Thanks.  .  I can get her - I reckon I can get her an Audible credit.  Yeah.  And my sister is 20 and we do not talk about anything to do with men really. And so I am a bit like read it but we will not talk about it. And she is like all right - understood. I mean she is 20. But I see her as like you know a child.  Oh you always will. She is your younger sister yeah.  Exactly.  So as you deal with family reading or possibly reading this book I am sure one question they will be asking you and probably a question a lot of folks are asking you is how much of Queenie is you?  Basically I have a really vivid imagination in that if I - say I like meet someone at the bus stop. I can then sit if I am bored and like reimagine our whole lives together...   You and me both. Listen.  ...Up until death. Yeah seriously.  In my mind I am married five times a day.   Exactly. And so it really comes from that. So it is kind of like OK. So a few experiences I had a few dates I went on a few people that I know. But also you know it is a work of fiction and there is nothing in that that I could be like...  Yeah.  ...This is part of my life. And Queenie is like very far from me. I am really considered I am really careful. My heart is like very guarded. You know like I am just - we are very different people. And she is a kind of - I guess maybe she was me if I let myself be vulnerable and I let myself go. So she is - yeah she is a different version. But I do not really see myself in her. And I too find her frustrating because...  .  Someone actually described her the other day as like the frustrating friend that you love loads...  Oh yeah.  ...And that will always ask for your advice. And you will give it to them even though you know you are not - they know they are not going to take it.  You were saying in one interview that I was reading up on that she is perhaps more fun but you are more stable which I liked.  I know for sure - I mean I am not that much more stable but my instability does not affect my actions .   All right - time for a break. When we come back why Candice unlike Queenie in her book has sworn off dating white guys. As a warning there'ill be some more sexual discussion in there too listeners. OK? BRB.   One of the things I wondered if there was commonality in was the complicated - the complications of Queenie dating white men. Is that something that you have experienced too?  Yeah for sure. I do not date white men anymore have not for a while.  How come?  And actually my...  Sorry guys.   Honestly there are not going to be many people complaining.  .  No my older brother runs my website. He is like 38. And he is had to send me like in a really exasperated way all of the weird emails I get from white men...  What?  ...Who are like hi read your interview - do not agree with what you are saying. Here's why I think you could date me. Here is my value sexual and otherwise.  Aw.  I mean it is just like - I am always like Claude I am so sorry. You do not have to send me these. But he is like no no it is fine. It is funny. But...  How do you feel when you get those? Do you - because on the one hand you can say like well I appreciate these men for trying. But on the other hand back back.  I just laugh - I should not 'ecause I think - also 'ecause it is come through my brother I cannot see them as anything but like jokes...   Wow.  ...Because I cannot be like OK great I will email him. But I also would not anyway. But I was talking about it the other day. I mean if - I talk about this. I mean having written enough where people want to talk about these things all the time now - but in terms of interracial dating I have done it. And there is some...  Yeah girl. We all have.  Right? I mean...   I mean there was some nice instances. But also you know like I found it to be a lot of work a lot of the time. And I think that a relationship is work all the time but it should not be in that way. And I do not - I just think it is tiresome having to explain why things impact you and effect you all of the time and why certain words are not nice. And then you are just kind of like - why am I doing it? And then I - you know you start like dating black people and you are like I do not have to do this work. You know?  Yeah yeah.  But yeah I mean I know and love many interracial couples - not in a threesome way just in a they are-my-friends way.   Yes yes yes.  But you know - and I really love and respect them. But I just think for me the work that I have to do - and also I am a super super super sensitive person. And I get really quickly exhausted by having to do that work. And I am just kind - you know it is - it feels like it is you know...  Not to like cape for the straight white men out there - they are fine. But like is there a reality in which a white guy who really gets it and does not need the hand-holding - would he have a chance with you?  I am yet to meet him if I...   I do not know if I will. But I did not - I do not - you know what? I do not think so.  OK.  And I think - I mean it is kind of - I do not know. I guess maybe I have let past experiences just define the future. But I do not think so. It would have to depend.  Was there a particular moment or time or bad dating experience in which you said that is it no more of them? Or was it a gradual realization? Or...  It was a gradual thing. And then it was talking to my black female friends and us basically comparing and contrasting the ways that white guys saw us and spoke to us. And I was - - I made certain to talk to black girls - my black female friends of all body types. So I am a curvy girl. I spoke to one of my friends who is like petite one who is like athletic build one who is like slim thick. And the thing we had in common was the way that guys approached us on dating sites especially was so about our bodies and our skin and what we could do for them sexually. And basically it was just kind of a discussion about it where we are just like what - where is the hope? Especially in Britain. I mean I am sure you know every place is different. And I think you know app culture is so huge here. And there is - I was talking to someone about mixers that - a thing. And she said she went to New York and there were these mixers. And we were just like ha ha that could never happen here because everyone is super awkward. And like the idea that you would be like out and being like hi yes I am single though I would like to mix with someone else single we - it is like - Brits are just like we are - no. That is terrifying mortifying. Let us just look at our phone.  Yeah. In a previous interview you said that one of the storylines that inspired how you wrote about dating in Queenie was this real-life situation. You and a white girlfriend both matched with the same white man and he said...  Yeah.  ...Drastically different introductory messages to the both of you. Talk about that like what...  Oh for sure. Yeah.  So same guy but he reaches out to you a black woman and to your friend a white woman. What does he say to each of you?  So my friend Lydia  who is like so amazing we were like you know just exchanging like you know pictures one day. We were like OK look at this guy. What do you think of this guy? And then we basically realize that we are talking about the same person. And it is one guy whose name I always nearly say.  Then I am like cannot do that...  Oh just say it. Come on .  No I really cannot. I really do not want to get sued.  OK OK.   And we realize we are talking to the same person. And it was two different apps. So on the app that she had and had connected with him on it was one of those ones where it was like you are close by. It is called Happn.  OK.  And so you pop up in each other's feeds when you are like you know within a certain radius where you pass each other by. And the one I was talking to him was OkCupid and that is basically...  Oh I know it. OkStupid . Yeah .  You know it. We all know it. Right? So like basically username-based. So this guy had a username and I did not know his name for a long - he would not tell me his name. But when she was talking to him he had his name up his profile his job. And he said oh hey. I see that you work with kids too. My name is dadada . It would be really great to go for drinks sometime. Like I would just you know love to get to know you. And to me he said hey do you want to take a day off work so I can  you?  Whew.  And I was like oh no.  .  And I mean I showed it to her. And she was like I am not going to meet him. But then we were just like let us carry on talking to him. Because I was like let us see if he continues. And we were like let us carry on talking to him and see what his approaches are. And so we then started sending him the same messages.  Stop.  And so he would continue to basically sexualize me. And with her he would continue to be like hey it would be so good to grab that coffee. Like we are going to talk about these things in real life.  Wow.  And we basically shut the whole thing down when one evening he sent me a picture of him. I mean it was quite - imagine the angles.  .  He sent me a picture from his phone of himself penis in hand masturbating to pictures of me...  Wow.  ...On his computer screen from my profile. And we were just like OK abort mission. This is done.  Yeah.  It was really really - it was bad. And so yeah when you get things like that it is kind of like - and so basically yeah that is why one of the storylines came about. It is not imagined in the same way. It is completely different.  Yeah.  But it is the idea that this guy would treat two girls completely differently based on his societal understanding of what a black woman can give him and what white women can.  Man it is got to be over time just demoralizing.  It is demoralizing and also just - it just does have an effect on your value as a person. And so like you know like just dating now for myself is like it is so weird when people are like no I am into you. I am like what?  .   Really? Is this for real? And so yeah because I guess like when you have had years of people just being like well all I - hey all I would want to do is have sex with you and like maybe chat to you a bit and then - you know. And I have had hundreds of messages at this point. The book's been out for - I do not know - like eight weeks in the States? Maybe seven or eight?  Yeah yeah.  And four here. And I have had hundreds maybe almost a thousand messages genuinely...  Wow.  ...From young women who are like I am Queenie. I have lived this. I have known this. There is some people sending me like screen grabs of bits that they can relate to...  Really?  ...Sending me messages they have had from guys. I have had like the full spectrum of girls and some guys being like I have understood this and I have been this. And I am really grateful and I am less lonely now. And that was really what I wanted to do. I wanted people to be less lonely in this stuff that all goes on I guess very much behind closed doors and on our phones. And you know luckily I have friends that I can be like hey look at this  that this guy sent me. But loads of people do not and we forget that. Loads of people take that on and they are embarrassed and they are ashamed. And they think it is their fault.  Yeah. So then what advice do you have for those readers writing in with some of these stories for Queenie herself dealing with this stuff in the book? What is your advice on dealing with what we have just been speaking about?  I would say you have to talk about it no matter how hard it might be. And I think if you are affected by thing - these things which we often are really affected by them and we do carry them. We do take them on. And I think talking about them is the way that you are going to do that. And I do think - I mean therapy is just a godsend.  Come on. Listen.  I need to.  Yes.  I honestly - it is just you got to get in there.  Yeah.  Seriously. You know I think that it is really easy to want to be a pinnacle of strength who can just deal with it all but that is not real. So I think talking is like my one thing and then just being the person that you are is another thing and not being afraid of that and not being afraid of being vulnerable.  Yeah. You know hearing you say that I thought of what was my favorite line from the book when - was it Queenie's aunt? She says to Queenie's mother about Queenie who is struggling - she says...  Oh yeah.  ...Being brave is not the same as being OK.  Right.  And I was like yeah.  And - yeah. All of that stuff with her all the scenes with her mum - oh they were hard. They were really really hard to write.  Yeah.  My relationship with my mum is like entirely different to that. But basically what I wanted to explore in that family were the generational dynamics of strength and how strength can - or not having strength or trying to be strong can really alter you. So you have Queenie's grandma who is like I am really strong and I have managed everything and Queenie like nothing's wrong with you - but actually someone who is carrying a lot of stuff and is not able to even talk to her family about how they feel. And that damages them.  All right one more break here. When we come back Queenie heads to television. And there is one thing Candice says she will not change about this character when that happens. BRB. How much of what Queenie is going through about being black about being a woman and how much of it is about just going through your early to mid-20s and how that is just always for everyone a hot mess?  Is not it such a mad time?  It is so crazy.  I am turning 30 this year and I am like...  Congratulations.  Thank you. I am like get it away.  .  I was - I - get me away from my 20s. I am not interested anymore.  Yeah.  I really - I just want to be out of there. But I had a friend - one of my best friends turned 30 and she was crying all week. And I was - I do not know what you are crying for.  .  But I think it is - you know what? I think it is that thing when you feel like you are meant to be an adult. And also I think it is really vital to note that you leave all of these institutions that you have been in since you were a child where you have your structures. So obviously like...  Oh yeah. They tell you what to do.  ...You know over here - they tell you what to do. They tell you how to be. They tell you what your goals are your ambitions are your grade point average I understand you guys have - your GPA. You know you have all of those things. And then suddenly it is time to get a job. And you are like sorry...  What?  ...Because you - where do I - who gives me the job? What do I...  Where is my guidance counselor?  Exactly. And actually you hit the world running in a way. But actually you do not run at all. You end up stopping and being like oh wait. Oh what? You know and so I think there is this really - it is this really weird space that feels like limbo but you actually have no idea where you are going.  Yes.  And so I think early 20s are a really tough time because you are definitely not yet an adult. And I am still learning things now about myself about how the world works about my feelings around things about how to navigate things.  Oh yeah.  I was not equipped for anything when I was...  Yes.  ...In my early 20s.  Yes.  But I expected to be and I think that expectation is what really knocks you on your...  Yeah.  ...You know off your feet.  Oh yeah. I am 34 now going on 35.  Very nice.  And I just six months ago began to feel like a grown-ass man.  Yeah.  Like there is something...  I think - yeah.  You just like - and on top of the complications of being a child in your 20s - but like with a beard or like fully developed which is weird - you like also have that wonderful early to mid-20-somethings feeling of somehow knowing everything and knowing that everyone else before has done it wrong and if you could just...  Yeah.  ...Do it your way and show them they would all get it. And I think the moment when I began to just settle down and like ease into the ride was when I said maybe I am not better or smarter than everyone else and maybe a lot of folks have gone through the same thing before. And maybe the difference that I make in the world will be a slight move to the left or right but I might not reinvent the wheel. And maybe that is...  Yeah.  ...OK you know?  It is not being realistic right?  Yeah.  It is about being like I can only do what I can do...  Yeah.  ...And also understanding that actually there are - it is really weird because I think we do believe a lot of stuff that we think just as people because all we have is our thoughts - right...  Yeah.  ...Like at a very base level. And I think when you hear them enough you are kind of like I know that that is right and true. I can do all of that stuff. But that is not real and I think there always needs to be space for other considerations. But I do think that as we get older we do make space for that because we have got to make mistakes in order to get there.  I want to talk a little bit about how you got to be a bestselling author because just before this book was done - and actually while you were writing the book you were also doing a day job as like...  Yeah.  ...A marketing executive.  Which I still do now.  Look at you.  I am leaving in one week.  In a week you said?  At the end of this - yeah. I am leaving at the end of this week. It is going to...  Wow.  ...Be a new life.  How do you feel about that?  I feel good about it. I feel good because it means I can now concentrate on writing full time because you know when I started out writing I had not written at all. And I was like I can see that there is like this gap in the market where you know someone like me would love to read a book about herself so why do not you just write it? And so I went away for a week and I just like started banging it out. And at the end of the first week I would written 40000 words. And then...  Wait. Stop. Tell everyone your secret  - please.  Basically it is really bad. I basically just - I write at night time exclusively. And so - I am just nocturnal anyway. And so I settle down to write at about midnight and then I look up and it is 7 a.m.  Wow.  And so yeah I just write and write. And I write really quickly. I write so quickly that sometimes I trip over the first sentence and then just write the second and then go back and finish the one I was writing first because my brain just moves super quick time.  You must be an editor's dream. You are like - oh you want that copy? I got it.  Do you know what? They are so lucky to have me.  .  And I really hope they listen to this because genuinely they will be like - hi here are your edits. Like hear from you in like a few months. And then in like three weeks I will be like hi guys - just let me know what you think. Like you know just I have done what you said and I have added a few flourishes. But I just really like it.  Wow.  And once I get into the world I can see it all and I am very firmly in there. And because I can sit for hourlong periods and I can just write I think that is really really helped me.  Yeah yeah. Queenie is becoming a TV show. Right?  Yeah. I just - I do not think I am even allowed to say this yet but yes.  Well I saw it on the Internet. So...  I know Yeah. I think basically I said  - basically everyone asks. And I have said - I have said it - I really started it in like a really like round about like - yes she will have another life at some point in some different format. And now I am just kind of like yeah  it. She is going to be a TV show because...  . That is scary you know? How much do you like - like are you worried about losing some of her or some of her changing? 'ecause you hand - you give away some of the ownership of this idea to let a production company and TV network make a thing.  Well I am writing it.  OK. .  So she is not going to change too much. Do not worry. No I am really excited because it means I get to give her a different - I get to give her like a whole new format.  Yeah.  And like obviously TV is such a different thing and there need to be different like hooks and like maybe new characters. You know? Like you know when someone's bought the book they have bought the book. But you know I need to give people reason to keep tuning in. And so it is exciting thinking about the things that I am going to put her through week after week to keep them watching.   Do not make Queenie suffer too much.  I might. But