 All relationships have a backstory even friendships.  I am Aminatou Sow. I am the co-host of the podcast Call Your Girlfriend and the co-author of the book Big Friendship along with Ann Friedman.  Hi. I am Ann Friedman. I am the co-everything that Aminatou just mentioned . It is kind of nice to have the joint bio these days.  Aminatou and Ann's friendship began with a meet-cute.   We were set up. We showed up at Daya's  house to watch the television show Gossip Girl. This is the era in which you had to show up in front of a television to watch TV.  The feelings we both felt when we met were like a kind of attraction.  Every joke that she made every observation she made was just 10 out of 10.  You know like not romantic or sexual but we both instantly wanted to be in each other's lives.  Her outfit was flames - big bold lipstick. Her hair looked cool.   The rest was history. A big friendship - complex deep and maybe for life - almost instantly these two were inseparable. Midnight showings of Beyonce movies vacations together - they even started a podcast together. Part of why their connection got so deep was because of where they were in their lives when they met - their 20s.  That was a time in life when we had a little bit more free time a little bit more flexibility you know a lot of the people in our orbit did not have the kind of professional or caregiving responsibilities that they have today.  But fast-forward to now and these two lifelong friends - they have not actually seen each other in person in a while.  I flew to LA partly to take our author photo and it was not a week that people should have been flying. Like it was before everything shut down. But I am actually really glad I took that risk and went on that trip because very momentous things happened in those like 48 hours.  Including our last restaurant meal. My last restaurant meal was with you. I love that .  Wow.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. On the show today we are talking about friendship with Ann and Aminatou. Fun fact - they are out with a new book all about friendship called Big Friendship. In this book they write about their friendship story and they share lessons for all of us about how to keep our own friendships strong. This chat has a lot the story of Ann and Aminatou going to friend therapy - yes that exists - and what it is like to have a deep friendship with someone of a different race. All right let us get to it. Enjoy.   And so this friendship grows. It blossoms. You all end up starting this podcast together. You all end up going to weddings together giving gifts together wearing matchy-matchy  outfits sometimes. Like it is a beautiful thing. But there is also this moment where you both realize it needs work. There is this scene about a getaway weekend that you both went on together to try to respark the friendship and it did not go well. This is like early in the book. Set up that scene for our listeners because I - because when I read it I was like mmm  I know a lot of folks have felt this.  Sometime around 2013 2014. So I would say like right like midway through our friendship or a little longer we went away to you know on some very sad rekindle-the-romance kind of trip because for...  .  ...I would say like two years prior to that trip we had just been really missing each other in conversation. And so at this point like we do not live in the same city you know but we are working on this podcast together. The podcast is going great. Like we are...  Yeah.  We are two people who really genuinely enjoy working with each other. And...  Yeah it sounded like it. I listened.  Yeah. I was like...  I heard it all. I was like...  This is going...  ...This - they are great. Yeah .  But the minute that we turned the microphone off like the universe of things that we now start having boundaries around talking about - so whether it is like our other relationships or even our own - like oh do you want to go on a trip with me or not? Just that bucket just starts getting bigger and bigger and bigger. There is so many things that we start just not talking to each other about. But so at one point we recognize OK like things have finally gone off the rails. How do we fix this? And the only model that came to mind for me was you know the like go back on the honeymoon  or figure something...  Couples retreat .  Right.  For me it was also a real desire of - I just want things to feel how they felt in an earlier stage of our friendship. Like I want to kind of go back to how things were in the sense that like oh a time when we really just naturally understood each other or it was not hard to be vulnerable. And I think that part of the logic behind going away together was - all we need is more time you know? Like we just need more time. And we can definitively say that in our case that was not true. We needed more than that.   Yeah. More than that. Well and then after all of that the two of you end up in friend therapy. I mean I want you to tell me everything about that to the extent you can.   I did not know you could do that .  I remember like one of us just being like well is there some sort of adult that can hold our hand through this process you know?  Right.  And I am like well is there a restorative justice model for friendship repair? Or is there a therapy?   I mostly remember a lot of crying. Like I cried so much . It shifted the mirror for me on myself - less on like oh you know is it that I am upset at this person or is it that I am really upset at an inability to understand each other? And when I started to see it as a communication gap issue and not some like my-friend-is-a-monster issue - because of course she was never a monster - like you know it was hard. But there was a lot of crying for me. It was - the therapist like handing you the Kleenex is such a cliche.  Oh.  But the Kleenex box was for me you know?  Oh my goodness.  And I had the opposite problem which is that I am like a very very slow processor. And so I would be fully in that moment and like maybe even feeling very sad in the moment but like I was not like sobbing. And I think that I felt almost like an inverse insecurity of like how can I make you understand that this is deeply affecting me too and I am also feeling very sad about like the things that we are having to excavate here when I am not - like tears are not running down my face and that does not mean I am not upset and right here with you?  Yeah yeah. What I love about therapy is that over time you start to really kind of crystallize an explanation for why you are feeling this way or why you are doing this thing and you come to like find the story of how you got to there? Like for me all of my work the last year or so has been me unpacking the fact that like I have issues with attachment and isolation and they manifest in ways X Y Z. Like was there like a topic sentence that you all came out of friend therapy saying ah that explains it?  Well...  Like a quick little like - that is the thing?  I cannot tell you like in - I wish we had had a camera that day. The look of satisfaction on this woman's face when she did the like conspiracy theorist's like graph of - she is like well here's the cycle that you are caught in .  Yes. And it is so rewarding. You are like ah that is it.  Oh it was so deeply unsettling for me. I was like I cannot believe this lady has my number. This is wild.   Yeah.  And also was the piece of the puzzle that I had been missing where she essentially just told us that we were caught in this feedback loop of - one of us would miscommunicate to the other reach out be hurt and then pull back completely and then the other person then starts pulling in - you know like it was just - I do not even know how to characterize it. Ann maybe you can do a better job than me.  Well the way that the direct quote - the direct unforgettable quote from the therapist was and that is why it is called a cycle.  Whoo .  .  Damning right?  They can read you.  Damning.  They can read you better than anybody else. Oh my God.  I am sweating just recounting it like truly.   And man like therapy is not for the faint of heart. Like we would go home every day like just - you know like we would usually drive there together which was hilarious and make sure that we had like snacks and water...  .  ...Like going to war together where we were fighting on opposite ...  Oh my goodness.  ...Like opposite teams...  Yes.  ...And then go home together. But it was very - I do not know. I just - the whole thing was very strange and transformative. But I think also just for me at least it really forced me to confront a lot of patterns that I have that I think are just accidental you know and also just really acknowledging that in order for a friendship to work it takes two people and in order for it to fall apart that is also true and it also takes two people to repair it.  Time for a break. Coming up - how to navigate interracial friendships and how they can never be colorblind even if you really want them to.  That is one of the heartbreaking things about like this deeply deeply racist world that we live in is like we do not get to have that.   You know there are going to be so many people that hear this conversation that read the book who just cannot afford to take their best friend or their big friends to therapy. For those hearing this wanting to fix a relationship a friendship and knowing that they are in a friendship with someone to be willing to work on it as well but they cannot afford therapy what do you do instead?  Man that is such a good question Sam and such a good like acknowledgment of like privilege and resources you know? I think that even for us it was tough. Like I basically moved to LA to do therapy with my friend which you know it is...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...If we had not gotten the book advance that we got I would not have been able to afford it at all. That is is where a portion of...  .  That is where a portion of my book advance went to therapy. I really recommend it. But there is just not enough time or space to do that. I think that the thing about...  Yeah.  ...The takeaway from therapy really is that you have to find a way to talk about the things that are hard you know and to really...  That is the thing.  ...Acknowledge to each other that things are hard. And this is what - you know like part of why we wrote this book too is that we recognized that there is no social support for friendship you know? Like it is like even if you think about other relationships - your church your family your government - like everyone is invested in like people having like healthy families somehow. But that imagine...  Yeah.  But that imagination of family does not extend to friends. I do not believe that it should cost like the thousands and thousands of dollars that we have spent you know on this project. We were lucky that we were able to. But that is not a scalable or a sustainable solution at all.  Yeah. Yeah. So all of this ends up in the book the story of repairing the friendship the story of you all's growth together. But I also love that like a good portion of the book is also like the actual research on friendship. You spoke with so many smart people who like study this stuff for a living to talk about the data and the science on friendship itself. What of those findings the social science on friendship most surprised you two putting this book together.  Oh man. If there is a baby sociologists listening to this please - there is like an entire area of study that is yours for the taking.  .  It was really - I mean I do not know why I am surprised just knowing how we do not take friendship seriously in society. But I was genuinely surprised at how little like robust scholarship there is about friendship.  Yeah. And when it comes to adults they are often counted. Like you know OK how many friendships does the average adult have? Or what periods of life are we - you know are adults likely to have friends? Or how many friends of other races are adults likely to have? Or you know questions like that. But when we really started looking for support for the dynamics within friendships - so how do large social groups affect the two people in a friendship who are kind of nestled within this bigger context? How do friend groups resolve conflict? How do people navigate interracial friendship in a way that is like not just how many but like how are you doing friendship with people of other races? Like those are the kinds of questions I think we found the least answer to you know? I mean there is a lot of just kind of like duck-duck-goose head counting - you know what I mean? - and often in like an elementary school cafeteria you know or like a college campus.  There is also an entire chapter on navigating an interracial friendship. And I have really enjoyed it. And you all quote a poem that says quote the first thing you do is forget that I am Black. Second you must never forget that I am Black. And this was advice on a white person trying to be a Black person's friend. Wow wow wow wow wow. Unpack that for me because it is a word.  Whew.  Pat Parker. Yes. Ugh.  That was - I mean that hit me. That hit me real hard.  Listen it hit me. And I...   ...You know I am like I am the Black friend in this friendship.   And yeah you know it is - there is never been a point in my friendship with Ann that I was unclear about her political motivations or you know like what goals she wants it. And it is why we were drawn to each other. And even in a friendship in which we are - we talk about politics in every way shape and form that it comes in. We had not been talking about how race was playing out inside of our own friendship.  Oh yeah. Well I mean because I feel like a lot of people entering you know interracial friendships or interracial romantic relationships will say to themselves - either out loud or not they will say to themselves well this space this relationship it is colorblind. It is not affected by race.   Are people saying that?  We are choosing to not do that. No. But like they are thinking that right? You know like I have had friends before where I convince myself that in the confines of our friendship race is not an issue. But the thing is it is. And like...  Yeah.  ...You are better off just acknowledging that when - if that is - when that is the case.  I mean I think that is something I certainly wanted to be true. Like I do not know what I would have said if you polled me at various points in our friendship and asked me that. But I think that I - on some deep level that I maybe you know never even brought up to the surface as words I wanted it to be true that my friend Aminatou can be 100 fully self-expressed with me. And in some ways I am like why would not I want that right? Like that is a beautiful thing to want.  Yeah. Yeah.  And also it is - like that is one of the heartbreaking things about like this deeply deeply racist world that we live in is like we do not get to have that.  Yeah. There is this really vivid example in the book - or story in the book that brings all of the issues of race in the friendship to the forefront. It involves a birthday party that did not have too many Black people. How much of that story can you tell us?  I mean I will say that you know the story on its face is not dramatic at all. In fact it is like very petty and small. And it is why we...  .  It is why we chose it as an example though because I think that there is this tendency when it comes to race right now - you know for all the people who are having their - you know their first racial awakening this idea that...  Welcome.  .  You know welcome. Welcome. Some of us have been here before.  Mmm hmm. Grab a chair. Take a seat.  There are no seats left on this Amtrak.  Right.  You are standing. Yeah.  And some of us are just Black. So we do not have a choice about being here. You know but there is just this - and especially I think that it was important to tell because you know we are two like East-West Coast elites. So I think that it really bears repeating that even people who think that you know they are liberal and live in these big cities or whatever you know they think that like racism happens somewhere in Texas. Like it is not happening in...  .  It is not happening in a Silver Lake backyard. But you know there is just this idea that for something to be racist it has to be big and dramatic you know? You are like OK someone has to use the N-word. Someone - you know like or it has to be this like after-school special.  .  There is just - there is this like deep pain that comes with it. And honestly like that is kind of racist too. It is like hi  this is not a - these are not...  Yeah. Yeah.   Yeah.  These are - the expectations that you have of how Black people experience racism are garbage.  .  But race is playing out in these very very small moments. I am at a party at Ann's house and there are a lot of people there and none of those people are Black. There was a time in our friendship where if that had happened I would not have noticed or cared because you know maybe the day before I had been at Ann's house and there - you know like there was a brunch and there were a lot of Black people there. But in this instance we would been living far apart. I - we are not connecting on a emotional level. And I parachute in into this party. And you know it is just like wow you live in LA? There is...  Yeah.  You know? There - what? There are no Black people here? This is wild.  Yeah . Yeah.  You know? And especially like for someone that I knew that well and you know - and the way that it played out is truly the way that every kind of you know low-level racial oops plays out - is that you know you say like why are there no Black people here? And then the white person gets defensive and then they give you all of these excuses that are everything except for oh we live in a racist society and of course I hosted an event at my house that did not take that into account you know? And I am like this is not the racial wound of our relationship but it is something that is very recognizable in a lot of interracial relationships.  But I want to say where I think it becomes a wound is when like thinking about the birthday party story in particular wherein like I was not the person to say oh wow so when you were at my house the other night like I noticed that there were no Black people and like really sorry about that experience for you. And if - you know do you want to talk about it some more? Like the initiation factor there of like who is paying attention to this and who is - and who gets to stick their head in the sand and say well if my friend does not bring it up it must not be an issue. And those are the kinds of things that I really feel you know like talking about in an earlier era of our friendship when I wanted to believe that like race somehow did not touch us that is exactly the kind of thing that I was ignoring. And I really - and probably to this day and I mean I would say continue to ignore. You know like there will always be things that I - like I do not clock. And I think that that example is so relevant because it really - you know as Aminatou keeps saying it does kind of seem small but it points at like who gets to not notice this sort of thing in a friendship?  Also like who pays the price for the pain you know? Like they are part of why - you know like I will only speak for myself like someone who has some intimate relationships with white people. Part of why you also do not make a big deal out of it is because you know that opening up the can of worms of the birthday party - you know it is three sentences till you get to 1619. You are like here's where we go here's what this is about.   Yeah.  And we are like great. We are just at this party and here's everything that you do not know. And I think that you know this thing that white people get to have when they are - when they know Black people of - they get this like depth of knowledge and understanding this like racial aha moment as we call it.  Yeah.  And all that you are left with if you are the Black partner is you know if you are lucky just a little bit annoyed but mostly like you are really...  .  ...Pained because it reminds you...  Yeah.  ...All of the other instances that you have to do that. And you know I am like I live in a world that is you know like governed by whiteness so there is never any like white thing that Ann is going to teach me. Like that thing already just exists.  .  With the exception of some Midwestern snacks that is true .  It is true. The cheese ball. Shoutout to the cheese ball...  Or like cottage cheese.  ...And the people of the cheese ball.  Cottage cheese  .  I know. But you know...  Cream cheese-based dips. That is the only thing I have to teach.   Thank you Ann. I appreciate you for correcting the record.   All right. Time for one more break. When we come back an army not to discuss whether this kind of big friendship is actually possible for men. BRB.   I will say reading this book I kept saying that is good. I like that. They are working through it.   Love it. Love it. Love it. And then I had this moment - I had this moment halfway through where I just stopped. And I put the book down. And I said to myself out oud - I think the dog got scared. I was like is this for men? Can it ever be for men?  Yes.  Or is it just for women? I have never seen a male-male friendship - straight gay whatever - that has reached the depth that you all described in the book. I never have.  Oh.  Oh Sam you are about to make me cry.  And that breaks my heart. And that breaks my heart.  It breaks my heart.  Sam you are about to make me cry.  And I want it to be for men. I want it to be for all of us. But I think that our society has told us - has told me for sure - that like guys do not do that.  But listen if men did that it would be so good for all of us including me and Ann you know? Like this is the...  Yeah.  Like hearing you - we both have big friends who are men. And it is been really interesting to get their feedback on this because you know obviously...  Really?  ...We write the story about both of us. And we are two women. And we do that because you got to get specific in order to tell a good story. But the things that we are describing like I refuse to believe that they are the province alone of women's friendships. I do think that you know our society has allowed for women to express themselves more fully about this topic than we are allowing men to do. But...  Yeah.  ...Just anecdotally hearing from the men in my life - I just refuse to believe that we are going to go through this lifetime and that we are not going to create space for men to be able to have this kind of conversation about their own friendships because it has been transformative for me. And I cannot even begin to imagine what our world would look like if we allowed every single human being to be able to be expressed about what their friends mean to them.  And your question too of like can this be for men or can have this I mean it is such an easy yes to me. And the question of like why does that question come up at all right?  Yeah.  Like why do we wonder if this is a kind of friendship for women only is something that is like you know like probably some generational speed-unpacking...  Oh yeah.  ...Of the ways you know gender socialization happens. But you know that said the answer to your question of like - is it possible for men to have friendships like this? - I mean the answer is unequivocally yes because we have these friendships with men. And also like I again just want to go back to like communication and intention. I think that like if men want it men can have it .  There you go.  Yes.  And I love this as your feminist slogan. If men want it men can have it.   You know as the words left my mouth I was like this is going to get taken out of context. Like this is a nightmare.   This is not...  You know this is like the tease promo clip for the episode...  Oh. I mean...  ...Ann saying if men want it men can have it .  Can have it - I am making you a T-shirt...  Oh my God.  ...That says that. I cannot wait.  Oh my goodness.  I am fully ducking into my turtleneck right now.  .  Like you cannot even see.  No no we got you.  .  Gosh I appreciate you both for just doing the work and sharing it with us. I really admire your candor.  Thank you. We could truly do this all day. Like I think we could just sit here and talk to you about this all day.  I love it. Come on back anytime. Come on back.  Thank you so much Sam.   Thanks again to Aminatou Sow and Ann Friedman. Their book Big Friendship is out right now. You can also catch the podcast. It is called Call Your Girlfriend. Get it wherever you get your podcasts. This episode was produced and edited by Anjuli Sastry and Jordana Hochman. All right. That is a wrap for today. I am Sam Sanders. We are back in your feeds Friday. Until then be good to yourself and to your friends. We will talk soon.  