 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show - NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe and from NPR Music and Pop Culture Happy Hour Stephen Thompson. All right. Let us start the show. .  Also show veteran Stephen Thompson editor and reviewer at NPR Music Renaissance man all about town.   Freshly back from getting a corkscrew from my colleague's desk.   And the corkscrew is because of a little thing called rosewave. We will talk more about it. But before that I must say for the first time ever on this show I let someone else pick the song...  First time ever.  ...To kick the show off.  Yes.  I said Stephen you pick the song this week. And he did.  I would have been so much more nervous if I would known I was the first.   Let us hear a bit of it first.  NOW   Starry-eyed I was young and undone. But I could have died with you...  I like the vibe. Who is this?  It is called - a band called Now Now.  OK.  Now Now Now...   ...Is just a wonderful kind of kind of spiky synthy  pop duo. I actually consulted some of my colleagues who run NPR Music's rosewave team.  Yes.  Now rosewave is - my colleague Glen Weldon once summed up rosewave as basic pride.   That it - and it is not so much a musical genre as a lifestyle.  Yes.  OK.  You are like - the patron saint of Rosewave is Lorde .  Yeah.  OK.  ...You know which...  Just like music for summertime.  Music for...  ...Music for long nights.  Music for summertime music for long nights but also music that can get you up in your feelings.  Yeah.  The reason I brought Now Now instead of somebody like Lorde or Kacey Musgraves is a lot of people have not heard Now Now.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And NPR Music is also about discovery and we want people to find the bands that we love and are passionate about. And so...  Yeah.  ...This song is called...  This is it.  This is...  Yeah.  Yeah and this song is called SGL.  It is relaxing. Yeah and it is not...  It is giving me some beach vibes.  Yes.  NOW   And I want it all. Starry-eyed I was...  I am in Malibu right now.  It is fun.  Yeah. Yeah.   So we are plugging rosewave because the team at NPR Music has been working on playlists surrounding this movement for a while. There are many many playlists on Spotify right now in the spirit of rose. And we buried the lead. In honor of rosewave and the entire movement Stephen Thompson brought in some rose...   Some rose.  ...To the office.  We are recording this.  It is...  Can we get that bottle pop on my...   Oh yeah. That was beautiful.  Yeah.  That good - very good.  So full disclosure - we cannot consume said alcohol.  No we can only look.  ...Until we tape the news show.  OK.  At the conclusion of this taping we will imbibe.  We can only...  OK.  ...Look at the bottle longingly.  Yes yes.  Yes.  Yes yes. So per always my two guests Ayesha and Stephen are here with me to look back on the week of news culture and everything else. Also you Friday listeners I want to send you back in our feed to our latest Tuesday episode. I had a wonderful chat with Al Roker - yes that Al Roker - weatherman to the world. We talked about his newest book. We talked about climate change. We talked about how Lenny Kravitz is his second cousin.  Oh. How about that?  Oh I did not know that .  Go listen. Go listen.  Anyways let us get into it. I want to have both of my guests describe how their week of news felt in only three words. Ayesha our new guest...  Yes.  You are up first.  My three words are wild what is next? And so I hope you understand wild because I say that a little different.   I understand. And this was a wild week.  It was a wild week.  I feel like the story of the week...  Yes.  ...Was these comments the president made in Helsinki...  Yes.  ...Where he seemed to contradict a lot of federal agencies...  .  ...And said that he was not sure if Russia meddled in the election. And you were there right?  I was there. So it was so - being there in that room Putin was like an hour late so everything's behind schedule.  Yeah.  We get in the room we are waiting and waiting and waiting. They say it is two minutes. Two minutes turns into the press conference. Two minutes turns into 15 minutes and then they come out. And it is one thing to kind of hear President Trump has kind of played with this idea of Russia and did they - it was not really them? Maybe it was them but it could have been a lot of other people...  Uh-huh.  ...When it came to the election. But to see him right beside Putin...  Yeah.  It was striking. And when I knew this was going to be a big deal...  Yeah.  ...Was when - so Reuters' Jeff Mason on the U.S. side asked a question asked Putin why should we believe you over the intelligence agencies? And Trump answered first.  Wait Trump answered the question.  Trump jumped in first.   OK.  And so when he did that I said oh this is - it is going down.  I thought a lot this week about that press conference. And we will talk about the fallout as well.  Yeah.  But there was this moment when Trump seemed to indicate that he would work with Russia to address cybersecurity issues. And I said to myself...  Oh wow yeah.  This is the part of the fable where the hen...  .  ...Asks the foxes...   ...To help guard the henhouse.  And he...  And several Republicans felt the same way. You had top Republicans bottom Republicans and middle Republicans - all of them come out and said you cannot do this.  Yes.  You cannot do it. So then just a day after he walked it back right?  He walked...  And he said my would was a would not or vice versa.  Yeah he said I meant to say a not. But the problem with that - and this is their position and they can have their position that he meant to say not - but when you look at that whole paragraph...  Oh my gosh.  The whole paragraph is undercutting everything the intelligence agencies have said. And now that he is calling for a second meeting with Putin - so in the fall so just in time for the elections and so we will see how that goes.  We will see how that goes.  In the fall - in the U.S.  In the U.S. And Putin - what is so interesting about it to me is that this idea of Russia and Putin has been this kind of - it really is almost a cloud over his administration that he has tried to run from - he has - or tried to distance himself from as much as possible. And yet with this...  And yet he leans into this.  Yet he leans into this. And when Russia is the one thing that he says look I do not have anything to do with Russia I do not want to - but then he has this foreign policy where it is so - and he embraces Russia in a way he does not do for Germany for Canada - because I was in Europe that entire week. So I was in Brussels for the NATO meeting and in London. And in all of those places he had criticism - direct criticism - for the leaders for you know even Theresa May. He had - did that interview - and definitely for Germany and Angela Merkel.  Yeah.  He has - her the chancellor of Germany.  Yet no harsh words for Putin.  No no direct criticism and so it stands out.  It does.  He just does not have the same direct criticism.  Yeah. So much.  Yes so much.  Stephen what are your three words?  Well I mean my three words do tie into the news of the day because how can they not? My words are what? Wait. What?   Yes exactly. That is good.  I love these three words that are also three sentences.   Tell us why.  Because I mean you - as a news consumer a lot of the time as you are just consuming this onslaught of new information there is this constant disbelief. But I also wanted to bring a stupider piece of news.   There is no such news as stupid news just different news.  ...Since - you know more in my wheelhouse...  OK.  ...Of the things that I like to talk about.  Yes.  This week a milestone was reached in which the song November Rain by Guns N' Roses became the oldest music video ever to surpass 1 billion views on YouTube.  Wow.  I have never in my life met anyone who talked about watching that music video on YouTube. Who was watching this video?   Well I do not want to say a billion people because I am assuming that some people watched it two or three or more times.  Multiple times.  I do not think one-seventh of the world population has each individually watched this video once.  Yeah.  It is 9 minutes long.  Oh.  So it is a commitment. That is a long song.  Oh yeah. It is an epic video. You have got Slash out in like a cornfield in front of a church just...  Just guitar solos...  ...Gnarly riffing away.   But it speaks to a number of different things. First of all why Guns N' Roses and not other bands?  Yes.  Why November Rain and not other songs? It turns out that Guns N' Roses has a massive massive following in Central and South America.  Really?  ...And that Guns N' Roses in the course of their touring - now they have toured all over the place in the last couple years this big kind of reunion show.  Are they still good live?  I have not seen the tour.  Oh OK.  I cannot speak to it.  Diplomatic answer.  But this tour has so far grossed 480 million.  Oh wow.  Who knew?  So Guns N' Roses - still an ongoing concern for...   Yeah so much so that they are breaking records on YouTube.  And it is - but it is also interesting. It speaks to - from a larger kind of music-fan standpoint those YouTube metrics are really interesting.  Hmm.  I had somebody from YouTube send me over a list of all the videos - I hold in my hand a list of the 113 videos that have topped a billion views on YouTube. It is really a chart of like what has become - what has been a dominant pop song in the last 10 or so years. But it is amazing like what a worldwide list it is how much Latin music is on this list.  Huh.  OK.  I mean Despacito is the most-viewed video of all time.  That is my jam.   That is at 5.3 billion views. And that is the first - it is in first place by a long shot.  Yeah.  But both Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee who do Despacito - they each have another song...  Another song.  ...That has been viewed more than a billion times on YouTube.  I love that.  OK.  So it is a fascinating - it is a fascinating list. And - but also speaking to that thing of U.S. box office versus worldwide...  Yeah.  The song The Middle by Zedd and Maren Morris...  Oh yeah.  OK you know the song.  On the radio right now yeah.  It has only been viewed 53 million times on YouTube.  But I hear it 18 times every day.  I have personally heard that song 53 million times on the radio.   I love it. You guys I have three words.  OK.  All right.  They are they will be fine.  OK.  And it is kind of about how I think Donald Trump will survive this whole Russia week but it is really about how I think that Amazon can survive anything thrown their way.  Oh.  As we know Prime Day was this week. It was a holiday that Amazon itself created where they...   Yes.  That is how big they are.  They offer these steep discounts on stuff online for their Prime members the folks who pay extra money to get free shipping and other nice goodies. Well the first whammy for Amazon during Prime Day was that their website crashed. Second thing to happen was that to coincide with Prime Day thousands of Amazon workers in Europe went on strike. They said labor conditions in these Amazon factories are subpar. They have to be on their feet for 10 hours. Some folks are saying they cannot be exposed to sunlight in some factories. They are denied bathroom breaks and sick days. So you would think that for any company a week full of protest - thousands of employees - that would be a big headline a big deal - seemed to not hurt Amazon at all. And I think that Amazon in many ways like Donald Trump can survive whatever is thrown at them.   I do not know man. Jeff Bezos' net worth dropped from 150 billion to like 149.98 billion.  He is ranked the richest man in the world. And Amazon is ranked the world's second most valuable company after Apple. And I think what keeps Donald Trump afloat and what keep Amazon afloat is that they both have really loyal bases. In Trump's case it is a political base but in Amazon's case it is a consumer base that probably cannot imagine their life without Amazon.  It is just convenience.  Yes.  it is that you can just go online Amazon and like probably Walmart before it - I think that a lot of times convenience wins out.  Convenience trumps whatever...  Yeah convenience...  ...Moral ambiguity we might feel.  ...And cheap products. And not knocking people who have to buy cheap - sometimes it is like - it is necessary because that is what you can afford.  And so I was thinking about how there is been kind of a muted response to these strikes at Amazon. Compare that to the uproar over Papa John's and their CEO allegedly saying...  Yes.  ...The N-word multiple times in the business meeting. It was so easy for people just to throw Papa John's away...  Right.  ...As soon as it happened...  Yes.  ...Because I think Papa John's is not nearly as integral to our lives...  Yeah and...  ...As Amazon is.  And the pizza had gone down but...   You can get...  You know...  ...Pizza from other places.  You can get pizza from other places.  Exactly. You cannot get Alexa and Amazon Prime from other places.  The one caveat I would throw in is that there are sometimes tipping points with businesses and what seem like Internet juggernauts at one point - does not - it does not always mean they are going to be an Internet juggernaut later. I mean ask Myspace. And obviously...  .  Amazon is more integrated into our lives...   Yes.  ...Than Myspace is. But when you talk about it - I mean you have not even named all of the Amazon controversies...  Oh yeah.  ...In recent weeks. I mean there are huge dust-ups over the fact that they are selling white nationalist Nazi Confederate merchandise and that there is increasing pressure on Amazon to keep that from happening. There is - more and more people are interacting with companies in a very aggressive way to change them.  Yeah. Yeah.   I am always this close to buying an instapot  on Amazon Prime. Then I am like Sam you do not cook.   So I do not do it. Anyway it is time for a break. Coming up we are going to talk about how tariffs are affecting one small business owner in Connecticut. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am here with two guests - Stephen Thompson of NPR Music and NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour. Thanks for being here.  Oh my God. It is my pleasure.  ...And White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe. We caught her in between her jet-setting across the country and the world.  .  Thanks for being here.  I appreciate it. I am having fun.  Oh yeah. Before we get to the next segment I have a quick question for you all. Under what circumstances would you be OK with your Netflix streaming being interrupted?  Never. I have...  Never.  I have small children who rely on Netflix.   OK. What about you Stephen?  I am just like mentally taking up arms...  .  ...At the thought.  Well there might be a chance that some things that resemble like an Amber Alert could show up on your Netflix.  Oh. All right.  Oh OK.  So there is a bill proposed in the U.S. Senate that would allow emergency alerts through streaming services.  Oh that is interesting.  The bill is called the Reliable Emergency Alert Distribution Improvement Act of 2018 - READI. And basically the bill itself came about after that snafu in Hawaii...  Oh yes.  Right.  Yes.  ...When they accidentally told all people in Hawaii that there was a ballistic missile coming for them. So the bill wants to fix errors like that but also allow those kind of alert messages to be seen in more places like Netflix.  OK but here's the thing.   If I am sitting there watching Netflix...  Yeah.  Yes.  I probably did not know that a ballistic missile...   ...Was coming. For me it might be Hulu and Brooklyn Nine-Nine.   You know I am like on my 47th straight episode of Brooklyn Nine-Nine.  I do not know if that would be more annoying than the Netflix thing or the like are you still watching?  Are you still watching?  Of course I am.   No of course.  Now I have to find a remote...  Yes.  ...Control?  Yes. I am watching or I am asleep.  I am a passive viewer.  .  Either way keep it going.   All right. Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance.   ...Where we call someone up somewhere in the world and talk to them about the news. If you want that to be you just email me at samsandersnpr.org. We might give you a call. Tell us why we should call you. This week we are calling someone to check in on the latest with this brewing trade war between the U.S. and China and also Canada and Mexico and the EU too. The U.S. put tariffs on steel and aluminum imports coming from these countries. They have thrown tariffs back on America as well. We called up today someone who is personally feeling the effects of all of this. Her name is Mary Fitzgerald. She is from Mystic Conn. She owns a small business there and her business uses a bunch of imported metal. Mary you there?  I am.  Hi. How are you?  Very well. And yourself?  I am good. You are on the phone with me and two friends Ayesha and Steven. Say hi guys.  Hello.  Hello.  Hello there.  So I want to talk business with you and your business. What kind of business do you have out there in Connecticut?  I own and run a company called Acme Wire Products...  OK.  ...In Mystic Conn. We are a manufacturer of custom-engineered metal products.  OK.  We are a small family-owned business. And as I mentioned we have our factory in Connecticut.  What is a thing that we all own that we could perhaps I guess visualize one of your parts in?  Well we make racks for commercial dishwashing equipment.  Oh so my dishwasher rack.  So it would be like your dishwasher rack but for a more industrial application.  OK.  OK. So my favorite restaurant probably uses some of your racks.  Yes.  OK.  And they probably have other components there that we have made also. So the big industrial mixers that mix up you know potatoes and soup and things like that we would make the stainless steel guards that go on that equipment.  So you are a big part of my life.   Yeah.  So because the things that you make and your company makes have a lot of metal in them you are feeling the effects of the Trump White House's new tariffs on imported metals. Is that correct?  Yes we are.  And so how has that changed how you are doing business?  Well we are purchasing more material domestically right now because of the tariffs on Canada. Our new domestic materials supplier is farther away from our factory so there is an added freight expense to this source. But prior to April the price of steel has increased almost 26 percent.  My goodness.  Wow.  And we have been seeing material price increases really back towards the fourth quarter of 2017.  What are your buyers saying? Have they been talking about this with you? Have they been saying hey you upped your prices what is up? What are they saying to you?  Well we have got the gamut.   OK.  Some of them are saying well we cannot accept a price increase. And I say well I cannot make it at the price that I was selling it to you you know earlier this year. And if you cannot you know accommodate this increase we are going to have to look at some other relationship.  So you are losing money.  That is the net effect.  But it is true that you are using more American metal in light of these tariffs right? And it seems as if that is what the Trump White House wanted.  That is correct.  OK. But you say that it is not helping. Why do you think that?  Well because some of the U.S. steel is more expensive. And they are also raising their prices as well. And there is also a supply issue - that there is not enough domestic steel produced to satisfy the need of the U.S. fabricators.  And do you - so when you are dealing with all of this with the tariffs do you feel like President Trump or his administration do you think that they are responsive enough to companies like yours?  No.   Because we are a small company. You know we are like 45 50 employees. We do not have as much clout as the U.S. steel industry.  So how does that make you feel?  Frustrated.  At who?  I would say just in general you know. Everybody's going to get I guess their turn in the barrel to get picked on.  What do you mean by that?  Well you know there is a tariff of the day now.  Wow.  You know who is going to get highlighted next?  Are you mad at the president?  I would not say mad. I would just say just frustrated at the overall environment.  Is there a point where this is not sustainable for you? Is there a point where you feel like if these tariffs remain in place they will do real tangible damage to your business?  Well I think that they will. And you know it is kind of like a rising tide. As either material costs or labor costs or other costs of doing business increase those get passed along in the form of higher costs for everyone.  Yeah. Mary when you are not working so hard what are you going to do for fun this weekend?  Oh I am going to go to the beach tomorrow.  Love it.  I am going to put the vacuum cleaner to the side and go to the beach.   Sounds like - sounds good.  Well soak up some sun for me.  Yeah.  Sure.  Mary I thank you for your time and for this call today and I hope you have a wonderful wonderful beach weekend.  Thank you very much.  All right take care.  You too.  Bye-bye.  Bye-bye.  Many thanks to Mary Fitzgerald in Mystic Conn. Listeners we want to hear from you for this segment. If you want to talk to us about the news just send me a note - samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. All right time for a quick break. When we come back my favorite game - Who Said That. BRB. And you are laughing because you know it is good Stephen.    I know I will lose. I can feel it.  .  It is OK. It is OK.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests Ayesha Rascoe White House reporter for NPR and Stephen Thompson wearer of many hats at NPR an always guest on Pop Culture Happy Hour and a writer reviewer and man-about-town at NPR Music. Thank you for being here both of you.  Oh my pleasure.  Thank you.  You guys. It is time for my favorite game.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Who said that?   Oh Porsha.   Porsha said that.  Porsha said that.  Porsha said that.  I love that you got it.  Of course.  This is one of the most iconic scenes from the most iconic housewives Atlanta.  Exactly - I love that. That is my - and it applies so much. Who said that?  .  Who said that?  Then you are going to love this game.  You did Porsha. You did.   My favorite is a GIF of Kandi being like the lies the lies.   Anyways I digress. So the game is really simple. Stephen's played before. Ayesha it is your first time.  First time.  You will do fine. I promise.  OK.  I share a quote from the week. You guys have to guess either who said that or the story or topic it is about.  OK.  Just get close.  You have made it easier since the last time I played.  .  We had a brainstorming meeting the other week where we all were like the Who Said That is are too hard.  .  You get a lot of 0-0 ties.  Yes. Yes. So we have lowered our standards for you all.   Obviously.  Yeah yeah. Of course the winner gets absolutely nothing.  OK.  All right.  Ready for the first quote? We do not have a buzzer. Just say it.  Just say it - OK.  First quote is when I heard it it made me move. It made me want to dance to a point where I got to - I have to make a video to this. Who said that?  Drake.   Close - a video about a dance. Who made the video?  Shiggy?  Yes.  Shiggy.   There we go. You got it. I was like...   You were close Stephen.  I was probably a second and a half away.  Yeah. Yeah. So I guess we got to explain to those who have been living under a rock and do not know the biggest dance craze at the moment is called the Shiggy Challenge. It is a dance set to a lyric from Drake's latest hit called In My Feelings.  Yes.    Kiki do you love me? Are you riding?  Are you doing it? You are doing it Ayesha.   My husband has been trying to get us to do this as a family. So we were practicing yesterday.  I love it. So...  .  I like the fact that the listeners at home could not see...  They could not see it.  ...The two of you doing it in perfect unison as I sat here trying to contemplate if I can still do the stanky leg.   Once you can do the stanky leg you can always do the stanky leg. But let us break down this challenge really quick.  Yes.  So Drake released his new album Scorpion a few weeks ago. Within a day or two after its release this song In My Feelings had reached No. 1 on the iTunes singles chart in large part because a dance to those lyrics became a viral video craze. It was started by this Internet comedian named Shiggy doing the like a 20-second dance to it on his Instagram. After that his friend NFL footballer Odell Beckham Jr. did his own. And all of a sudden the Shiggy Challenge or the In My Feelings Challenge took off. And these Internet dancers gave Drake his fourth No. 1 hit in the span of a few days.  Yeah.  Man Drake is so good at this kind of thing.  But at this point he is not even doing it. We just do it for him.  .  No I know. I know. I know.  We do it for him.  I am just saying thinking of like the Hotline Bling video where like instantly you just have like visual - a visual companion for these songs that kind of almost overtakes the song itself.  Back in my day the video premiered. Then the radio played it.   And about a month or two later it was No. 1. Times have changed. Ayesha you are up one to zip. Ready for the next quote?  Yes - ready.  Here we go. So hopefully one day we will get together and collaborate on certain things. Guess what? I will take Kanye West to North Korea with me. Who said that?  Dennis Rodman?  Yes.    I did not get that one. I did not get that one.  So Dennis Rodman who has attempted to become a diplomat himself when it comes to North Korea relations...  America's last line of defense against nuclear war Dennis Rodman.  For a while there he was.  He could probably survive nuclear war. He is like - after the nuclear apocalypse it will be cockroaches Cher and Dennis Rodman.   That is right.  I digress. So Dennis Rodman had an interview with US Weekly this week. And he was talking about his famous goodwill trips in North Korea. And in the interview he said that he might invite sometime Trump supporter Kanye West. You know what? It is crazy but it is not.  You know what? You know what? You know what? Go for it.  Yeah. It is crazy but it is not.  They could solve the whole thing. They can get over there and just - it would all be fixed.  My mantra is whatever helps.   Yes yes - final quote - this one is actually - we have not had a tiebreaker in a while.  Oh my goodness.  This one's kind of hard. So if you just get close in the arena get a keyword - we are going to give it to you. OK?  OK.  All right.  Quote I feel like people have a way to come up with obscure sexual meanings for just about any emoji so I would be interested to see if this one has any. Who said that? What is it about? Just get close.  .  Whoa.  What is an emoji that could use some love?  I am just so basic. I am just like - beyond the eggplant and the peach I am just like mmh .  We might have to have our first tie. And I am going to just give this one to you guys.  OK.  This story is so funny to me. There is an entire Twitter account dedicated to finding the least popular emoji.  Oh really?  Oh really? OK.  And now there is a campaign to save the least popular emoji which is the aerial tramway emoji.   OK. What is the - I do not even know what a tramway is. What is a tramway?  It is on your phone you all. It is on your phone.  I have never used that one.  So that quote came from Jeremy Burge. He is the founder of the Emojipedia. Yes that exists.   How did not I know this?  How do you search it?   And he was talking about how there is this campaign to make this thing more popular. There are people who are on the Internet trying to make sure the aerial tramway emoji gets love.   Because it comes up in conversations often right?  Yeah. Exactly. Exactly .  So here's my emoji tangent which is that...  OK.  ...There is a rule - we will call it Thompson's Law - that the more grave and important the text message you are trying to send the more likely it is that I accidentally open Kimoji.  Oh this is the Kim Kardashian app.  Yes. And so it will be like I am so sorry about your loss. All of a sudden Kim Kardashian is on a stripper pole.  Yeah. Yeah.   I hope that you guys are OK with having a tie.  I feel great about that.  Yeah. That is good.  Yeah.  Yeah. At least I got one. That is good.  You got one.  I got one. That is good.  I aspire to mediocrity.   Nice. Can I invite you guys back for a rematch at some point?  Yes. Definitely.  That is what we will do. That is what we will do. Yes. That concludes Who Said That. All right. Now it is time to end the show as we do every week. We ask our listeners to share with us the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. Let us take a listen.  Hi Sam. This is Sarah .  And this is Rachel .  And the best part of our week is that after 15 hours in a U-Haul from Michigan we finally made it to New York.  We can now say we are New Yorkers because we live here. Hope you are having a good week. Bye.  Bye.  Hi Sam. This is Christina  in Sydney Australia. The best thing that happened to me this week was handing in 86 pages to complete my master's degree finally.  My little niece was born on my parents' 40th wedding anniversary.  My son turned 2. Can you say hi Sam?  Hi Sam.  The best thing that happened to me all week is actually happening right now. My boyfriend is downstairs making breakfast and it includes bacon.  Hi Sam. This is Alex Waheed calling from SMK Kandis in Kelantan Malaysia where I am an English teacher. The best thing that happened to me this week is some of my students surprised me with a professionally drawn portrait of myself for my birthday.  Hi Sam. My name is Emily . And the best thing that is happened to me this week is I have realized I have finally reached that stage of adulthood where I am making friends that are not somehow picked for me by any circumstance - not school or work or anything else. And it feels like an accomplishment.  Hi Sam. This is Matt  from the Bronx. And the best thing that happened to me this week was that I finished setting up the furniture in my very own apartment. Now this may seem trivial but I am a veteran of the war in Afghanistan. And I spent the last few years battling PTSD and depression and was unable to support myself for most of that time so this is a big deal. Thanks.  Thanks so much.  Your show is dope.  Hope you are having a great week.  Bye.  Getting so misty up in here.  Yeah. That was really sweet. Many thanks to all the voices you heard there all the voices - Sarah and Rachel Christina Marisa  Tim  Lisa  Alex Emily and Matt. It is nice to celebrate the small wins.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And I appreciate all of those folks. We listen to all these that come in. And we want you to share yours with us as well. You can send me the best part of your week and any week at samsandersnpr.org samsandersnpr.org. Thanks to two of the best parts of my week my guests.  Aw.  Ayesha Rascoe White House reporter for NPR. Stephen Thompson of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour and NPR Music. I am so happy that you all were here. We are going to go out on some rosewave. And at this point we can pour the drink.  Oh. Oh my God.  OK.  I want to hear that pour on the mic.  The bottle has been sitting here tantalizingly open this entire taping.  That is how I like my wine - room temp.   Oh that is beautiful.  I do a generous pour.  Yeah you do.  That is a lot yeah. I cannot drink all that.   I have still got some work to do today.  This might take a minute.  You are pouring bro.   You are pouring.  This is a lot. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers.  Cheers.  To being able to laugh at ourselves in spite of the news.  Yeah.   Many thanks to this song SGL by Now Now part of the rosewave movement brought to you by NPR Music. This week the show was produced by Brent Baughman and Anjuli Sastry with help from Kumari Devarajan. Steve Nelson is our boss our director of programming. And our editor - our new full-time editor is Jordana Hochman. We are so glad you are here. Before we had Jordana a motley crew a village of editors...   ...Stepped in to help get this s