 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week who is behind vaccine disinformation? All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. And this week on the show a bigger story behind COVID vaccine misinformation. So as you know COVID cases are on the rise right now. The delta variant continues to spread mostly among the unvaccinated.   Folks supposed to have common sense. But it is time to start blaming the unvaccinated folks not the regular folks - the unvaccinated folks that are letting us down.  And as much as public health officials and the Biden administration want people to keep getting vaccinated a whole lot of Americans still have not done so. And there are a lot of reasons for this but for many of those people they are just refusing the vaccine. And a lot of folks think it is because of what they are reading online - on social media to be specific. A bit earlier this month a review of Facebook found that 11 of the top 15 vaccine-related posts on Facebook spoke negatively about the vaccine or were totally anti-vax. Now when you look at the anti-vax posts on a site like Facebook a lot of them seem pretty straightforward - prominent conservative firebrands like Ben Shapiro or Candace Owens saying to their supporters do not get vaxxed. But some of those posts are a bit more mysterious and it is harder to tell who made them and where they come from.   My first guest this episode says some of those posts the mysterious ones they might be part of a larger trend.  This PR company sent out this little three-pager that influencers often get asking them to promote you know vacation packages or beauty products. But instead it asked them to spread these very specific falsehoods and conspiracies about the Pfizer COVID vaccine.  That is Max Fisher. He is an international reporter at The New York Times. And that PR company he is talking about they were exposed by European influencers who did not take the bait. And after that people began to dig.  It turned out it was actually a - basically a shell subsidiary of this Moscow-based company called Adnow that is just a like email spammer basically kind of like the shadiest bottom-barrel kind of internet company you can imagine. And it turned out...  What that PR company was doing that bottom-barrel email spammer Max calls this disinformation-for-hire.  I mean just think of like the Russian campaign in the 2016 election which is the kind of large-scale disinformation campaign where you think of like fake news websites phony conspiracies that are spread to achieve a political purpose divisive content spread to achieve a political purpose phony public sentiment right? Think of like lots of fake accounts that are expressing some political attitude that is made to look grassroots but turns out to be fake on behalf of someone. That was something that up until very recently we thought could only be conducted by a handful of intelligence services you know big governments around the world.  Yeah.  But in the last two years or so there is been this rise of private companies some of them quite small some of them a little bit bigger and more sophisticated that have figured out how to run these operations at scale on behalf of whoever wants to pay them for it.  And you say that it is usually some kind of political actor. So like is that politicians themselves governments people connected to governments or politicians? Who were the ones saying do these campaigns?  So part of the appeal of this work for the people who hire them out is that - like this vaccine disinformation campaign we do not know who hired them out. But you can look at it and you can see OK who benefited from this? And the best guess that analysts have of this particular campaign is either the Russian government or the manufacturer of Russia's COVID vaccine the Sputnik V vaccine because...  Wait. Really?  Yeah because it turned out someone really sharp - I think it was a German reporter - noticed that the - this little three-pager that they were pushing out to people had some of the same word-for-word language in the Sputnik V vaccine promotional material. But we do not know for sure.  Wow.  But the range of people who when we have been able to pin down who is hiring it or when we can make a really good educated guess for who is hiring it - sometimes it is big governments you know ones you would think - Russia China - but also democratic governments - India Bolivia I think - what was another one? - oh Brazil. And then you also see individual politicians hiring this out because it is so cheap and easy to do. There was one that really blew my mind of just a small-town mayoral race where this guy running for mayor in Brazil was running a little mini Russia-in-the-2016-election disinformation campaign...  Oh.  ...Against his opponent. And what is wild to me about this is that it shows how quickly and how completely this is becoming just part of the landscape for how governments manipulate their own citizens how they conduct foreign policy how politicians try to advance their goals really anyone who wants to try to exploit the social web to make someone look bad or make themselves look good.  So you know you hear this description you are offering of these shady campaigns happening online connected tangentially to Russia or governments or whoever. It sounds really scary. But are the folks doing these campaigns - how scary are they? How sophisticated are they? Are they really dangerous? And do they know what they are doing?  Do they know - what are they doing? That is a good question. This was the part of reporting this that really blew my mind is that I really expected it to be like you know Bond villain like running the campaign from their operations center a thousand feet beneath the earth - like really sophisticated.  That is what it feels like. When I began to read your article I was like oh this is some shady stuff. This is crazy like sophisticated.  Right. And that is what they are mimicking. They are mimicking things that like you know the Russian intelligence services or Chinese intelligence services are doing. But when you actually dig into them some of them are on the sophisticated end. Like there was one where it was a D.C.-based pretty sophisticated lobbying firm that was running a disinformation campaign in a few Latin American countries on behalf of right-wing governments there. But for the most part it is like email spammers. It is these kind of...  .  ...Bottom-barrel marketers who are running pretty unsophisticated services. Like I wrote about one that some researchers for the Digital Forensic Research Lab at the Atlantic Council that they identified where it was this vast disinformation campaign operating in India to the benefit of the Indian government including undermining reports about the coronavirus toll there which has been terrible. And it...  Really?  ...Turned out that it tracked back to this little two-person firm in Toronto where it was these two like older guys - these two brothers who had this little comm shop that - honestly it looks like it has not been that successful as a business. But they seem to have gotten into this business of doing disinformation-for-hire pretty recently which I think is really striking because it shows how all of a sudden it is actually pretty easy to get into this work. It can be quite lucrative which is why I think you see so many shady-but-unsophisticated actors like this Russian company that is just a little online marketer suddenly getting into it.  Yeah. If I wanted to do this how long would it take me to get up and running to have my disinformation-for-hire PR firm set up? What would I need?  Well you have got an internet connection.  I do .  If you have got a little bit of money in the bank maybe a few thousand dollars step one is you set up a dark web account maybe buy some Bitcoin so that you can do some untraceable transactions there.  I do not know how to do that Max.  .  I do not know how to do that .  I do not - you give me about 20 minutes. I think we could set you up. It is pretty easy.  All right. So I get the Bitcoin. And then what?  Get the Bitcoin - you get onto the dark web. You purchase a bunch of stolen bulk user data which is very easy to do on the dark web for maybe a few thousand bucks. And that will allow you to segment and target your audience with as much sophistication as you want. You buy some off-the-shelf software that will help you set up a huge number of fake accounts that will look real on any platform that you want. So you can fake having a local media company. You can fake having a citizen group or a bunch of public sentiment. And then go out and find a client someone who wants to pay you maybe 20000. And then you are off and running.  Wow. So is Facebook going to stop this? Are they trying?  .  Can they? .  So yes and no at the same time. It is funny. Facebook and Twitter especially - not so much YouTube - but Facebook or Twitter in the last couple of years have made a really really big push to fight this on the back end. That is they are really doing a lot of work to identify these campaigns root them out and expose them once they have occurred. And they have hired pretty much all the leading people in the field of tracking these kind of operations. But at the same time if you talk to experts who track this stuff if you talk to kind of cybersecurity officials they will say yeah sure that is great - Facebook and Twitter investing heavily in taking the campaigns down once they are on the internet. But their platforms are designed in a way that makes this stuff not only possible and cheap but maybe inevitable because the design of the platforms - and this has been you know demonstrated to these companies over and over again - the engagement-maximizing algorithms the design features everything down to the colors on the app which are designed to mimic slot machines is made...  Wow.  ...In such a way to be addictive that is really favorable to divisive content to emotion-provoking content. And we know it is just a matter of empirical research that this not only favors but encourages and incentivizes conspiracy theories division and disinformation.  So even if Facebook is trying to take this stuff down the very system they have created incentivizes the very thing that they are trying to squash out at this point.  Exactly. Yeah. And you almost kind of feel for the people at these companies who are fighting the campaigns because in some ways their enemy is you know the disinformation actors in Malaysia or Russia or wherever. But in other ways - although they do not see it this way - I think I do - in other ways their real enemy are the people across the hall who are designing systems that encourage and incentivize and create this.  Wow. So on the one hand this stuff is pretty spooky you know these shady actors working on behalf of political actors spreading disinformation on everything from who knows what to COVID vaccines. But we also know in spite of that being true most of the disinformation right now about COVID and the vaccine here in America is coming through media platforms and media celebrities. It is coming from Fox News. It is coming from Newsmax. Some of the highest-performing anti-vax content comes from conservative firebrands like Candace Owens or Ben Shapiro. Like still in spite of this rising threat of disinformation-for-hire is the biggest threat to truth - actually real people in the public eye sharing their names and who they are.  Yeah. No I think that is a really important point that the reason disinformation works in the first place is you have you know top-down people you know politicians media personalities like you are saying who are pushing these ideas out there and telling people to be receptive to it. And it is also a real bottom-up phenomenon where because of polarization because of conspiracy theories racism all sorts of social forces there are a lot of people in this country and in the world who kind of want to hear misinformation or they are very receptive to it or they find it persuasive. And so it is this much broader kind of ecosystemic problem of social forces feeding into political opportunists feeding into the nature of social platforms feeding back into bad actors online creating this kind of big self-sustaining feedback loop of people are receptive to disinformation other people are feeding it to them and that creates more of a market for the same disinformation that is getting fed.   Thanks again to Max Fisher international reporter for The New York Times. All right coming up we talk about one of my favorite shows of the last year or so Ted Lasso. And I was surprised by how much I liked it. It was uplifting and optimistic and cheerful at a time when I was really enjoying darker kind of things. I talk with one of the show is stars Hannah Waddingham about why I and so many other people liked such a cheery show during such a dark time.   So during this past year of pandemic I watched a lot of TV. And I realized as I got deeper and deeper into pandemic life I gravitated towards television that was not really uplifting - Tiger King The Undoing I May Destroy You - heavy dark and weird shows. But then in the depths of COVID life I discovered an Apple show called Ted Lasso and it was none of those things.    You know I think that if you care about someone and you got a little love in your heart there as not nothing you cannot get through together. You know what I am saying?  Ted Lasso is earnest and uplifting and good-hearted and honestly full of love. I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this show. And I am not the only one. Apple says the premiere of Season 2 of Ted Lasso last week - it was their biggest show premiere audience ever on the service. So this show Ted Lasso it is all about a U.S. football coach who was recruited to coach a U.K. soccer team. But he knows nothing about soccer. And in fact he was chosen to coach this team as part of the new owner's plan to sabotage them. That team owner is Rebecca Welton and she is played by British actress Hannah Waddingham.    You know what? I will start bringing these to you every morning. Call it biscuits with the boss.   Ted I am sorry. Biscuits with the boss is not something that I have time for this morning or ever.  I had the absolute pleasure of talking with Hannah about Ted Lasso as success and what we might expect in Season 2. And we also talked about why a show so full of light resonated so much with so many in what is been kind of a dark time. I had friends that told me Sam you have to watch Ted Lasso. It is such an earnest and uplifting show. And they are telling me in like peak pandemic. And I said I do not know if I need this kind of uplift given where I am at right now. And then before I knew it it hooked me and just filled my heart with joy and cheer and love.  Regardless of the pandemic or not it feels like something that people needed at this time to get away from snark and bitterness and poking fun at people. And it feels like there had not been a truly wholesome comedy-drama in years that I can think of.  Oh yeah. How would you describe your character Rebecca in like a 30-second elevator pitch?  I would say a woman in her mid-40s who is deeply wronged by a husband she is still in love with. She takes his football team from him thinking it is the only thing he ever loved but realizes through the addition of a madcap goofball of a football coach that retribution is not the answer and that love is.  Now I read somewhere that some of the inspiration for this character came from real life someone named Karren Brady. She was a former managing director of Birmingham City FC. And she now works with West Ham United.  I mean barely really. I mean it was...  OK. Oh tell me.  Most of it to be perfectly honest was not. What I was saying about Karren Brady was that she - it was more her demeanor as she would walk into a press room. I was acutely aware of not wanting to make Rebecca seem just like a ballbuster that would go in with you know rounded collars up to her neck. I wanted to find that line between a woman who likes to be glamorous a woman who perhaps is overtly glamorous in Rebecca's case because she is actually desperately trying to stop anybody coming in. She is turned herself into an ice queen - immaculately dressed. And the reason I wanted to acknowledge Karren Brady was because I like the fact that when she holds interviews or when she goes into a press room you know that she is arrived. You know that she will dominate that room. She will have the last word.   I mean I have learnt from the most competitive team game in the world that nothing is actually achieved alone and managing that team and getting the best out of them is actually what is crucial in football.  But she will look immaculate and groomed and glamorous and kind of old-school feminine in the process.  Yeah. Well and there is this like hard line to toe because it is like a lot of people would see a woman impeccably dressed in charge of a room and think of some negative stereotypes of powerful women. But what your character Rebecca does it is - you know there are many scenes where you see her in control you see her holding court but it is not mean. It is just competent. She just knows what she is doing.  She does know what she is doing because she is also learnt an awful lot from - she even says you know there is not one person in this room that has seen AFC Richmond play more than me.    And in all those years under the stewardship of the previous owner I have witnessed nothing but profound mediocrity. And she can stand on her own two feet in terms of that. But of course as soon as anyone throws a question to her about her own life or as soon as her office door is shut and her laptop is open you see all the walls come down. And if anybody presses her too much she will just shatter on the floor. And that I found intriguing to play.  How much of your character Rebecca was given to you by the writers and how much of it was made by you? I have heard you say in certain interviews that the whole team trusted all of you to really make the characters your own.  Yeah. I mean literally from Day 1 of course there was the script that we did not really improvise from. But it is very collaborative. And certainly going into Season 2 my gosh I have never been afforded the luxury so much of having a say in things like - you know I would get one of the writers ringing me and saying OK so we are just getting to this bit. So do you think Rebecca would do this or do you think she would do that? Do you think she would come from this kind of home? Do you think she would come from that kind of home? And being included in that is just incredible - or having the art department ring up and go right what posters do you want on her walls as a teenager? And it feels like that is her room that I have had a say in.  Yeah yeah. So I read that this show script is full of musical references sprinkled all throughout Season 1 and possibly Season 2. I did not catch that the first time watching. What is been your favorite musical reference in Ted Lasso so far?  Well do you know what makes me laugh so much? Here I am a woman who is been 20 years predominately in musical theater. I am surrounded by what we would call West End Wendys.  .  Jason and Brett Goldstein as Roy Kent whom nobody would ever think would be like this - they are girly girly West End boys. They are absolutely - they know every musical both here and on Broadway. They all know the back catalogue of Cole Porter. I mean it is just extraordinary. Far more than I do.  That is amazing. So speaking of musical references in the show you come from a musical theatrical background. You have done musical theater a lot. But there are actually opera singers in your family tree?  Yeah not just in my family tree - my mother. My mother was a principal leading lady at Covent Garden before I was born. She then stopped to have myself and my brother and decided you know to keep the regular work. She went back into the chorus at the English National Opera at the London Coliseum until she retired when she was 72 I think it was. And also her mother and her father were both opera singers as well.  Wow.  So the force is strong with me.  Yeah. Now there is one scene in Season 1 of Ted Lasso where you do get to sing the karaoke scene.    The snow glows white on the mountain tonight not a footprint to be seen.  Did it feel good to get to do that?  No no. Jason will tell you himself. I balked at it and said why is the football club owner singing? And Jason was hilarious.  .  He went well for a start why not? You have been West End Broadway girl for the last 20 years. I was like right fair enough. And? And he went well I just think this is a moment where Rebecca finally lets her hair down. She is away with the team who is becoming her team you know away on tour and she wants to ingratiate himself to them.    Conceal do not feel. Do not let them know. Well now they know. And the juxtaposition of her facade slipping slightly and the fact that Ted has a panic attack at the same time - the juxtaposition of that was just too much to resist.  Yeah yeah. It was a lovely scene. You know I really cannot overstate the way in which Americans myself included have really been drawn to this show. We like it a lot.   I know.  So is it surprising to see how much we are into this show?  Honestly coming from here where you know you will get like some secret squirrels  coming up going oh by the way I love Ted Lasso whereas you get off the plane and it like hits you like a tidal wave both LA and New York. I was like this is so lovely. It is almost - it was almost like being in the theater people coming up and going...  Wow.  ...Oh my God thank you so much for this show. It really got us through and we cannot wait for Season 2. And good job all of you. And it is something that I know I will not tire of just because to be in something where strangers come up to you and say thank you how could you ever get tired of that?  Yeah. Well and American fans - we are so loud. We do not care what you are doing. We will go up to you.  .  You will be on your phone changing your kid's diaper and we are like I love your show. Thanks for that. We cannot help it.  Do you know what? Long may it continue. I love it. I love it.  Thanks again to Hannah Waddingham. She is up for an Emmy for her work in Ted Lasso. Up next we will play Who Said That with Hannah and one of her Ted Lasso co-stars Jeremy Swift. He is also up for an Emmy too. It is going to be an award-winning segment I promise.   All right so now we are going to play my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  And joining Hannah and I to play this week is her Ted Lasso co-star actor Jeremy Swift. Hey Jeremy.  Hello Sam.  Thanks for being here. So this game is really easy. I share three quotes from the week of news and you got to tell me who said it or what story it is about. I will give you lots of hints. There is no timer. There is no buzzer. Just yell it out. And because both of my guests this week come from across the pond the first quote comes from somebody from Great Britain.  Come on then.  Let us do it. The first quote is...  Is it...  Oh go ahead.  .  Can you hear that Jeremy is...  Yeah. I was ...  ...Already trying to sabotage it?  Is it my wife? Is it the queen?   Now now. Here is the first quote.   This morning I made a little cozy  for my medal to stop it getting scratched.  Oh is it Tom Daley?   Oh my God. It is .  Do you know what?  Yay.  I was just about to say it is an Olympian.  Sure you were.  Come on.  You were just about to say it.  Jeremy...   ...You are in so much trouble.   So that quote came from Olympic diver Tom Daley of Great Britain. He won a gold at the Tokyo Games. But he was talking on Instagram in that clip...  Ah.  ...About a little cozy that he knitted for his gold medal. Did you all see that? It was very cute.  No.  I did not know that. But I thought that sounds like Tom Daley. He is a wonderful guy.  So he has this Instagram account where he shares the things that he is knitted. It is called madewithlovebytomdaley. And on the account when he showed this little cozy for the medal he said...   The one thing that has kept me like sane throughout this whole process is my love for knitting and crochet and all things stitching. So...  Yes.  How sweet.  I can imagine that.  Can you imagine me ever taking up knitting?  I cannot no. I can imagine...   ...You using the knitting needles.   All right time for our second quote. This one is a story from the U.S. but it is about soccer - or football as you all call it. That might help you all out.  Oh God.   Here's the quote. And actually this quote is fill-in-the-blank. So I am going to leave a blank. You fill it in for me.  OK.   MBStadium does it all. Blank is still working on 'Donda' in his new studio setup at Mercedes-Benz Stadium.  No idea. Yeah yeah.  Here's a hint. This is a very popular American musician who is finishing his latest album in a soccer stadium in Atlanta.  Kanye.   Yes yes. It is Kanye West.  Oh.  .  In your face.  Gah . No. No.  So this story is so bonkers. That quote actually comes from a tweet that came from Atlanta United FC a soccer team here in the States.  Wow.  So the backstory - last week Kanye had an album listening party for his new album Donda in the Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. But after this listening party which Kim Kardashian attended he just stayed in the stadium. And he and his posse have turned the visitors' locker room into a studio. And he is putting the finishing touches on this album from the stadium in Atlanta. And they are still having games go on. So there are these...  Oh.  ...Photos of Kanye West wandering the stadium during soccer games wearing all red and pantyhose as a mask.  As you do.  Do you know what? I have nothing to say about that apart from laughing my head off.  .  I mean I have one thing to say. Please find a way to include this plotline and Kanye West in Ted Lasso Season 3.  Can I say please...  Please.  ...Not.  .  Remember Sam it is my football team. That as not happening.  That is right. That is right . So this game is tied.  .  This final quote is going to determine the winner. And I got to say...  .  ...For two guests that are not in the U.S. this week it is probably going to be hard for you both.  Oh God.  OK.  So I am trying to think of how I can make this easier for you both. I tell you what. I am going to say the quote and you tell me what kind of person might have said it what occupation.  Go for it.  OK?  Occupation OK.  Here's the quote. As climate activist Fergie would certainly say the Fergalicious definition is to make our planet cooler. What kind of person said that?  I do not know. Somebody like Jimmy Kimmel or...   No. You know when I tell you all what it is you are both just going to shake your head at how absurd America is.  Really?  Yeah.  It is not Trump is it?   I mean he is full-on solid.  What occupation was Trump in for a few years before he lost? He was a politician who was in politics.  Well he is a TV presenter ostensibly was not he?  That is true .  A businessman. A businessman.  Let me just give it to you both.  Yeah.  Yeah. Tell us.  That quote about the singer Fergie and climate activism - it came from a U.S. House member. In the halls of Congress this week Democratic House member Sean Casten made a minute-and-a-half speech all about Fergie and tying her popular song Fergalicious to climate change.   As climate activist Fergie would certainly say the Fergalicious definition is to make our planet cooler. So listen up you all because this is it. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission better known as the F to the E to the R to the C...  And the more that I talk about it the weirder it gets.  Well Greta Thunberg has a rival.  I know. So the backstory on this - FERC stands for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. In his speech he repurposed the words from Fergie's song Fergalicious...    Fergalicious definition - make them boys go loco.  ....To talk about FERC. And so part of his speech he said quote coming home to air conditioning when it is hot hot - that is FERCalicious. Get it? Like it? No? Awful? Bad?  No no. I think Jeremy and I were almost entirely asleep with that.   The like true beauty of you all's politics over there is that you all let you all's politicians just yell and scream.  Yeah so baffled I have gotten dozy. Yeah.  And it is part of the process and people get to get loud and rambunctious. And because we are not really allowed to do that we have to do stupid things like turn pop songs into climate change appeals.  Yes. Yeah to get attention. Yeah crikey.  My favorite - there was one you all had. He was very popular during Brexit deliberations. And he would say over and over order.   Order. Order.  It was very fun. Anyhoo...  .  On that note in true Ted Lasso fashion this game is going to have to end in a tie .  Just as it should be...  Oh yeah.  ...On our show. Just as it should be.  Yeah very topical.  That is right. Thanks again to Hannah Waddingham and Jeremy Swift both stars of the Apple TV show Ted Lasso. All right take care.  Cheers now.  Thank you. Toodle-oo .   Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.  Hi Sam. It is Michelle  from Altadena Calif. The best thing that happened in my week was when I was able to introduce my children to my biological mother as well as their aunt and their uncle my half-sister and half-brother. They have welcomed us with open arms and open hearts. I know it does not get better than that.  I am super excited 'ecause I got a new Toyota Corolla after getting in a car accident in March of this year. And I really look forward to going on road trips.  The best part of my week was my husband safely finishing a 2 12 month cross-country bicycle trip.  This is Della  from Chicago Ill. And the best part of my week was seeing my patient's joy after giving her a small gift. I have been working with her for two weeks recovering from a stroke. And on her last day of therapy I gave her a little plant and she cried tears of joy. She was so excited. She almost had me in tears. And then she named the plant Little Della after me.  I am going to tell you the best part of my two weeks which is my birthday. And my kids and my husband gave me the best gift a notebook. But when I open it up there were - the first three pages had coupons for me. And my daughter's coupon - she is 15 - said one hug .  Thanks for the show. I hope you had a good break.  And I look forward to listening to your show in my car.  I will talk to you next week. Bye.  Thanks to all those listeners you just heard there - Michelle Daniel  Margaret  Della and Leigh . Listeners as always we want to hear from you in this segment. You can share the best part of your week at any point throughout any week. Just record the sound of your own voice and send that voice memo to us via email at samsanders.npr.org - samsandersnpr.org.   All right this week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Andrea Gutierrez and Liam McBain. Our intern is Manuela Lopez Restrepo. We had engineering help on this episode from Gilly Moon. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. And our big boss is NPR senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. All right listeners till next time be good to yourselves. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  