 Hello hello. How are you all?  Sam what is up man?  Sam hi.  You know I am just like - it feels like we are living in three movies at once.  .  That is a good way to put it. No that is really good.  Oh my God.  Like a satire and a horror movie and a Spike Lee joint.   That is what I was going to say. I was going to say it is feels like a Mike Judge movie it feels like a Spike Lee movie and it feels like a Michael Bay movie. Like...   Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. Sam Sanders here. This week on the show I want to talk about what happens after that first wave of protests particularly what corporate America is doing. We are going to walk through some of the most absurd corporate statements given in response to this current moment. But first I want to dig into what the heck is going on in Hollywood. Just this week Gone With The Wind was taken offline Cops was canceled all in response to the Black Lives Matter movement. To make sense of that and a whole lot more let us bring in my distinguished panelists. This is really a dream team. Tonya Mosley host of NPR's Here  Now Eric Deggans NPR TV critic - so happy to have you both here. Welcome.  Happy to be here and always happy to talk with you and Eric.  Yeah yeah. Glad to be here. And I am here as a reformed Cops fan so ...  What?  Yo me too.  Had to disclose that.  And I cannot wait to dig into that.  Right upfront full disclosure.  First I want to ask you all how long this week has felt how long this year has felt. We were talking just before we began taping about how it feels like at least for me that I am living in three movies at once. What about you all? How are you all just doing right now ?  I mean well the days just - I do not know what day is what. I am like crawling through to Friday. But then does it even matter?  .  Time has no meaning for me right now.  Oh yeah. It is a mess. Well hopefully our discussion on this show today will give our listeners at least a little bit of comfort and understanding if not a few laughs. That is the goal. That is the goal. So with that let us get started. We have got to talk about Cops.    Bad boys whatcha want? Whatcha want? Whatcha gonna do?  You never know what is going to happen when the nation's attention is focused so clearly on one thing as it has been these last two weeks with Black Lives Matter and these protests against police brutality. I did not expect all that focus to have us ending up with Cops a reality show all about real cops on their beats that has been on the air since 1989 being canceled.  Sam.  How surprising was that for the both of you?  Well first of all can I say something that might be embarrassing? I am surprised that Cops is still on.  Right.  .  I had no idea that it was still a thing. It was such another lifetime when I watched it. I mean you say '89. Yeah the last time I watched it probably was like '95 maybe 2000.  Really? So what is interesting is it was on TV for a long time but there was another petition to take it off the air back in 2013 from Color of Change. And so Fox took it off of their air. But then it came back a little while later on Spike TV now Paramount Network. And this week Paramount said we are taking the show off the air. Their statement was quote 'Cops' is not on the Paramount Network and we do not have any current or future plans for it to return. Eric you cover TV.  Yes.  Did this surprise you?  It surprised me a little bit just because Cops is one of those shows where it has a - it has a brand name. It has a fan base. And it is cheap to produce. Now my sense is that Paramount Network had a bunch of sort of political - internal political reasons for getting rid of it. They were shifting away from unscripted programming and I think they are trying to create like a more highbrow version of television that appeals to traditional TV viewers. So I think you know the last thing they wanted was to have a show on their air that is getting all this criticism from civil rights groups anyway given that they are trying to make this turn into you know higher-quality fare. So I think it might have been an easier call for them to cancel that rather than you know Live PD which is this other Cops-like show that was on AE that was their most watched show and was one of the most watched shows on cable. And that got canceled too so.  Yeah. This is the thing that I really was intrigued by once I began to read into Cops. There is been study and reporting on how that show for a long time has disproportionately shown people of color as perpetrators of serious crime that it is glorified controversial and sometimes extreme police practices. There is a 2004 paper from the Western Journal of Communication but there also was a big podcast about this last year. And once you peel back that top layer a lot of folks say the producers of Cops would manipulate the video and the content to make people of color look worse and to make the cops look justified in being really extreme in how they treated people.  It is really interesting what you are saying about this study too because I will say when I became a reporter in the late '90s early 2000s I was a police beat reporter. And I do want to say shows like Cops probably did alter my thoughts on what police officers did. It was not until I started doing the ride-alongs and I realized just how boring it was the majority of the time.  Yeah.  So it is interesting about how much they doctor it but then how much it shifts and changes the perceptions the public has about police.  Yeah. Well I mean I have been thinking all week about you know police officer TV and movie content that I love and it seems like the throughline is convincing Americans that if a police officer's heart's in the right place they can do what they need to do to get what needs to get done done. I am thinking about the latest Bad Boys movie...  Right.  ...Which I love...  Right.  ...'ecause I love Bad Boys and I love Will Smith. Those are two cops who are black whose hearts are in the right place but they are breaking every kind of law to get what they want. And the movie is telling me that it is OK. And I am like yes it is OK. And I think...  Hey Sam.  ...That is what people are asking to be questioned right now.  Hey Sam. Can I tell you what I said after I left a screening of Bad Boys before it opened?  Yeah.  I said that was the stupidest movie I have ever seen this year.   That is what I said.   See but here's the thing. I love Will Smith so much. It does not matter what he does. I love that man. I do. But it is like...  Yeah me too.  I mean I like the performers but man come on now .  But - exactly yeah. You know like...  But you are right. You know you are very right. Like one of the big problems with a lot of cop shows fictional or quote-unquote reality TV is that they are centered on this idea that to overcome the problems with policing all you need is that righteous cop. But those shows are unwilling to admit that the system itself is so stacked against some defendants. The system itself is so flawed.  Yeah. All I know is they better not mess with Law  Order 'ecause people will revolt.  Right. Right. No no. Nobody say nothing bad about Law  Order.   At all.  Really?  At all.  Really? You do not want me to.  Do not do it Eric.  Do not do it Eric.  I already know you know some inside stuff and we do not want to know.  I will just give you a quick - I will just give you a quick - which is that when Law  Order first started it was very much trying to get at the systemic stuff.  That is true.  And you would see rich people who were guilty of crimes get away with it all the time. And I think what they realized was that people do not want to see a show that robs them of their confidence in the criminal justice system. And so they began to change it. And now it is much more a show where it is the righteous people trying to make a difference and the good guys usually win.  Well we are going to move away from that before you besmirch the name of Law  Order any more Eric.   Dun dun .  Now we have got to talk about Eric and Tonya what in the heck is going on with Gone With The Wind. This week HBO Max announced that it is pulling Gone With The Wind from its air which first made me pause and say oh HBO Max - that is a thing. I had forgotten.  Right.   But it was just - it was just the latest removal of programming in response to these protests sweeping the nation and the world over police brutality. I got to say this one made no sense to me. Did it make any sense to you all?  Can I say something before Eric takes this because I know...  Yeah.  ...He is going to take it? I have never seen Gone With The Wind.  Same. I do not want to see it.  And that is intentional.  I have heard too many bad things about it. I do not want to see that.  Yeah. I mean I know some of the - I know...  I think you kind of have to see it though.  Really?  But see the thing is you already know like some of the lines because it is just part of you know pop culture.  Exactly.  I think it is really interesting that they said that it may actually come back but with...  With a disclaimer.  Yeah with a disclaimer about this was a moment in time. But from my understanding it has always been problematic. It is just really interesting that this is the moment in time that we have decided that hey...  Yeah yeah.  ...Maybe this is not appropriate to have on our air for people to watch.  Exactly. Eric I want your thoughts on this. But first I want to read some of the backstory about this. So HBO Max made a statement to Variety magazine. And they said quote 'Gone With The Wind' is a product of its time and depicts some of the ethnic and racial prejudices that have unfortunately been commonplace in American society. These depictions were wrong then and are wrong today and we felt that to keep this title up without an explanation and an announcement of those depictions would be irresponsible. So basically they said we are taking it off temporarily. We are going to add something some conversation some disclaimer that gives context and then we will put it back. That is what really puzzles me Eric. Like that is going to make this movie OK now?  Well no it does not puzzle me. One thing to understand is that this has been a low-key controversy in the streaming wars.  Oh really?  When you have - yeah when you have these streaming outlets bringing all these libraries making them available to people you are going to be making available some stuff that is really old and in some cases really racist. So Disney for example...  Look at Disney. Look at Disney.  Disney for example - you know they had a bunch of cartoons that were problematic and they came up with a sort of boilerplate disclaimer that they put on certain cartoons and certain films. Now what I did not like about that is that Disney did not explain how they chose which shows or films got the disclaimer. The disclaimer was not detailed so people did not - had to guess what the material was inside the film that might be problematic or do a Google search or something I guess. And it did not prompt a larger discussion of how do you reevaluate films that people may cherish from their childhood but that now we realize had very troubling you know racial and ethnic language in it.  Yeah. Well also what is important to note is that you cannot get rid of this stuff once it is out there. Even after HBO Max pulled Gone With The Wind this week right after that it jumped to the top of the Amazon TV and movie charts and also went back into the top 10 on iTunes.  Got to love America.  No one can put these things back in a bottle.   So my question to both of you is does any of this stuff work?  Hey that is racist? Let me watch it.   But like seriously though.  Well maybe it will illuminate - I mean maybe it is not going to stop people from watching but maybe it will illuminate the issues in the first place? You know now we are having these conversations about it. People are interested. Obviously there are probably lots of people who have never seen it. And now that HBO Max has taken it off they want to see what the big deal is. I think there is some value in that.  Yeah. Last question for both of you on this topic. What I find to be the bigger problem in terms of corporate response to moments like these period is that these symbolic acts seem like a way to distract from and avoid the real tangible change that corporations can implement internally. Like how many of these companies are also talking about what they are doing to hire and retain more people of color to produce more stories by people of color to really look inside of themselves and see how their work as an organization is supporting these goals as well?  Well that is a big criticism.  Yeah.  And I think it is making many companies actually have to take a deeper look at their business practices. I mean Amazon was under fire after they announced that you know they were behind Black Lives Matter. Now they have given a donation. Now that - folks who work there are calling for them to take a look at the board. I mean there are all of these concerns and issues. And I can imagine if you are a person of color working for some of these organizations and you see that they have made these statements and you probably feel OK I am working inside of this institution and I know the realities that maybe it will be a call to action internally.  Exactly.  Yeah. You know I almost hate to use this cliche but yeah we can walk and chew gum at the same time you know? We can hold these companies accountable and also hold them accountable for the media that they are presenting for us to consume.  Yeah. Well I tell you what. Leave Bad Boys alone you all. Just let me have Bad Boys.   Let me have Bad Boys and Bad Boys II. Let me have Martin Lawrence and Will Smith please.  Those are my boys.  Anyway time for a break. Coming up we are going to stick on this theme of what in the world corporations are doing in response to all these protests. When we come back we will talk about which corporations have had the worst or most hilariously bad statements in response to all this stuff. It is kind of hard to pick one answer 'ecause there are just so many. So we will sift through that long list and find comedic gold. All right. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   So a production question.  Yes.  Would it be possible to slip the Law  Order ka-chung  in there anywhere?   I just think that would be so cool man.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders joined by Tonya Mosley host of NPR's Here  Now and Eric Deggans NPR TV critic - a dream team of a panel. Thank you both for being here.  Thanks for having us.  Yeah thank you.  Of course of course of course. You know we have been talking this episode all about how corporate America is responding to these protests. And I want to talk now a bit about all those strange weird offensive hilarious corporate statements that a bunch of companies have been releasing in the last week or two because I need a laugh and you need a laugh. And we are going to laugh and roast these companies right now by playing my favorite game Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  OK. Now in my head is playing a version of What is Up With That?  - the theme .  What is Up With That?  - yes.  What is up with that ? What is up with that ?  That would be even more fun.   Who said that doo-wee ?  Where is Kenan Thompson? We need him right now.   So I have gathered a handful of the strangest most absurd and most hilarious corporate responses to the protests sweeping the nation. And I am going to read some of these quotes and have you all guess what company said that.  They are so - some of them are so earnest. I mean...  Some of them Tonya.  .  Before we start I got to give a big shoutout to my play cousin Gene Demby over at Code Switch. He has been doing the Lord's work...  Has not he?  ...In compiling a list of these for the last two weeks.  Wow.  Thank you Gene. We borrowed from his list liberally.  He is the man.  OK you all ready?  Yup.  All right. I will say the quote. You tell me what company or corporate entity made that dumb statement. First when we defy hate we defy gravity. Who said that?  Some sort of airline. Some sort of...   American Airlines.  No.  Spirit.  It is a...  Spirit.   No this is an iconic Broadway musical in which one of the iconic lyrics from one of the iconic songs is defying gravity.  Oh my gosh.  Oh  let it flow.  Oh Frozen?   Nope. This is - it involves a witch.  Oh Bewitched.  Oh Wicked.   Wicked.  Wicked.  Wicked. What am I talking - Bewitched. Wicked.   So Wicked - one of the best songs from Wicked which I love and have seen on Broadway more than once - I am that guy. In my opinion the best song is Defying Gravity where they just sing and belt defying gravity.    I think I will try defying gravity. And you cannot pull me down.  This week in response to the protests...  Right.  ...Wicked the musical put out a photo of a green witch's hand locked in embrace with a white hand.  No stop.  And the caption was when we defy hate we defy gravity.  Wow.  See the way Tonya was with Cops like I am with Wicked.  Wicked is amazing.  They are still doing that?   I do not know who got that point. Does not matter.  Me .  OK. Eric says he got it. Eric you got it.  He got it. But I am coming for you.  Next quote - we are working with Fruit by the Foot on creating space to amplify that. We see you. We stand with you. Tonya you know this one.  We are working for Fruit by the Foot?  We are working with Fruit by the Foot on creating space to...  Oh Gushers.   Gushers.  Yeah.  This has been my obsession for the last several days.  I know.  Gushers - this is the very sugary tart candy for kids with like a juicy fluid fruit center. They have really been staunchly in support of black lives since this thing has popped off. And they tweeted something this - last week where they said and I quote there would be no Gushers without the black community. And I do not know why you all. That just sent me. That just really sent me.  See but I felt like their first ones...  You know what? You know what?  What?  Tart lives matter.  Tart lives - oh.  Tonya how do you feel about this? Because I love - I do love Gushers.  The thing about the messaging from Gushers - I think that was like the second tweet. But I feel like the first one - there was not much thought about it. It really was like hey we are going to say something. And I am going to tweet something - their social media person. I do not think there was - unlike the Wicked where they actually had graphics involved. Like they actually did - had someone working on that.  Yeah. I will say - so funny enough I actually heard from someone who used to work at Gushers. And they explained the thread and the tweets. And they said a lot of the folks that follow us on social right now are like actually teens and tweens. And we talk to them about like real stuff a lot and they actually get this stuff. And she basically said the message was for them and not for older folks. And they get it.  See I believe that.  So we stand by it.  Yeah.  I believe it.  Yeah.  All right. Next quote - keep fighting. We got your back - backside.  Stop. I am scared.  What kind of company deals with your backside?  I do not even want to...  Is it a jean company?   I do not even want to guess.  Is it like jeans blue jeans?  I could lose my job with the wrong guess here .  Underwear?   No. It includes water. They work with water in your behind.  What? A bidet?   Yes.  Stop.  Yes. TUSHY Bidet tweeted this week in support of the protest we got your back with side in parentheses.  Oh my God.  And as you can guess they were dragged for it. But then they responded and said actually a woman of color runs this account. She wrote it and she stands by it. I do not know what to think anymore.  No see I am offended by it. That would actually turn me off from the company 'ecause it is too on the nose.  Yup.  It is too ridiculous. And you know it is...  Too on the butt.   Can I tell you what else they wrote?  Go ahead. Go ahead.  They said quote we stand in solidarity with the brave pooping humans protesting and demanding justice.  Whatever. Next. Let us get to the next one.  .  Oh God.  Who won this game? I do not know. Corporate America did. That concludes Who...  Tonya won. Tonya Won 2-1.  Tonya won? All right. Tonya won OK. Tonya won. Congratulations.   Ooh wee. Who said that? Who said that?    singing Ooh wee. What up with that?  Thank you both for playing Who Said That. And to all the corporations listening we appreciate it but do better. On that note thanks to my guests Tonya Mosley host of NPR's Here  Now and Eric Deggans NPR's TV critic. Thank you all both for being here. Please come back again soon.  Yes. And thank you for this.  Anytime man.  This was the best laugh I have had in a long time.  We needed it. We needed it.  We needed it.  We sure did.  All right listeners while we have you here if you listen to this show and like what you are hearing or even do not like it rate us and review us at Apple Podcasts. It helps us in the algorithm formula thing or whatever. People will see us more if you do that. So do it. Thanks.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. Going to shift gears a bit right now. This year has been really hard for a lot of us with the protests and the pandemic and the uncertainty - everything. And usually when stuff gets pretty hard for me I look to my faith for solace and for answers. But in 2020 even that has been hard and it is making me reassess my faith and how it works for me in moments of crisis like this. And I know our audience is full of people from all different backgrounds and beliefs and faith traditions - atheists agnostics Wiccans everybody. It is a big tent and I like it that way. But I was hoping to find something spiritual-ish that would just you know provide some comfort and also energize you wherever you are coming from. And I really do believe that my next two guests can do just that.  I am Jacqui Lewis and I am the senior minister at Middle Collegiate Church in Manhattan.  OK. Angel.  I am Reverend angel Kyodo williams and I am a Zen priest by training and a teacher.  On top of being faith leaders Jacqui and angel are activists. They have been fighting for issues like health care and racial equality for a very long time. So on top of giving me a little pep talk for 2020 they first discussed this moment of activism. Jacqui runs a multiethnic church in New York City. Black folks Latino folks and white folks all go there. And she says right now the message she gives them on how to get involved and how to just stay sane through all of this it is not the same for everyone.  White people - nice white people - nice white people what are you going to do? You see a knee on a neck and you are like oh my God I cannot believe it is still happening. And black people - like we know it is still happening. It is just on tape. But the work is multiple-layered right? Sometimes black people right now the work might be we are saying to the black audience like just stop. It is OK to cry. It is OK to grieve right? It is OK to be still. It is OK to own your trauma. It is OK to sit down and drink some tea or have a glass of chardonnay or take a bath and rest and let somebody else run the race. That could be black work right now right? But - and white work is get in the game and turn to white people and stop pretending like you do not know America is racist. It is. And will you disrupt that?  Yeah. Yeah. All right. Reverend angel are you speaking to different folks that you work with differently based on their backgrounds right now?  Absolutely. You know people are rising up because people are tired of this and people are saying enough is enough. And the best thing about that sentence is that it is people that are rising up and it is not just black people that are rising up which you know quiet as kept these states were not ready for. They were not ready for white folks putting their bodies on the line. And what I said to black folks is you let them do that. You let them do that. When white folks are going to show up and put their bodies - because we have been trying to train them for a long time to not be allies but to put their bodies on the line to take some action. And then the work for black folks to do is go ahead and step behind.  Totally. In thinking about how the two of you help folks in this moment - congregants people you know people coming to you for wisdom for guidance - have there been questions you do not have answers for? And what are they? And how do you feel when that happens?   If you have answers Jacqui - if you have answers I want to - I am listening.  Girl you know.  .  Here's what is good about that kind of a God.  Yeah. Yeah go ahead.  I am going to say the God I worship. The God I worship is not a genie is not magic cannot be rubbed with my prayers or my tithes to give me the - my wishlist. The God I worship is a partner and is presence. And so what I am able to say to my congregants is a really big strong I do not know. And I say it like with freedom and joy. Like I do not know. We are on an adventure together in this life called human. And what we get in this life called human is good friends to be colleagues with and people to love and people to say what if with and to dream with and one of those partners is God. God is love. So today I had six phone calls with congregants - just how are you doing? I - it sucks. Yes it does. I am in pain. Me too.  Same question to you Reverend angel.  Yeah. You know I - a very core tenet of not just the sort of tradition at large but kind of the stream that I came through and really in my post-Buddhist post-Zen expression is not knowing and creating the conditions for myself and preparing people to be able to sit with the complexity the discomfort of not knowing. You know and in order to get to that place we have to unpack the myths. And part of unpacking those myths was seeing that we do have to sit with the complexity of the American dream that we have been sold - right? - and the nightmare that it is for so many people for so many bodies.  I am with you there.  Yeah.  Angel I am so with that.  Yeah. I - you know it is - for me what is been so hard right now - I know that a lot of the work is sitting still and looking for whatever answer might be within myself. But if I am being honest I do not want to. I am so tired and I am so angry. And especially for black people right now kind of what I want to say every day is I am not doing any more work. I should not have to. Why? You all do it. And I think there is this moment in which a lot of people who are tired have to be encouraged to continue to accept these notions and this comfort with uncertainty - and yet. What do you say to them?  I say you get to stop having faith today. You get to shut down today. If there is a God she is not going anywhere. She does not require your attention  for her to be existing.  Yeah.  You can turn away. You can sit down. You can cry. You can fold your arms. You can stomp your feet.  Yeah.  You can shake your fist. And why oh Lord? And please do because if there is a God if there is a loving other if there is something out there that is bigger than we are it learns from us too. It is dynamic and there is a - right? There is a transformation. So you be real and the holy other is real back. I say sit down Sam and do not do anything and be angry.  Yes madam.  Yeah.  Thank you. That is - yeah.  Do it.  Yeah. Thank you.  And if God cannot take that then I would make him a him.   When she is working really well she is a she. But if he cannot take it...   ...Let us fire him you know? I do not know .  Yeah yeah.  Yeah.  Well I think I have asked you all all the questions I have. This has been so good for me personally and I know our listeners will enjoy it. I love you both and thank you for what you do.  Good to see you.  Sam that is so sweet.   Thanks again to Reverend Jacqui Lewis and Reverend angel Kyodo williams for that sermon. I liked it a lot.   Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.  Hi. This is Helen  from Washington D.C. And the best part of my week was bringing home my new adopted daughter. She is home with us now as of Wednesday and we are really looking forward to being the parents of a teenager.  Hey Sam. This is Gordon  from New Haven Conn. I am calling you from the NICU with our newborn son Arlo . I am hanging out with him today and I figured I would give you a quick recording and let you know that we are doing all right even with all this terrible stuff going on in the world.  Hey Sam. This is Andrew  from Evansville Ind. And the best part of my week has been all of the social justice activism that I have been able to be a part of and in that all of my friends that are taking stands right now that have not taken stands before. They are drawing a line and they are saying Black Lives Matter.  Hi Sam. This is Sayah  calling from the Bay Area. And the best part of this very hard week was that I convinced my dad who is a conservative white guy to go to a Black Lives Matter protest with me. When I started talking to him about systemic racism and police brutality seven years ago he thought that all forms of protest were bad. I never thought that he would go to a protest with me. We have to keep putting in these conversations. We have to keep having these difficult interactions with our loved ones. People's minds can change. And maybe one day your dad will also go with you to a protest to hand out water bottles and granola bars. So Sam thank you so much for the show. And I am sending a big hug to your Aunt Betty.  Thanks for everything. Be well.  Have a great week. Thanks for all that you do.  Many thanks to all those listeners - Sayah Andrew Gordon and Helen. Do not forget all of you can be a part of this segment. Just record the sound of your voice onto your phone sharing the best part of your week and email that to me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. Now I want to give a shoutout to the people who are consistently some of the best parts of my week the team that makes this show. It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced this week by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Andrea Gutierrez and Hafsa Fathima. We had engineering help from Patrick Murray and Sean Phillips. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. And as we close I have got to pause really quick to say thank you thank you thank you to our first-ever and best-ever and most amazing intern Hafsa Fathima. This is her last week and you all she was so good we had to extend the internship. Hafsa it is really hard to overstate how much you have meant to this team and how much you have helped us grow during your time here. I love your sense of humor. I love your work ethic. And I forgive you for your bad taste in cereal. Please stay in touch and keep shooting for the stars. You are great. All right. Till next time listeners thank you for listening. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  