  Hey you all. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Sam Sanders here. Today and every Tuesday here on the show we are bringing you a deep dive - one interview one topic. Today we have a really fun and special guest Lena Waithe. You probably know her as Denise the best friend of Aziz Ansari's character on Master Of None. That is Ansari's Netflix show. So Lena Waithe has this amazing episode in the show which she wrote and stars in. It is the Thanksgiving episode. It is all about her coming out story as a black woman. It is just brilliant. I hung out with her in LA a few weeks ago at NPR's studios out there. And she was the sweetest. She showed up like 15 minutes early. She skipped breakfast just to hang out with me so I ended up buying her like a bag of Doritos and some fruit snacks from a vending machine. We had a great chat. She talked about her new Showtime series all about Chicago. It is called The Chi also talked about Dear White People. It is another Netflix show that she produces. We talked about how she got from Chicago to Hollywood and went from being an intern to an assistant to a writer to a producer to an actress. There is so much here. I hope you love it. I did. Here's me and Lena Waithe talking on a recent Saturday morning in Los Angeles.   There we go.  I smell Doritos in this house...  You want some?  No no I do not. I am more of a cooler ranch instead of nacho cheese.  Oh those are like - that is...  They are good yeah.  ...A black man's...  .  OK I got you.  Yes yes yes.  That is blacker than this.  Black - no OK what is even blacker - oh I got the blackest snack item for you.  What?  My mom growing up - I do not know where the hell she found it...  Pork rinds?  Microwavable pork rinds.  OK what? I have never heard of that.  Like the way you microwave popcorn you microwave pork rinds .  OK I want that as well.  Do you?  I mean well I am like...  .  ...In our writers room - and I - this shows how black our show is...  Yes.  This is The Chi.  Brent's going to get mad at you again for not being on the mic.  Oh . OK.  I know. I know.  .  There we go.  Let me do it - feel like I am on Breakfast Club.  .  DJ Envy be like talk into the mic. No we have pork rinds. We actually have spicy pork rinds in the bag.  What kind of spice?  I do not even know. It was just like hot pork rinds. I - but I am telling you you say that...  They will stink up a whole room.  They do. They are awful. But you put one of them things in your mouth and you are just like...  .  ...OK there is a heaven. There is a God and he exists.  You are here - what is it? - Saturday morning...  It is a Saturday.  Five till 11. You are like kind of working right now talking to me. If you were not in here how would you be spending your Saturday? What is your usual Saturday routine?  Oh man. It is so funny because - look here's the thing. A lot of people know this about me. I am very much in love with my girlfriend.  Oh what is her name?  Her name is Alana Aisha Mayo.  I love that name.  Such a good name.  Yeah.  She is like - it is like a Doug character.  .  I am very lucky to wake up to her every day.  I bet.  So like this morning - I got in late last night. I did a belated birthday dinner last night. So yeah I woke up to her. And like we were sort of snuggling and being silly. And trust me. If I was not coming here like I would probably still be in the bed like goofing around with her...  .  ...And like watching MSNBC or something. But we have family in town right now...  OK.  ...Her brother and her cousin - a couple cousins and her other cousin are here. So I came downstairs to like three black boys hanging out...  .  ...You know on the couch. And she is sitting there. And they are - what did they have on the TV before I left? I do not know something. But - so I would be kicking it with them figuring out what we we are going to do for brunch.  Sounds like a lovely Saturday.  Yeah. We try to - she is gotten on me about keeping the weekends pretty clear...  Yeah.  ...Just because - even though after this I am also going to go sit with Justin Simien and help him with his like next project.  What is the next project?  I cannot say...  OK all right.  ...Anything about. It is like top secret.  He is the mastermind behind Dear Black People.  Yes Dear White People although white people want a Dear Black People because  about black people...  Did I say Dear Black People?  I know.  What the hell?  Because you are sitting in front of a black person...  .  ...And you are feeling very black right now.  So black...  Yes. He is the mastermind...  ...In my Marfa Public Radio shirt.   I know. We are very hipster.  Black as hell.  We are black hipsters right now.  Let us talk about your blipster  outfit. I am loving this.  Oh are you...  Is that a puka shell necklace? Not quite. What is it?  This was a gift from someone - or maybe I bought this. I do not know. This was - me and my girlfriend and I have these little gold necklaces with like our nicknames on it. Mine says Cheese Ball because that is what she calls me which I am. And hers has her - my little pet name for her which I will not share.  OK OK.  And then a Melody Ehsani ring which is sort of like a big sort of like costume thing that says rich which to me I think about being rich in spirit you know...  Yeah.  ...Versus like you know just about the money and all those kind of things.  What does rich in spirit mean to you?  Oh balance...  Yeah.  ...I think and having a village of people that really celebrate you even when there is not something in particular to be celebrated. And also to be happy to be doing what you were put on this planet to do.  Yes. And then it is also like being OK with being happy. I was telling someone yesterday...  That is real.  ...Like the last month or so for me just has been good - professionally personally life has felt good. And like you know when things are good? You are like oh this is too good. Something bad has to happen...  Oh that is...  Why are things this good?  My girlfriend has that.  Really?  She sometimes does that.  Yeah.  I have tried to like - I think she might say because I am sort of - she might say I am the optimist and she is the pessimist. But I think we have rubbed off on each other a little bit in terms of - and I think - but I do not know if she would say she is a pessimist. She is a realist.  OK.  And so I think that creeps in a little bit. And for me I am just sort of like yeah but how - happiness is fleeting.  Yeah.  So it is like when it comes like...  Savor it.  ...Sit in it because - you know what? - if you always are waiting for the other shoe to drop it will.  There you go.  Like shoe's going to drop. That is going to happen.  . OK so let us talk about what we are here to talk about. Before Master Of None you were out here just trying to be a writer - not an actor. So how did Aziz happen and Master Of None?  Aziz happened because after I - while I was on the set of Dear White People the feature I got a call from my then-manager that said Allison Jones wants to have a meeting with you...  And this is like a legendary casting director.  ...Mind you I did not know who she was. I did not know - I did not know casting directors.  She is cast everything. Well she cast Bridesmaids.  She cast Freaks And Geeks.  She cast America's The Office. She cast - did she cast Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air?  She did.   It is amazing.  She did. She is like got a crazy resume but I just did not know - I did not know that. I was - and he was like she is a pretty famous you know casting director. And I was like why would a casting director want to meet me? I am not like casting anything. So - but he was like I do not know. Just - you should go. So I was like OK. So I went. And sure enough she had sort of seen me in interviews and seen some of my work. And she was like are you interested - do you have any interest in acting at all? And I was like not really. I was like not particularly.  Yeah.  And she was like OK well let me bring you in for some stuff. And I was like...  How did you feel when she told you that?  I was like OK.  .  But we had a great conversation.  OK.  We were talking about TV. She has great taste and things. So we just - so I just like - we just connected on that level.  Yeah.  And sure enough she did. She brought me in for a couple of different things. And then one of them I booked which was a small part on The Comeback season 2...  OK.  ...Which was one of my favorite shows of all time.  Yeah.  So I was very hyped about that. And Michael Patrick King directed me. I spent the afternoon with him and Lisa Kudrow which was phenomenal.  Lisa Kudrow seems like she is like always just hilarious.  She is a genius person.  Yeah.  She is a genius person.  Yeah I love it. I love it.  Like...  Yeah.  ...Genius.  .  Yeah so then I guess one day Aziz and Alan - because she was obviously casting their show - they asked her to send them interesting people for like - to talk to not even like really read. So by the grace of God she mentioned me. And I went to Aziz's house and sat and talked to him and Alan for like 30 minutes. Like I did not have - I did not know he had a show. I did not know what it was about. I did not...   Was just like go to his house.  Just go to his house and talk to him. And that is why I was like well it is coming - the meeting is coming from Allison's office...  Yeah.  So it has to be an acting - but I am like...  It is a casting.  ...But I am not reading anything for them. It was very strange.  So they just had you talk about you?  Yeah. We just talked about what was going on in my life. I had just fallen in love...  What did you tell them?  ...With my girlfriend. So I was like well you know made out with her. Now she is my everything...  .  ...That is happening - and just being silly and just being myself.  Yeah.  And then I got a call after that to say OK Aziz wants you to read with him.  OK.  And so then I finally got some sides. I did not get a full script but...  OK.  ...And so - and I asked like can I play with the script? And they are like yeah sure why not?  Like write some stuff on it?  Yeah write some stuff just to add some things to give it some flavor or whatever.  Yeah.  So I did. And so that meant that Aziz was not aware of what I was going to say back to him when I sat down to read.  Oh.  So I come in - now we are at Allison's office.  Yes.  And I am sitting with Aziz. And Alan Yang is there and Allison's there. And it is somewhat of an empty room which is always preferred you know when you are auditioning. And so I started with him and we are going. And he is just like cracking up at the little things..  .  ...I am saying and I am saying back. And...  Yeah.  ...Alan's laughing. Allison's digging it. And you can just feel from that moment like OK there is something here. It is so cool too because Allison has somewhere on tape like me and Aziz reading together for the first time.  Really?  And I would love to see it because like it is - I mean you could just feel - like there is just a natural...  Yeah.  ...Kinship there.  And you were not scared.  No I was not.  OK.  Maybe it was because they let me play with the words myself...  Yeah so it was you.  Yeah. And then we ad-libbed a little bit...  Nice.  ...One of the scenes where Aziz just kind of starting riffing and I just kind of started going with them and...  Can you recall a certain ad-lib?  Yeah one of which was like yeah man - like I remember saying THOT.   For listeners who do not know - this is NPR - those hos...  That ho over there.  ...Over there.  That ho over there which we bring back in the Thanksgiving episode...  Yes. Kym Whitley says it beautifully.  ...And Aziz has a great little comeback. It is an acronym.  .  It is so great. Oh it is an acronym. I remember watching that with somebody and they were dying. They are like it is an acronym yeah. It is so funny. So I said that and he cracked - he is like the fact that I was actually explaining something to him that he did not know...  Yeah.  ...While we were ad-libbing...  I love it.  ...Because now he is kind of like I am genuinely having a conversation with you again...  Yes yeah yeah.  ...Like in this scene.  Yeah.  So that was that. And then - and I remember like making a joke about like you need a - like do not date a Cassie. You know you have got to find you a Cassie.  Like P. Diddy's Cassie?  Yeah.  She is beautiful.  She is gorgeous. But I will tell you something. I was like if you can get a Cassie - if you can get a Cassie that means you are set for life .  .  And he was just like what? He was like who are you right now? So then we came - then I came back and I read again. We were a little bit more on-the-book that time.  OK OK.  And then next I got to call to come test.  Yeah.  Which is like really awkward. You go in. They film you and all these people are there. It is crazy. And then like not even like a week later they called and said we want you to come be part of the show.  And they gave you the role of Denise which was originally meant for a white straight woman that might have been his love interest.  I think they did not - all they knew is they wanted a girl in the crew.  OK OK.  And I think - when they - when thinking about that girl I do not think they necessarily thought she was going to be black or that she would be a lesbian.  Yeah.  But I think - such kudos to them because I think they met me and they were like OK well...  She is the one.  ...Let us alter the role to her.  Yeah.  And I think they kind of thought oh that is actually an interesting perspective of like - even though - because I think it would have been cool if they had a straight woman kind of giving like a perspective from the other side. I think they kind of have that with Lakshmi who is now in season 2...  Oh yeah.  ...A little bit more. But I think they kind of got a kick out of it. But I remember coming in for the first table read and they still had not decided. And Aziz was like...  If you are going to be straight or gay in the show?  Yeah. And Aziz was like well we are thinking maybe she will be a lesbian. And I was like I am not mad at that.  Yeah. Would you have felt comfortable playing a straight woman?  Totally because I think it would have been funny you know what I am saying?  How so?  Like my cadence and my vibe or whatever - I am not going to like wear like a skirt...  Yeah.  ...Or that kind of stuff.  Yeah.  So to me it could have been - and also too there are some women who are more masculine than feminine...  Yes.  ...That are straight you know.  Yes totally.  So I would not have minded.  Yeah.  But also to - looking back at it now - and this did not really come up in our conversation. But we were not aware at the time of how little representation there was of queer people of color on television. So in doing it you know I think we got a couple of rounds of applause about it but it was not conscious. It was just sort of oh this is who I am...  We like you. Come on do you.  ...This is how I walk in the world. And they were like we respond to this.  Yeah.  And that is why it was so cool that the reception of the character - especially in the first season obviously second season too - has been so warm and kind. And people just really like - they just really like Denise.  All right time for a quick break. We will be right back in a moment with more from Lena Waithe on how she got her start in show business.   OK so we will get back to Master Of None a bit later. But first let us go back to how you got started in all of this Lena. I was reading somewhere that you decided when you were 7 years old that you wanted to be a TV writer.  Right.  One...  I know.  ...Talk about that.  How weird is that?  I am trying to think my 7-year-old self. Could I even conceptualize someone writing that stuff?  I think for me - well I definitely asked a lot of questions as a kid. But I think a big thing for me was I was so obsessed with television. And not in a way...  What shows?  I mean here's the deal. I grew up - I am 30 - I just turned 33. So I was very lucky in terms of when I was a kid - I was born in '84.  So was I.  Oh OK. See - so it is like - so in the '90s like that era is like...  Yes.  ...When I am like you know really hyper-aware...  Yeah.  ...Of what I am watching and all that kind of stuff. And we were kids. We did not have that weird thing about no screens until this age please.  Oh we were like no TV during the week.  Oh my mom - I was raised by a single mom. And I lived with my grandmother so my grandmother watched TV 24 hours a day. And my mom was like off at some job...  Yeah.  ...Or on a date with somebody at any time of the day. So - and my sister was two years older than me so she kind of was doing her own thing. So I really spent a lot of time watching TV with my grandmother and then watching TV by myself. And my aunt was - my mom's sister was also a big avid television watcher.  Yeah.  She was also really into movies. So she kind of like would take me to go see movies that I was like way too young to see. Like she took me to go see Love Jones when I was 12. Like I saw...  Oh Love Jones gets hot and heated.  Oh yeah. I was 12. But because it was shot in Chicago she was like you should watch this. I saw Ferris Bueller when I was really young. She took - My Best Friend's Wedding I remember going to see that in the theater.  That is such a good movie.  Yeah. And a lot of it - she really got hyped up on things that were shot in the city where I lived in. She would take me to go see those movies and go like they shot that here sort of - almost creating this weird interesting pride in my city and also the production there. And I am so happy because I think my mom was like look there is stuff happening in these movies and TV shows that you should not repeat and you should not see or should not know. But just like look I am not going to be a hover parent. I do not have that luxury...  Yeah.  ...So like you can watch it. And also she - my family would curse around me. And she was like just do not repeat it but of course I did. And I would...    And I am really grateful because I know how to curse and I know how to be. And I think they really kind of gave me a certain level of swag like watching all those things. Going back to it I think watching - obsessed with A Different World obsessed...  Yeah.  ...With The Cosby Show in a real way as I got older I really got into mimicking like Martin Living Single because...  Wait wait wait wait you cannot say mimic Martin and not mimic some Martin.  Oh my God. I mean to...  Give me some Martin.  Well here's the deal. I like to do a lot of his - the characters he would do...  Sheneneh is my...  ...One of which was Sheneneh...  OK. Can you do Sheneneh?  OK here we go. So this is her.  .  So whenever she goes and cuts that corner and sees her not-two-favorite people which are Pam and Gina. She is like well looky  look...  .  ...If it is not little miss bourgeoisie uh-huh Gina. OK. And you should back up because you know what a good ass whipping feels like yeah because I do not like you no way. OK. I got Piston tickets OK front row.  .  Oh you want these tickets? Oh you want these tickets? OK you got to come work in my shop for a whole day. I mean...  You are good.  She is like three two one - deal is off deal is off. I mean I would just like...  .  It just never...  That was - can I just give you snaps for that real quick? .  Thank you. I appreciate that. I would like - if Alana my girlfriend was sitting here right now she would be like this is my life on a daily basis.  .  Like I am obsessed. And I think that is honestly - because a lot say you know did you want to be an actor? And I really did not. I had no aspirations of...  You wanted to write.  Yeah I wanted to write. But I think what the acting thing is sort of borne out is me watching things and mimicking them. Like in...  OK.  ...And sort of saying - and literally a character say something on TV and I would say it back to them. That is what I would sit and do like as a young person. It was like - watch these things again...  Yeah.  ...And again and again. It was like repetition.  Yeah. So then OK child growing up in Chicago loving TV wanting to write walk me through how you get to LA.  I got to LA through Columbia College...  OK.  ...Because they have something called the semester in LA. And because the truth is...  OK.  ...Obviously people that go to Columbia have aspirations of being in some sort of - well not all. But they have a major where you can major in writing and producing in television which I majored in. And a lot of it they are really trying to get people to go to Los Angeles. That is sort of their mission. You know if you are a television writer screenwriter they are like there is only so far you can get it in Chicago.  Yeah.  The cool thing is there is a lot of production happening in Chicago now so a lot of those students I think are getting a lot of gigs...  It is a good place to shoot.  Yeah. They shoot - yeah...  It looks like a city.  Oh yeah it looks like a city.  Such majestic architecture.  Yeah it is great. And my family's still there. My home base was there.  Where in Chicago?  Well I grew up on the South Side of Chicago.  Yeah.  I lived with my grandmother. And then we moved to Evanston.  So very different experience.  Very different experience but my mom went there for the schools like literally you know...  Yeah.  ...She was like we have got to - you cannot keep going to school here.  Were you like the only black kid in a class in Evanston or no?  No. We were definitely the minority.  OK.  But it was a mix.  OK.  It was predominately white. But you know we had Latino kids Indian kids Asian kids. So that was a really cool thing actually...  Nice.  ...The fact that it was diverse in that way.  Yeah.  And you know we loved it. I went to middle school there and I went to high school - I went Evanston Township High School.  So then LA. So...  Yeah.  So what semester were you in LA - like sophomore junior senior?  My last - it was my last. I made it my last semester...  OK.  ...Because a couple of them had done it like junior senior year and they would come back to Chicago. But I remember one girl - because she had done the semester in LA and she loved it.  Yeah.  And she was like my advice - make it your last thing because that way you stay out there...  And can keep working.  Exactly. And she was like - because she did it and then obviously came back and told me all about it. And that kind of made me go I kind of want to do it - Mary Stanislao . She did it. And so she was like...  What is she doing now?  She - well I think she is back in Chicago. But she was out here for a while. And that is a tough thing. It is a - you know it is not lost on me that I am very blessed and that my journey has taken me to - and also you know my drive has got me to where I am.  Yeah.  Because a lot of people who are out here and like you know...  That is the LA story.  ...Go back. I mean - can I tell you like a real thing that happened...  Yes.  ...Like some real ...  Yeah.  ...That was like something out of a movie? So in the semester in LA there was a guy who - and we actually both went to Evanston Township High School.  Oh wow. Did you know him there?  A little bit.  OK OK.  We did not run in the same circles. But you know I knew - so we saw each other and we did the semester in LA together.  Oh wow.  And - but he was more of an actor than anything else. He was trying to - right. So we did the semester - that was in '06. Fast forward to a couple of weeks ago I have people over. And yeah you know I had some folks over my house some friends. And we Postmated  - we Postmates you know just Postmate some food. My Postmate's guy was him.  No.  It was...  Wow.  ...I mean it was just such a thing. And I...  Oh my goodness.  ...And we did not like really - you know I mean we - not really like...  Did you like - were you like dude?  I was just like oh hey. And he was like hey.  Because like what do you say in that moment?  Nothing there is nothing really you can say. And it was just - it was such a jolt of like oh my goodness. I think for me and him for both sides. You know it is just like - it was just - at like my crib. And he could see - it was just like a whole - it was just like something out of a freaking movie.  And it is so LA because like...  So LA dog.  I live in D.C. now and like...  OK.  ...If you want to work in politics you could find a job in politics. There is something there for you.  Right.  Like you can staple someone's papers in some office somewhere right?  Yeah you can get a job.  So like you are going to get a job. But in LA if you want to work in - like if you want to act it is just a...  It is just a combination of luck God talent.  Yes yes yeah. And so LA is full of these brilliant beautiful motivated people serving you food and drink.  Yeah.  It is such a weird thing.  Yeah.  It is such a weird thing.  And everybody has like got a - because very few people are from here. So it is like most people like you know you start off well I am from so-and-so. I have been out here for so many years. And also too there is no seasons here so like time flies by. And you know it is just - it is the kind of city that can swallow you up if you let it.  Exactly.  And I was just determined to not you know swallow it up. But I remember before I came out here a lot of my family - like one my uncles - one of my gay uncles - I have two.  Blessed. Two gay uncles I love it.  Well we never said - well we never said the word gay ever. You know at Thanksgiving we never said the word.  Yeah we are going to talk about that.  I know so crazy. And one was a hairdresser and one was a flight stewardess but like never never ever had any spouses or anything apparently.  And the family was not like so...  No.  Just not discussed?  No.  One literally is a hairdresser. The other is a flight attendant and no...  I mean when I say that people are like are you joking? I am like nope. They both still do that by the way. But they are more like - and it is like like play uncles in that like one of them used to do my mom's hair. So he would come over for - and the other is like the brother of one of my aunt's boyfriends.  Gotcha .  So you know it is like - but you know - it is like they would be - I am like OK. But you know I still have to say when I was leaving he was like you are going to go out there and really you know run the town. And I was like really that is the vibe you get? And he is like yeah. And so I was like OK. So just like little things like that and like my professor at the time who like read a Girlfriends spec I wrote in his class. And he like winked at me before I walked out. He was like yeah you have got something.  And you ended up writing for Girlfriends right?  No I was an assistant to one of the showrunner's over at Girlfriends.  OK OK which is like one of the best shows of all time.  I mean come on. I was writing spec scripts for that show. Like I knew it like the back of my hand.  Yeah it is so good. And like I hate that we live in a country where we love series sitcoms dramas about women friendships Girls Sex And The City. The list goes on.  Yep I am trying to get one on the air myself.  Yeah. Why cannot we acknowledge that Girlfriends was one of the best there was?  Dude.  I feel like it is so slept on.  I know. I think - and it is because - maybe it is because of the network that it began on.  Was it UPN?  Started on UPN and then turned into the CW.  Oh yeah.  You know it is hard you know when you are on a network like that I think one people sort of like do not take seriously. But that being said it is like pickups to Mara for like really like pushing and trying to make something smart interesting...  And it was really smart. It was really smart.  ...Yeah - and just like special and timely. And people still mess with it.  Oh yeah. OK so you are here for the semester.  Right.  Does it work out well? Like do you land the job as soon as that is done or what? What is the timeline?  No you land an internship.  OK.  You - that is easy to find. You know like you know - actually I do not know I think...  Unpaid or paid?  Not paid. And then - and then I started working reality television which a lot of people do to like you know - because - and by that I mean I would watch footage of like The Real World Australia and just like transcribe what was happening so the editors could pick and choose from like different cuts. And like...  Woah.  Yeah. That is what I did for like a couple years because...  So were you just like I just went to college for this?  Just from 6 p.m. to 3 a.m. I did that for like got to be like a year and some change.  Did you like that?  You know I liked the people that I sat next to. And like you know what I am saying?  OK that is diplomatic .  It was like you know - it was just such a - but you know also I liked the fact that it finally was a job that I could pay my rent and like my stuff. It was very - it made me independent. And then during the day I would intern again for no pay at this literary agency.  Oh so how many hours were you putting in?  Oh man the literary agency was in Beverly Hills from 9 a.m. to 5. The transcriber job was in the Valley. So that is an hour drive to 6 until like 2 3 in the morning. Go to bed and go back.  And then you had to be back at work at 9.  Yeah and I just was like...  And just on that 405.  Oh living there. I just - but I just remember like I know this is going to pay off at some point. Like I mean that is a big thing for me. And I do not think I was even - were even really able to - well on the weekends I would try to like write and whatever. But I was just like this has to - I have to be good at what I am doing. Otherwise this is just like torture. This is cruel and unusual punishment.  So then what happens after that?  What happened was the agency that only repped  television writers - this is a very unique agency. But it is also a good starter agency for a lot of like television writers who have got some skills. I was like I hope they will like me enough that they will give me an assistant gig working for one of their clients or something. Sure enough one day in the office I am like at the front desk doing what I normally do. And they go OK so the woman who runs Girlfriends needs a new assistant. They are like do you want to - we can get you an interview. And I was like OK. So I went in and I was just like very confident because I knew the show. I was like I remember sitting in - and I was like none of you all know the show better than me - none of you all. And one of them was a young lady who I am friends with now but was like - was the writer's PA the year before. Like she was up for that gig. And I beat them. I got out.   They were like you got it. And so - and that is when it all began. That was my journey like being on that set and like doing all that and just like - I was in heaven. Like I am like walking Tracee Ellis Ross' dog. I am sitting at the .  Wait what is Tracee Ellis' dog's name?  Well her dog - this dog has since passed away. But her name was Ladybug.  For those who do not know Tracee Ellis Ross - you would recognize her as Diana Ross' daughter. She is also the mom on Black-ish. She was also on Girlfriends. And she seems like the coolest nicest person in the world.  She is really sweet funny gorgeous like very you know - to be raised in the way that she was...  And be as centered as she is...  ...And to be as like grounded and like in touch with folks is like I think a real testament to her mom.  Yeah anyway this as not about her. This is about you.  .  Girlfriends and then what?  I got a call from Mara's assistant.  So Mara is Mara Brock Akil one of the lead producers on Girlfriends.  Mara's assistant - you know her then former-assistant - said hey you know Mara's best friend needs an assistant. And she recommended you. And I was like oh snap 'ecause I have been doing work directly from Mara. Mara would just see me on set running around.  Yeah. Yeah.  And her best friend of course was Gina Prince-Bythewood. And she needed an assistant for her post on The Secret Life Of Bees.  And Gina Prince-Bythewood is another great female director. She did Love  Basketball also Beyond The Lights.  So I went interviewed. It was phenomenal - at her house - met her. You see like the poster of Love  Basketball and like all this kinds of stuff.  Oh wow.  And so I went interviewed and started working for her. And she is been like my you know industry mother. She always used to joke well I had y