 Let us start the show. It is the last week of this season of Invisibilia. It is a show about the invisible forces shaping human behavior. In their final episodes co-host Alix Spiegel and Hanna Rosin are looking at the concepts we have about ourselves. Who are we really? Is there one true version of the self? And this image of who we think we are how does it limit us and push us to do things we never thought we could? You can listen to Invisibilia in the NPR One app or wherever you get your podcasts.  I love that show. I am going to miss it.  It is too early in the day for introspection on that level right now.  It was some real deep questions.  Yeah who are we really?   Hey you all this is Sam's Aunt Betty. Today's guests from The New York Times reporter Katie Rogers and one of the hosts of NPR's All Things Considered Ari Shapiro. All right let us start the show.  Amazing.  I love your Aunt Betty.    I have even better than I was the last time baby. Ooh ooh ooh I am good.  I do too. I do too.  Thanks Aunt Betty.  Yeah.  Wait do you get a theme song?  I will going to tell you all about this. I pick one every week.  I mean...  Hey you all Sam Sanders here It is BEEN A MINUTE. You heard Aunt Betty. Now you are hearing Chance The Rapper. We will talk about this song and her and so much more but first welcome. Ari Shapiro Katie Rogers you are here for the first episode.  The first.  This is incredible. I have been waiting months for this show - for my ears. And now I actually get to be here.  Oh my goodness.  Here we are.  I am so glad you guys are here.  Thanks for having me.  Yes.  And congratulations on your newborn podcast.  I appreciate it.  Amazing.  You both were around for the piloting phase. Ari helped us out in the earlier process...  Yeah I am surprised it did not get killed after my participation.   This is Katie's third appearance.  It is.  I am so happy to have you guys here.  Third times the charm.  Yes so Aunt Betty does the intro for us. She loves us. She loves you all Thanks Aunt Betty. And also we do not do theme music on the Friday episodes. We pick a different song each week. I picked this song. It is called - I am not going say the name of that song because it is a little risque. But it is the intro to Chance The Rapper mixtape called Acid Rap. And I love this intro because Chance says over and over and over again in it we back we back we back.   We back. And we back. And we back. And we back.  And the choir sings the words even better than the last time.    Even better than I was the last time.  So like fitting for today.  Here's hoping.  Here's hoping .  And you are back after having been away from the podcast space for so long.  A little bit.  I missed you on the Politics podcast.  Thanks Ari.  I am glad I got you here now.  I am glad that you guys are here with me. I want to explain what the show is to folks that might not know yet. A lot of folks rocked with us in NPR One for several months. But for those new to this let us talk about it. The show is called It is BEEN A MINUTE. And that basically is another way of saying let us catch up. And that is what we are trying to do in the show every Tuesday and every Friday. This is a Friday episode. It is a weekly wrap. We talk about the week of news and everything in the culture - the highs the lows the fun the serious. The Tuesday episodes are what we are calling deep dives where we talk with one person or have a long chat on a single topic. This first Tuesday episode dropping next Tuesday will be with one of my favorites Lena Waithe from Master Of None.  Yes.  Oh who is your dream Tuesday?  Kate McKinnon.  Oh Kate?  That was quick.  Oh I know.  Yeah.  You got that at your fingertips.  I know. I know yeah. And so those Tuesday episodes we have a lot of good stuff lined up - Tim Simons who played Jonah from Veep filmmaker and actress Zoe Lister-Jones Harry Styles' record producer Jeff Bhasker. And Harry Styles - side note - a lot of people heard for a little second Harry Styles' voice in our trailer for the show.  Oh.  And some folks on social media were saying the Harry Styles episode of Sam Sanders' podcast drops on Friday.  .  Actually no.  Sorry.  Nope you got Ari Shapiro instead.  No this is better. But it is just like for those that came for Harry stay for the rest of it OK? Do that.    I am better than the last time baby.  I am better than the last time yeah.  Love you Chance - really do. Anyway the way that we start this show every Friday I ask my friends who are in the booth to sum up the week of news and culture and all this stuff in three words. What are you all's three words?  It is always W-T-F every Friday.   O-M-G.  Every Friday is...  W-T-F.  W-T-F.  Fun my life.   Fun my life.  Fun my life.  Yeah it is good.  Fun my life a podcast.  OK I am going to start with something uplifting. My three words are summer has arrived.  Yeah.  Because this week was the summer solstice the longest day of the year in the northern hemisphere. And I had a flashback to a few months ago. I went to Tunisia. And I was in this little town called Testour where they are famous for making soft cheeses there - kind of like a ricotta cheese but Tunisian.  Love it.  There is a mosque in Testour that was made in the 1600s. It was partially built by Jewish immigrants from Spain so the mosaic tilework has a - Jewish stars in it. And in this mosque in Testour that is centuries old there is a window in the outside layer and another window in the inside layer. And on the longest day of the year the summer solstice the setting sun goes right through the one window through to the other window and hits the inside wall of the innermost room of the mosque.  Wow.  And so I was there like in March. But this week during the summer solstice I was imagining this place in Tunisia that was built centuries ago and thinking about the brilliance of people before there were sophisticated technological measuring devices...  Yeah.  ...And the collaboration of the Muslims and the Jews that made this place.  I love it.  So it was like a little moment of - quite literal sunlight.  Yes I love it.  Well I can understand how you have had a successful career in radio now.   Yeah that is it.  That was very impressive.  Shut it down. Thanks for being here for the first episode. Ari take us out.  But no I am going to go back to W-T-F.  What the fudge.  Fun.  What the fun.  No it is just been another crazy week. And I think the weirdest part is that it just felt like a slow week too where it is like...  But it actually was not.  There is like - it is like sustained energy and insanity so...  Well because like this week there is a lot going on with the state of the health care bill moving its way through the Senate. And this is a big deal. It could change the very American health care system that we enjoy right now.  One-sixth of the U.S. economy.  Yeah. But at the same time when all of this news is happening I found myself at several times this week on Twitter being like yeah yeah. Another day a turn. You know it is like I am having a hard time figuring out when to take everything seriously if that makes sense because it is so much all the time.  It is like the noise. You do not - you do not catch the big stuff with so much noise.  Well the word that keeps coming up over the last seven months is normalization. And things that used to be...  Yeah. Normalizing for sure.  ...Considered extraordinary are now considered routine. And so how do you modify your internal measuring tools? You cannot be a five-alarm fire all the time. And yet things that five or 10 years ago would have been considered a five-alarm fire are now just another day.  Tuesday. Tuesday. Exactly exactly. No it is so true. My three words for the week are likes do not matter.  Likes do not matter.  Likes - let me set this up. We saw this week Donald Trump in more than one way kind of win. A Republican maintained hold of that - Georgia's 6th District. Democrats put some 30 million in to try to win it - still lost. Donald Trump and Republicans' repeal of Obamacare is one step closer to actually making it. And what I feel like I see is that regardless of his approval or disapproval he is got the numbers on the board to get stuff done. I think a lot of Democrats and a lot of liberals...  Numbers on the board just meaning majorities in the House and Senate?  That - he has those numbers and he has his base still right? And so I think that a lot of watchers look at Donald Trump and say oh my goodness. His approval rating is at 36 percent.  Well how does...  Does not matter.  ...How does likes do not matter factor in?  Because his likes overall do not matter.  So you are not talking about Twitter likes. You are talking about approval ratings.  I am talking about approval. Yeah. It does not matter because as long as he has the base and he has the House and the Senate he is fine.  I take your point but I also think it is too early to say for sure because health care has not passed. The wall has not been built. An infrastructure plan has not been presented. There is not a tax reform proposal on the table. And so it is true that you can count special election victories and Republicans have now had five of them. But in terms of...  And Trump was not an emphasis on that.  ...Big legislative accomplishments...  It is not there yet.  ...Many of the Day One promises have not been kept. His travel ban has been struck down in every single court that has heard it. So I take your point that a low approval rating does not mean you will get nothing accomplished but he still has not gotten really big things accomplished.  That is true.  And then there is also the tapes fiasco.  Right.  Are there tapes? Are there not tapes?  I mean the interview this morning was off the charts...  Which interview this morning? I did not even - I am behind.  With Fox - was it last night or this morning? Fox And Friends.  So yesterday he had this very careful lawyerly tweet that said I did not make tapes. I do not have tapes. And then he did this Friday morning interview on Fox where he spoke much more fast and loose as he is wont to do. And it is going to be interesting to see how his making these sort of off-the-cuff remarks instead of the more lawyerly vetted remarks he made on Twitter Thursday are going to play differently.  To close up this loop on likes do not matter we cannot forget Donald Trump according to Gallup and their tracking polls of his approval - he is never been approved by a majority of the country and he still won the presidency.  We do forget that.  Well that is the nature of our electoral college.  Yeah. Yeah. OK. All right. Now it is time for sponsored content. We got to read a sponsor note.  You get to read sponsorships?  You all are going to read it actually. It is in a envelope. Katie has not seen it before but Katie is going to take it out and read it now.  Oh man.  You can do this. I cleared it with her bosses Memmott everybody.  All right.  My bosses?  Yeah.  Who?  Do not worry about that. .  Oh OK. Thanks. Thanks. Thank you to my keepers. OK.   Do I go now?  Yeah.  This is the first time guys. OK. Here we go. Support for It is BEEN A MINUTE comes from Cake Smash. Have you ever turned on the news and thought I am not going to feel better about the world until I get to smash a cake? That is where Cake...   That is where Cake Smash comes in.  Is this real? Keep going.  Can I write about this?   Keep going.  Our freelance cake delivery specialists will bring you a six-tier buttercream wedding cake with exquisitely handcrafted floral elements. And you will smash that cake...   Really stomp it to pieces until you feel better about yourself. Eat it or do not. We do not really care. Cake Smash - let them smash cake. What a great - what a great product for 2017.  So fun...  Amazing.  I know right. So...  Can I subscribe to have like a monthly cake delivery?  Yes. Cake Smash.  Is there an Instagram feed of this? Because that is my first question.  I am going to burst you all's bubble. This content - this copy...  Is it fake?  ...Was written by a comedy writer for NPR Travis Larchuk.  Man.  I love Travis Larchuk.  So he wrote our maybe-not-true ad copy. Thanks Travis.  Travis I tried really hard on that one. So thanks.  You did well.  False start.  You know Better Call Saul - actually this is not appropriate for public radio.  No do it. We will cut it if we need to.  There is a plotline - there is a plotline in Better Call Saul involving blackmail about somebody who really likes to see women sit in pies.  Oh my God.   And so - this is the AMC show that was a spinoff of Breaking Bad.  Yeah.  Yeah yeah yeah. Anyway so when you read about - when - when you are talking about Cake Smash I am just...  You are like OK.  ...Picturing this episode of Better Call Saul.   What are you drinking?  Oh is that not allowed?  No it is fine.  Iced coffee.  Bourbon.  With a little bit of bourbon.  There is almond milk in there.  Coconut.  Coconut - I can tell...  Yeah.  ...When there is not real milk in coffee because the brown is different....  How do you do that?  How do you know that?  ...The brown is different.  Wow.  The brown does not look as creamy.  Can I tell you my favorite summer beverage that I have been drinking all summer long?  Yeah.  Aperol spritz?  Over ice - espresso tonic orange bitters.  Whoa.  Wow.  Yeah try it. It is amazing.  That sounds amazing. This makes the cut so America can hear it.  Yeah.  All right we are almost ready to go around the table and each share a new story from the week that we care about. But first a thing we do every week - it is called long distance.   Little bit of Drake. We call a listener somewhere outside of Washington and ask them what is happening in their neck of the woods.   Today on the line we have a listener in Georgia's 6th District near Atlanta. Her name is Gynni . Gynni are you there?  I am here.  Hey Gynni. How are you?  Hi Gynni.  Hi Gynni  Hello everybody.  Wait is it Ginny  with an I or Jenny  with an E?  With a Y thank you very much.  Oh.  Ooh.  Ooh.  .  So you are hearing the voices of myself my good friend Ari Shapiro who you probably know...  Hi.  ...And my other good friend Katie Rogers at The New York Times.  Hello.  Awesome. Hello.  So you are in Marietta Murietta . How do you say it?  No it is Marietta if you are...  Marietta.  ...Being proper. And if you are...  OK.  ...From around there it is Mayretta .  Mayretta.  Mayretta.  I like that.  I like it.  Yeah.  I like that. So this call was a bit strategic Gynni. I think most listeners know what I am going to ask you about. The big news story was that special election in Georgia's 6th District. Tens of millions of dollars flowed into that district. Republicans won it. Were you affected by all of the hullabaloo around it?  Yes because actually the best thing that happened to me this week is that election is over.   No more TV ads.  Yeah.  Well it was the ads. It was the phone calls. Dinner hour - we just literally stopped answering the phone.  Really.  Wow.  It was probably somewhere between six and 10 calls a night.  That much?  That is insane.  I just do not...  Yes.  ...How is that considered effective messaging when you are just bombarding an already bombarded public? Like what actually got through to you I guess would you say? Did anything?  I would say nothing.  .  Yeah right.  I mean to be honest Ossoff - we are a Democratic household...  OK.  ...To be quite upfront about it.  And Ossoff was the Democratic candidate.  Yes. And I think the Republicans know it because a lot of the phone calls that we did get that were live people were from Ossoff's campaign. I do not think they did that much robocalling.  This is usually a safe district where you do not get a lot of political advertising. So do you now have a new level of empathy for voters in Ohio or...  Yeah.  ...Florida during a...  Yeah.  ...Presidential year?  .  Maybe you guys can start a support group.  Absolutely.  .  Absolutely because we were just not interesting to anybody  otherwise.  Well because that district was red for decades right?  Well it still is.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And I am sure you all know this but the district went 1.5 points for Trump and 23 points for Tom Price.  And Tom Price the Republican who won that seat in 2016 he then joined the Trump administration.  So they are really able to differentiate between presidents and local representatives.  Totally.  Gynni did this change your relationship with your neighbors at all?  No because my village is my subdivision. I live in suburban Atlanta...  OK.  ...OK? And this is subdivision world. You have to get in your car to go anywhere. And your world is your subdivision in many ways. And I have been living with my neighbors since Newt Gingrich was speaker of the House.  From your district.  Well he represented the district yes.  Yeah.  You learn to live with your neighbors because everyday life is not politics. There is still swim meets. There is still tennis matches. There is still women's groups . There is still the party at the end of the summer at the pool and you still hang out at the pool with your you know beer and your cans and talk to each other.  So as so many of us these days are living in our red and blue bubbles what advice do you have for people who might not have the experience of living in a 6040 neighborhood?  Right.  You know I am also Unitarian and we have a phrase that says you need not think alike to love alike.  Oh.  There is always common ground to be found. And you know people that I know have known for 20 years that I know are die-hard conservative Republicans that when we start talking issues we do not see eye to eye there is plenty of other things to talk about. And these people are not evil bad horrible human beings. They just see things differently.  Gynni you are the best.  That is great advice Gynni.  .  Wise words that we all need to hear today.  That is such a nice note to - yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah and we need to go to a swim meet.  Yes.  .  So what are you going to do this weekend to have fun? Last question.  I am going to do a tennis match. I have a tennis match tomorrow morning. We hope it does not rain. We are beginning to think we are Seattle but hotter.   Much rain.  There is nothing wrong with the Pacific Northwest...   Where is Ari is from.  ...Says the Oregonian.  And since I live in the South and we like our bourbon I am definitely having a bourbon cocktail that does not involve espresso .   She did.  You did not like that idea?  I like it. I like it. Let me tell you Gynni you made my day. I would - next time I am in Atlanta I am looking you up OK?  You got it.  Answer the phone when he calls.  Yes yes.  Good luck at the tennis match.  It is not a robocall.  Yeah. Have a great weekend.  You too all. And...  Bye Gynni.  ...Get outside the Beltway. It is good for you.  Oh...  Bye.  ...Thank you. That is the best advice yet.  Gynni is the real MVP.  Good way to kick off that segment.  Yeah that was good.  So three words should be go - wait.  Go see Gynni.  Leave the Beltway.  No three words are go see Gynni.  Go see Gynni.  Go see Gynni.  Yeah yeah.  All right now it is time for a real break. We will be back to swap some stories from the week.   All right we are back. Time for Story Swap where we each share a story from the week that was that we either reported ourselves or that we liked a lot. Katie we will start with you.  You are starting with me?  Yeah.  OK well can I just throw a wrench in the whole constant talking about politics for a minute?  We would love for you to do that.  Please.  Yes we love that.  OK which means I am going to talk about...  Did you bring a prop?  Oh she got...  No I just printed out some things.  Is that a PowerPoint?  I actually printed out something just so I can like - I have notes because I am a reporter. And I - that is what we do allegedly.  I would call those receipts.  Yeah so there is this guy - so I do not know if you guys have ever been to New Mexico. I have. I did a road trip through the Southwest a few years ago where I drove through Texas and then up through Mexico like went through Roswell up through Santa Fe drove to Albuquerque on the Turquoise Trail.  I have some distant cousins from Albuquerque.  It is probably my favorite place that I have ever been in America...   Wow.  ...Because everybody's got something going on in the background of what they tell you. Like there are people who own art dealerships that will not give you their like full name or their full story.  Oh wow.  And they are like I dated Janis Joplin. And it is like no you did not.  .  Yeah.  Like their like - everybody's like a little bit like New Mexico-ish .   Like we have all seen Breaking Bad. I mean I am not saying that they are...  Meth dealers.  Right I am not saying that they are meth dealers. I am just saying that...   No shade.  ...I am just saying that everyone's got a back story for sure.  A side game yeah.  A hustle.  Yeah.  And so this story caught my eye this week. The New Mexico State Police are trying to pressure this like antiques collector slash like treasure burier to stop this treasure hunt that he has been holding based on a book he wrote. Have you heard of this?  No.  Oh his name is Forrest Fenn.  Wow.  He is like an 86-year-old New Mexico eccentric. But in the past few years two people have died hunting for this treasure.   What is the treasure?  .  It is sort of like pieces of silver. It is like assorted pieces of things that add up to like a big...  Just buy you some gold on TV from those commercials.  ...A big payday.  Wow.  And so the police - a pastor was recently - his body was recently found. His name was Paris Wallace. So the police are saying please make this safer on people.  I am going to pause so I get it correctly crystal clear. This random man in New Mexico is burying treasure for other people to find and giving them clues about it?  Yeah. And he is not...  And people are dying when they are looking for it?  Yes two people have died.  Why?  .  Because this is the most American story in the world though. I mean it is just - there is something so American about it that people are...  Yeah dying.  ...They need...  Do you remember when geocaching was a big thing where you would like...  Yeah yeah.  What is that?  Geocaching was like when GPS was pretty new you would give coordinates for where you had hidden a thing.  Yeah.  And pretty much wherever you were in the country or really all over the world you could like go on these geocaching sites and find...  Where it is.  ...The place where the thing was hidden. And it usually was not a valuable thing. But sometimes it would be like a book that you make some art in and leave the book there. But it was like a kind of treasure hunting thing. And there were concerns about people going off...  But you knew where to go?  Yeah.  ...Trails and over cliffs. Right right right. You had like GPS coordinates.  You had like - you were attached to like - yeah - a network.  So what kind of clues does this guy leave?  So he wrote a memoir. And it is based off of a poem in the memoir. Part of the poem is  so hear me all and listen good your effort will be worth the cold. If you are brave and in the wood I will give you the title to the gold. So that is part of it.  Jesus.  And then he gets a little bit more specific like where the water ends. Like just - there are verses of the poem that are - people are trying to add up to find this stuff.  And two have died so far?  Yeah two. But there is no proof that...  A treasure is actually there?  Yeah.  That is the twist. There is no treasure.   Right.  The call is coming from inside the house.  So police asked him to stop. What did he say?  Well so my colleague Jonah Bromwich covered this for The Times a couple days ago. Fenn has said I am considering modifying this to make it safer. And I will have an announcement in a few days.  How do you make it safer?  I do not know.  .  And the police are making the point that you know some people when they get excited by these things they get desperate. And please do not encourage it.  I hope this story ends well. And wow that is creepy.  I actually emailed this man.  Did he write back?  Not yet. But I was like - I just said how - how are people - why do you think people are taking you at your word ?  That the treasure exists.  You know like I really want to hear.  If I were to make my own treasure hunt the rules and clues would be very simple.  .  The treasure is hidden at the end of my student loans. Pay them off.  .  Right? Like...  And I will give you my podcast .  The treasure was inside you all along.  All along.   You are the treasure.  That is like The Christmas Story  when he is doing the decoder ring - drink more Ovaltine. OK?   I love it. I love it. Ari you are up.  Well I went out this week on a really tough assignment in a boat on the Chesapeake Bay.  Oh your life.  First week of summer...  Cool.  Because...  How was it?  It was beautiful.  OK.  We saw like rays - cownose rays they are called swimming in the water...  Like stingrays?  Yeah yeah...  Wow.  They are like stingrays. But I learned they are actually not technically stingrays. But they are like stingrays.  Yeah.  We talked with crabbers. We talked to scientists. We talked to farmers because the Chesapeake Bay has been the focus for decades of this big national cleanup effort. Hundreds of millions of dollars has been spent on it.  How dirty is it?  Well it is actually getting clean.  OK.  I mean last year and the year before were the first two years since measurements started being taken that there was no dead zone at all. And a dead zone is when fertilizer runoff and other pollutants cause an area of water with no dissolved oxygen in it. And so fish crabs grasses cannot live in that dead zone. And so since the early '80s there had never been a year without a dead zone. And last year and the year before were the first two years ever they measured no dead zone. The crab population is booming. Even ancient prehistoric sturgeon which used to flourish in the bay and were nearly driven to extinction are now spawning in the bay again. So...  What caused this change?  This is actually the debate.  OK.  Everybody agrees that the bay is now cleaner...  Yes.  ...Than it is been since this started. They disagree over what is responsible. There was this big EPA program. Farmers would get federal funding to plant buffer crops between their fields and the water. If developers industrial plants farmers did not engage in environmentally friendly practices then there would be consequences. And so at one point this Chesapeake Bay cleanup was seen as a potential model for like a future Great Lakes cleanup plan or a Mississippi River cleanup plan. Now the Trump administration wants to take the 73 million bay cleanup budget and bring it down to zero. And so...  Because they are probably saying it is clean now.  Right and they are arguing as some people will agree that you can do this voluntarily. You do not need the carrots and the sticks. You do not need the federal government to get involved. When people see hey look there is more tourism there is more fishing there is more crabbing everyone will say great let us just do these things voluntarily without putting the federal money behind it.  Wow.  Wow.  My question is like how does this debate fit into a larger climate conversation post-Paris? Trump said the U.S. will withdraw from that accord. That was a few weeks ago now.  Yeah. So I actually went to Paris and covered the climate summit.  Yeah.  So I have been reporting a lot on that specific issue. And I think what these two things have in common - the Chesapeake Bay cleanup is not specifically about climate change. But you see the action on climate and on environmental preservation generally moving from Washington D.C. and the federal government to states and cities. And so I mean...  That is a really great example of just how this is effected in a community that a lot of people care - like the Great Lakes where I am from.  Yeah.  It is like there are a million stories right now about how the lakes are basically under assault. Like barges pull in these species that then attack the life - the fish...  The invasive carp...  Yeah.  ...And the zebra mussels.  Exactly.  Yeah.  Exactly.  Well I mean also because we have seen since Trump left Paris a lot of mayors and governors are saying do not worry we will do it on our own.  Yeah...  Yeah.  ...There was a fascinating article this week about Canada's approach to dealing with the U.S. and making deals state by state...  Going around.  Governor by governor...  Really?  Yeah yep.  ...Mayor by mayor...  Going around the federal government.  And in fact Justin Trudeau the prime minister of Canada had this interesting tweet after Trump pulled out of Paris saying that he was very disappointed in the federal government...  Federal government.  ...Of the United States. Rather than saying the U.S. decided to pull out he said the federal government decided to pull out.  They are making that distinction...  Yeah.  ...Between like Americans and their government in a way...  Yeah.  ...Which is very...  In the same way that voters in Georgia's 6th make a distinction between Donald Trump and their Republican in their district.  Karen Handel.  Right yeah.  Very interesting. What was your favorite animal on the bay?  Oh that is such a good question. OK well there are two ways to answer that question. One is these incredible rays that I mentioned. Their mating dance is basically like swimming in tandem. So we saw two of them...  Wait do it again.  They are like going...  So they just...  ...Back and forth...  They are schwack  surfing.  Yeah yeah.  Oh my God. They schwack surf.  And their wings come out of the water. And so you see - like the way we could spot them was this little splash in the water. Their wings are coming out and these two rays in tandem are doing this like dance at the surface. It was beautiful.  So flirty.  Yes.  So that was my one favorite animal. That - my other favorite animal was at the crab shack where we went for lunch.   There was some very delicious blue crabs. And that was darn tasty.  What is your story Sam?  So I had a story run this week all about whatever happened to upworthy.com.  Oh I love this. You had the best headline ever.  The headline basically was like Upworthy used to be the biggest growing website of all time. You will not believe what happened next.  Yes.  Oh.  And so for months I would been obsessed with Upworthy and like what happened to them because they literally were the fastest growing website ever around 2012 2013.  Yeah.  They revolutionized and graded the Upworthy headline which...  The narrative headline which is not an old thing. They brought it to...  They just brought it back.  ...Brought it to .  And so after a series of changes to Facebook's news feed algorithm their traffic crashed. It went from like reaching 90 million folks a month to less than 20. And the company pivoted afterwards. They hired more writers had more original content. But - and they are still here...  Less click-bait.  Less click-bait and they are still here. And their CEO told me he was like yeah we made click-bait. I admit it. But besides that story itself being interesting and the folks at Upworthy being one so resilient and actually out to like do some good - because the whole mission of Upworthy was to have uplifting content right?  Right.  Besides that the way that Facebook treated Upworthy offers some clues as to the way that Facebook will treat other sensational headlines - I mean fake news.  Fake news.  So the whole question of Upworthy is how will Facebook deal with sensational headlines? And what Facebook told me and has told other folks consistently is that we will never make a decision to remove content just on our editorial whims. We will never say we do not like this stuff so you will not see it anymore. What they will do is react to user's behavior. So with content like Upworthy's they could see a few things. One lots of people clicked that content but they did not stay there a long time. And two lots of people clicked the content but did not share it. And so that let Facebook know that that content was not valuable. It was clicky  but not sticky. And that is why the algorithm changed.  But the thing about fake news is that it is going to require top-down solutions from companies like Facebook. And it is also going to require bottom-up solutions from...  News people.  ...News consumers...  Exactly.  ...Making smart decision