  Hey you all. From NPR It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am Sam Sanders. Today - a conversation about a new show on Starz. It is called Vida. So Vida centers around these two Latinx women characters. They are brought back to their old Los Angeles neighborhood in East LA after their mother dies and they are forced to deal with all these old wounds.    Emma I saw her in May and she did not look sick. She looked fine. She was...   Hold up. Did you know?   What - that she was sick? No. I was as surprised as you were. I swear to God.   You apparently knew that she had a random roommate.   Well that is because I actually talk to Mami - talked to Mami.   Please. You calling Vidalia anytime you are short on rent is not exactly talking is it?   What is wrong with you? Our mother is dead.  Those voices belong to Melissa Barrera and Mishel Prada. And they play these two sisters Lyn and Emma respectively. This show - I mean it - it has it all - family drama racism fluid sexuality Spanglish gentrification or as they call it gentefication. We will tell you all about that in a bit. And we also talk about a question they have asked themselves. Are they gentrifiers in the communities that they have settled in? A heads-up to parents for this episode - if you normally listen to the show with your kids Vida covers issues about sexuality and sex and our conversation does as well. We get into a fair amount of that. All right. Melissa Mishel and I were together at NPR West because we all live in Los Angeles. One more note - please forgive my horrible Spanglish. I am trying to get better. All right. Enjoy.   We should have both of you ID yourselves for our listeners so they can tell you apart.  I am Melissa Barrera and I play Lyn.  And I am Mishel Prada and I play Emma.  You guys beat me here by like 25 30 minutes. I am sorry for keeping you waiting.  We were early.  We were early.  You were early.  Yeah. But the good thing was that we like got here at exactly the same time.  Yeah.  Oh yeah?  So...  So where did you guys come from?  I am in Studio City.  Oh nice.  And I am in Echo Park.  OK. Cool cool cool cool.  Yeah. How about you? Where are you?  I live downtown.  Oh OK.  And it is crazy because I was watching the show thinking the whole time about how I am gentrifying downtown.  Yeah.  You know? Like I live a block over from the LA Flower Market two blocks from Skid Row.  Yeah. That is right there.  Yeah. And like all these coffee shops are coming in. And my building's this old building that now has these redone lofts. And I am just like oh yeah I am doing it too.  Yeah.  And your show deals so much with that. And I love how it is very specific to LA and how that is happening.  Yeah. It is very important to shed light on what is the current situation of the community...  Yeah.  ...Because you do not see that.  Yeah.  When people see East LA in movies or in TV shows it is usually just like oh it is like a dangerous like part of town and like it is criminals and - but you never - you do not get to see like the beautiful part of it and the magical part of it and the community and the struggle that they are facing.  Yeah.  And it is specific to LA but it is happening everywhere.  Everywhere.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And there are - the truth of it is a lot of the time stereotypes are there for a reason. There are drugs and gangs and you know guns and stuff like that. But most days there are not. Most days there is a community and families and people just sharing food eating flan just trying to get by experiencing hope and love and joy and pain the same way that all of us are.  Yeah.  So that is something that is just so incredible to get to see. And Meli  always calls it a love letter to LA.  Yeah.  And there is something really beautiful because we are getting to show these neighborhoods in just a really beautiful way with the chaos and the - you know it is not always - the streets are not always clean or anything.  Yeah.  But there is something really beautiful and very connected about that.  Totally totally. I want to describe the show but it would take me paragraphs because I have so much to say about it. Describe this show for our listeners in 30 seconds either or both of you.  OK.  Well I feel like you are really good at it.  OK. Well Vida is a story about the community in East LA. But it is - it revolves around these two sisters that we play that have escaped from the neighborhood that they grew up in. And they have to come back because their mother dies and they have to bury her and deal with the inheritance. But they come home to discover a huge secret that she was hiding that she was actually married to a woman. And that unravels a series of confrontation between them because they do not get along. And they start - you start like seeing what these women are hiding and...  Yeah.  Yeah.  Emma the older of the sisters is actually queer. So it is a huge like you know...  Just a battle because Emma was sent away when she was younger for kissing another little girl. And of course when she comes back and has to face the fact that her mom who is a very traditional Mexican mother has been married to a woman...  Yeah.  ...For the last few years. And then on top of it they have to share their inheritance with this person - the one thing that their mother left them.  Yeah.  And it just - it crumbles them and leaves behind then not really an inheritance - this crumbling bar...  Yeah.  ...This thing which essentially ends up being this gift that she gives them because it allows them to come back and find family and find connection that they did not feel that they had.  And find themselves really because...  Yeah.  ...They were both lost. Like even though at the beginning - because it is very interesting because I feel like well you can tell us that because in Episode 1 you think you know these women.  Oh yeah.  Like you meet them. And you are like oh I know this girl the party girl the carefree girl. And I know this one like the uptight like...  Yeah.  ...Career-oriented...  Businesswoman.  But you start getting to know them really - like pain...  You are thrown for a loop.  Yeah and...  You are like oh I did not expect that.  Yeah.  And all of the characters also have that as well because if you look at Eddy she is this butch lesbian and you expect her to be really tough.  Yeah.  But she is probably...  She is a softie.  ...The softest out of all of them...  She is going through it.  And then you look at La Pinche Chinche Marisol played by Chelsea Rendon how that - you have this idea of what that looks like. And also she is - they have all - are presenting themselves to the world in a very specific way. But then when you look at Mari she is actually being controlled by so many of the men in her life and in her life does not really have as much power as she has online.  Yeah.  So there is something really incredible about taking these stereotypes and in the pilot presenting them very strongly...  And break them down.  ...In the way that they represent themselves and then just turning that on its head and really digging in and unpacking what makes these people tick.  Yeah. This is a show that is purposefully very queer very Latinx. The entire writers' room is brown from what I understand.  Oh yeah.  The showrunner and creator is a person of color. It is brown top to bottom.  The heads of all the creative departments are women of color and that is also something that we are so proud of.  How different is that of an experience of making the show as compared to other shows that you guys might have done before that were not that? Because you were doing soaps in Mexico right Melissa?  I am - I have been working with brown people all my life.  .  So - but this was a smooth transition for me.  Yeah.  And I did not realize how big of a step it is for the industry and how...  American industry.  Yeah for the American industry...  Yeah.  ...For Hollywood for American television. Now like I am - on the streets - or the other day I was out and this woman came up to me. And she was like I just want to thank you for what you are doing. And she got emotional.  Yeah.  And I was like this is a - this is really big. This is much bigger than ourselves. This is much bigger than a show.  Yeah.  Yeah.  It is a step in representation in television...  Yeah.  ...For a lot of people that have never been able to see themselves on TV.  Yeah - and never seen themselves in such a multifaceted manner. I think...  Yeah.  ...There is a lot of content about Latinos.  That is stereotypical.  But it is one-note.  Yeah.  And it is like immigration or this and that. And it is just like very simple and pat and straightforward.  Yeah.  And this has layers.  Yeah.  Yeah. And you see very - a lot of different versions of these characters because even with us diversifying the Latinx stories and really seeing these - all these women are so different there is still so many more stories as well.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And that is what is incredible. But I know for me growing up - you know my parents were immigrants. And - but growing up as an American being born in the United States it...  Where are your parents from?  Well I have - a bit mixed - but Dominican Puerto Rican Mexican. It is kind of all over and then...  Got you. And you are from Miami right?  I am from Miami from Hialeah...  Cool cool.  ...Which is a neighborhood that is very much a Latinx neighborhood.  Yeah.  ...And then leaving LA realizing also that there are - what you were saying - communities all over that kind of have these little pockets...  Yeah.  ...That are founded by this Latin American communities where these people do not completely feel American...  Yeah.  ...And do not completely feel from the countries that they are from whether it is Mexico or Dominican Republic or Colombia or whatever. And we realize that that is very common. You know you have the San Gabriel Valley or just all over. And that is what is exciting as well is with getting to show this story because going back to the specifics of the different women and how many nuances there are within the community.  Yes.  And not only like - not only in the emotional sense and in the - in their history and in their stories...  Yeah.  ...But physically. We come in all shades and in all sizes. And it is so important to showcase that too because it is - so many times we have run into like I do not know like a breakdown. And they are asking for the voluptuous sexy Latina. And I am like why do I have to be that?  Yeah.  That is not what we all are.  Yeah. And colors.  It is important to represent that. Yeah.  Yeah. There are black Latinos and white Latinos.  Yeah.  Oh yeah.  And that is a reality. Yeah.  Yeah.  It is all there. You know part of the show - a big part of the show is the tension within this community over gentrification. And you used a specific word for it. You call it gentefication.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Melissa define what that is and what that struggle is in the show.  Well gentefication is the idea of it does not have to be an other to be a displacer. So people within the same community...  Yeah.  ...Are displacing...  Displacing their community.  ...Their own people.  So it is Latinos displacing other Latinos.  It is Latinos...  Yeah.  Yeah.  And that is gentrification. Yeah.  That is gentrification and that is gentefication...  Yeah.  ...By your own gente your own people.  Yeah.  And you see that with Nelson. Nelson is you know the villain.  He is shady.  Yeah he is shady.  Oh he is shady.  Nelson's trying to buy the bar.  He is trying to buy the bar. And he has singlehandedly...  Gentefied?  ...Transformed - gentefied - blocks of East LA.  And it also brings up a really important thing which is predatory loans.  Yeah.  Because this is something that - it is not like oh we want to sell our building so let us make the money. You know the building's worth more so now we get this money and we get to go on vacation. No. Less than 20 percent of the people in these neighborhoods own their houses.  Yeah.  And they are being completely displaced. And LA has gotten so expensive that I do not know how anybody affords to live here now you know.  Yeah.  So - but yeah. And then through this extra shady way of predatory loans giving loans to people that are never going to be able to pay them back and...  And then owe more than what the home is worth what the bar is worth.  Exactly. And I love that that gets brought up because that is a very real thing. And it takes advantage and preys on people that do not know any better. And it is like giving them help. But it is...  It is not.  ...So horrible. And that is a very real thing that developers are doing.  I really appreciate it how do you guys approach this topic because so often when you discuss gentrification in the media it is very binary. White people coming in brown and black folks being pushed out. They are mad. The white folks win. And it is like no the story's much more layered than that.  And that is what is really great I think about having an all-Latinx writer's room because we get to turn the eye on ourselves.  Yeah.  One of my favorite scenes is the La Chinita sign.  Yeah.  Because that is something that is very specific that we can kind of call each other out on things.  Yeah tell folks what that means.  The bar that our mother owned is called La Chinita and the kind of funny - but only because it is true and it is actually not really that funny - is that it is called La Chinita which is little Chinese girl. But there is a geisha imagery on there. And it really....  And no one Chinese is at the bar.  No one Chinese is at that bar.  .  No. And it was actually a Japanese man that owned that bar.  That owned it.  Yeah.  And they were like we did it to honor him.  Not quite.  And it is a really common thing because I know I have had that conversation with my family. And I have come from that idea as well not growing up around a lot of Asian people.  Yeah.  So everybody's chinos. Everybody's a Chinese person. And that kind of - Emma leaving the neighborhood really is able to be exposed to a lot more diversity and decides that that is ridiculous.  That is offensive.  And that is not OK.  Yeah.  That is kind of racist. And there is something really amazing about us being able to call each other out on that and have that conversation.  Yes.  And then the response is like well it is always been that way. And it is like but then...  You can change it.  ...What about the Confederate flag?  Yeah.  Like things like that. You know it is like we end up with that same mindset.  Yeah.  And we have to call each other out on that stuff so that we within the community can change.  Yeah. All right. It is time for a quick break. Up next the stars of the Starz show Vida - Melissa Barrera and Mishel Prada. They talk about their romantic relationships on the show and some sexual stuff. So this is the part about sex that I warned about earlier. If you are listening with kids might want to skip ahead for the next 10 minutes or so. All right. BRB.   You know watching the show it made me kind of shine the lens on myself because I am like all right I am a person of color but yeah I am also gentrifying too. Then I thought back to where I have lived before in D.C. and Boston here now. I have gentrified everywhere I have gone back .  Yeah.  Like does this show make you guys look at where you fit into how some urban neighborhoods are changing?  Yeah.  It is very delicate subject. Honestly we have been asked this in interviews and I know that we are shedding light on it. We are showcasing it because it is real. It is happening. And we need to be aware of what is happening. But I do not know that it can be stopped.  Yeah.  It is sad that this is happening and that people are being displaced. But also it is happening because there is a demand because people are coming in because jobs are being created and...  And since the beginning of neighborhoods neighborhoods have turned.  Yeah.  People have moved in and out.  Well and I think I love that we are having this conversation because I think that the show creates the conversation. And each person has a very distinct point of view.  Yeah.  And it does not answer it because there are people in the neighborhood that if you do own your house maybe you are benefiting from it or maybe - you know Emma brings up with the birria restaurant. Maybe that restaurant could use the money.  Yeah.  And maybe that person there that is vlogging about it is going to make it - make them have more money. So maybe that is not a bad thing.  Yeah we should break down that scene which is hilarious.  Yeah.   So there is this like taco restaurant that has really good goat tacos.  Yeah.  It is goat tacos right?  Yeah. Birria.  Birria.  Birria is like stew right?  Yeah it is a stew.  Like a goat stew. Yeah. Yeah. I want to say it right. I am so bad with - birria.  Birria.  Birria.  Birria.  Birria.  Yes.  OK.   All right. So there is this white vlogger with the camera guy outside of that restaurant saying...    Birria is a total steal at 4 a bowl or 1.50 for a taco. It is the...  And then Mari the activist who is against all this kind of stuff she is like...    Cease and desist  Becky.  She is like white girl get out of my neighborhood.    I see you. I see you trying to Columbus our . But birria do not need discovering - all right? - because birria's been here.   We are just here for the food.   Oh what do you think they are shooting?   No seriously it is all good.   Seriously it is not all good you...  I believe she called her a Warby Parker B...   ...To be exact.    You better get to stepping.   Chill out. Come on.   Get the  out of here.   Oh is she about to jump them?   No come on. This is none of our business. Besides it is two against one. It is fine.   What is it to you pinches gringas? Keep it moving.  And then your character comes in and says...    Why are you being such a bully?   Who you calling a bully? I am out here defending my neighborhood all right?   Have you even considered that maybe this birria restaurant could use the business? When was the last time you went in there and bought a plate of birria?  Like this is eternal struggle I think when you see neighborhoods transition. Like in black neighborhoods that are going through changes sometimes I ask myself well do you want that neighborhood to stay depressed to not have a good grocery store to not have parks to not be safe at night? Like in some ways change for these neighborhoods might be good.  Yeah.  But maybe there is a way to do it consciously...  Yes.  ...Where you are able to maybe teach that the woman selling tamales on the side of the street hey you know what? Here's something in place to teach you business so that you are able to then have two tamale carts and then you have a truck and then you have a business - and empowering each other. And I love with that scene specifically because you are telling a story without really preaching. You are telling it through their experiences and through their very strong point of views.  And saying we do not have an answer.  And neither of them is really wrong because Mari is watching every single Perez  and Hernandez and you know all of these people getting pushed out and seeing the families that she grew up with all of a sudden ending up somewhere else so that these neighborhoods are being dismantled.  Yeah.  And then the fetishizing of the neighborhood where we are not really caring and understanding where it is from. We are like oh I like mezcal and I like you know pinatas or whatever...  Oh yeah.  ...And really not understanding the community and understanding where that is coming from. It is just kind of taking it and being like it is cool...  Yeah.  'ecause it is like the hood...  It is exotic...  ...Or whatever yeah.  ...And like taking the fun part of it and not taking the people you know?  But that is the beauty of like everyone having their own opinion about things and their own moral code on right and wrong because for Mari this is the worst thing that could ever happen to the neighborhood...  Yeah.  ...Like people being displaced and like new shops opening and like new restaurants and everything coming in and like taking away the essence to say it that way. But for other people it might be like oh well like thank God we now have like a new place to go. And like now there is more jobs coming in.  Exactly. I like coffee.  Yeah you know so it is a matter of perspective.  The show creator Tanya Saracho she has talked about the show using what she calls the brown gaze as in like you see this character - these characters - the whole show you see it through the lens of brown people through the lens of queer people. And I noticed that the most in the scenes with white characters...  Yeah.  Yeah.  ...Because they are treated stereotypically in the way that brown people are usually treated in white people shows.  Yeah.  Yeah.  The white characters are really kind of one-note. And there is this one scene this sex scene that your character has with her soon-to-be-ex white boyfriend...  Yeah.  ...Where the way that he is seen and the way that you are seen - he is a nude naked piece of meat. He is what a woman would usually be in a sex scene.  Yeah.  And you guys flip it on its head.  Yeah.  How much of that is actively like thoughtful?  Oh all of it.  All of it.  Oh yeah. Tanya wanted to flip kind of Hollywood on its head.  Flip the paradigm yeah.  Yeah because like usually the women are the ones that are there for the boobs.  Yeah.  And it is the woman.  Yeah.  And they are usually the one that is not empowered in the scene. And they are the object.  Yeah.  And in this case you see Juniper being his vapid self.  Yeah .  And you...  He is such a loser.   And vaping - a little bit of an airhead.  He is a piece of meat.  He is a piece of meat. And he is completely naked in the scene. And it is great to have like the men get naked in a show. Well the women get naked too. But you know...  But that seems typically. Like the power was reversed.  Yeah. I mean he is essentially breaking up with her after she is performed all these sexual acts on him. And that could be a very dehumanizing position. But yet Lyn gets the last word.  Oh yeah. She does.  And she is really you know still has agency over her body and sits in her power. And you start really seeing that. And that is what is really exciting because it is not just her like - you know you see her with her full power over Johnny.  Yeah. And we should point out Johnny is Lyn's childhood sweetheart on the show.  But then you see her with her relationship with Juniper. And he is kind of - has the credit cards and has this stuff but yet she still has what is inside of her and you can see where there is that ability for her to grow.  Yeah. So Mishel speaking of power and agency there is another sex scene where your character one reveals she is queer and is in this really really interesting sexual moment exhibiting this female power with another character who is gender nonbinary. And there is so much going on at once. I found it all to be really groundbreaking. Break down that scene.  Well first of all shout-out to the other actress Michelle who is not even an actress. She is a writer on One Day At A Time and just really showed up and really went there. And I think we had both discussed how important a scene like that was because we do not really get to see two brown women and two brown queer women experiencing sex in that way. And also it being shot from the female gaze you are not you know lingering on the boobs as they jiggle in the night or whatever.  .  It really is - they are - it is so tied up because you also - it is so much about character development. And you see Emma a certain way and then all of a sudden you are like oh oh OK.  Oh it is that kind of party.  All right she is got that going on but you see how she also just kind of uses what she needs and she is trying to have release. She is trying to go back to the things that have made her feel better before because she is experiencing these feelings that she does not want to experience. And it is not working.  Yeah.  We felt it really important to be able to just show a sex scene like this. And I had never done anything like that before so...  Was it hard to do?  It was challenging. We as actors and as women felt very supported and to be able to be on a full set of just so many people that were supportive so many women so many people of color it really changes things because you also understand that what you are doing with these scenes is not about kind of using your body just to you know cheapen yourself or this idea of shame or like well no one's going to take you seriously as an actress if you show your body or do these scenes right away. And I think we are really showing that no these scenes can really have a lot to do with character development. It all fits in in the bigger scheme of the story.  Yeah yeah. You know I am from South Texas and I went into this show saying all right I will get this you know. I know some Spanglish. And then when I started watching the show I realized a lot of the particular language in Spanish and slang being used is specific to LA...  Oh yeah.  Oh yeah.  ...To East LA.  Oh yeah.  How did you figure out how to get into the mindset of LA Spanglish and LA Latino-ness ?  You know what? It is interesting that you bring that up because I grew up in Monterrey which is 2 12 hours from the border with Texas so I spent a lot of my long weekends in Texas.  Where in Texas? I am from San Antonio.  In South Padre Island.  OK yeah.  So my grandma had an apartment in South Padre and so we would go every long weekend to McAllen  shopping to Brownsville you know? And so - and I went to school in an American School in Monterrey  Which school?  American School. It is called the American School Foundation of Monterrey. Shout-out to my alma mater.  .  So I considered myself a pocha all my life because you go to school and you speak English for eight hours a day and then you go home and you speak Spanish so your cables cross a little bit.  .  And you start like you know saying like half...  You are code switching.  Yeah you are code switching. You are saying - you forget a word in Spanish so you say it in English and like vice versa.  Yeah.  And so I considered myself a pocha but it is completely different to what pocha Spanglish is in LA. So when I first started like reading the script I was like this is wrong. This is not how it is 'ecause you think that your experience...  Like what? Give me an example.  You know like just when the words come in in Spanish is not when I would use you know...  From where you are from.  From where I am from. It is just a different - it is just like a different singsongy  you know?  Yeah.  And I - and you think sometimes that your experience is the correct one.  It is just one experience.  Yeah and it is just one. And I realized that it is very specific to Los Angeles.  So I know I - because I would even spoken to some people that they are like no when we speak Spanglish it is one sentence Spanish one sentence English all that stuff. And I am like I did not grow up like that at all. I mean we switched back and forth or even our ums our  or - you know you kind of use those as well. And I know I definitely experienced that back and forth. And my thing which is another version of pocha which is you grow up as a Latina American and I am like oh I speak - I speak Spanish. I speak Spanish fluently. And then all of a sudden you are like oh no I speak Spanglish.   Because when it comes to that pressure of having to speak Spanish and not being able to switch...  To go back and forth.  ...I get really nervous.  Really?  Yeah. I am like oh no I am going to mess it up...  .  ...You know and I am learning to kind of just embrace that and be like you know what? I am Latina American and I can speak Spanish but I am going to have to switch a few words here and there every once in a while.  And for me with Lyn it is interesting because when I got...  Well 'ecause Lyn's character does not even speak Spanish.  I know right? So I - when I first came to LA I would you know like talking to sometimes Uber drivers or like people that I would meet on the street and they would be like oh yes I am like third-generation Mexican-American or second-generation Mexican-American. And I would like try to talk to them in Spanish and they are like oh no but I do not speak Spanish. I would be like oh.   I am like what?  How dare you?  What is wrong with you?  Like how? Like what? I would like judge them a little bit.  Oh yeah.  And now here I am playing a character that is second-generation Mexican-American...  That is not speaking Spanish.  ...That does not know how to speak Spanish. And I realize that it is a reality that the language is being lost. But I also now appreciate that it is because their parents or whoever crossed the border and came here wanted their kids to fit in and to assimilate as much as possible so that they would never be faced with being an outsider. And the easiest way to do that is to learn the language perfectly.  As someone from south Texas who took Spanish in middle school and high school and college and was just bad at it I realized watching the show I got to learn Spanish. I am missing out on so much.  Yeah.  That was one of the reasons also that Tanya wanted to - really fought for no subtitles...  Yes which I appreciated.  ...Which I have heard a few people be like well there really needs to be subtitles. Come on.  No.  And it is like no this is a brown gay show and this is for our people to be able to see themselves and not feel that we are dumbing it down for anybody else.  Also the viewers can read context clues.  Yeah.  They can - like I can make sense of it just by watching the scene.  And that also is part of it as well because think about it. When you are in a family - if you were invited to the houses of you know my family or I am sure your family you would...  There would be no subtitles.  There would be no subtitles and you would have to kind of get the clues of like oh she is mad or like oh yeah no I will have another glass of wine or whatever.  Exactly yeah.  And a lot of what is spoken in Spanish is kind of like repeated in other words in English so that you do not miss out on anything.  Yes exactly.  But if you do speak Spanish you are kind of like on the inside. You kind of like get some of the inside jokes...  There is a few jokes that you are like ha ha.  ...Which is cool.  And it is fun.  Yeah.  But I also - and also like if you really want subtitles you can get subtitles you know?  You can get them yes exactly.  So...  What was the most LA - East LA - specific Spanglish word that you guys used in the show that was not going to be heard in Miami or in Mexico?  .  .  Yeah.  Which means...   is like ratchet.  .  Yeah. It is like...  But like where I am from you just say naco.  Oh I have never heard that.  Which means also ratchet?  Yeah it means ratchet. We just say naco.  So you just kind of look at someone give them side eye and say it.  .  There you go.  And it sounds exactly what it means you know?  .  Yeah exactly.  What is the other one?  Chuntara.  Chuntara.  What is that mean?  Chuntara is kind of like - it is also like calling someone ratchet and like kind of chola at the same time.   I know chola.  Yeah kind of like no class no class. It is kind of like classless.  Chuntara.  It is like come on chuntara.  Chuntara.  Yeah.   All right just one more break. After that break Melissa and Mishel tell me all about how they got their big breaks on Vida.   I want to talk about both of you all's background and where you came from and how you got here. Mishel you are from Miami. Melissa you are from Mexico. Mishel go first. What is your story?  So I was born in the United States and my mom is an immigrant but also - and is now a citizen. But it took her a while to be able to get to that point. So I - we grew up in Hialeah and we grew up...  Describe the neighborhood for those who do not know about it.  So Hialeah is - man I love that I spent so much of my childhood - we really did not travel very much - thinking that the rest of the United States was like Miami...  .  Which is there is just this huge mix of all different cultures especially Latin American cultures. Obviously there is a strong Cuban population but there is Costa Ricans and Nicaraguans and Colombians and all of that kind of mix is there so much so that there are signs on some of the stores that say we speak English and E