  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today on the show - Joe Morton. He is an actor who has gone from Broadway to TV to film and back again. He is now appearing onstage here in Los Angeles in the title role in Henry IV. He is doing this alongside Tom Hanks from the Shakespeare Center of Los Angeles. If you like me are a fan of the political drama Scandal then you know Joe as Rowan aka Eli Pope aka Papa Pope. He plays the father of Washington D.C. crisis manager Olivia Pope - that character of course played by Kerry Washington. In this chat we talk about Scandal and why Joe calls that show a gift. We talk about how he fell in love with theater. We talk about how he has faced discrimination in the acting world. And as you will hear we will talk about what is been kind of a thread throughout Joe's story. It is summed up in this line that he delivers in one of his infamous monologues in Scandal. You know he is speaking as a black father to Olivia Pope and he says you have to be twice as good to get half of what they have. All right. Here's me talking to Joe Morton in our studios in Culver City. Enjoy.   This is so cool. I have watched you on TV basically my entire life.  Is that right?  Well because I remember - I was thinking today you were Whitley's Gilbert's fiance...  I was.  ...On A Different World.  That is right. That is right. Debbie Allen who is a friend of mine - she called and said she was producing and directing this show and would I come on the show? And I basically told her I am not a big fan of sitcoms but because it was her...  Yeah.  ...And because it was that particular show...  Yeah.  ...About black folk in college I thought sure. We made a deal. I said you can give all the comedy to everybody else as long as you give me real West Virginian politics which she did.  Yeah you were a politician .  She did. And it was great. We had a good time.  That was like an iconic plot arc.  It was. And the wonderful thing I guess about that is that people think I was on the show for a long time. I really only did six episodes.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Well because you came in and then you know Dwayne Wayne came and usurped...  And took her away .  Took her away. What - that was - what? - '90s.  I think so yeah.  When did you - what was your first time on TV?  Oh oh gosh. My first time on TV was probably the early '70s. I did a soap opera.  Really?  Yes. What was it was called? Search For Your Life  or whatever it was called.  .  ...Because I was doing Raisin at the same time. I was doing a musical version of Raisin In The Sun in Washington D.C. And so I would fly into New York every day to do Search For Tomorrow.  OK.  ...Which was my first time on TV.  Which - I mean so you have done now TV stage - and we will talk more about stage with this play you are doing now - and also film.  Yes.  Which of the three do you like best?  Well theater will always be home.  Yeah.  That is where I started.  Yeah.  That is for me where things began. I even tell young actors today that you know if you want to be an actor what you need to do is to do theater first before you...  Why?  Well because it is like being a doctor. You have to do your residency.  OK.  So if you can do a character several months at a time eight days a week and keep that character fresh then you have learned the craft of acting.  Yeah.  And so I think it is essential.  Who was your first role onstage?  My first role onstage - well let us see. I came out of school. I got an agent. And I got into a musical called A Month Of Sundays. It was terrible.  Why was it terrible?  Well it was kind of saccharin-sweet adaptation of the Noah story. So there was a big...  How do you make that story saccharin sweet?  Well because it was a musical and all the characters were kind of you know all squeaky. And there was a flood in New York.  .  And all these characters sort of float up. As a matter of fact I floated up on an old fashioned - well you have to remember this is now the late '60s. So I floated up on a telephone booth.  Oh Lord.  We used to have a telephone - remember telephone booths?  Yeah I remember that.  So I would float up on a telephone booth. And it was the very first day of previews. I came out onstage. The telephone booth clicked onto the temporary backing for the set and I saw it waving in the breeze behind me did not think anything about it got out onto the stage about to say my first line when this thing comes crashing down.  Stop it.  We had snow in the fly so all the snow came down.  .  I think there was a parachute up there. That came down. And that was my first appearance on any stage in New York. So actually I can say that the very first time I was onstage I brought the house down .  . Yes you did. Yes you did.  Then the producer jumped up onstage obviously and stopped the play. And we reset everything.  Oh my goodness.  And we started all over again.  You must have been mortified.  I was - you know I mean even as all that was happening you know because they say the show must go on - so I kept saying my lines.  .  ...Until the producer finally jumped up and stopped it. And the reviewer said - the only review I remember said you know it is early in the season but the first turkey has hit off-Broadway.   You have come a long way onstage since then.  Thank God yes.  I saw you last week onstage here in LA in Henry IV.  Oh good.  How that going?  It is going great. The other night - I do not know if you heard about this or saw this on YouTube...  I was there that night.  Oh you were there then.  Tell our listeners. Yeah.  Oh OK. So for those of you who were not there there was unfortunately I think - a gentleman was suffering from dehydration and sort of passed out in the audience. The EMS group sort of showed up and took him out of the theater and was taking care of him when Tom Hanks who plays Falstaff...  Yeah.  ...We are doing Henry IV - got up onstage and began to do an improv.  Yeah.  ...Talking about cutting people's hair with his sword and eventually brought this woman up onstage who said that her name was Frances . And he told her that Frances would be said within the play. I think she probably thought at the time he was kidding until of course Hamish who plays my son who plays Hal later in the play says you know I know every Tom Dick and Frances.  .  Of course the audience went crazy.  Yeah. What is it like - I mean to do Shakespeare is great.  Yes.  But to do Shakespeare with that cast you know - and not just Tom Hanks. The whole cast is great.  Oh this is an incredible an amazing cast that Dan Sullivan who directed it has put together. It is myself and Tom Hanks and Hamish Linklater Rondi Reed Emily Swallow. I mean this - it is just an amazing group of people who do Shakespeare. I do not think I have ever been in a company sort of quite this clear. Usually with Shakespeare there is usually somebody where you cannot quite understand what they are saying I think. But here everyone is - understands the language understands how to perform the language. It is an amazing production.  And the nice thing is you are outside. This is a wonderful stage that is outdoors in West Los Angeles.  And that is been constructed by the vets at the Vet Center there. There was nothing there before.  I did not know that.  Yes. There - they...  At the veterans...  At the Veterans Center...  Yeah.  ...The VA center in LA. There was nothing there. They built the stage.  Yeah.  They built all of the equipment necessary to put the lights up. They built the actual venue where the seats are. They built our temporary dressing rooms behind that. They built - they just built this entire thing.  I did not know that. That is beautiful.  It is part of a work program that they had over there.  Oh nice.  So they have all now learned stagecraft.  Yeah.  ...Whether it be building the sets or working the lights or working the sound or working props whatever it might be.  Yeah yeah. Is there a difference in preparation for reading Shakespeare onstage as opposed to like stuff written for a more modern era? It is harder language.  That is right. So a lot of the time you are sort of going back and discerning what it is exactly you are saying because certain phrases that we use today...  Yeah.  ...Are not exactly the way they were used...  Yes.  ...Back in the day. So there is that kind of research. I bought a couple of different books just to research Henry IV himself.  Yeah.  ...Just to know the actual history of who he was - found out he was an amazing jouster. He actually used to go to...  OK.  ...Jousting tournaments.  So now you joust.  Absolutely.  .  Out there with my horse and my lance every day. But I did not know that. I also did not know that during the course of his reign there were six or seven rebellions that he put down in the time that he was king. It is just - it is an amazing time. You know there is a scene in the play where there is an actual battle. And every time I watch the scene I have to remember - I have to remind myself that when it actually happened - it took place in Shrewsbury - that most of the people on the battlefield were teenagers...  Really?  ...That they were all - I mean the king was there and maybe he was in his 30s at best.  Yeah.  But these wars were fought by very very young men out there with swords and chain mail that weighed God knows how much. I mean you have to think of the strength and perseverance that they had to go through just to put that stuff on.  Yeah totally. What kind of guy are you in rehearsal on set? I got the feeling from seeing the play that night that Tom Hanks is kind of the class clown. What is your role in a production offstage?  I guess I have a tendency to be more quiet to be more concentrated. It is great having people like Tom around although the whole company is a lot of fun. When we go - we have a fight rehearsal every day.  That sounds really fun .  Well also to make sure that nobody gets hurt.  Oh.  So - but in the course of the fight rehearsals there is a lot of you know dialogue. We sort of just make up stuff as we are going along.  Yeah yeah yeah.  So pretty much it is a room full of class clowns.  Nice.  ...Which is - which just makes the whole thing a lot of fun. And we have also gotten very close together in the last six weeks of rehearsal.  Nice.  One of the gentlemen for instance his car got totaled by some drunk who teed  him even while the car was parked.  Oh no.  And so we got together and put some money together and helped him buy another secondhand car.  Oh that is nice.  So that is how close we are.  Yeah yeah yeah.  So it is an amazing group of people.  How long will you guys all be together? How long has this been staged?  We rehearsed for six weeks and we are done performing on July 1.  OK. So you get this really nice tight close connection and then everyone goes away .  That is the nature of this business.  Yeah. Do you stay in LA or you go to New York or...  I am an East Coaster. I go back to the East Coast.  Where are you from?  New York.  Where in New York?  Right now nowhere in New York.  OK.  My joke is that I am globally homeless.   OK.  I had an apartment in New York. I was doing a gig in Vancouver and dealing with a divorce at the same time so it is like I had three houses.  Lord.  So I had to give something up gave up the apartment in New York figuring I could live wherever I am working. When I am not working I can live wherever I wanted to.  Yeah.  No sooner did I make that decision than the gig I was doing died. And that was at least seven or eight years ago. So in the last seven or eight years I just literally bounced back and forth. I will rent a place out here in LA go back to New Jersey stay with my girlfriend's parents for a month or two...  Wow.  ...Come back to LA to go to work.  That is sounds stressful.  Actually it is OK. I mean I have been doing that kind of thing for most of my life. It is OK with me. It is not so great with my girlfriend. I think she gets...  Well I bet .  Yeah. She gets really tired of being dragged from one side of the world to the other. So we are now in the process of buying a house.  Congratulations.  Yes.  In New York.  In New Jersey.  New Jersey OK.  A riverfront house in Red Bank N.J.  Love it. Now you are originally from Harlem though right?  That is where I was born yes.  OK.  But I never grew up there. My dad was in the service.  OK.  So again from the time I was about 4 or 5 we were traveling. I lived in Okinawa. I lived in Japan. I lived in Germany lived in Massachusetts. And we did that till I was 10. He died when I was 10. That is when I - we came back to New York. I lived in Harlem with my grandmother for about a year and then my mom and I moved out to Queens where I went to high school. Then we moved to Long Island where I went to college. And then...  Yeah.  ...After college studying to be an actor - back on the road again doing this.  You did not go into college though to be an actor at first right?  That is right.  You went to Hofstra.  That is right.  There is a story behind how you got into acting.  Right. I entered Hofstra as a psychology major.  Why that?  I do not know. I enjoyed reading. I enjoyed the idea of what makes people tick. I had originally wanted to be a pilot. I wanted to go to the United States Air Force Academy.  OK.  Found out I needed to wear glasses. I could only...  What is wrong with glasses?  Well you cannot fly high-altitude equipment if you wear glasses.  Oh. So either you get the corrective surgery or you cannot do it.  Or you can become a navigator.  OK.  It kind of just - what it did was it - I think it put both of my feet on the ground. I was doing that because I wanted to sort of emulate who I thought my father was and blah blah blah. Anyway I decided on psychology.  OK.  The first day of orientation they take us around the campus of Hofstra University. They take us into the theater. They show us a skit or a short play and when it is over they...  What is the skit about?  Just about what our first year in the - in school would be like.  OK.  At the end of the skit they put a work light on the stage and I cannot get up out of my seat. I just sit there thinking - I would been playing guitar for a while starting to write songs. I really loved doing that. Maybe I could be an actor. And I finally stood up in the theater walked to the registrar's office and changed all my majors from psychology to drama.  All it took was a freshman orientation skit.  That is what - that is all it took.  What if you had seen first like - I do not know - Hair or something?  I ended up doing Hair when I left school.   What role were you in Hair?  I was just a member of the tribe and I was the understudy for Hud. I got into the show several months after they opened.  OK. That is awesome. So OK you decide that you want to pursue drama.  Wanted to be...  Was your family supportive?  My grandmother who had promised to help out financially decided - she changed her mind. She thought I was crazy.  Mean granny.  Yeah. She thought no no no this is not going to work. My mother at first tried to be as supportive as she could. But the basic attitude was you know you are a black man in this world They are only going to let you go but so far which was not my attitude.  What was your attitude?  My attitude is I can go as far as I can go.  OK.  So she tried to be supportive but she was very doubtful. I was also struggling in school because I would audition for a role only to be told well you cannot really play that role because there is a girlfriend involved and the girl is white or blah blah blah blah. Or...  Wow. What decade was this?  This is - I was supposed to graduate in '69.  OK.  So it is the late - mid-to-late '60s.  And they were still doing that.  And they were still doing that. Finally - actually one of my favorite teachers was doing a play by Brendan Behan called The Hostage.  OK.  And it is about an English soldier who is taken hostage by the IRA. So he is the - you know the big man. He is the man out.  Yeah.  So I thought oh perfect. You know yes there is - he ends up with a relationship with a woman who is Irish but that is the point of the play...  Yeah.  ...Is that he is English and she is Irish.  Yeah.  I auditioned for the piece. And the teacher-director says - and he literally said this. He said Joe you could probably do this with your hands tied behind you he said. But no pun intended but it would color the play.  Oh my God.  So I got furious and said well then I am out.  Yeah.  I am out. I decided to quit school. This was 1968.  And these were supposed to be like...  That is right.  The college campus is supposed to be like this progressive bastion of like...  It is where you are supposed to...  ...Forward movement.  Exactly. It is where you are supposed to learn your craft which I did. Now the other side of all of this is I had some wonderful wonderful acting teachers who taught me - I mean the techniques I use today are the same techniques they taught me then. So they were incredible. I just could not get the kind of work on the main stage that I wanted. So when this happened I left school. My teacher was very upset that he had made me that upset so he said all right so if you are leaving school - and he gave me a name. He wrote it down on a piece of paper. He said just when you leave call this agent tell this agent that I told you to call and he will probably take you on. I said great. So left school got myself set up in an apartment made the phone call. I said my name is Joe Morton Joe Leon told me to call you. And the voice on the other end said fine come in on Wednesday. This is a Monday. So Wednesday shows up. I go down to the agency. I show up go down go to the desk. And the woman behind the desks says - I said I am here to see so-and-so my name is Joe Morton. She said are you sure you are in the right place?  As in like why is this black guy here?  No. She said when did you make this appointment? I said well just on Monday. She said that is not possible he has not worked here for several months. So I said well I spoke to somebody.  Yeah.  And they said come down.  Yeah yeah yeah.  So she gets up. She goes to the back. She comes back out. She takes me in and she introduces me to a guy by the name of Ed Bluhm  who was not the man I was calling.  Who were you calling?  A guy named Richard  somebody. We would never exchanged names on the phone. All I said was my name is Joe Morton Joe Leon told me to call you. And it just...  Call you. You did not know who the you was.  ...And just happened that this guy also knew Joe Leon.  Oh.  So it was a complete coincidence.  That is hilarious.  ...Went into his office. We hit it off right away. He made a phone call and got me into that terrible play...  .  ...A Month Of Sundays right off the bat. So I got my Equity card immediately.  OK. You know all the actors that I talk to they speak of this like few years of wandering the wilderness of New York trying to find the right roles trying to make enough money to afford stuff. Like there is just those years of struggling as an actor before it clicks. How long were your struggle years?  Gosh. I guess I was lucky. I did...  Because you had work as soon as you left school no?  Pretty much. I mean by 19 - I left school in 1968 so by 1972 I was the lead in Raisin which was a musical version of Raisin In The Sun. And at that point I received a Tony - a Theatre World Award and a Tony nomination. So...  So you were doing all right.  I was doing all right. I am one of those few actors who never waited tables and really never had a sort of a slew of...  Yeah.  ...Temporary jobs that sort of I had to hold on to until things clicked. It - I was lucky that things began to happen pretty quickly.  Why do you think that is the case?  I made some decisions. Amongst those decisions were - in my time there were lots of roles being offered to play pimps and drug dealers and blah blah blah  and I said no. I said someone will do that. It will not be me. I made decisions - and because I could sing I could do musicals. It was a time when because of the political nature of the country things like Hair were happening so that was a big plus. And Raisin just was a huge hit. I mean I ended up doing Raisin on Broadway - I will never do this again - for 2 12 years.  That is a long time.  That is a very long time. And that is actually when my mother decided that I was possibly going to make it in this business. She...   After the Tony nomination.  Well more this...  Just seeing you on Broadway.  She was on a bus on a particular Sunday after the matinee - she would already seen the show obviously. She would come out opening night and the rest of it. And a group of women got onto the bus and they had just come from seeing Raisin. And they all had the playbills. And they were all talking about me. And she announced to the bus that she was my mother and she ended up signing autographs. So I think that was the turning point for her.  All right time for a quick break here. When we come back how Joe's TV career took off and of course Scandal. BRB.   And so you are doing great on stage on Broadway. Did you want to do more TV or TV just happened?  TV kind of just happened. As I say there was not a lot of material for black male actors at the time so theater was kind of what I wanted to do. There was a musician strike and I would been doing the play as I said for 2 12 years. And I was offered a sitcom. Not my favorite thing in the world to do but...  They are not that bad.  ...But it was being produced by one of the partners who had done All In The Family. So it looked like this had possibilities. Carole Cole who was Nat King Cole's niece who he had adopted as his daughter played my wife. So it looked like this could be something.  What was the show called?  It was called Grady. And the reason it happened was - you are probably too young to know this - but Redd Foxx.  I know Redd Foxx.  Well he - while he was doing his show Sanford And Son got mad at the production company because he had no windows in his dressing room. And so he decided not to come to work. And Whitman Mayo who played Grady on that show kind of took over the show for a short period of time while Redd was out. So when Redd finally decided to come back when they put a window in his dressing room Whitman Mayo's managers said now that Whitman's kind of helped you out you need to help him out by giving him his own show which they did. But what they ended up giving him was just lip service. All they were doing was literally regurgitating scripts that they had written for other white sitcoms. I mean I remember turning the television on and watching a show and word for word watching an episode of whatever the show was from what we were doing.  Wow.  Needless to say the show did not last more than six weeks.  Oh wow.  So that was kind of my second television thing. I thought oh that is just not fun. And then from there I think what kind of broke it open for me was Brother From Another Planet John Sayles.  Yeah. Yeah phenomenal stuff. Tell folks who might not know what that is what it is.  Brother From Another Planet is a film written by John Sayles who for my money is probably the quintessential American independent filmmaker. He wrote this film about a black alien who was a slave on his own planet who escapes that planet makes his way to this planet. And he looks like he knows what is going on obviously. He ends up in Harlem. He has no idea what is going on. And he starts seeing things and putting things together. He has no ability to speak but he does have the ability to heal by touch and to fix electronic equipment by touch. It is quite a story.  Yeah. Yeah. So like from all of that you end up in this show that seems to be kind of larger than life for many many years. I am talking about Scandal.  Scandal.  And I am sure you are probably tired of talking about that show.  Not at all. I will never be tired of talking about Scandal. Scandal was a gift. I came to LA that particular year - this is 5 12 years ago six years ago - came to LA for pilot season. I had heard of Scandal had not seen it had heard of Kerry Washington had not really seen much of her either. And I decided to sit down one day and open my computer and watched the first season of Scandal on Netflix. Loved what I saw loved the writing loved the way they shot it and thought to myself oh would not it be great if I could figure out a way to get on the show you know for one or two episodes? But before I even had an opportunity to make that phone call to my agents they called me and said you just got a call from ABC. They would like to talk to you about coming onto Scandal.  Why do you think they wanted you?  I do not care.   Good answer.  I was shocked. I thought wow this is great. And so I got on the phone with one of the producers who then began to explain that I would be playing - well began to talk about the show and said so here's the thing we would like you to come onto the show to play Kerry Washington's dad but you cannot tell anyone.  Huh.  It is a secret.  Huh.  You cannot tell anyone.  Yeah.  So for the first - I mean I was on the end of Season 2. For those six episodes I and a couple of the other producers were the only ones who knew that at the end of that season the last words would be hello Dad. What are you doing?  I remember that scene.  And Kerry did not know.  Really?  No one knew I am telling you.  Oh my goodness.  So of course when we finally got to the very last script of that season because there was a table read - we always have a table read. And we all were sitting around the table. And we all read that script. Everybody went nuts.  Really?  And that is when I could tell everybody because everyone said did you know? Did you know? I said yeah of course I knew.  And you are like I am going to be here for a while .  I am going to be around. And it was great because of the character because of who Rowan was it was great to have a secret to hold onto as part of what was going on.  Because Rowan's full of secrets.  Full of secrets.  So for people that have been living under a rock that never watched this show who are missing out you play the father of Olivia Pope.  Right.  She is D.C.'s pre-eminent fixer.  Right.  But you head up this secret government department called B613...  Correct.  ...Which is like the dark shady side of the Pentagon basically or - describe it.  It runs - it basically runs everything. It runs everything. He is the power behind the throne if you will but the unknown power behind the throne.  Yeah. The hell and the high water as his character said.  He is the hell and the high water. That is right.  Watching that role and watching you in it and watching it again now how do you ever prepare to play that kind of role? Like is there any research you can do for a character running an agency that is at some times so sinister?  I did not necessarily do research. What I did was my father - when he was alive his basic job was to integrate the armed forces overseas which meant he would be assigned to a particular post he would show up racially unannounced - as would we all the family - and go in and just do the job. And what he was faced with - because this was the late-'50s - so what he was faced with most of the time was opposition. People did not want to have a black officer amongst them telling them what to do. And I used that actually...  Really?  ...As the basis of who Rowan was in that he was someone who had been kind of like Colin Powell fast-tracked at a certain point through the military and found his way into the secret service if you will and basically built this organization understanding what America was. So that was my particular take on who he was. And then as we went from episode to episode that built my history of who he was because we never knew - we the cast never knew from episode to episode what was going to happen until we had the table read. So again for all of us our history was built based on the last script we had done.  Yeah. There were many seasons where on top of just being this really awesome high-drama television show it was a commentary of sorts on America's security state.  Sure.  What do you think was the big moral of that story or the big lesson that Shonda and all you guys were trying to impart to the American viewing public about governments and what they can do?  Well I mean I think it was important for Shonda to talk about - I mean let us go back to even one step further. One of the things that was great about Scandal is that it was a diverse cast.  Yeah.  That what she was trying to put on the screen was what you would see if you walk out onto the street in terms of the kinds of people that you see up on the screen. In terms of the politics of the show you know if you do a political show if you are House Of Cards or you are Scandal or you are any one of those shows you cannot ignore what was going on in the real world. And I think things like when Courtney Vance came on the show and was sitting out on the street with his shotgun over the dead body of his son and talking about police brutality. I mean so those kinds of things could not ever be avoided. Otherwise we would be kind of lying. I mean but on the other side of things both Kerry and I would get things on Twitter people saying - you know when our new president was elected or if there were police violence you know we would get things like you know why does not Rowan - I wish Rowan could get out there and do something. And I would always have to say you have to remember that what we do on the show is make-believe...  Yeah.  ...And what is happening in the country is real.  Yeah.  So it is not for me to do something alone. It is for all of us together to do something.  I think what is so - and what still haunts me about Scandal is that it just makes you stop pause and say to yourself there are lots of things that your government does that you do not know about. And there are lots of things that they do that you do not know about that would give you pause if you knew. And I think people forget that.  I think it also said that there are lots of things that you are aware of that you do not do anything about.  Do you think Scandal would have been a different show had it begun in a Trump administration? It began when Barack Obama was president. Would it have been different otherwise?  I do not know. I do know that Shonda had foreseen a slightly different ending than what we ended up with. And that was certainly affected by who won the election that year.  Yeah. And there was a bit of like this plot arc where it seems to be a Trump-like character running for office on the show.  Right. Yeah. Gregg Henry played a character who was very much like Trump. And again if you remember that character sort of came and went. So I mean I think what was interesting about the way Shonda would organize her scripts is things would be sprinkled through the script and from varying different characters depending on what was being talked about. So you would just hear things that would maybe perk up your ears in terms of what was going on in the real world but maybe from a character that you would not expect to hear it from.  Yeah. Yeah. On top of being this wonderful political commentary I really loved your character because of the way it got into the intricacies of a really complicated relationship between a black father and his black daughter. And I mean there are countless monologues that I could play...  .  ...From you on the show but there is this one that I think we have queued up where you are giving some real talk to your daughter on the show Kerry Washington's character. And you give this speech that is like real and true I think for any black person that is ever seen the show 'ecause it is - there is some parallels with all of our upbringings.    I know more than you could possibly imagine about things of which you cannot dream. He told you that you would be first lady and you believed him. Did I not raise you for better? How many times have I told you you have to be what? You have to be what?   Twice...   What?   Twice as good.   Twice as good as them to get half of what they have.  Every black child has heard that speech from their parents.  Yes.  Did you get that speech?  Oh of course. As I said my father was - his job was to integrate the armed forces overseas so I got that speech every day.   How much of him were you channeling in that monologue particularly?  I think probably - it is funny about that monologue. That was the very first mon