 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty.  And Sam's Aunt Donna on the West Coast.  This week on the show Washington Post technology reporter Tony Romm.  And NPR congressional correspondent Kelsey Snell. All right. Let us start the show.  All right. Let us start the show.    Yeah.  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE.  That was great.  .  Double the aunties. So Aunt Betty came to California to visit me and other relatives.  I saw the pictures. Did she bring treats to the whole newsroom?  She brought a pound cake to NPR West.  What?  .  She was a hit. And then she went to visit my other aunt Donna in San Diego. And they both announced you this week. It was really sweet.  Aw.  I know. I know. Speaking of sweet things  happy weekend to our listeners and to my guests Tony Romm reporter at The Washington Post covering technology policy and Kelsey Snell who covers Congress for NPR. Both of you are old friends. I am happy to have all of this friendship in studio with me.  Very exciting.  Why we got to be old? Why we got to be old?    When you want it the most there is no easy way out.  Speaking of forever young we are joined this week by the voice of Celine Dion.  I know. I have been dancing over here.  As you should be. Pump it up.  .    Love comes to those who believe it and that is the way it is.  This is a Celine Dion classic That is The Way It Is. And I am playing it this week to honor her as her long long run with her Las Vegas residency comes to a close.  Wow.  This weekend it ends. Her last show at The Colosseum at Caesars Palace will happen this weekend. And did you guys know that she first went to Vegas in 2003?  I was just going to ask. It is been a long time.  Right.  Yeah. So she began 16 years ago. She is basically been doing the same job for 13 of those 16 years.  Holy cow.  And she really changed the way that artists handle touring and their careers by doing what she did. So when Celine first went to Vegas in '03 no one was doing it. Like the big headliners were like Tom Jones.  Really?  But Celine went and was really successful and she made it a cool thing to do. And so now everyone goes to Vegas. I am sure you know this.  Yeah. Like Britney's there right?  Yeah. Britney's there. Gaga was there. J.Lo Boyz II Men Toni Braxton Mariah Carey Drake Janet Jackson. Everyone does it now and Celine Dion made that happen.  I mean it is like a quick flight right from LA to go out there and perform? So if you lived in LA you could like have a pretty humane life instead of traveling all over the world.  Exactly. And so that is a thing that artists love. You can have the crowds come to you in Vegas and not have to travel the country or the world for them. And also as the industry has changed in the last 10 years or so with the rise of streaming all of them sell less albums and so their money is in playing shows for people.    When you want it the most...  And so Celine made this model that is really easy and really lucrative if you are big enough. And like she changed the game.  Well cheers to Celine.  Right?  Celine kudos to you.  .  I will miss your show. It was nice just knowing that she was there.  But your heart will go on.  . Yes it will. It will it will.  .    And that is the way it is.  You can check out Kevin Fallon's story in The Daily Beast this week. It is all about Celine Dion and her exit from Vegas. All right. Now it is time to start the show as we always do. We ask each of our guests to describe their week of news in only three words. But all of our three words are going to focus on one big news story of the week. I am talking about the potential regulation of big tech companies. The Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission have both taken early steps to investigate Google and Apple and Facebook and Amazon. And lawmakers in the House in D.C. they plan to look into Facebook and Google and other tech companies to see if they are too big. So Kelsey Tony you are both covering this this week. And I want you to give me three words on this topic. But first both of you catch me up. Catch us up on what all happened this week 'ecause it seemed like a lot of things came together at once.  Yeah. A lot of things did come together all at once. But it is sort of been simmering for a long time now right? Like people are just sort of generally annoyed with Facebook which is like the Exxon Valdez of the tech industry...  .  .  ...With some of these other companies like Google and Amazon and Apple and so forth for various reasons too. But really there were two chunks of news. The first was that we finally got word that the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice have essentially divvied up oversight of these tech companies on antitrust grounds.  And at the same time Congress decided that they want to start having a conversation that they have essentially been avoiding entirely for decades.  Yeah.  Like most things.  Right .  .  And it is always a little surprising when Congress actually volunteers to begin a process of looking into something they actively do not want to look into like tech. So it is just been kind of one of those weeks where the worlds are kind of colliding and kind of all surrounding tech.  I want us to break down what these investigators and what these agencies mean when they talk about antitrust this idea that these companies are too big and that they should possibly be like broken up. What are the things that could be broken up and what reasons do folks have to say they have become too big?  Right. I mean it takes many forms. It kind - and it depends on the company you are talking about. So Google is the company that is come up in this conversation most. And the Europeans have sort of sketched out what this looks like. The company has been under fire for giving preferential treatment to its services over rivals in search results. So you know you will go type in whatever and Google's version of that product will come up before its competitors which folks in Europe saw as a major issue. And they fined the crap out of Google for having done it because people do not click to like the third page at Google. So like why...  I do.  Do you?  Yeah because I know that they are going to give me all their stuff first.  Yeah. Well there you go. So...   So like...  I am an outlier.  Right. So for Google it is stuff like that and the fact that they are just buying up all these competitors. For Facebook it is the reality that there really is I think in the eyes of most consumers like one social network. And then people say oh well you know let us just go use Instagram instead of Facebook. Well Instagram is owned by Facebook. The feds let Facebook buy Instagram. It is like that kind of stuff that is really on the minds of folks here. Like whether - like was all that good for the country for the economy for people?  Was there a thing that one of these companies did that made everyone say this is the week? Or it was just kind of about that time.  It was really the latter. The Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission had been talking about this for quite a long time and we really only got word of exactly how they were going to break this stuff down with respect to potential investigations over the weekend. That was sort of a coincidence I would say. With respect to the House again lawmakers there have been talking about some sort of antitrust probe for a bit but I think they sort of sensed the momentum - the political momentum. And that is why we saw the announcements.  Yeah I would say that there was a lot of pressure from the 2020 candidates - Democrats running for president - who are starting to talk about this in a more direct way. Particularly Elizabeth Warren is talking about it a lot. And...  Does she have a plan for that?  Not really.  She is got a medium post.  Yeah.   I did not mean that to be as shady as it sounded.   Whenever you say medium post it is shady.   But I mean just the fact that 2020 candidates and viable 2020 candidates are talking about it we are going to see that push Democrats...  Yeah.  ...In Congress to take action anyway because that is kind of the way things work.  Yeah. So we are all caught up now on what exactly happened. Kelsey you have three words on this news topic. What are they?  Yes my three words are OK now what?   So...  Wait. Referee umpire is OK one word? It is one word.  .  Ooh.  It is two letters.  Oh yeah I was going - I - when I wrote it out...  O-K-A-Y.  ...It was just OK.  OK...  .  ...With an O-K-A-Y. OK perfect.  Yeah.  OK now what? Go ahead.  So the reason I ask that is Congress says they want to do something but doing something could mean a whole lot of things. Do they want to actually regulate? Do they want to break up the tech companies? Do they want to go back to ignoring the tech companies? Are they going to think better of this once they realize that tech companies give them a lot of money...   ...And employ a lot of people all over the country?  Yeah.  This is a really vague conversation that we are having. And I hate the word conversation in general because the word is vague. But that is where we are...   Yeah.  ...Is - nobody has really been able to identify what it is they want to do. They just are acknowledging a problem. And I would say in this conversation Tony is definitely the expert on the policy that happens. And I am the expert on Congress not really doing anything. And...   In this case I want to see what they are actually going to do before I start to have a really strong sense of where things are going.  Yeah. Yeah. So Tony what are your three words?  Yeah my three words are one more thing which...  OK.  .  ...You all might remember is the thing that Steve Jobs used to say when he you know was unveiling iPhones and people would fangirl...  Oh...  ...During the iPhones...  ...Yeah.  And there would be something else that they would have. But one more thing does not just describe that. I think it actually just describes where the tech industry is right now politically speaking. Kelsey kind of alluded to some of this. It is not just antitrust and these concerns about bigness and what bigness means for competition and consumers. It is also disinformation. It is privacy. It is YouTube not doing enough to take down hate speech which we saw play out over the course of this week as once again the company was under fire for failing to act fast enough to take down repulsive stuff online. And I think for a while if you talked to a lot of these companies what they would tell you is this is just a blip right? It is people in Washington doing Washington things just getting really loud about stuff because it generates headlines. And eventually it will blow over. But the reality is that that is not the case. Like people here are frustrated with the industry. The conversation has only gotten louder in the course of the past year or two. And it is a marked change from where we were 10 years ago when I was covering this stuff when tech was like the darling of everybody here. You could do no wrong. And now I think the threats are serious. So you know to Kelsey's point - now what? Like we will see if Congress actually does something with this. But the conditions the pieces are there for some serious regulations targeting the tech industry.  Yeah. I wonder if the GOP has precedent to possibly pursue this kind of stuff because when you think about the government breaking up big corporations you do not think of the Republican Party wanting to do that. Could they be a part of that now?  Well they are - I mean that is a tough question at this point because we do not know how much the Senate is engaging on it. They are not engaging as much as the House is. And the House is frankly run by Democrats.  Yeah.  Yeah. That being said the Republicans are going after the tech industry for a much different reason than the Democrats are.  Yeah.  And you hear this come up in a lot with the conversation around anti-conservative bias.  Oh yeah.  There are all these Republicans right up to the president who say that Facebook and Google and whatnot limit the reach of conservatives and delete their content to make it harder for them to reach folks even though the president has - what? - like 60 million followers or something on Twitter right now.  Yeah.  And so they use that as an attack vector against these companies to say that they have become too powerful. It is much different than the Democrats which are out there talking about corporate power in a different capacity.  Yeah which brings us to my three words which are about that issue of speech. My three words on this whole tech debate are Section 230.   Is that three words?  Yeah.   Section T-W-O T-H-I-R-T-Y.   Very technical .  I am obsessed with varying interpretations of this section of the Communications Decency Act - Section 230. It says basically two things. One tech companies cannot really be sued for what other people do on their platforms. And two it gives these companies the right to censor content and to kick people off their platforms if they want. But the left and the right have very differing interpretations of this law. Tony how confusing is this?  You know it - on some level it is kind of not. The government...  OK.  ...Said tech platforms like a Facebook or whatnot should not be held liable for the content posted by their users. And the effects of that are twofold. First it allowed the development of services that accept user-generated content like photos and videos or whatnot and - without which the tech companies say they never would have offered social networks because they would have faced too many lawsuits. It would have been impossible in the early days of the Web. And the second is that it gave those companies the power to enforce their own terms of service without facing additional lawsuits and stuff.  Yeah.  So there is a lot of misconceptions about 230 on Capitol Hill but there is this feeling that like something is busted right? Like when videos of white supremacy go viral on YouTube when hate speech and anti-Semitism goes viral on Twitter when attack videos from the two Christchurch mosques in New Zealand go viral on the Web you know those companies face no repercussions for that outside the court of public opinion here in the United States. And to a lot of lawmakers and to a lot of regular users that is just fundamentally wrong.  Well - and that is part of what has gotten the attention of Democrats in the House too is that - Nancy Pelosi was actually just on the radio in California talking about how she thinks it is unacceptable that Facebook would not take down a video that was doctored to make her look drunk.  Oh yeah.  And there were people inside of the president's circle who were retweeting this and spreading it.  Right.  And Pelosi basically said we let Facebook just kind of get a pass for too long.  Yeah. What I find so fascinating is that the very politicians who are railing against a company like Facebook saying get it together they still have to use Facebook...  They are using it.  ...To reach their constituents.  It is true. And my favorite story of this week is Ted Cruz is out there you know making some noise again this week about how conservatives are being biased on Facebook. Ted Cruz is also running ads on Facebook pointing out his fight...  .  ...About anti-conservative bias. Like literally he is raising money using the tool that he claims is not allowing him to like reach conservative voters. And...  Oy.  He is not the only one who is been doing something like this.  Oh yeah.   Time for a break. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. Coming up we are going to talk about a word that everyone seems to be using but few folks actually get right - intersectionality. It is loved by the left hated by the right. We will tell you why after the break. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Tony Romm who covers tech policy at The Washington Post and Kelsey Snell who covers Congress for NPR. Do either of you use AirDrop?  I do not. I turn it off...  Oh no.  ...On my phone.  No I turned it off because I know exactly where this is going.  Yeah.  Yeah.  .  So tell folks who do not know yet what AirDrop is and how it works.  AirDrop allows somebody to move something from their phone to any phone that they can see essentially right around them right...  Yeah.  ...Tony?  Yeah you have to have an iPhone to do it...  Right.  ...Or an Apple device to do it.  But if you are in a public space and you have your AirDrop turned on...  Yup.  ...Any other rando  with an iPhone can like send you a photo or a gif...  Right.  ...Or whatever. It is kind of awesome but kind of scary. It is really scary to me. I have mine turned off all the time.  As you should.  Yes.  Yeah. Apparently there is a lot of stories out this week that are saying that the kids are using AirDrop to just like dump memes and stuff on anyone around them. But there is also this like dark underbelly to the AirDrop where like...  .  ...A lot of folks on the New York subway will get AirDropped  pictures of bodies.  For all the money and smarts in Silicon Valley you would think they would have realized by now that if you build it they will find a way to send dirty pictures using it.   Like it does not matter what the technology is what the platform is people will find...  The Field Of Dreams of tech.   I love it. All right we got to talk now about a word that has been creeping its way into the culture over the last few years and it is become - politically at least - really divisive. The word is intersectionality. It turns out a lot of folks are using this word especially online without really knowing what intersectionality means.  So the clearest definition of intersectionality I can give you is that people are complicated and...  .  People are not just one thing at one time.  That is Jane Coaston. She covers politics for Vox. And she just wrote this opus on the word intersectionality. It is basically this idea that people can have overlapping identities and be treated differently because of them. So she is saying that you can be a woman and Latina at the same time. You can be gay and Asian American at the same time. And so today politicians use the word intersectionality even candidates for president. It is being tossed around on Fox News as well but not too many folks know where the word comes from. And so when you trace it back the word intersectionality dates back to 1989 when a civil rights professor named Kimberle Crenshaw used the word in an academic paper.  Right. This originated in critical race theory which was a group of legal scholars in the '70s and '80s who were thinking critically about how...  .  ...Race and identity intersect with the law. And their argument was that the structures that undergird our legal principles in some ways gave credence to racism or in other ways you know were themselves racist.  Well because there is this case that she is writing about. And it is basically - and fix me if I am wrong on this - this group of women black women are trying to sue their employer for discrimination.  Right.  But all of the legal precedents before that basically looks at those kind of suits as you are black and that is it or you are white...  Yeah.  ...And that is it. And they...  Right.  ...Prescribe remedies based on single identity. And what...  Exactly.  ...The women were saying and what Crenshaw was saying is wait. You can be more than one thing at once and that gives you a...  Precisely.  ...Different outcome.  Exactly. Exactly. And so in the - you know in the case she was talking about there were specific hiring practices that meant that black women received the brunt of discriminatory action that black men did not get in that same workplace and white women did not get in that same workplace. And they were - you know the intersection of their identities as being black and being women was what was enduring discrimination. And you know the law was not able to see that.  Yeah. Well and like I love how simple the example of these black women is in this case. Basically the rule in a lot of workplaces is you know last hired first fired.  Right.  But in this workplace for the longest time they did not hire women as managers. And they also did not treat black people fairly. So by virtue of that system all of these black women managers were of course the last hired.  Exactly. And so that is a specific form of discrimination that male managers did not face white female managers did not face. It is specifically experienced by black women on the virtue of them being black and being women.  Exactly. So then all right intersectionality as a word - it is part of legal theory for a very long time. And something really weird begins to happen a few years ago. And all of a sudden the word intersectionality is on the Internet and on college campuses and on conservative message boards. What happened?  So it is been interesting to track that because you know it enter - intersectionality enters the Oxford English Dictionary in I think 2015. It starts being kind of the subject of conversation by activists or on college campuses because I think that you saw you know the word diversity you know did not - stopped meaning anything in a lot of ways.  Oh yeah.  You know I think a lot of people - you know when it is weapons manufacturers bragging about their diverse hiring practices...  .  ...You know like...  It is like really?  Especially at a time when - you know I think 2014 2015 that is I think - you start seeing the efforts of Black Lives Matter when you just saw a lot of people who were thinking OK. What can we be doing here that would make this conversation easier or better or more fruitful? - because clearly just asking you know for a more diverse workplace is not really getting the job done here.  Yeah. Well then also what is happening at the same time is that the environment and the climate around issues of speech on lots of...  Yup.  ...College campuses is just getting...  Yup.  ...More heated. And then you see the right glom onto the word intersectionality to kind of push back against those campus climates right?  Right. Exactly. And again I think the right is responding to how activists or how they perceive activists to be using the term intersectional or intersectionality on college campuses. You know when I sent a number of conservative writers Kimberle Crenshaw's original paper you know they - no one had a problem with it. People were like oh yeah. You know that...  Well you mean like Ben Shapiro and David...  Yes.  ...French like leading...  Yup.  ...Conservative voices said oh this theory on its own...  Yup.  ...Is rock solid.  Yup. They were like well that makes sense. Like...  Wow.  ...That sounds fine. Well - and because I mean it also is - like it is breathtakingly simple to argue in a sense people are complicated. People have multifaceted identities. But I think it was really this idea that like OK. You know the term is not bad but how it is being used is bad.  So then let us talk about that then. How is the left using this term? How is the right using this term? And what do both sides dislike about how the other side is using this term?  Well I think on the left intersectionality has been a means by which you know you could talk about a lot of different issues that would all impact...  Got you.  ...Not a lot of different people but a lot of times the same person.  Yeah.  You know I will use myself as an example. You know I am a biracial gay person. You know that means that I am impacted by racism. I am impacted by sexism. I am impacted by misogyny. I can also be impacted by homophobia.  Yeah.  And all of - it is not as if you know people are like aha - like you know people do not divide up your identities when they are being...  Yeah.  ...Mean to you.  You are Jane and all of those things are in you. Yeah.  Yeah exactly exactly. And so - but I think that something I find fascinating about how the right thought about intersectionality was this idea that it is creating a hierarchy that you know at the top of the hierarchy would be - I do not know hypothetically...  Lesbian black women.  ...Black trans women which would be...  OK yeah.  ...Which would be big news to a lot of black trans women...  .  ...And that you know the victimized will become straight white men - straight cisgender white men which I found fascinating. And you know one - it is kind of acknowledging that there already exists a hierarchy and that you - any effort to eliminate the hierarchy is seen as an effort to simply reverse the hierarchy.  Yeah. So we have talked about how the right has run with this word but it seems like the left has made the word now almost a religion almost a belief system. And like it is - it is spiritual almost.  Well I would say that I think that that is a bit of a canard. I think that for folks who are working on anti-discrimination efforts they want to use intersectionality you know almost in some senses as a signal that makes it clear that they take all forms of discrimination and hate seriously.  So it is like a virtue...  And...  ...Signaling.  Well I think virtue signaling would imply that they do not actually think that and that they are doing this just to show people. I think they actually do think that. I think they actually do take discrimination across the board very seriously and are using intersectionality as a means of indicating that you know diversity is not enough that you know this is where we are going to take our stand.  Yeah. My question in this moment where like there is more knowledge available to all of us than ever before yet people on the left and the right seem to make no effort to really truly understand a word like intersectionality - like I wonder why that is the case. I would bet that most people could not point to the roots of this word in legal theory.  Right.  Is there something about the culture right now or our politics right now that keeps our understanding of these buzzwords so shallow? What is it about us?  Well I think that as our culture has widened to include more voices and more people how we talk about those voices and people has not been. You know there are a lot more people who have heard Ben Shapiro talk about intersectionality than even perhaps I have heard Kimberle Crenshaw talk about intersectionality.  Yeah.  And so I think it is when you know these kind of secondary actors get to redefine terms. And I would argue that you know the left does this as well where you know you may have heard intersectionality more from college students than you have heard from the original source or if - you know you may have thought that this is a term that literally just came up in 2015...  Yeah.  ...When it most certainly did not.  Yeah.  And so I think that it is when - you know when secondary actors are able to define terms in our media or to define what something looks like or sounds like I think that is where that confusion can come from.   Thank you Jane.  Of course. Thank you very much.   Thanks again to Jane Coaston of Vox. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders here with Tony Romm who covers tech policy for The Washington Post and Kelsey Snell who covers Congress for NPR. What do you make of that?  You know it - the thing that I thought was really interesting about this is it reminds me of the conversation we have a lot about the word feminism - is it is...  Ah.  ...Another word where you get into a - it is a complex word that is not really all that complex right?   Yeah.  People create definitions for it based on - you know because it is shorthand. And...  Exactly.  ...The problem that we run into in politics here is that people want shorthand because it is a way to connect with voters or with people who they are talking to in a very condensed period of time. But it does not actually express the complex feelings that they are having about the topic at hand. And that is where things get difficult.  Yeah.  The challenge for us is to figure out how to have that conversation in a way that works for other people while at the same time dealing with the fact that there are lots of others with gigantic followings on social media who can kind of co-opt a debate around something like intersectionality to promote a very radically you know different or incorrect view of it.  Yeah.  When you have these kind of conversations do you get a lot of feedback from people about their feelings about the word?  Well like I find with all these conversations you have to spend 10 or 15 or 20 minutes stripping away the semantics and the jargon from the way people talk about this stuff...  Yeah.  ...Because you come to conversations around race and gender with talking points. And it just takes a certain conditioning to strip that back and be really honest about how you feel and what you want. And I think that is what is missing in our politics. And the way that this word has just kind of floundered speaks to that if that makes sense.  Yeah.   Time for a break - when we come back my favorite game - Who Said That. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.  We were both already terrified about this game.  Yeah we are going to do terribly.   I do not know why people get so worked up about it.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Kelsey Snell who covers congress for NPR and Tony Romm who covers tech policy at The Washington Post. You all it is time for my favorite game - Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  The game is really simple. I share a quote from the week. You both have to guess who said that or at least get the story I am talking about or a keyword from the story. Per usual the winner gets absolutely nothing.  Yes.  Nice.  Shall we begin?  Let us do it.  Let us do it.  No buzzers - just yell it out all right? First quote is the question I started out with was - how do people perceive what is difficult and how can we train a computer to make those same types of predictions?  A game?  A game show.  A game show.  Jeopardy!?   Yeah. OK. There you go.  Oh really?  See. Yeah yeah. So that was a quote from Emma Boettcher. She is a new Jeopardy! champion. And she...  Oh right.  ...Beat the guy who had won millions with the expertise he gained from being a sports gambler. And she got her expertise in Jeopardy! by writing her master's thesis on how to beat the game.  Wait. I have...  See...  ...Been spending my time all wrong .  I could have gotten a master's in game shows?  Yeah.  Yes you can.  Why did I do journalism?  .  Yeah. Yeah. She wrote a 70-page master's thesis called Predicting The Difficulty Of Trivia Questions Using Text Features. And she basically found out that you can figure out how hard these questions are or how easy they are or how to guess the right answer based on how it is worded.  Wow.  Yeah.  She would not struggle at this show. She...   She would win it...  All of it.  ...Hands down. All right Kelsey. You are up one - zip. Next quote - you ready?  Yeah.  We have decided to launch a campaign to educate the public politicians and civil servants about the unique problems we face.  Oh.  That could be anything.  Yeah. I was going to say.  What marginalized community announced this week that they were going to have a march to celebrate themselves?  Oh.  Is this the straight pride thing?  Straight pride?   Yes.  Oh Jesus.  I will give that to both of you.  .  Oh no.  So as we know June is LGBTQ Pride month and there are parades and celebrations and honoring of that community all month. But in response a group called Super Happy Fun America wrote a blog post this week announcing that in the Boston area these guys are planning a straight pride parade.  What is in it?  I do not even know - cargo shorts?  Socks and sandals.   I have no words.  All right. Final quote - I think the game is - well the game is whatever. It does not matter. Final quote...   Here's a quote. Tonight's the night. Let us live it up. I got my money. Let us spend it up. You all know that quote.  I...  It is from a song.  It is from a song.  Yeah I know. And I am like - I am going to embarrass myself.  I love - no.  Let me do it again. Tonight's the night.  That is what it sounded like to...  Let us live it up.  Oh it is...  I g