 Check check.  Check check.  Hello.  My guest this episode began our conversation with an apology.  I am - man it took me so long to get here from SoHo it is unbelievable. I am really really sorry about the tardiness.  Listen I - it is New York.  I am upset.  That is the voice of comedian Mo Amer. When we spoke he was going from our chat to an international flight. He was schlepping around with a bunch of bags. It was all quite stressful. And Mo was worried that because he was late we might like cancel the interview.  I could be catastrophizing it is all in my head and everything's fine.  I think you are catastrophizing.  All right.  I also love that you are using a word that my therapist loves to use about me. He is like Sam you are catastrophizing. We do not have to do that.   Not many people know that word. It is one of my favorite words actually.  It is a real word.  It is the best word.  Yes.  It is one of my - I think it is probably top five words of all time for me.   Well what is the last thing you actually catastrophized about?  Right now today.   From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. This episode Mo Amer - comedian and writer. Mo calls himself a global stand-up comedian. He grew up in Texas but he got there after fleeing Kuwait as a refugee when he was young. In his comedy career Mo has performed hundreds of shows with Dave Chappelle he is got a Netflix special and he is a member of what is known as the longest-running artistic collective of Muslim comic performers in the world. That group is called Allah Made Me Funny. In this chat we talk about all of those things and we also discuss why Mo says his mother is a real OG. All right as you already heard Mo was in New York fighting traffic. I was in LA I guess doing the same thing.   I love that as I have been preparing for this interview with you whenever I type in your name it wants to autocorrect Amer to America.  Exactly.  Kind of symbolic. Well - or kind of ironic I guess no?  But I would say symbolic and ironic - I mean a little bit of both.  Yeah yeah. And for those who do not know your work just yet it is ironic I say because like you spent - what? - how many years as a traveling comic as a refugee?  So I had 20 years to get my citizenship and 10 of those 20 years I spent traveling the world without a passport.  Wow. You had a - what? - refugee travel document. What even is that?  Not - even immigration officers do not know which they should know.   They should know.  But they do not. They - the people that should know do not know what it is.  It is a Geneva passport right?  It is a Geneva passport correct.  Tell folks what that means.  Yeah. So for refugees and asylees that are fleeing persecution in their country or because of war or whatever reasons that they have to flee under the definition of asylee or refugee when you come to that country you cannot - you forfeit your passport essentially. And if - my case is I am Palestinian. I was - I am stateless so I did not even have a country right? So then it became even trickier right? .  Yeah.  It became a trickier situation. So the refugee travel document is a little book that wants to be a passport really badly but it is not.  .  But it is only good for a year but it allows refugees or asylees to travel while they are waiting for their paperwork to go through to become citizens.  Yes but the thing that would happen to you is that you would get to all these TSA checks at all these airports and they would be like what is that? .  Yeah yeah. TSA did not care.  OK.  TSA was like whatever hologram yeah. We are good.  Customs was the ones?  Yeah customs - and it was mostly the people working for the airlines.  Really?  So when you come in to check in - yeah because they do not think you can go on this. They are like oh you are trying to pull a fast one here because the airlines itself if they allow somebody that is not supposed to go to that country they get fined.  They get it yeah.  Yeah they get fined like 30000 - something like pretty hefty. So that - so they are really skittish about it and - what they do not know they are afraid of. And they look at it and then it says it is not a passport inside of it. So they are like it is not a passport. I am like yeah I know it is not a passport but it is like it is like a passport. I was like how can it be like a passport? Because it says it is not a passport. Yeah I know.  .  See that during the Geneva Convention...  You got to explain like world history to these people just to get on a plane.  Yeah. I am like read Page 11 on here. It describes everything for you. There is a hologram. It is real. There is visas that are issued from those countries. I do not know sir. You cannot travel. Yes I can. You are wrong. How can I be wrong? I work for the airline. I am never wrong - that kind of thing.  .  Now their ego comes into play. How could this refugee know more than me? What are you talking...  Walkie-talkie comes out. They are getting backup.  Yeah a little red phone - it is usually a red phone. It really is. Not to be - I am not being cliche. Like really...  Like for real - red phone.  The - for real. There is a red phone and then there is a guy with a red jacket that comes out. And he starts reading the thing. He looks perplexed. Then his boss comes and then the head of security comes. They - it is a whole situation.  .  I am always arguing. I am always repeating the same thing.  I watched your special on Netflix and you are able to laugh at a lot of this a lot of the hardships you have dealt with at airports for many many years. I could totally see myself if I were in that situation not being able to laugh at it at all. I would just be mad. How do you channel years of your life and travel that seem to be very frustrating into humor? Not everyone could do that I am thinking?  I think stand-up comedy the best - some of the best stand-up comedy comes from frustration and anger.  OK.  You know just seeing a guy just like crescendo into a mountain of frustration and he just dissects - he or she just dissects a situation and they just like vent and everybody relates to it that is what crushes the most. And that is what really got me through it you know? And that is what really helped me get through this immigration situation is stand-up comedy. You know it is just like - you feel gross. It is all these like projections at you - coming at you. What are you doing here? Why are you here? You are not supposed to be here. And you are like no no no. I am supposed to be here. You are the one that does not know it and it is just like something that builds and builds and builds. Therefore it needs an outlet. You cannot just hold all that inside.  We also got to catch folks up. You know we have just talked about you being a refugee for many years but tell folks where you came to the U.S. from and what made you and your family refugees.  I was born in Kuwait left Kuwait after the first Gulf War. So in 1990 that is what made us - so I am born to Palestinian parents...  OK.  ...In Kuwait. And we ended up fleeing the Gulf War in 1990. Now this is the thing that made things more confusing because on my travel document it would say I am born in Kuwait. So they would be like oh you are Kuwaiti.  But you are like no I am Palestinian.  I am like no no no. I am not Kuwaiti. They are like where is your Kuwaiti passport? Like see? It does not work that way.   See in Kuwait does not matter if you are born there. It matters where your parents come from. They are like OK where your parents come from? My parents are Palestinian - was like all right give me your Palestinian passport. I was like man I do not have a Palestinian passport. He was like why do not you have a Palestinian passport? I was like because Palestine is not a state. He is like why do not you make it a state? I am like have you not watched the news the last 70-odd years?   Uh-huh uh-huh.  I mean my goodness. You know that happened to me in Germany of all places.  Really?  Yeah yeah.  So then you come - so...  So I ended up in Houston Texas.  Which is - you know I am from Texas.  Where are you from?  San Antonio.  Oh yeah.  The superior Texan city.  Well let us take it easy. Take it easy there you know?  Houston's too much. Houston's just too much.  No no.  It is the New York of Texas.  All right.  It is just too many people in one place.  I will take that. I like that.  And it is too humid and you are just driving all the time. Like...  San Antonio's not humid? Is that what you are telling me?  It is not as humid as Houston.  Oh come on.  Traffic's not as bad.  I mean just for - it is going to get worse. Do not worry.  Oh well thanks for that .  It is going to grow. It is going to grow.  Did you like Houston?  Oh I love Houston.  Yeah?  Houston will be my home forever.  What about it do you like?  The diversity.  Yeah.  You know when I first moved there to Houston - you know that is the city that raised me. That is the city that loved me. That is where I came out from. And it is like - that is just home. It is just something about the South that I find very endearing and something that it is just like I can relate to as an Arab as well. Arabs are very hospitable. They love cookouts. They love to eat. You know and the South is like that. Houston is very much like that. And that is where my family's at and that is all my friends that I grew up with there. We are still very very close to this day - that I met when I first came to the States.  Yeah.  So I am very very blessed to have that.  And Houston is full of immigrants. Like it is as diverse as New York if not more diverse.  It is supposed to be the most diverse city in America apparently.  So then you walk in there as a Palestinian refugee. I am sure they were like what are you? .  Yeah they did not know what Arabs were. Yeah exactly.  What did they make you?  I was very confusing to the gangs in Houston that is for sure.  .  There is Mexican gangs that wanted to recruit me because they thought I was Mexican and then there is black gangs that wanted to beat me up because they thought I was Mexican.  Sounds fun. How did you deal with that? You learned Spanish right?  I learned Spanish. I am fluent now. But when I was in ninth grade it was really rough when I was walking to school and I would see Latino gangs hanging out and this guy has like obviously seen me before and he was just like looking at me and he is sort of shaking his head and he was like . You walk by here every day you do not talk to your - this is your family bro. This is your familia bro. You do not like your familia bro? He is like what is your name? I was like my name is Mohammed. He was like what?   He was like you look exactly like Hector . How is that possible? And then Hector came out. And I was like oh my God. I do look like Hector. And we started laughing.   And the black gangs wanted to beat me up. The same day I am walking back to home from school and I see the black gangs hanging out. And this guy yells at me and goes Jose  you on the wrong block Jose. I am looking around. I do not see anybody else. I am like who the hell is Jose? I said my name is Mohammed. He goes ah man. As-salamu alaykum brother. My bad. It was the best.   So you have been code-switching for a little bit. I guess you had to do that growing up. It is - I am always interested in hearing people of color share their perspectives on race when they have had that experience because for me growing up as a black guy in South Texas my experience regarding race was pretty linear. Like I am black. That is it. You see it and you know.  Right.  And like you have probably had lots of periods in your life where people see you and do not know and you can be many different things.  That is 100 percent true. It is very interesting to grow up that way because even - like even coming up in high school and things like that and because I do not have an accent - apparently you know if you are an immigrant you have to have an accent right?  Mmm hmm.  So if you do not have an accent they find it really odd that you are not an American - you are not American? Well no I am American but not yet. But I am.   I promise.  But I am but I am not. But I am.  Yeah yeah yeah.  So it was just like this thing that is - it was like this battle that went on inside of you on a regular basis where somebody would find out like you do not - you know you do not have a Social Security card. Like oh. Oh? I thought you were American Mo. I was like no I am.  You sound American yeah.  Yeah exactly. You sound American. They would be really shocked by it. And in the winter I get lighter and in the summer I get darker.  .  So they do not know. Like over the winter they think I am - are you white? I do not know whether you mixed with Mexican white - what happened. And then they are like are you Spanish? And then all of a sudden the summer comes. Like oh you are a different kind of Mexican I think you know.  .  It was just like - and there was not many Mohammeds running around at that time.  Yeah.  There really was not.  Which is crazy because you point out in your special that Mohammed is the most popular name in the world.  Correct.  And like Muslims and Arabs are like everywhere. And...  Yes. That is one of my favorite jokes actually - Mohammed's the most popular name in the world but I cannot find one keychain with my name on it.   Time for a break. Talking with comedian and writer Mo Amer. Just ahead Mo's thoughts on the comedy world and the MeToo movement. BRB.   When did you figure out you wanted to do comedy?  I figured out I was going to be a comedian when I was 10 years old.  That is early.  Yeah. I knew immediately. I was at the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo and...  I do not think a lot of people go to the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo and determine that they want to be a comedian.  Yeah  I know. I was there and I saw those bull riders and I was like I need to be a stand-up.  .  No. They have those you know enormous concerts every night. I mean it is probably the biggest stretch...  Yeah.  ...Of concerts in the world probably.  Yeah. Yeah.  It is pretty incredible. So my brother - since I was in the States probably a few months at that point - you know my parents were not there. Everything changed. Life sucks. You know I am pissed. And my brother takes me to kind of like change the pace. And it was a co-headlined event with the band Alabama...  OK.  ...And Bill Cosby.  That is quite a pairing.  Yeah  quite a pairing. And so I saw - now of course you know I do not want to get into all the details about Cosby and how he...  Yeah. Things changed for him. We now know more about him. But when you saw him he was not...  Yeah.  ...We did not know that.  It was 1990.  OK.  It was 1990.  So he inspired you?  Yeah. I mean I saw him - just as he has a lot of comedians - I saw him when I was 10. I saw him on this rotating stage with a lapel mic in front of like 67000 people at the Astrodome. And he was absolutely smashing.  Yeah.  And I was dying laughing. I cannot tell you anything he said or you know the jokes that he said. But I can just tell you this. I was just - I knew that that was what I was supposed to be doing for a living. And I looked at my brother. I said I am going to be a comedian.  How do you reconcile knowing that Bill Cosby inspired you to choose comedy as a career but then knowing now what we know about what kind of man he is?  It is devastating. You know to see one of your at that time heroes in stand-up. It is absolutely devastating. And it hurts very very much to know that that is what he was doing. That like really really burns. But at the same time it is like - there is no but. It is just you know you get new heroes. . You know?  Who are your new heroes?  You know what I mean? Yeah. It is like he is the one who inspired me to do stand-up and he is inspired a lot of people. I mean my God. You know Chappelle who is a dear friend of mine and I toured with him for years he...  He does the intro for your special? Is that his voice?  He does. Yeah. That is his voice. Actually he came out and surprised the audience too. And it is not in the...  Aw.  It is not in the released footage but yeah.  That is great.  But yeah. He did. It was really amazing. So he was there and all that. But he started stand-up - he decided he was going to be a comedian when he was 10 when he saw Cosby's picture in the paper. And we all - you know a lot of people started stand-up because of Bill Cosby. I mean the guy is an incredible - one of the greatest orators of our time. I mean he is as far as stand-up is concerned. And to have - ugh. It is just - I mean he is in jail right now. Did anybody see that coming?  No. I remember watching The Cosby Show as a kid being like I want to be in that family. I want him to be my dad.  Yeah. Everybody did.  And I had a dad a great dad. .  Yeah. Great father.  But like it is. It is - we are still in this moment where we are having to grapple with a lot of celebrities that we used to revere. How do you think the world of comedy grapples with this season in which a lot of the big names are just falling? Like Louis C.K. - gone. Bill Cosby - gone. There will be more.  Well Louis C.K. - I do not think Louis C.K. and Cosby in the same breath is fair. I do not think that is a fair thing. And also...  They are on the same spectrum though.  I mean yeah...  It is true he is still performing.  He is touring. He is touring right now. People are coming out watching. I think that is - I think this is what is so scary about something is that lumping in rapists with somebody who had like a weird sexual fetish. That is what Louis C.K. - that is what Louis C.K. is.  But I do think the reason though people are lumping these names together is because they are all along this spectrum of abuse of women. Right? And like abuse of power with women. And so yeah of course what Cosby is is not what Louis C.K. did but they are both types of...  It is misleading man.  ...Predatory behavior against women.  Yes. This sucks. It is gross. It is all gross man. This whole topic is disgusting.  How many more dudes are left to be outed for this stuff in the world of comedy? 'ecause I feel like it is not over yet right?  I think in the world. I do not think it just has to be just comedy. I think it is just in the world in general. Like oh my God. Let us just dig into the people that is supposed to be leading this country. Let us talk about all the senators and all the weird quirks that they might have. Oh my God.  Do you think...  Is everybody perfect here? I mean what they - you think what they did to Aziz was good? He got Yelped as Chappelle would put it. He got Yelped. You know he got reviewed from a date. What did he do?  Do you think that writ large the MeToo movement is making the world of comedy better or worse?  Man this is a long topic Sam.  .  You cannot just summize  it like that. You have put me in a trap here Sam.  I am going to let you answer for as long as you want.  . You trapping me here Sam.  No no no. I mean...  I think - I think though...  I am curious because like I am looking at the world of comedy from the outside. You are in it.  I think the MeToo movement in general you know needs some adjustment for sure. I mean there is a lot of I think riff-raff in the movement that is just not - that is like the real victims are getting overshadowed here I believe. You know? Do not you think so Sam?  Listen. I...  Oh no. Do not try to - do not you throw that on me...  I am going to tell you.  ...And back out of it. Yeah.  I think that for years men had no idea the extent to which women all the time like had to be on guard against sketchy dudes. And I think what - like the reality that is hitting me now is knowing and hearing women talk about how like it is a constant threat for them in a way that I had just not seen. So I think to the extent that men can know that that is good.  So you are saying Islam is right and women should be wearing burkas? I am just kidding.  Oh lord.  .  But...  Too dark of a joke? Too dark? Cannot joke anymore?  I love a good dark joke.  . That is not even - No. You are not even - . Burkas are not even like mandatory in Islam. I am just kidding.  I do think that like with any movement that starts out with a bang like there are you know - not everything about it goes right.  Right.  But I think that if we end this wave of MeToo and acknowledge that like women have to put up with a bunch of crap and it is not right then pound for pound writ large I would say good.  If you cannot - if men forever - I am raised - you know I lost my father when I was 14. I was raised mostly by my mother. And I have like unbelievable aunts that I believe are like saints. You know? This is the foundation that my life stands on. And if you do not appreciate and take care of women and you do not do that you are just - you are just an . You are just somebody who was not raised properly and does not understand that. I have to now say this. Of course the abuse of women is terrible. Of course the mistreatment of women is terrible. Of course for many many years I have seen it. You know come on machismo old-school men. You know? You know I have seen that. But when you have somebody - and then what becomes - the situation is that where it really frustrates me it becomes like there is real victims out there and there is just people that want attention. Right? And so why are media outlets so starved for this attention to give somebody attention where they just had a bad date? You know? That is a problem to me. Then you start lumping in somebody who - Aziz who just had a bad date and were both enjoying each other's company - even when I read the article itself - being lumped in with somebody like Cosby being lumped in with somebody who like put 'em to sleep and raped 'em for God's sakes and puts somebody who is like Harvey Weinstein who is using his power and really really forcing these women to do things that they did not want to do - it is like that is where I draw the line.  When we come back Mo tells me about his mother's reactions to his performances. BRB.   I want to talk more about what I assume is a favorite woman in your life your mother who you call a gangster in your special. Tell the story quickly of you all's voyage to America and how that prompted you to call her a gangster. It was a beautiful story .  . Yeah. She is a absolute gangster. So when we were leaving Kuwait - you know we had to get out of there. We had to leave on a school bus. So my mom had to get myself and my sister out and we had to take whatever little money that we had. So the idea was that we are going to go from Kuwait on a school bus through Baghdad through Iraq to Jordan. Jordan my sister and I would catch a flight to Houston. So we had a little bit of money and we found out that they were searching anything - everybody's bags in Baghdad and if they find anything valuable they are going to take it from you. So I see my mom. She grabs a razor. I remember she opens up her purse this black purse. And she cuts a perfect line behind each zipper on the inside of the purse and she puts equal amounts of money on each side and she starts to sew it back up. I am like...  So she is sewing money into the sides of the purse.  Into the - yeah. She is basically insulating it...  That is amazing.  ...With money. And I was like oh my God. My mother is a gangster.  Did you know that your mother even knew how to do that kind of stuff?  She was really great at sewing but I did not know she was a smuggler. Like I did not know this was going to happen.  Yeah.  And then she made two custom money belts for herself and my sister because they did not search women or it is going to be highly unlikely that they search them.  Yeah.  So then we get on the bus. We start going. And then my mom forgets about this little bit of money that was left. She totally forgot about it. So she just throws it in the lining of the suitcase the bigger suitcase. So we get to Baghdad. We look out the window and they are just like breaking suitcases. They are slicing them open. And my mom was like oh my God they are going to find this money...  Yeah.  ...That is in the suitcase. Then we look over at my sister. My sister has zero gangster skills.  .  This poor little young lady is like sweating profusely. Like we just knew that she was going to sell us all out.  .  So my mom tells her get the hell away from me. Grab your brother. Get the hell away from me. Get off the bus. You little kids go outside.  Wow.  They will not suspect anything. And then as we are walking out I see my mom messing up the clothes in the suitcase. And then she throws some orange peels and some trash that we had from the ride over.  Wow.  And some time goes by. I do not know how much time went by. We all start walking on the bus back on the bus. A soldier sees my mom. He gets upset. He starts cursing at her. He goes what is wrong with you? Everybody's supposed to get searched. I never saw you get off the bus. He is saying some horrible things to my mother. His superior officer sees him. He grabs him he shoves him to the side. He goes hey what the hell's wrong with you? How could you talk to this woman this way? He was very upset.  Yeah.  And he looks over at the suitcase. He goes look at this woman's suitcase. It is in shambles.  Because she made it that way .  It is obviously been searched already. Exactly. And he looked at my mom's face. He goes look at this face. This is not a face of a liar.  Wow.  And he grabs him and he throws him off the bus and he apologized to my mom. And all I could think of is damn my mother is a gangster. That is it.   There is this moment when you tell the story in the special and then you pan out and your mother's in the audience.  Yep.  And you see her and she is smiling but it is one of those smiles where you cannot quite tell. I am like is she loving this or is she like stop? Does she like you telling that story?  Oh it is probably a little - well I - so she saw me at Radio City Music Hall with Dave and I did not do it there on purpose because I wanted to save it for the special. And she was - my mother was extremely emotional throughout the - this is - the shot we used was from the second show.  Oh.  And the first show when I came out my mom was just bawling. And I almost started crying...  When you came out or when you told the story?  No when I just came out.  Aw.  Then she sees 1200 people going crazy.  Aw.  She was like people go crazy for my son? I have had this kid. Are you kidding me? This...  Mom's going to Mom. Mom's going to Mom.  Yeah exactly. Exactly. I look over and I see - I was like Ma I cannot look at you please.  .  I am going to start crying. I have not even said hello yet. Like this is killing me.  Oh I love it.  It was one of those like super beautiful really beautiful intimate moments.  Yeah yeah yeah.  And she was just like wow my son is really really doing this right now. It was one of those situations.  I - is it fair to say that like perhaps the biggest theme of your comedic work is breaking down the immigrant refugee international experience for people? I think that - I mean like that is the sense that I feel. But like that is kind of the big thrust of your work huh?  I mean...  At least right now.  I mean - yeah exactly - right now. So it is - you know I hope to put out a long body of work - you know several specials before I go on this Earth.  Yeah yeah.  So I have a goal of like five amazing specials in my head you know?  OK.  So it is just the introduction.  All right.  People always have all these questions for me - oh how did you get here? What did you get - what is your background? Oh you are not American? Are you American? You are not? Are you born here? Where you come from? Where your parents are? So the first special was just like look this is who I am. We are in Texas. This is my home court. This is where I am from. This is what I do. And that is where that came from and it is like that is what my introductory piece was is to let people know who I am. And then it will progress my work will progress. It is not just going to be framed around that but it is also you know this is what is going on in the world.  You did a series of tours for U.S. troops in countries like Kuwait and Iraq while you were still a refugee on this like Geneva passport. That must have been trippy.  Yeah I took a lot of risks did not I? .  Yeah.  I mean the - and I got judged for this on different sides you know and it is really frustrating.  What do you mean you got judged for it?  I mean like you know - so you had like Muslims or people who are against war or what have you be like how could you perform for troops you know you sellout? And then I had the other side where it was just like we do not want no Mohammed performing for our troops.  I mean it is like both sides right?  Really?  And then I had the whole thing of - you know because I did these shows pre-911 - the first time I did the show was in April of 2001. I was a little kid when we did Germany Italy Sicily. And then after 911 happened I was just kept being told how nobody wants to hear a Mohammed talk. So I was fearful to even be myself. People were so angry. So I made it a point. I was like you know what I am going to go perform for troop - I am going to go back and do it for several reasons. No. 1 I want to see it with my own eyes. Second thing is that if I could perform in front of them and be myself I will have no fear no matter where I go. And I also want to influence them you know. So when I would go do these shows and be myself you cannot believe the reception. People would roar. The - I mean when we did Japan Korea and Guam man I would just destroy. It was just like people had never saw anybody like me come through there in the early 2000s as a Mohammed like representing and from Texas. And you know a lot of military men are from Texas too. And there was a lot of guys after the show that would come up to me like oh I am half Syrian oh I am half Lebanese - in front of their own you know...  They were like coming out as international...  Yeah.  ...To their colleagues.  To their own colleagues exactly - and guys would be like I did not know you were half Arab. Yeah I am half Arab. What?  Wow.  You know I was freeing guys.  Yeah.  I did not - that was not my intention but I was just like - my intention was to just influence them and make them laugh and give them something to think about. And it was just so fascinating to go through that process that I could not get enough so I did it three years in a row.  So the troops liked it?  Oh that is an understatement. They loved me. Then when I went to - when they asked me to go to Kuwait and Iraq - which was illegal by the way. I was not supposed to even enter Kuwait but I did anyway.  OK .  Yeah yeah. It is over now. So yeah so it was one of those things. I really put my life on the line for this - for these shows. And I wanted to go see it because it was the first time going back to Kuwait after we fled the Gulf War and I have not seen my aunt in 20 years. There was all these things that really had to get dealt with all these emotional wounds that really had to heal properly. And the only way to deal was to go do the shows and stay an extra three days and it was just a - it was an incredible learning experience at the same time grueling both emotionally and physically. It was really really grueling. And I did it just - it was so damn important to me. And...  And it worked out. And look at you now.  Look at me now.  Yeah.   That was comedian Mo Amer. He is on tour around the country for the next several months and you can see his Netflix special right now on Netflix. All right that is a wrap for today. Thank you for listening. We are back in your feeds Friday. Till then talk soon.  