 I think cis people are beginning to understand the way that gender works and their own gender through ideas that come from a trans lens.  That is Torrey Peters. She is the author of the new novel Detransition Baby.  If you just go on Twitter and you see memes that are like the two genders and one gender is like a trash can and one's a lamp where it is not - there are not - it is not like male or female.  So Torrey has noticed this trans lens more and more in the wider culture this understanding that gender is not fixed that it can be performed and presented in many ways. Gender can be done even through trash cans or lamps or sea captains.  Yeah you look at something like that fad for the sea shanty song.  Oh yeah.    One day when the tonguin' is done we will take our leave and go.  What people were really liking was like there was a gender performance in the sea shanty singers you know. And it is like you are doing a gender. Your gender is like sea captain or like a sailor.  And so doing gender - it is this thing that is really easy to see everybody doing once you begin to look for it.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. And this episode Torrey Peters and her new book Detransition Baby. That book views a lot through a trans lens. Torrey says that when she writes her audience in her mind is always other trans women like her. She does not dumb things down for cisgender readers like me. But there are a lot of ways that her book has made trans and cis people alike ask themselves a lot of questions about how gender works in their own lives.  You do not have to have trans body or a cis body or - all these different things we can begin to play with it And that is kind of like the place that I am like writing into.  So there are three main characters in this book - Reese a trans woman Ames her ex who was a trans woman that has detransitioned and Ames' new girlfriend a cisgender divorced woman named Katrina who also happens to be Ames' boss. After detransitioning Ames gets Katrina pregnant and then Ames asks Reese and Katrina his ex and his current girlfriend if all three of them could raise that baby together. I know. It is complicated - a lot of entanglements a lot of drama. And listeners it only escalates over the course of this book. I am most obsessed with Ames.  Really? OK.  Yeah.  I actually love that you are an Ames. Like I feel like people have read this book - and what people used to do with Sex And The City where they are like I am a Carrie or I am a Samantha or something like that it tells me something about the reader...  Oh yeah.  ...Which is fun for me.  Yeah. My editor just Slacked me. And she wrote I am an Ames doing the work of Katrina.  Yeah .  Rising Ames cusp Katrina or whatever the astrology kids would call it - I do not know. Before we got into the book I had to ask Torrey about the response to it. There is so much discussion around Detransition Baby that discusses it like it is you know the first trans mainstream hit novel from a major publisher which when I first was seeing this I was like well good for her. But you have tweeted that that framing of your book in that way as a first it misses a lot of context. What is that context?  Well I came out of a scene you know and I stand sort of like on the shoulders of like the people who taught me a lot. Like there is a kind of collective knowledge in the book that came out of a scene sort of a Brooklyn trans lit scene around 2014. I mean I moved to Brooklyn really to be part of this scene. We thought it was going to be sort of like the Harlem Renaissance of trans writing or like Paris in the '20s of trans writing. But the idea of the scene was trans women writing for other trans women. And by writing for other trans women it sets the bar really high. Like you never slowed down to explain anything because trans women already know. So previously I think a lot of trans writing had been like maybe 70 story and like 30 slowing down. And when you are writing for other trans women you are writing at full speed. I mean that was something that we thought about a lot in relation to Toni Morrison where Toni Morrison said she writes explicitly for other Black women and that everybody else can keep up. And we thought like we will just write at like a flat-out run and everybody else can keep up. I mean they have Google. And so we started doing it that way and it felt really good. And it also made you - it made me - and I think it made the other women - a better writer because like let us say you want to talk about like taking your hormones or something. If - you can tell that to cis people and they are like wow tell me about hormones. But if you tell that to another trans girl she will yawn in your face because she is been doing it for five years. So...  They know yeah.  Yeah. It would be like yeah I know. I did it like two hours ago. So in order to really tell a good story you had to bring something fresh. If you want to talk about hormones you have to say something new about hormones. And so it was kind of like this ethos that we - was being developed in like 2014 and that there were these other books that taught me how to write and taught me how to think about you know my transness and about gender and about just kind of womanhood in general. And my book happened to be on Random House and so it is gotten a certain kind of attention. But it did not happen by myself. Like it actually happened from within a community. And I hope they get those chances too.  Yeah. Well - and now what I am seeing in so many of the conversations you are having around this book with other folks is that there is a moment now in which the normative culture the dominant culture can begin to see their world through a trans lens. And I want to unpack more of that and what it means because I was really fascinated by that. But first I guess we got to tell folks what your book is. Give us a quick synopsis of Detransition Baby without any spoilers.  OK. So the novel starts with Reese who you can think of as sort of like Fleabag but trans and in Brooklyn.   OK.  In the same way that like Fleabag's life is a little bit messy so is Reese's. And she is kind of reeling still from the fallout of a breakup with her ex-girlfriend who is also a trans woman who then detransitioned from Amy to Ames. And the action of the novel kicks off when Ames contacts her again and asks Reese would you like to be a mother? - because Ames has gotten his boss Katrina pregnant and Katrina and Ames are trying to figure out how to raise the baby. And then - I realize that sounds complicated but that is just the beginning. And then it goes from there. That is all the first chapter by the way .  Listen. I mean you come in hot and I love it. You draw some parallels between cis women and divorced cis women and trans women. And you even dedicate this book to divorced cis women. And you write in that dedication like me they have had to face starting their life over without either reinvesting in the illusions from the past or growing bitter about the future. I love that and it is beautiful. Unpack that for me and tell me how you got there.  Well I was in my 30s - I am still in my 30s but I was in my early 30s - and you know transition was kind of over for me. And there was a lot of drama when anybody transitions and there was for me. And then I was looking around. And I was like well now what? How do I find meaning? And the previous generation of trans women I am very grateful for them. But the - a lot of them were also kind of figuring out how to find meaning because things have really changed in the last 10 or 20 years. You know 20 years ago I think the big question of her life if you are a trans woman is like just how do you survive? You know how do you just be OK day to day? And I had a bigger horizon than just day to day. And so I would say to these other trans women - I would say well how do you plan for five years? How do you plan for 10 years? And they would say I do not know you know. Not all of them but many of them. And so then I was looking around for role models. And I was looking around for like how do you make meaning after this? And I came across a lot of books by divorced cis women who got to this place usually in their 30s where they just suddenly had to start their life over. And there was a bunch of wisdom and ways of looking at the world in these books that I kept on returning to them. I was like oh why do I keep going back? And I was realized that like oh actually they were models for me on how to live because what I was finding in them is I was finding that they had experienced a break in life you know a moment of changing in which they had to reassess themselves and they had to be honest about who they were and what they wanted. And then they had to make a plan going forward. They could not stay stuck. And the kind of questions that they had to ask themselves were so similar to the questions that I had to ask myself as a trans woman about what I wanted what I cared about. And I sort of began taking on their stances the stances from these books and from these stories and from this media. And I realized also though that I had something that I wanted to say to them. They were teaching me something about womanhood but there was a way of looking at gender that trans people have developed and that trans women have a way of thinking about gender that I really thought could be useful to them. And so I was like well I am going to write a book that is the same kind of social comedy of errors social realism as the books that taught me. And I want to write it in that vein but I want to talk back. I want it to be a conversation between us.  Yeah. In your life you transitioned and got divorced kind of around the same time.  I did yeah. I mean it was funny that divorce was like a metaphor for me or an analogy. It was like only like two years later that I was like wait. I also got divorced. Like...   I was like I am looking at it through this like you know sophisticated literary lens. And that is why I like relate. And then I was like no wait. I am actually a divorced woman you know? And it was - I mean I think that is one of the reasons why transition was very traumatic for me is that it really was a break from so many things in my life. It was a break from my past. It was a break from my relationships. It was a break from the kind of opportunities. You know it is a little sometimes difficult. You know people want to say well if you are trans or you are a woman you are always a woman. But in my 20s I was offered a lot of the opportunities that like a white man in America was offered. And it was shocking to me. It should not have been. I should have realized. But it was - to actually feel it the ways that those opportunities dropped away when I was suddenly like you know a transsexual woman and to have to sort of reassess without all of the normal supports that I had because I was also losing all those other supports it was a hard period.  Coming up Torrey tells me why discussing detransition is not always welcome in the trans community and why she still talked about it anyway. So the central premise and the central plot point in the book is these three people might create a family and raise a child together. It is all about you know pushing against the sometimes confining constraints of what we see as a usual marriage. Do you think that there is one big thing that you were trying to say with three people potentially raising one child together? Was there a big message there that you wanted to grapple with or it was just a cool plot device to play with for a book?  I think it was more the latter. I have always liked sort of triangles in literary plots like something like Great Gatsby or - you know there is triangles all over the place.  Yeah.  And so I have always enjoyed that. But - so to sort of answer more closely your question I think what I was trying to get at was less prescribing to people this is a way of doing this so much as asking a question. That - I think that all three of those characters were kind of stuck in certain ways of seeing the world and the book is about the things that they were sure of their sort of biases and their judgments and that sort of - and their coping mechanisms all of that stuff unraveling. You know and as they unraveled they moved closer together. And at the end what I wanted them was I wanted them in a room together with all of their biases all of their coping mechanisms all of their sort of judgments stripped away from them. And then I wanted them to solve the problem of like how do you live? And that - the truth is as a writer I think that is a generational problem. How are we going to live now?  Yeah.  Because - I do not want to - no spoilers but the book stops where it does because this is actually for readers to solve. Because I see a lot of like cis women I know like the divorced woman that I dedicated to but other women in my life and definitely also other men in my life where they are like the ways that we have been doing things like a sort of very strict nuclear family or very...  It does not work anymore.  Yeah. Strong kind of constraining gender roles or ideas about heterosexuality and like the way that it is conducted - people are like this is not working. So I read essays about - by straight cis women and they have titles of things like heteropessimism. And it is like this is not working for anybody you know? So I think the book is less an answer to this question than really trying to define the question through these experiences of three people who are actually quite different.  To hear you talk about that how the central question is like what do you do next after you figure out everything you have been doing is not working like that as the crux of this book and this like way of seeing the world through a trans lens if I am big-picturing over the last year I kind of want to say this last year of pandemic and lockdown has been a truly trans moment. Everything that we used to do seems like it does not work anymore. We might not ever return to what we were before. And we have to find a new way to live in this world and see ourselves in this world. This is the moment of transition for all of us.  Absolutely yeah. You said it better than I could have. So - but I think it is true. I mean there is something I talked about in sort of the - in other places is an evolution of the literature of marginalized people where there is different stages. And like sort of a first stage would be like we are just like you. Like we want your approval - to the dominant culture. The second stage would be like actually we are nothing like you. Go away. And then like a third stage would be like we define ourselves separate from you. We do not have anything to do with you. We do not reject you or accept you. We are separate from you. And then I think there is a fourth stage which is what I think the trans literature is on right now and many types of things are on right now where the dominant culture begins to understand itself through the terms set by the marginalized culture so that - like you know this happened with sexuality where straight people now sort of understand the terms of their own sexuality through ideas and concepts that were created by queer people or queer scholars.  Yeah.  I think white people understand their own race and questions of race through work done by Black scholars and people of color. And that is kind of like the place that I am like writing into. I am writing into like this moment that I think is happening. And I hope that rather than being like oh we are losing something and we are scared that it actually can be like a hopeful or playful moment.  Yeah yeah. All right back to the book. So writing about detransitioning in the book - that is not something that everyone in the trans community is actually comfortable with right? And like in the book you write about your trans character's discomfort with people who detransition. Why was it so important to you to write about a character who detransitions? And was there any fear about backlash from in the community?  Yeah I was afraid of backlash within the community and I was afraid of backlash outside of the community. Detransition is something that is been weaponized against trans people that when people detransition they say see? It does not work. This is not real. This is like a mental illness and that the people who transition regret it. So therefore nobody should transition and you know trans people in that way should not exist. And so I think because it is been so weaponized trans people are scared to talk about it. If you talk about like oh things are really hard - you know a lot of people I know detransition because it was really hard to live as a trans woman and - or a trans man. And they detransition not because they do not have those feelings but because it is just so difficult. But that reality does not get talked about because if you talk about that reality then it ends up getting weaponized against other trans people. And so I kind of wanted to say that like that whole conversation is a distraction like - and that in order to detransition you have to first transition. So therefore detransition belongs to trans people. It is ours. And we should not let other people weaponize it against us. And if it does belong to us we should talk about what it actually means in an honest way and like a nonfearful way. And if you do not - if you cannot talk about regret and you cannot talk about it openly and sort of within the community those regrets - they fester and they become shame.  It is so interesting hearing you talk about this and how the trans community grapples with the way other communities might see conversation about detransitioning. It feels a lot about this discourse that happened so much in and around Black art for a long time. And I think we have gotten over it. But there was this idea that like you could not share the family business for like widespread or white consumption. You could not have any conversations or art that would give the people that want to say bad things about Black people fodder. So everything in Black art and film and performance had to be performatively righteous and it had to be good so that the enemies of Black people got no ammo. And I think we as a community have finally gotten past that and said we get to make the full range of art as we see fit just like the white people get to do. I do not know. I just hear parallels in that hearing you talk about feeling free to write about detransitioning.  Yeah I absolutely agree. I mean I have mentioned Toni Morrison once already in this interview but I think another quote of hers is that the very serious work of racism is distraction. And I feel like she rejected that distraction. She was like - 'ecause she does write flawed characters. She writes difficult characters. And...  Yeah.  And for me that was a model that was like - you know you look at what actually gets talked about outside of trans community and it is like bathroom bills right? And like there is nothing more like of a ridiculous distraction than where someone pees. Like it is an embarrassing undignified conversation. And...  Yeah.  ...If you enter into that conversation suddenly you are like lost in this like ridiculous - there is no way to be dignified in that argument and so that distraction has won. So for me it was like detransition as it gets weaponized is also a distraction. So I am like I am going to reject that distraction and I am going to write about things that matter. And similarly if I want to have all of the tools that all these other artists have I have to have flawed characters. I cannot have - like every story cannot be a resilience story. Characters have to be messy. They have to make mistakes. And I have to actually not be writing with the burden of representation. Like my characters - they are not just trans women. They are very specific types of trans women. Like I am writing about really white trans women in Brooklyn who are like me. And if I try to represent all trans women first of all everyone will be like that is not my story so you have misrepresented me. And No. 2 I will not be able to say a lot. Like the jokes that I make - they are like catty jokes you know? Like I make fun of people in the narrative voice especially of race. And so I have to be really specific about who I make fun of if I want that to land. Like a joke about someone like me in Brooklyn you know wanting a KitchenAid mixer or something like that - that...  Yeah.  ...That joke...  You can do that.  I can do that. And that joke works if I am really specific to myself if I am not trying to represent all trans women. And so...  Yeah yeah.  ...I kind of - in order to be like just funny in order to tell a good joke I cannot do it with the burden of representation. And so I try to make it clear who I am making fun of - and you know usually myself - in the book.  .  And that way it lands. And the models for that I got from Black literature.  Coming up how to view the act of parenting itself through a trans lens. I want to get into how Ames came to be. I read that the character of Ames came out of a not-so-great trip that you took to Mexico.  Mmm hmm. The voice of Reese which is that sort of catty - like very high femme catty voice that was the voice that was easy for me. But finding the voice of Ames was a little bit harder the sort of like - I think of Ames as very dissociated. Like he is a little bit distanced from himself. He sort of watches what he does from outside of himself. And I was having a hard time in 2017. I had a friend who was getting a gender surgery in Guadalajara which is - now there is more options in the United States but there is sort of kind of famously trans girls go to Mexico and Argentina. So I had gone with a friend to take care of her after her surgery in Guadalajara and my passport had not yet been changed the MF gender marker on my passport. And I just really did not want to deal with customs. And I had this suit this sort of Reservoir Dogs-style suit hanging in my closet - you know like black suit skinny black tie white shirt - pretty skeezy suit honestly. And...  .  ...I was like well I will just wear this. So I did that. And of course the airline lost my luggage. So I spent kind of like a week or two wandering around Guadalajara in this black like Reservoir Dogs-style suit. And I was having a hard time in my life. I was really - I did have a lot of regrets about stuff that I would lost and my - you know with the divorce. And things actually stopped hurting as much like when I was in this state. You know? Like it was like armor. You know I would go in. And I would know that I looked weird but I was just so far from myself in that moment that you know if people gave me a weird look or something like it just bounced right off of me. And I felt in some ways almost formidable in a way that I had not - I would felt so raw after transition for so long that anybody just poking me wrong could hurt. And then I returned to this state in this suit and I suddenly had this armor. And I was fearsome in a way that I was not normally an untouchable in some ways in both the good and bad senses of that word. And for me that was sort of like - that place is where I started writing the character of Ames. Like there is a way in which he is moved away from himself. And there is a kind of attractiveness almost like a - I use the word louche in it. There is like a louche attractiveness to him being in this way that he is. But you know then my luggage came. And I was like oh that was a weird week.   Let us write a book about it.  Yeah.   So - and that was the voice of Ames.  Yeah. So Ames is detransitioning to be a man. And Ames wants this baby with Katrina this woman. But Ames does not want to be a father like quote-unquote father. And that so stuck with me. And I grappled with that. And it is like what does it mean when someone like Ames wants to keep living as a man maybe even wants to build a family but does not want to be a father? What does that mean?  Well I mean I know about it specifically for Ames. For him it was that when you are a father it is - you have to be known. Like you have to be known to your children you know? And your children are going to find you out eventually. They are going to find you out in therapy. They are going to write books about you. Children make a study of their parents. And I think that Ames felt because of his gender that no matter what if a study was made of him he would come out as a failure to the child. That is one piece of it. And I think the second piece is that also the idea of a father - like the way that people talk about fatherhood is like you know this sort of like potent figure was something that he was ultimately really really uncomfortable with. That was not a role or responsibility that he wanted to take on. And so the idea of being a parent you know it seems like a distinction without meaning the difference between being a father and a parent. But for him I think it was really important. He could be a parent. He could love a child as himself but he could not love a child in the role of a father. You know kind of riffing on that for other people I think that also this is like a - I think a lot about what people called maybe a couple years ago a crisis of masculinity like in this country.  Yeah yeah.  And I kind of want to talk about pickup truck ads like which is a really random digression which I did not know I was going to make. But I used to think a lot about...  Let us do it.  ...Pickup truck ads where - like it used to be like why did you get a truck if you are a dad? Like you get a truck because you are going to work all day and you are going to take care of your family and so you need a truck. And so the family is going to sacrifice and they are going to put all this money into it so you can buy a truck so you can make money to take care of your family. But if you look at like pickup truck ads now they are not about can you take care of your family with this truck?  It is about looking manly.  Exactly - and with a bunch of other dudes. Like if you look at the picture it is like a bunch of dudes getting muddy...  The kids are not there.  Yeah like getting muddy - like look how strong my truck is with my bros or whatever. And the idea of masculinity as like a power versus like I am going to take care of a family - like they have become separated somehow. And you know that is extrapolating a lot from a pickup truck ad. But I do feel...  I do not know. It is working for me.  Yeah.  I feel it.  I do. I do too. And so I think that like you know the - there is a lot of - like when Ames also wanted to be like well people could be like well there is a lot of different ways to be a father and I just like want to look around at our culture and be like is there though?  Yeah. Well and it is like - it stuck with me so much because I realized in reading about Ames and in seeing Ames ask this question I realized I have quietly been asking myself this same question the last year or two without knowing it. Like I want to be a dad one day. I am 36 years old. I think it would be cool to do it in the next few years. I do not know how to do it. I know it will not look like my parents' relationship because like they were straight and I am gay. But I think a lot of what I am dealing with and like the hesitation about how to do it is that I in actuality do not want to be a quote-unquote father.  Yeah.  I do not want to be my dad. I love my dad. He was good. But he was stoic and silent in this way that I cannot be. And I want to figure out how to be a parent without being a father. And reading Ames experience that and ask that question confirmed that I have been asking that question myself so I suppose perhaps another way in which those of us who are not trans can begin to see our worlds through a trans lens so thanks for that.  I love that actually because so much of this book - you know the - just my position the way I ask the questions is about motherhood. And I had not actually considered the ways in which like there is also like an inverse of that for fatherhood. So I am actually really grateful for you for telling me that.  Thank you. This book also besides playing with the ideas of parenthood it plays with the idea of adult romantic relationships particularly queer romantic relationships as mirroring in many ways parent-child relationships. And there is this lovely exchange with Thalia Reese's friend during Thalia's drag show where Reese is waxing poetic about being a mother to Thalia at a certain moment and also being a mother to Amy now Ames when she was transitioning. And so much of the language about the queer relationships in this book deal with parent-child dynamics. And I realize that is also so much of the language of like gay relationships - father and son ideas. Do you think this conceptualization of romantic relationships through a parent-child lens - is it specifically a queer thing or is it a thing that all relationships actually mirror?  I think it is not. I think it is that queers named something that is the case for a lot of people right? Like I mean this is like Freud...  Wow.  ...Right? - where Freud is like everybody wants to...  Yeah.  ...You know be with their mom or like Oedipal relationships and stuff - you know? - that...  Yeah.  ...That it is all over the place. I think the thing is that queer people are really willing to do some like dangerous work around it which is that...  Yeah.  ...They are willing to like name that in erotic relationships. Now suddenly straight people too are all calling each other daddy. I do not know if this is something new.  And I hate it. I hate it.   But...  They cannot have that.  But they are all doing it now.  Yeah.  And so it is like well you know straight people are finally coming around to the fact that like there is an erotic component to these relationships and it is - and the ways in which you talk about it and separate it I think is work that has largely been done you know by queers especially because...  Yeah.  ...Queers are also historically cast out from their families. So it is like...  They had to build these new families.  Right. They had to build these new families. And sometimes they borrowed you know terms and ways of thinking from their old families. A lot of times also it is tongue-in-cheek. You know like when Reese calls Thalia her daughter she both means it and also is like she is kind of pulling rank you know on Thalia. And that for me is like - I have trans daughters. And like when I say like you cannot talk to your mom that way it is like that is a joke because I am obviously talking to like a fully formed adult who can do whatever she wants you know? And I think that the fact that it is happening on both levels is a little bit like the pleasure of that scene for me.  Yeah yeah. You know we have talked about this book and themes around the book and we have managed to not really give away any spoilers. So I am proud of us for that.  Yeah. Thank you.  Applause. Pats on the back. But I want to leave you with one last question. You told New York Magazine that writing this book was a quote thought experiment for how to live as a trans woman. Now that this book is done and it is out in the world what would you say as the scientist who led the experiment is the result of that experiment for you and your readers?  I think that sadly  further experiments are ongoing.   And I encourage other labs to take up the question.  OK. Torrey Peters thank you so much for your book for this conversation. I appreciate you and all you do.  Well thank you so much for having me.   Thanks again to Torrey Peters. Her new novel Detransition Baby is out right now. Go read it. It is good and already a bestseller. This episode was produced by Sylvie Douglis and Liam McBain and it was edited by Jordana Hochman. Listeners until Friday be good to yourselves. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  