 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR correspondents Elise Hu and Eyder Peralta. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my guests Eyder Peralta international correspondent for NPR based in Nairobi Kenya but just spent some time in Venezuela...  Hey Sam.  ...And Elise Hu recovering correspondent from abroad here at NPR West but formerly of South Korea.  What up?  Got to note - all of us today have spent time in Texas. Elise and I claim Texas Eyder not so much.  I married into Texas.  OK.   That'ill work.   He is Texan-in-law .  Yes.  That is right.  But he is from Florida. And we are joined in studio by another person from Florida - T-Pain.    ...Buy you a drank then I ama take you home with me.  I am playing T-Pain this week and this classic song Buy U A Drank because T-Pain won a singing contest.  When?  This week. A contest called The Masked Singer.  Oh...  Have you all heard of it?  You love Masked Singer.   Masked Singer is the dumbest concept...   ...Reality show.  Well tell folks what the contest is.  I feel like America has hit the nadir. Like...   And I am fine with it.  .  So this week T-Pain won the biggest singing competition in the country right now on The Masked Singer.  According to Sam.  According to the ratings - 10 - almost 10 million people watched the premiere.  So what did he sing?  He sung a lot of songs. But basically the whole premise is celebrities - B- and C-list sometimes - wear these elaborate costumes and masks and perform certain songs.  While masked.  And these celebrity judges and the audience have to decide and guess who it is. And so these costumes are kind of creepy.  That is the whole premise of the show.  That is the whole premise of the show. Fun fact though - this show The Masked Singer started out in Korea. Have you heard of it?  Oh of course it did.   Have you watched that version? You were there.  These are both first-world countries sort of writhing around in late capitalism....  Wow.   ...Just swirling around...  It goes that deep .  ...Swirling around in late capitalism - nothing else to do.  Can both of you just Google Masked Singer to see...  I bet it is so good.  ...What the costumes look like? - because I want you to see the costumes.  OK.  Eyder just Google Masked Singer T-Pain. The costumes are insane.  Can you hear the excitement in Sam's voice? He...  I am so excited about this.  .  I know. Wow.   He loves Masked Singer.  I love to I hate it. I love to hate it.  He loves Masked Singer like nothing else.  Oh my God.  And T-Pain won this week. That is great because I do legitimately support and stan...  Oh wow.  ...T-Pain's talent.  Also he is so smart. He also released a new album this week too.  Oh nice.  He is riding that news cycle. This was his costume.  Yeah these costumes are just - wow.  .  How do you sing through like a like bunny outfit?  .  .    We in the bed like ooh ooh ooh...  Anyways congratulations to T-Pain on winning The Masked Singer and putting out a new album this week. I like him a lot. He was the soundtrack of my college.  Same yeah.  So into it - all right. We are going to start the show as we always do. I am going to ask each of my guests to describe their week of news in only three words. Elise you are up to this challenge.  My words are deal no deal. You have to kind of say it like that.   Also another popular American show...  Right .  ...Deal Or No Deal - Love you Howie Mandel.  We are staying on this theme.  .  So...  So what deal are you talking about?  President Trump went to Hanoi for his big second summit with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un. Last year - so just eight months ago I was in Singapore covering their first historic summit the one between the U.S. and North Korea. Their heads of state had never met before. They signed this joint agreement in which...  Which was a little hollow.  It was a little hollow but the U.S. really clung to this notion that North Korea committed to denuclearizing...  Yes.  ...The Korean Peninsula.  Yes.  So fast forward to January and February of this year. My sources indicate to me that even though these working-level talks were not bridging a big gap between North Korea and the United States Trump went ahead and called for a summit. And they met. And they had a dinner together. And they seemed to be warm. Trump touched Kim Jong Un's arm a lot you know?   Arm touch is supposed to be intimate. And...   But we got no images of this right? This was not like a - like an Angela Merkel-George Bush thing.  Oh goodness.  No no no no. It was not a shoulder rub. That looked like assault but...  .  I do not think Trump would do that because he is kind of a germaphobe.  Right?  I could not see him touching someone that intensely...  He did a light...  A light touch.  He did a light elbow touch.  Then the Purell.  A couple times.   A couple times - and then the next day on the public schedule after bilateral meetings between the two sides and their translators - on the schedule there was a lunch and then a joint signing...  Yes.  ...Ceremony. Abruptly during - towards the end of the bilateral reporters were notified hey the lunch has been canceled and so has the signing ceremony.  How much of a shock was that to journalists following this story?  That was a huge surprise to all of us. I mean all these networks are having to scramble. The reporters there are like we do not know what is about to happen.  Yeah.  Something is happening.  Yeah.  And what happened was the two sides could not bridge the gap. They could not make a deal.  And apparently this is because North Korea wanted sanctions taken away before they began to denuclearize?  Yeah so there is sequencing going on right?  Yeah.   I mean both sides offered something that the other wanted but not enough of what the other wanted. And so there is some actual disagreement now between the president - the U.S. president's take on this which was oh North Korea wanted all the sanctions lifted but North Korea says - North Korea had rare press conference in which its foreign minister said you know what? We did not say all.  Oh.  We said partial. So there is...  So there is differing stories now.  Yeah there is different - differing stories. And do you believe Donald Trump or do you believe the North Korean regime? I mean it is kind of...  So are they in a worse spot after this summit than they were before?  Both sides are spinning it. Both sides are spinning it saying you know what? We are still mutual admiration. And they are trying to salvage the relationship so that more talks can go forward.  But these are like basic disagreements right? At least like - I mean like this is not like over like the nitty gritty. This is over like...  What denuclearization means.  Yeah.  They do not know - they have not figured that out yet.  No they came out of two summits now - two head-of-state-level summits - and have not figured that out.  I was reading in the punditry around Trump and this summit. A lot of folks on the left a lot of Democrats said it was actually appropriate for him to pull out when he did.  Bipartisan praise for not making a deal because everybody is relieved that the U.S. president made no deal instead of a bad deal. So yeah it is been a crazy crazy week. It is - Wednesday was another one of those days that was like today has been a long week which we can say for a lot of things.  For a lot of things for a lot of things. So Eyder you have three words also about another part of the world.  Yep South America and Venezuela.  You were just there huh?  I was yeah. I spent a couple of weeks down there. And I would go with hope fear and disillusionment.  That is heavy.  So I guess it was a little more than a month ago that the opposition leader in Venezuela Juan Guaido stood up in front of hundreds of thousands of people and declared himself president. So you had President Nicolas Maduro and interim President Juan Guaido. And...  And both of them are saying we are the rightful leader of this country.  We are the rightful leader. And so this week was really pivotal for Juan Guaido. He and the opposition came up with a scheme. They put aid - with the help of the United States and the dozens of other countries who recognize Guaido as the legitimate leader of Venezuela they set up aid all along the border of Venezuela. And they said you know on Saturday - this past Saturday - we are getting this aid in. And the hope was that the military would say we are going to let it through because Juan Guaido is the legitimate president of this country. Except that is not what happened.  OK what happened?  In Caracas not a single military man turned on Maduro. And along the border one of the eight trucks was set on fire.  So then now there is this situation where there are two guys in Venezuela saying hey I am the actual leader. The U.S. is supporting Guaido. Maduro has been a controversial figure for a long time. Why has resistance to him reached this flashpoint now as opposed to any time in the last number of years?  Stuff is really bad in Venezuela right now. I mean the economic crisis is just - it is rough. So somebody makes you know 18000 bolivares a month which is about the base salary there. And a pack of toilet paper is 20000. People are having a hard time eating.  Wow.  There is children dying of malnutrition you know dying of very simple things like diarrhea or a cold right? Things are bad.  My question with all of it it is like you both have been following these international stories from North Korea from Venezuela. How is the Trump White House interacting with leadership in both of those countries? And is it different or the same - are there throughlines in the way that the Trump White House is handling these tense interaction situations? Elise.  I can speak to the Korea situation and then send it over to you Eyder. But for me the big difference between covering Obama dealing with the North Korea situation and Trump in dealing with the North Korea situation is preparation. This is not exclusive to Obama actually. All of American diplomacy in modern years has actually been a lot more thorough in terms of preparation at the working level. Previous diplomatic norms is bottom-up. So in negotiating the Iran deal for example there were so - I mean there were so many discussions going on between allies to the United States and with the Iranian side until the principals could finally get to a signature. The Trump method is completely flipped. So the Trump method is I am going to call for this and I am going to deal with it I alone am going to deal with it. And then...  Details later.  Details later right.  So for Eyder did you see a similar perhaps lack of preparation in the way the U.S. engaged with Guaido and Maduro this week and last?  Yeah absolutely. I mean I think - I will point out two things.  OK.  One is that the Obama administration had said that the Monroe Doctrine which is a doctrine that the U.S. views the - Latin America as its backyard and will you know come in when they need to - the Obama administration had called that off. They had said that was over. Obviously the Trump administration has said absolutely not. This is our backyard. We care. But similarly to what Elise said diplomacy always has this idea of escalation in mind right? So you have to know where you are going with this and how you are going to escalate if what you do not want to happen...  Yeah.  ...Happens.  Yeah.  And it seems like the U.S. did not think this particular escalation through.  Ditto Hanoi.  OK. Around that note -  you all I have three words as well.  Go for it Sam.  Thank you.  What are your three words - the masked singer?  Yeah. No.   My three words are left and right because I have been spending a lot of time reading into how the 2020 race for president might see a left that is further left than ever before and a right that is further right than ever before. A bit of evidence for that case came about this week when multiple Democratic candidates for president in 2020 began to talk about reparations...  Right.  ...For American slave descendants.  Yeah.  So the last two weeks Kamala Harris Elizabeth Warren Julian Castro - they said they are prepared to talk about this program and do some reparations through tax credits and...  OK.  ...Subsidies. The conversation is so serious now Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi even said that she would support a bill to establish a commission to look at this thing.  Yeah.  I would have never...  .  ...Guessed that. I would have never guessed it you know? And so that shows how far left the left is moving right now. But there is also evidence that the right is moving further right as well.  Well you know one example of really fast policy shift that I did not expect in our adult years was how America is now totally cool with same-sex marriage...  Yeah.  ...And legalization of marijuana. Marijuana - I mean we are sitting here in California where you can just...  It is very very legal.  I am wondering what you guys think what that does since I do not live in the United States. I mean what does that do to like interpersonal relationships?  You mean reparations?  Yeah - no no - like talk like this I mean this idea that the left is super left the right is super right.  So...  I mean does that actually affect interpersonal relationships?  So this is the thing that is been really interesting. There is been some really interesting demographic and survey work that shows that both sides - left and right - are more influenced and they are more partisan because of their views on race. And race has become central to the way that people conceptualize their political identity now. And Trump has been part of that. You know there is data that suggests that there were lots of voters - lots of white voters - who had liberal points of view on certain issues. But then they voted for Trump in part because...  He ran on it.  ...He IDed  with them on you know certain racial issues...  Yeah.  ...Right? And because views on race and who is being hurt or helped in this current climate because they are so different you see the left and right end up on totally different sides of this coin in a way that just makes it so much more partisan than it is been in a long time.  Yeah.  On that note time for a break. Coming up what would you do if you got 20 or 40 or 100000 on your 18th birthday? We talk to a member of a Native American tribe in North Carolina where that is exactly what happens. I am Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   All right. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with Elise Hu right in studio at NPR West. Hi Elise.  Hello.  And all the way in Nairobi Kenya - Eyder Peralta. Thank you for making time for us.  Hey Sam. Thank you.  All right. All right. Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance...   ...Where we call up someone around the country or the world and talk with them about the news in their neck of the woods. This week we are going to North Carolina and talking to a member of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians.  OK.  This tribe in North Carolina has been cutting really big checks for their members when they turn 18. First a bit about the tribe.  Basically our ancestors were forced off their land in a forced removal called the Trail of Tears. And those that stayed and hid in the mountains is what makes up the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians today.  That is Sheyahshe Littledave. She wrote about her tribe and their money and her money for Topic magazine. So this tribe the Eastern Band Cherokees they are about 14000 members. They have a few casinos in western North Carolina. Harrah's manages those casinos but the tribe gets a big cut of the profits. And some of that money goes towards social services. But some of that money also goes to tribal members directly. Twice a year every member of the tribe gets a check. Most recently about 7000 per check per person.  Wow.  But here's the thing. If you are under 18 you do not get that money. Instead they save it up for you. And then they give it to you in a few lump sum payments after your 18th birthday. They call it big money. And because the casinos are doing so well some teenagers have been getting checks that are over 100000 cash.  Yikes.  Wow.  What would you all do with 100000 at the age of 18?  See I am tempted to make an Office Space joke now.  Do it.  No no . It is inappropriate.   Eyder what would you do with it?  As an 18-year-old?  Yeah.  I would just leave...  .  ...For like a few months.  Yeah yeah. Well anyways I wanted to ask Sheyahshe about all of this. Hello.  Hello.  Hey how are you?  I am well. How are you?  I am pretty good. She got big money when she turned 18. But she is 34 now. All right. Here's our chat. How much was your big money payout?  Mine was still like in the baby stages. So it was really - maybe about 16 17000 I think after taxes.  That is still a decent amount of money.  It is. And it was enough to buy me a brand new car at the time.  OK.  And it is so funny to think about now because when you hear all these kids and this large amount of money that they are getting I used to get like really jealous. I am like man what would I do with all that?  Yeah.  But at the same time just being able to go in and buy a brand new car off the lot that - I mean that is something not everybody can do.  Oh yeah.  You know I was fortunate to be part of this tribe that was able to provide this for its members. And you know that car lasted me a good almost 10 years so...  It was a Toyota right?  It was a Toyota Corolla...  Those are sturdy cars.  Toyota.  Yeah yeah.  Yeah it lasted a good while.  That is awesome. Now you wrote this story about other people who have been getting the big money and how they have kind of maybe not spent that money as wisely as they could have. You - what? - you profiled - what? - four or five young folks who basically told you what they did with their money. Can you run through quickly what those folks were buying and how much money they were getting?  There was I think one that - he was about my age. And he received about 16 17000. And he got a car and tried to put a deposit on a house and things like that. And then he ended up losing the bulk of his money to drug use because he had an addiction. He grew up around addiction. And it was just something that his went to. Fortunately the rest of everybody else that I - that was interviewed - these kids are like wising up. They are very aware of the amounts that they are getting. They are aware that it can help them you know off into the future that they will have this little bit of cushion. They are aware of people that may have not been present in their lives just kind of showing up you know when it is close to time to get their big money. They are very aware that there is stuff that goes on sale specifically during that time. You know people trying to capitalize.  You wrote that the car dealerships would like put cars on sale when the checks come out.  Yeah. There'ill be cars...  Wow.  ...On the side of the road you know and per cap specials and things like that and...  Wow. Yeah.  So I was kind of blown away because...  Really?  ...I expected to hear more - yeah. I was just kind of expecting to hear more just you know I do not have any left or anything like that. But a lot of them will likely have some saved. You know my family's...  Yeah.  ...Going to be taken care of and things like that. So it was really cool.  That is awesome. You know I loved how in this article you wrote you talk about these kids that knew that they needed to save some put some away be responsible with it. But they also allowed themselves to have a fun like first purchase. Like you wrote about the first thing they bought. This guy Landon French you talked to - it was so cute - the first thing he bought was a Red Hot Chili Peppers T-shirt. And then there was a...  Yeah.  ...Young woman who was like I am buying a Prada bag. I am going to save this money...  Yeah.  ...whatever but like one thing is going to spoil me. Did you...  .  ...Have besides your car like one little spoil thing that you bought?  I cannot recall because I think I just probably had enough for the car.  For the car. That was your spoil .  And it is so funny because you know I talked about it in the article. And we just did not think about it at the time because you know we just had it in cash. So my dad had this like brown paper and this - all this cash just rolled up in it. And you know we just walked up...  And that is what you all took to the dealership?   Yeah.  I love it.  It is funny now. But yeah I think I just had enough for the car and that is it. But I mean that is a new car at 18. So you know I cannot really complain.  Yeah. Yeah. You know it is - I found it so interesting that we found your article and are talking to you this week because there is another conversation happening right now about large payments to a marginalized group. A lot of candidates running for president as Democrats are talking increasingly about reparations for slave descendants. And there is a...  Oh wow.  Yeah. There is a conversation about whether it should be tax credits or payouts or whatever. And it is kind of like huh. There - I mean one it is not sure that that thing will happen. But there would be parallels with the kind of payments in your tribe. And I wonder in that conversation around reparations are there lessons from how your tribe has dealt with big money that could be applicable to that conversation?  You know that is a really good question. And I do like the fact that you know it all came from us being able to get a casino and being able to use that because you know there was not very much economic development here. We are in a you know - we are in a valley in the middle of the mountain and things like that. And you know we are able to get this per capita money but we are also benefiting because this money's going to other things to help benefit the tribe as a whole instead of just the individual. And I keep saying this word fortunate but I feel incredibly fortunate to be part of this tribe because there is so much that they are doing to help out our own members.  Yeah. Well because you know on top of the kids getting big money when they turn 18 the tribe also pays for college for them should they go right?  Yeah.  And there is money for medical emergencies and health care. So yeah it does seem like a kind of comprehensive thing. It is interesting though to...  Yeah.  ...Hear you say that you are grateful to be part of your tribe because at the top of our conversation you talked about the horror that was the Trail of Tears and how the folks in your tribe had to like hide from that. And I mean there is a lot of history that tribes...  Yeah.  ...Like yours have experienced in America. And when I think - when I imagine what folks and tribes would say about the lot of their tribes I would not expect to hear the word grateful.  Well and I - you know I took part in this ride two years ago called Remember The Removal Bike Ride. And basically I got to go with the group and we rode a bike from New Echota Ga. to Oklahoma. So it was like close to 900 miles on a bike during the summer. And basically we retraced the northern route of the Trail of Tears. And the entire time we got to visit various sites where there were encampments and where we learned that our - some of our ancestors were you know corralled and you know our babies died and the elderly died - you know unmarked graves and all these things. And when I see that you know we came back from all this tragedy in our history.  Yeah.  And we are just a strong people. And how could you not be grateful and proud to be part of that?  Yeah. Yeah.  You know?  It is funny. I have been thinking all week now reading your article and getting ready to talk to you about what I would do right now  if I got some big money. And I was like Sam what is the first thing I would buy? And then I was just like food. I would just go to...  .  ...A bunch fancy restaurants and eat a bunch of fancy food.  If I had - this is going to sound really bad but I would go to New York...  Yeah.  ...And catch every single Broadway show I could watch.  That is a wonderful idea.  .  Well thank you so much for telling your people's story and for sharing it with us. And I really enjoyed this conversation.  Well thank you. And thank you for reaching out. I am just glad to be able to have this platform.  Awesome. Well thank you.  Thank you so much.  All right. Buh-bye.  Bye.   It is really interesting to hear her talk about that because - I do not know. I am obsessed with this debate about how to best help people.  Oh yeah. There is a...  Programs or money or both.  So I mean this is also like super topical with Venezuela because this is exactly...  Oh really?  This is exactly the conversation the Venezuelans are having which is does socialism work?  And then also the whole origin of this was fascinating to me too which was Ronald Reagan wanted to cut federal programs...  Yeah.  ...That helped native people.  Yeah.  And he did and in exchange promoted this whole gaming thing in which you can earn private money...  Just get money yeah.  Right. And that led to a lot of different social problems and consequences of gaming...  Yeah.  ...Like addiction and all that. But then also it is unequal - right? - the distribution of gaming money to various tribes. We are talking about the Eastern Band of Cherokee but...  That is not all Cherokee.  Exactly.  Yeah.  And it is actually not all tribes too that have gaming. And so - and run gaming so...  Yeah. I do think that it is good to like start having conversations candidly about what people do with their money.  Yeah.  I do think overall in America we do not talk about money and how it affects and how we use it enough. So I was really happy to hear this conversation where we are just saying let us talk about what we do with our money.  Yeah. Yeah.   Before our break I want to share an early submission to our Best Thing All Week segment. This one came from Sandy  in Iowa.  Hi Sam. This is Sandy from Dallas Center Iowa. The best part of my week was opening an email from my husband that said this might be fun to attend. It was an ad for your upcoming appearance in Des Moines. Might be fun? Yas . See you in May.  .  Yas. Yas listeners. I am going to Iowa. Sandy is correct. Come join me for a live show in Des Moines Iowa on Thursday May 9. I have not been back to Iowa since like...  The election.  ...The last election cycle. But I like it there and I am going back. I will be there with my good friend and colleague Sarah McCammon and with Iowa Public Radio's Clay Masters. We will be talking about 2020 and politics and fun stuff. Get your tickets right now at iowapublicradio.org iowapublicradio.org - Thursday May 9 Des Moines. All right. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Elise Hu NPR West correspondent covering...  Oh hey.  ...Literally the future. I love that beat.  .  And Eyder Peralta joining us from Nairobi Kenya where he covers international news.  Hey Sam.  All right you guys it is time for my favorite game Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  You know how it works. I share a quote from the week. You have to guess who said that or at least get close get the story that I am referring to. The winner as you know gets absolutely nothing. Eyder you have never played before have you?  No. This is the first time you have me on.  Wow.  Oh man.  Elise tell him.  If you have not played and you beat me this is going to be so sad. I am - so I am like notoriously poor at this game. But I love it so much.  .  Also I have been travelling for three weeks so...  I do not know.  Everyone tries...  You are up to date on the headlines.  Everyone tries...  I...  ...To imply...  Lower the expectations.  ...That they are going to lose.  Right.  Yeah. Do not lower the expectations.  .  Be confident.  Giving excuses.  Yes yes. All right. Anyways here we go. First quote - we are gonna play the first quote...  Ooh.  ...For you all.  OK.   I am warning you. Tread very  lightly because what I am going to do to you is going to be  disgusting. Do you understand me?  Michael Cohen.   OK Michael Cohen.  .  Yes.  That was Michael Cohen threatening NPR's Tim Mak...  Yes.  ...While he was at The Daily Beast...  Yes.  ...Over a story that he was reporting on Trump and his ex-wife Ivana.  Yes. This is all in the news this week because Michael Cohen former personal attorney for Donald Trump testified before Congress. And over the course of that testimony an old conversation between our NPR colleague Tim Mak and Michael Cohen was brought into this testimony.  As part of the Republican effort to discredit Michael Cohen.   Tread very f-ing lightly because what I am going to do to you is going to be f-ing disgusting. Do you understand me? Mr. Cohen who said that?  I did.  There was a whole day of crazy testimony with Michael Cohen. But Tim Mak our colleague reacted to having his conversation brought up in the halls of Congress. What'd he say? He said quote In 2015 sitting in a conference room talking with Michael Cohen on the phone I could not have conceived of a future where the interview would be cited by Jim Jordan...  .  ...In a Dem-controlled House Oversight Committee during a Trump presidency.   So many elements there...  So many elements .  ...Are unbelievable and incredulous.  Anyway Elise you are up 1-zip.  Yes.  Eyder It is OK.  I will make a comeback.  Yes you will. Yes you will. Next quote - When you are singing love songs that is what you want people to feel. I am an artist. I guess we did a good job. Fooled you.  Lady Gaga.  Yeah.   Lady Gaga.  Lady Gaga. So she was talking about this Oscars performance where she and Bradley Cooper performed her Oscar-winning song Shallow at the Oscars on Sunday night. And if you watched this performance it was full of what seemed to be some kind of romantic chemistry. At one point they are sitting next to each other on a piano bench looking like they are about to kiss. And...  It was steamy.  I did not like it...  .  ...Because I was like oh this is fake.  It was - all I could like focus on was Bradley Cooper's feathered hair.  .  So I just could not.  Well this - so like they have been doing this little shtick and this song and dance literally for a few months now. Like they are not dating. He is dating someone else. She had a fiance that she just broke up with.  But it looked like...  But whenever they do this song together they try to make it seem as if they are like about to get married.  Right.  Eyder you believed it?  No not one bit. I did not believe the film either which makes me about the only person who did not believe the film.  Well you and Sam Sanders.  I am with you. I thought that movie was overacted overdirected and oversang.  I thought it was phenomenal.  Terrible.  I thought it was such entertainment piece.  I do not think the songs will hold up either. If the key lyric from your biggest song of the soundtrack is sha la la la la la la la la la la la la...  Oh Sam...  Come on.  Unpopular take.  Unpopular take. Anyways final quote. Ready?  OK.  This one's fun. And it is harder too. Quote The nose is sweet and citrus with orange and pear aromas. It has a soft pillowy body with a slight cereal taste. Who said that or what am I talking about?  I - obviously some sort of wine tasting.  Not wine but close. Another alcoholic beverage.  Slight pillowy taste.  Not wine but...  Beer?  Yes.   Yes. I mouthed the word to Elise.  So you just gave it to her 'ecause of the beer?  We needed to end this game.  .  So anyways this was Chris Neikirk. He is the spokesman for a Virginia-based company called Smartmouth Brewing Company. And he was discussing their recently launched Lucky Charms-flavored beer.  Eww.  Wow.  It is called Saturday Morning. It is an IPA with marshmallows.  Nope. Nope.  Wow.  Hard pass.  Six-point-six percent alcohol content. And they said it is brewed with in-house toasted marshmallows and bulk dehydrated marshmallow bits. It is been hopped and dry hopped with Galaxy and Calypso hops.  That would be cool if the description were not so pretentious.  Just call it beer with 