 Look at all that meat. What is that?  Pork.  That is a lot of pork. Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE.  Pork shoulders.  What is it seasoned with?  Just salt and pepper.  Right now you are listening to a food tour - well a kitchen tour actually.  We got some eggs...  David Chang is showing me the kitchen at his new LA restaurant. It is called Majordomo.  I do not even know what cooking there right now.  It is about noon at the restaurant. And so this is a time of day where the kitchen staff is getting all the stuff ready for dinner. And there is just so much food that they are prepping. And all of it is very typical David Chang - these competing Asian influences these really big intense bold flavors stuff like black cod with noodles and chili.  This station here is essentially a pasta station - noodle.  Stuff like Santa Barbara rock crab...  Ginger for the rock crab dish.  ...Which is cured in ginger and spices.  We cure it in this spicy sauce.  And there is this emphasis on freshness in the entire restaurant - on making homemade whatever you can home make.  This is the busiest station.  The griddle.  We are cooking the bings - the bread griddle to order.  At one point David walks me to the walk-in veggie freezer at the restaurant.  What you can see is packed. Redundant to say how good California produce is but...  It is good.  ...It is unbelievable.  This is David's first restaurant in LA. It opened in January of this year. But he is most well known for his Momofuku restaurants. Those are in New York and Sydney and Toronto and Vegas and Washington D.C. It is a lot. What are the potatoes? Are those potatoes?  That is family meal.  What do you mean?  The most important meal of the day for me is when you are feeding your staff.  Before the restaurant opens.  Yeah.  What is this meal going to be?  That looks like we are making breakfast.  .  That is griddled potatoes. But like if you can - if you - you can tell so much about a cook's prospects on how they take care of family meal.  So you feed your staff every day?  If someone cares about feeding a person that is not paying like loving...  Yeah.  ...They are going to care a lot for a paying customer.  If you have never been a paying customer in one of David Chang's restaurants you can see into his mind and see his food philosophy on his new show. It is from Netflix. It is called Ugly Delicious. David hosts the show. And every episode he travels the world exploring different foods and their histories and where they are going next. And he tells the often messy and complicated stories that these foods tell about race and culture and lots of other stuff. He also has the occasional celebrity who comes in to eat and chat with him. It is a really interesting role for David Chang because he is an interesting pick for a host. He is often very combative. He is full of big and bold opinions. And he kind of has this reputation as one of the bad boys of food. And on top of that he also seems most at home actually in the kitchen not in a dining room or a TV screen. How often do you want to be back here and not...  I would much rather be back there than out here talking to people.  When do you get back to just being back in the kitchen like you want?  After I talk to you.  Yeah.   So David and I sat down in the dining room of his new restaurant in LA Majordomo to talk about how he and his new restaurant are embracing LA and his food also talked about how he was ashamed to be Korean when he was growing up. And we go through all the insecurities that someone even as successful as him is still dealing with all these years later. All right. Enjoy.   If you had to describe this restaurant in like 20 seconds to someone who had never heard of it before...  Well we did not want this to have really any DNA of what we have done in the past. So this is our - we tried to envision that this is our only restaurant.  OK.  So it is going to obviously be Californian because we are in LA. And I think for me being an outsider to Los Angeles that really means embracing all of LA. And LA - it is redundant to say it is diverse right?  Yeah.  Whether that diversity's integrated is another story.  Yes.  But I do see - I think you see that in the plate.  To the menu. Talk me through one dish that really describes or gets at the vibe of this space.  Oh where to start where to start? I mean the bings are something...  What is that?  Bing is Chinese name for bread.  Uh-huh .  Northern China actually has a lot of bread...  Huh.  ...More than rice because there is wheat fields. The reason why the bing happened for is twofold. One is I wanted to make a play on a Korean dessert called hottoek which is like a stuffed pancake. It can be savory with noodles but the most common one is stuffed with cinnamon and sugar and then pan fried. It is like a pan-fried doughnut. And then looking at that I am like - we stuff ours with dates and stuff like that. But that is not - I was like what is the history behind that? Because there is no other leavened dough in Korean cuisine. It all comes from Chinese immigrants from China that moved to Korea. And I was like oh that is pretty interesting. And at our restaurant at the time I did not even though there was a Taiwanese association. For many Momofukus one dish probably the dish that made us famous and well-known were the steamed buns.  Oh yeah.  That dish came from a Cantonese restaurant I would come to - go to in New York on Elizabeth Street called Oriental Garden. And they would put the Peking duck in these fluffy buns.  Yeah.  Not to go on this road it was just like oh instead of steaming it we can pan fry it - griddle it. So that was the idea. It was like we cannot - I do not want to do something just - like it has to have some meaning for us or at least personal narrative. So there was like multiple points where it is like OK we can put bread on that is not steamed. And that is basically what bing is. And bing is - bread in Korean is called bong right? So there is a lot of similarities with words there. And then it was like OK. Like how do we integrate this into the food without doing the steamed buns that we have done at our restaurants? So the DNA is the steamed buns. But how do we do it where it is like LA? That is - what we are hoping fingers crossed that would come across that it would be fun. You could tear off the bread. You could do however you want because I think a lot of how people want to eat in LA whether it is a taco or Mexican food or meze - the list goes on - is like hey we are all eating the same thing but I am going to make it the way I want to make it.  A little twist yeah. So this space right now Majordomo - we are in the private dining room. And like the restaurant - like the physical space - describe it. It is...  So this is an old warehouse that used to supply Chinese supplies food and stuff like that. And we have had the opportunity to come to Los Angeles for many years now. And it just never seemed right. When we signed this lease was almost like three years ago. It was in the period where I was like I do not know about anything anymore. I was like am I done? It was just a lot of doubt and just growing up. And when I saw this place it was so raw and scary to me.  This warehouse?  This looks somewhat nice now...  It looks nice now.  ...But like man...  What did it look like when you first saw it?  I remember thinking this is Beyond Thunderdome Mad Max.   Why? What did it look like?  Exposed beams. It just looked - it looked like a bombed-out World War II bomb shelter you know to me.  So then why in the world would you say this is the space?  I was like well you can only go up from here.  OK.  You know?  OK.  In a weird way I felt like if we opened up here we could try to be part of a community that I knew was trying to rebuild. And I was very very aware - and still am - about gentrifying or being part of a problem.  In terms of like gentrifying like are you hiring local? Are you doing certain things to not fit into that?  We are hiring mostly local staff people from LA. We are trying - we just did Chinese New Year with a lot of the Chinatown businesses understanding that there is a lot of second-generation youths that are getting in the food business that reside in Chinatown.  Yeah.  And if anything I would love to use our ability - the attention that we have to shed a spotlight on them. Like...  Do you work with them?  We have done a few things with them. But like we are still figuring out how to integrate it more. So it is a...  OK.  It is a team. It is a neighborhood. And I want us to be good neighbors. First and foremost that is our goal right? So - but going back to this location I thought that it was going to force us out of our comfort zone.  Yeah.  We were going to have to do something new if people were going to come out of their way to come down here. Not new but we were going to have to be more ambitious. I do not know. Sometimes I think historically the best stuff that we do comes when it is like so like hard for us.  Yeah. Let us talk about the show Ugly Delicious on Netflix. First question that sushi tuna pizza - that cannot have been good.  It was not good.   I knew it. I knew it.  I mean...  I knew it.  Here's what I am trying to like - but he the chef loved it.  Describe for our listeners who have not seen the show yet. Like it is the first episode all about pizza.  The pizza - first of all I think it is really hard for me to describe Ugly Delicious. Like if you still ask me what is Momofuku food? I still do not know how to describe it in like two sentences.  OK.  I just do not.  OK.  Ugly Delicious to me is sort of a similar thing. Like yes it is the name and blah blah blah. It is sort of easy. But for me the pizza thing was - it was not about just finding the best pizza. I think it was finding the stories...  Behind the pizza.  Yeah. But those have already been told. So to break down the tuna pizza...  Break down the scene.  ...The owner of Savoy which is one of my favorite pizzerias in the world and we went to his newest location. And I thought we were going to have like the pomodoro pizza or the margherita. But he wound up showing us this crazy magora  - magora's tuna bluefin tuna - because he in his former life was a bluefin tuna trader...  OK.  ...At the Tsukiji market. So he has all this...  Where is that market?  It is in Japan - Tokyo. It is like the very famous definitely the best in the world. Anyway he brings this out. And I am like oh that is cool. We are going to eat some tuna on the side of pizza. What I did not think was going to happen was he was going to merge the two things together put mayonnaise and corn and wasabi...  I am just going to walk this back. So he has the pizza crust. He puts mayo on the crust...  No no no not even the pizza crust. He rolls out a raw pizza dough. And then he starts chopping up like honestly it was probably like a thousand dollars worth of bluefin tuna. And I am like...  I was watching it. I was like what is happening?  Yeah. I was like what is happening? I would rather just eat that like as is.  But then so it is like the mayo on there the corn on there. He puts a hunk of this big ol raw tuna on there. And then he puts it in the oven.  Yeah.  I was just - and then he pulls it out. The top of the tuna is kind of cooked. The middle is still raw. It is a hunk of tuna on there.  I did not understand it. But like corn on pizza is something you see. I still do not understand what happened there.   But I do know this - he stood by it. And like he obviously has - he knows food and knows gastronomy. So what I am trying to learn about myself is not to be like oh this sucks.  Did it taste good in your mouth?  I would rather have eaten it else - otherwise.  You are so diplomatic.   So I want to get into the phrase ugly delicious because I feel like it kind of speaks to your whole worldview about food. Or am I reaching a little bit?  I do not think it is a finished idea right?  To the extent that you can describe what that means - ugly delicious. Tell our listeners.  I think - that is first thing. Ugly delicious at its core was some joke that I made about how - because everyone - not everyone - people close to me say oh you would take the worst pictures of food. And I am like what you talking about? Like many people would say like your photo skills suck. And I was like I do not think it is - maybe they are not great but maybe they are like laughing at the kind of food that I am taking photos of. And it dawned on me that was sort of the same - similar tones of how I grew up eating food where I did not want to eat Korean food in front of basically a suburban white audience.  Why not?  Because it was gnarly to them.  Was it ugly to them?  It was gross.  Which dishes were the grossest to them?  I remember a bowl of curry. I remember a Korean curry. I remember...  What the hell is wrong with a bowl of curry? That is good.  But - yeah. But this is - talk about the mid-'80s in Virginia.  Where in Virginia?  Outside D.C. But when I grew up there it was still farmland.  Oh wow.  And I am going to say this. There is still those misperceptions of these foods to many people.  They think it is ugly.  Or they think it is gross or it is weird. And I remember being someone that was like I do not think I am ever going to fit in. And the food was part of that process but it was just a small part of it. And I am like oh I am never gonna fit in - because of my skin color. And I grew up for a long time being ashamed of being Korean because I never fit in with Korean culture either. Because Koreans were like you are a gyopo. You are a foreign-born. You are not part of us. So I was just like all right I will just try to figure out what the hell's happening. And put that on hold. And when I started cooking I wanted to cook anything that was not Korean.  Huh.  I mean to me still French or Japanese is one of the pinnacles right?  OK.  So naturally I gravitated to something that was the furthest thing from what my mom or grandmother cooked.  Yeah.  And I never wanted to be typecast as Korean. I still have issues when - that is why I get internally sort of mad when someone's oh you are making Korean food. I am like no like...  You are making food.  Maybe I am making Korean food but like do not - I do not want anyone to ever tell me that like you cannot - you have to be a certain thing.  Uh-huh.  Right? I felt like in my entire life growing up that was a lot of that - right? - being...  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  ...Typecast as something. And that bothers me tremendously.  What made you accept being OK with the food you grew up with and being OK serving that? Like what...  I have been really thinking about that because I have - I just reached a point. I think a lot of it was just getting older or me - maybe the time and place we are in right? The world we live in today is a very different world than just two years ago right? So I just was feeling like I am going to try to go down this rabbit hole and see what comes out.  So then is ugly delicious in a way saying these foods they made fun of these foods they thought smelled bad or looked bad you are saying it is good?  Well I...  Eat it. Deal with that. Or...  ...I think - it is not only that. I think what I feel like is - like kimchi - when I grew up eating kimchi or other Korean foods are now cool right? That is like really where gim like the seaweed snack that you now see many many younger kids eating I remember bringing that to school and everyone being like that is gross. You are eating like weeds. And now that is like incredibly popular. You see it at like CVS.  Yeah.  That is essentially a 30-year - 30 years for that to happen. And when you hear something like that you think that is a cultural truth that is - that is permanent but it is not. And then you realize almost no cultural truths are true.  Explain.  Like think about it. It is like women cannot vote. Blacks cannot vote. You cannot go to school because you are this. You are not an athlete because you cannot do this. Or you translate to food. You are like Chinese food cannot be a four-star restaurant right? Or Korean food can never be as cool as Japanese food. Or Indian food and curry food is never as pristine as X Y and Z right? And then it is always a contrast of something. This is not as good as this. Or you will never be this in my opinion.  So it is part of your work trying to push against that.  I am not trying to prove it wrong. It is just like hey like why do not we question it? That is all. It is just like - I will give you a example that I think the show tries - that we do and I know I have been doing is like MSG. MSG - monosodium glutamate - is something that I feel like I have been a apologist and a champion for not because I use it or love it...  Do you use it in your food?  I use it in my personal life.  Got ya.  And I really am debating do we use it in our kitchens? And MSG really encapsulates so much of - I think of racism towards Asians...  Really?  ...Particularly Chinese food and the derision to making that accepted. I think a lot of Asian-Americans have - know what that feels like or have heard that.  Well I mean - yeah. I mean like for me growing up just as like a black kid in Texas I remember hearing like oh that food is bad because it has an MSG. And it was just bad.  And if you understand at the core level what that means and what that is associated with what other elements in food not just food part of culture are similar to that statement for many of them? So many. And you are like why the hell do we accept that? And then if you do your homework on that you are going to be like...  What does MSG do...  That is fake news like literally.  Yeah. Because it is good. It makes the food taste good.  But it is based on a lie.  What is the lie?  My limited knowledge and understanding is that in the late '60s Robert Kwok wrote an email. He was a - not an email - in the '60s - sent a letter to the New England Journal of Medicine saying that he got headaches and nausea and felt terrible whenever he ate Chinese food. And that was just to an op-ed and it became the basis for Chinese restaurant syndrome. After this...  Chinese restaurant syndrome?  It was a actual - a thing.  Oh my God.  So like unequivocally if you add a lot of MSG to something it is going to make it taste really good.  What is the flavor it is giving?  It is umami. It is the fifth - you have salty sweet sour bitter and then umami. That is a proven thing.  Yes.  Again like I am not supporting it. It is just the more you go down this hole and you realize wait like there are all these sort of random events that happened right? And like Ian Mosby who is in the show wrote an amazing paper - you should look it up...  OK.  ...About Chinese restaurant syndrome. And he even said something like one of the Partridge Family members had went to the hospital maybe because of some other thing that he was doing.  Ah.  And they were like oh what happened? He was like oh I ate Chinese food. So like these myths get perpetuated and fed. And if you go even before that you learn that like wow there was a lot of anti-Chinese sentiment when they first came in as laborers for the railroads and stuff right?  Oh yeah. Yeah.  You eat dogs and cats. So a lot of the MSG stuff comes...  Is rooted in this history.  This crazy history that is like  up.  Well and like this is the thing. It is like your show gets at it and I feel like it is not just food. Food contains so much. Food contains history. Food contains truth. Food contains these bigger ideas.  And but - exactly. And we try our best to do it. And I think we have been - we failed in many areas. And it is been wildly like inconsistent. I - that is the criticism I get whether it is inclusive to all kinds of food whether it is including all races gender. We tried our best. And I understand that is - in many people that are critical of it - like not good enough. I do not disagree with you but we are trying you know?  But also this idea of like it is bad to be inconsistent. It is not about having a perfect track record it is about getting to the place you want to get to.  Right. But part of it is the failure and to learn and like...  What is a good failure for you?  You are never going to learn until you do it - right? - until you like figure it out. To truly like understand something I think you actually have to experience it. Something I tell my cooks and people that are creating dishes - oftentimes now like if you have an idea for a dish or any I think endeavor you edit that idea in your head or with your peer group. So you are like OK...  This might work. This will not work.  Yeah.  ...Or - yeah.  Yeah like in your head you will immediately go to a process where it is - you are at version 64 all right?  When you should just like make the first thing you think of.  Right. But like it is not about going to that point. It is literally going one two three four...  Iterate.  ...And screwing up - iterate.  Just iterate. Iterate.  And like if you skip through that process you are never going to get there.   All right time for a quick break. In a minute we will talk about David's successes and his failures in the restaurant business.   All right. So you - if I recall correctly you were a religious studies major at Trinity College.  I was. I was.  How did you go from that to food?  Well I grew up in a very religious household.  What kind of religion?  My parents were Presbyterian. My grandmother - my dad's grandmother - so my dad's side was North Korean - Korean at the time but before the war. And she should have been Buddhist but I do not know how the hell that happened.  .  ...Because they became like Christian.  Everyone should kind of be Buddhist right?  Yeah. But like most people at that time were Buddhists. Like so it was like by a happenchance  she converted to Christianity.  OK.  And I sort of grew up in that household. And my sister went to seminary school. And I still have a contentious relationship with her because of how that happened because she was like 10 years older than me.  OK.  ...And like being forced to go to church.  Did you like church?  Yes and no. I mean I have uncles that are ministers. I have cousins that I have never seen in 20 30 years because they are missionaries in God knows who...  Wow.  So many - the church was something that was like in retrospect forced upon me.  OK.  And I always thought my older brother was the black sheep. It turned out that I am actually maybe the black sheep because in Sunday school I would be the kid that would be like wait a second like why is everyone going to hell? That does not make any sense to me. Why...  Yeah.  Why would you have like a finite time on this planet to accept Jesus Christ as your lord and savior for eternity right? That just seemed to me not like a fair shake.  Yeah. Did you hope to get answers to those questions...  And no one ever - and I just...  ...In college?  ...Was never - yeah. This - those questions I asked as a kid were so impressed upon me as like wow like this is something for whatever reason I learned and I think a lot about. And I went to Catholic school so there was a lot - just weirdly enough the classes that I did really well in were - happened to be religious studies.  So you were in college.  And college happened to be - many of those classes were like 2 oclock 3 oclock.   Just so happened that like I got really good grades in religion classes and like...  You could sleep in.  ...F's in everything else. So that...  OK.  A's and F's average out to like a C.  Yeah.  So that is how that happened.  So you did that. Did you finish the degree with religious studies?  Yeah yeah. I wrote a - yeah did a thesis the whole nine. And...  So then how did you go from there to food?  I was just an angry - still a pretty angry person. I just did not find my place into what I wanted to do. I had a great time in college but I did not know where that fit. I interned at PaineWebber...  What is PaineWebber?  ...which is now UBS. Just - I did private wealth asset management for rich people in Connecticut.  As a religious studies major - like you are just all over the map. I love it.  Yeah. And I want - I have always wanted to go into cooking because my dad when he immigrated he was in the restaurant industry for almost 30 years.  OK.  But as a last thing I almost dropped out of college because cooking to me - and again I know this sounds like so hyperbolic almost and revisionist but clearly to me then I was like I do not know of anything else has like meaning to me all right?  Besides cooking.  Besides - I did not know it was cooking.  Were you good at it?  No.  Did you cook as a kid?  I am not - it is not - cooking does not come naturally to me. At that time I did not know it is what I wanted to do.  How old were you when this was happening?  First I want to talk about my job  was 20. So I was 22 after I came back from Japan teaching English in Wakayama Izumi-Tottori for three months. Then I came back to New York and I worked for like three four months six months maybe in some financial job. That is when I knew. I was like - this is right before right after the dot-com crash in 2000. And I just had a lot of thoughts running through my head right?  You thoughts running through your head - what?  Off - most of them not good right? And I think this is right after or during September 11.  All right.  And I am just like you know what?  it. Life's short. I am going to do something I am not supposed to do. And...  In food.  That is how cooking happened. And I felt that I could find honor and truth for me at least...  Yeah.  ...In trying to get better at something that is like repetitive and a craft.  Do - you are not cooking at every restaurant.  No.  You are not cooking - like do you - what is the ratio of cooking to now as it was to like when the - when you first started?  It used to be a lot and then it tailors off. And for those that do not know and I think even those that do know in the profession this may not seem like the perfect analogy but I live in a world of analogies. Each restaurant to me is like a child even though I do not have any right now. Some when you have a new restaurant you are there all the time. And you are feeding it. You are nursing it. And every time they get a cold you are worry - you know what I mean? Like oh my God. And somehow - through magic it seems - they are off in college or they are...  Yeah.  ...Have their first job and you do not know how the hell that happened.  Yeah.  And then next thing you know they are paying their own taxes and they do not even need you.  Yeah.  And that is why I view some of the restaurants are like. And so...  So some babies are easier than other babies in terms of restaurants.  And some are rebellious teenagers. And you are like I just want to kill you .  Which was your most rebellious child?  I love them all.   Oh. Which was your most rebellious child?  They are there. Like they are all different. They all have temperaments and it is...  What is the temperament of this one - majordomo a month in? Is it a fussy baby? Does it sleep throughout the night? Is it you know attached to your hip? What is it? Like what is its sitch ?  It is overachieving.  Really?  Yeah.  OK. Tell me how.  I think we have been very busy. We have been very lucky. We have a very strong team. And this - the second month to me is the hardest part.  Why?  Because there is many points to get to that second month. But the current trajectory we are on personally having some experience with this people - this is now when people want to like ease up because they work like - we worked so hard for three months before the first month. And now it is like I want to take a break. I want to just break.  Are you taking a break yet?  Well that is the thing is how do you do it where you do not like...  OK.  You have got to find a way to keep the...  Yeah.  ...You know acceleration moving without burning everyone out.  Are you in the kitchen every night?  As much as I can. Right now it is hard right? We were supposed to open up months ago. But I am here a lot.  You must be tired.  It is really strange .  What is strange?  Everything's strange .  Everything is strange. Why? Explain.  Just work and life and work.  Yeah.  Just a lot going on but all good yeah.  Strange but good.  Yeah. I mean it is busy. I mean listen.  .  I have been saying this to my shrink for almost 15 years every session. And it is just things are weird. But ...  So when things feel weird like how do you work through it? What is your go-to? I meditate.  I do not meditate anymore because it was stressing me out.  The meditation stressed you out.  Yeah. I was like...  Explain this to me please.  Not having time to meditate and to get yourself in a clear - it was more stressful than...  Because then you were not hitting your goals with the meditation.  Yeah. I was like you know what? Not for me - for right now....  All right.  You know what I mean?  So then what are you doing now to center yourself?  Anti-meditation.  .  Just not being calm at all .  All right. All right. I mean but I imagine - so this place has been open - what? - a month.  A little over a month now yeah.  So that is just stressful. Like the opening of a restaurant must be stressful.  Yeah it is up there.  Does each opening get easier or harder?  Easier in the sense that you have a team and at least we have a group of people that can really excel at their jobs harder because expectations. And...  Yeah.  I have never been a straight-A student. But now I know why people that - I was always like - because I was like C-plus student. I always was like hey you got like a B-plus A like what the hell are you worried about?  Yeah. You made it.  But you do not want to let people down. And like you got to be able to be hungry and still overdeliver. And sometimes we do that and sometimes we do not - and historically in the past. So...  Are you OK with that? Are you OK with sometimes making it and sometimes not?  Well I mean I also think historically in the past most of the times we have not. But you know one of the benefits to not - to I guess the criticism that is not a play movie music book which is sort of set in stone is this is like a living breathing organism that can change and can grow and sort of the future's unwritten in terms of where things lie - right? - if you are given the freedom financially to still evolve.  Yeah.  So that is what is always exciting about a restaurant is you can start off like losing your first four games in a row and still find a way to make the playoffs.  Make it work.  Yeah.  Can you talk about the biggest failure or the worst one if there was one?  The worst one is still easily the first two restaurants. Ssam Bar to me was like - they are still the most brutal.  Why?  Because I thought it was going to work as a burrito bar. And we leveraged everything financially to make that happen. And it failed so fantastically. In a weird way that failure was a massive blessing in disguise.  Why?  Because it relieved all the pressure.  For the next things?  No. Because like I think a lot people at the time when I was - what? - 28 wanted us to continue Noodle Bar and to grow. And we opened a fast food shop for the most part. So people just wrote it off not even as a sophomore jinx. It is like oh this guy is a one-hit wonder. This group - thank God good riddance.  Really?  Yeah. That is how I interpreted it. And I do not think I was that wrong.  Because you were doing a lot of stuff that was outside of I guess the elite food mainstream with the first restaurant right?  Yeah. But we were serving burritos in a Chipotle fashion that warrants - that was really Korean and Chinese food that had a lot of analogies to American-Mexican burritos. Anyway that failed. And I think I can look back on it somewhat fondly. But unequivocally it was like the worst moments because if you lose it you lose everything right? And my parents had leveraged a lot. So everything would have been gone. So like you never want to go through that. But I always liken that period to - having had a lot of cancer in my family - to chemotherapy right? It is like...  Really?  It is like the crappiest thing to do.  But you have to do it.  But you have no other option. So all of a sudden - it is not that it is chemotherapy. It is the feeling you see when a cancer patient finally is like oh I got to live life now right? So I am going to put into consideration the things that I would normally not do because I just could not do