 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show host of NPR's Coronavirus Daily and Embedded podcast Kelly McEvers and co-host of NPR's Morning Edition David Greene. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners to my guests Kelly McEvers host of two NPR podcasts Embedded and NPR's newest podcast Coronavirus Daily and David Greene co-host of NPR's Morning Edition. You both are talking to me from your home studios. How is that going?  From an undisclosed location. It is going great.  It is different. We are making it work. It is very different.  Yeah yeah. It is a whole new reality for everyone right now but I was thinking this morning as I was putting together my home studio at least I still have a job.  Yes.  So thanks for that.  Absolutely. Your home studio being...  Yeah I think we all...  Yeah.  ...We all feel that way.  Describe it for us would you?  So my home studio is me under my dining room table laying down in front of the computer screen with a bunch of blankets and shower curtains draped over the table to make it kind of nice-sounding. And then there is pillows on one side of me as well against the wall to help muffle the sound. It is kind of a hotbox but we are going to make it.  That is amazing. You get high grades for effort. I did not go that far. I think we have engineers at NPR who are going to be like you should build a studio under your table like Sam.   I know you are...  Setting the standard.  Yeah you are setting the bar now Sam. This is a problem.  Very high.  We are going to make it. We are going to make it. So we are going to get to the news of the week which as it is been for the last few weeks coronavirus. But I want us to still find some joy in all of this as we talk about this news. So I want to start with a song that I heard this week with a story that brought me a lot of joy and warmed my heart. Let us listen.   You all hear that? That is the mariachi going on right? You hear it?  Nice. I feel like I needed this.  So that is the varsity mariachi band from Roma High School in Roma Texas. Like all of us they have had to readjust as coronavirus makes it harder and harder to meet in person to do anything. So this band called Mariachi Nuevo Santander - they found a workaround. They have been playing together as a full band via video conferencing. It is kind of amazing.  That is amazing.  Wow.  So...  That is incredible.  They sound great.  I know. It is insane.   So David Kelly have you all been taking advantage of the Zooms and the Skypes and the FaceTimes and the video conferencing?  So many Zooms. There is like family Zooms. There is friend Zooms. There is like kid Zooms. So much Zooming at our house.  I have to say I do not want to bring us down. I have tried some of the Zoom but my wife and I have actually - we found the idea of it kind of makes it a little sad because it does not totally feel like the real thing so we are struggling through some of that but we are trying. I am open to it.  Oh yeah. I want to try to reload my video conference because it froze.  OK.  We have lost your hotbox on screen.  I know.  We lost your hotbox yeah. We lost the video of your hotbox .  Oh yeah. I see it. You are back. You are back.  OK cool. Sweet.  Live from the hotbox.  Live from the hotbox. Live from the hotbox this is NPR.   All right. Each week I have my panelists describe their week of news in only three words. This week the news is just coronavirus really. I want us to talk about that but I also want my panelists to talk about how this virus is affecting their lives because they are real people too. So in that spirit David we are going to have you go first. You have three words and they are about what you have been going through this last week but also about the virus' impact on the food industry because your wife is in that business.  Yeah she is. And it is actually - it is three words from her which I think is a first on your show. I do not normally quote my own wife when I am doing my job.  I love it. Let us do it.  She - yeah. I mean she owns two restaurants and she was interviewed by Atlantic this week. And the three words that really stuck with me were cannot fix things. She talked about how in restaurants you always have to fix things sometimes at a moment's notice. And she said that we make game time decisions to make people happy and the fact that I cannot fix things now is breaking my heart. And that is you know why she got into this industry. I think it is why so many people who - you know there are 15 million people who work in restaurants around the country. It is why so many of them got into the industry - to see people share a space and eat food and talk about their problems and come together. And no one in this industry can do that right now and so it is really scary. It is scary for so many people around the country. And I think you know this bill looks like it is going to be signed - the stimulus bill coming from Congress - and it helps a lot of people in the country. It targets people in the restaurant industry both through these expanded unemployment benefits and also this 350 billion to go to small businesses like restaurants. And you know it is not without controversy. There is a lot of conversation right now about whether it is going to focus enough on small businesses maybe too much on larger businesses. But you know Rose furloughed 50 people. She is doing - you know she is keeping them on health insurance. She is making sure to pay for their health insurance and at least give them that. And the hope you know is that this unemployment assistance is expanded these direct loans to businesses that might help with rent with utilities can you know get these small businesses through long enough to be able to come out on the other side. Yeah. But you know it is not just - you know I said this to Rose. It is not just about making people happy. It is also about keeping them safe and healthy.  And for me it is also like not knowing this timeline of when this recovery actually gets to people. So we are taping this Friday morning. This big recovery bill is close to passing but we are still not sure when the checks will get to folks once they are approved. We do know that it is a big extension. They have raised the benefits for unemployment to four months of full pay not just three. They have up the amount you can get per week. And they have included now folks who are self-employed folks who are gig workers. So it all sounds good. But who knows when the checks get to the people you know?  Oh yeah. And they are like you know it will be direct deposited into your account. Well what if you do not have a bank account? What if you have never set up a direct deposit with the federal government? I mean I think there is going to be a lot of kinks to work out for people to get that money.  Oh yeah. So David is Rose hearing other things from other restaurant owners other folks in the food biz? Is there an attitude of optimism fear? How is the industry itself feeling right now from what you can tell?  I mean I think if you are - you know it is really different. If you are a restaurant employee who can get by and you know can find other sources of income for a little while there is a feeling of like how can I help? What can I do in this moment? You know we are going to be back in the restaurant a few months and it is going to be OK. But there are a lot of people who work in restaurants who are just literally - like suddenly were shown the door with absolutely no time to prepare for that and no certainty about when those doors are going to open again. And that is terrifying. And so I think there is a feeling of let us focus on the now. You know I know a lot of employees immediately got on the phone with you know local government agencies to get on the unemployment list as quickly as possible. And a lot of people in the restaurant industry are saying like look I need to be officially unemployed so I can get this assistance. But I hope that as soon as those doors open again I can be back working for you. But you know as we said...  Yeah.  ...It is a whole process. It is like these - you know the - actually getting these direct checks are going to be a big question when they come. You know you have to fight through long lines of people and long waits on the phone to even register for unemployment...  Yeah.  ...And get the process started. And you know these loans to businesses - these are loan guarantees through the federal government that have to be done through banks and through the Small Business Administration. So you know everyone is trying to say....  A lot of paperwork.  ...Like let us get this going as quickly as possible. But it is paperwork. It is bureaucracy. And so nothing happens that quickly...  Yeah.  ...Even with the best intentions.  Yes. And so the big question is in the meantime how do folks pay rent you know? I mean are you hearing from Rose and her employees about how they are going to just make it the next few weeks till this help gets to them?  Well everyone is talking about that. And everyone you know is talking to the developers and landlords and the people who that rent is going to. And there is a feeling of you know will everyone come together and find a way to share the burden you know if it is deferred rent if it is forgiven rent - things like that? And so that is the big question. And you know there are beautiful stories of everyone saying like what can we do? Let us come together and all share the burden. But when that does not happen that puts a lot of pressure on you know one of the individuals or businesses involved.  Oh yeah. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined by two guests this week David Greene co-host of NPR's Morning Edition and Kelly McEvers host of the NPR podcast Embedded and NPR's newest podcast Coronavirus Daily full of daily coronavirus news. You got a second job during the midst of this crisis Kelly.   So on top of your day job making audio you like so many other parents across the country right now have taken on a second job home schooling your child.  Yeah.  You have three words about that.  TFH - teaching from home - like that is ...  .  Nice.  Like think about it. Like in one pretty much weekend an entire nation became millions - tens of millions of people became home educators people who are obviously...  Yeah.  ...Not trained for this and people who are not equipped for this. Look in my household we are incredibly lucky. My child goes to a Los Angeles public school. And I can tell you that one week before schools were closed they knew this was happening. They planned for it. This is not how it is for most of the kids in the country. I mean we are the luckiest people in the world. We have Internet. We have a house.  Yup.  She has a device.  Yup.  For millions of children in this country...  Yeah.  ...That is not an option.  And they might not have parents at home. Lots of parents are having to still go to work...  Right right right.  ...You know? And so there is a little bit of money in this coronavirus bill to help grade schools do online distance learning for folks. But when is that going to get to families that really need it?  Well Democrats asked for money specifically for this issue called the homework gap. And I saw reporting in Politico last night that they did not get it. There is general money in this rescue package for schools - higher education and for schools but not specifically to address this gap. And if they do not solve it now what is going to happen is you are going to have kids go back to school. Our education reporter - I heard Anya Kamenetz reporting on this on NPR yesterday. They are going to go back to school and you are going to have to make up for it right? You are going to have to offer after-school programs and summer classes so kids can make up for this.  Yeah. And it is really scary to think about those gaps when you look at how long this time horizon is for schools being closed. So many districts across the country have made the call to close for the rest of the school year at least.  Oh let us be honest. I mean it is - there is - we have been planning in our household and in our school district that she is not going back to school this year. I mean that is just a fact. And you know when you have a 10-year-old who is sort of a self-directed only child and has this incredibly engaged school district...  Oh she is very self-directed. I know her. Oh yeah.   That is one thing. But I mean think about like a preschooler or a kindergartener somebody who is just first engaging with school like where school is just this brand-new thing and then you take that away.  How do you explain this? And how do you explain the why? How do you explain this...  Right.  ...To a preschooler like what is happening.  I know. And we do not know what the effects of this are going to be long-term. We were having a conversation about it last night. Even with our self-directed 10-year-old it is like is she going to be like never run out of toilet paper for the rest of her life? Like what is this going to do...   ...To the coronavirus generation Generation C?  Generation C.  Yeah Generation C. What is it going to be like? We do not know. And those of us who have the time space and resources to be sensitive to all that we are doing our best with our kids. But you do not have child care anymore. What - and just are people just sitting in front of the TV? Probably. Maybe they will just end up like us...  Yeah. And you know what?  ...Like Generation X.  Yeah. But also it is like I cannot fault any parent for sitting their kid in front of the TV right now.  No.  Do what you got to do to get through.  No no no.  Do what you got to do.  I have a really good friend who is an ER doctor in New York. She is in the thick of things right now. And she is just like yeah parenting rules? She is like those are gone. Like she is just like it is literally just like...  Exactly.  ...How do you get through the day?  Screen time limits? What are those?  Yeah yeah. Just get through it.  Like she was telling me this great story of her kids. Like he has a trampoline and he just like stands in front of the TV watching TV  and just jumping on a trampoline for like hours at a time.  I want to do that. Can I do that?  I want to do that.  I want an hour a day of trampoline TV time.  I just figured out my weekend.  Yes. No it is like...  Oh yeah that is going to be my weekend.  It is just like who cares?  Netflix and trampoline - I love it.  Netflix and trampoline.  So listeners we are going to talk to a lot of parents who are trying to home-school their kids right now. In our upcoming Tuesday episode you will hear me talking with parents across the country on how they are teaching their kids. Tune in for that. All right. Coming up you all love in the time of the rona. We chat with a journalist who has been compiling hundreds of stories about relationship drama brought on by being trapped in the house with your partner nonstop for weeks - laughter guaranteed. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A ow where we catch up on the week that was. I am your host Sam Sanders. And I am joined this episode by really truly two all-stars David Greene co-host of NPR's Morning Edition and Kelly McEvers wearing two job hats right now. She hosts her own investigative podcast for NPR called Embedded and she also hosts NPR's newest podcast Coronavirus Daily full of news you can use about this pandemic. Question for you both - David Kelly how has life been right now with your spouses in this time of hunkering down with them all the time?   You go first.   It is been different. You know it is interesting. I mean Rose and I actually have a kind of strange routine where we are really used to being apart because I am often in LA for NPR and she is in Washington D.C. and then we see each other on weekends. So to be together day in and day out it is kind of like - mostly it is just been the little things so far like the I am going to use the bathroom now. No this is my bathroom time. Like oh I am not used to you being here. And it is like you just look for the tone. It is like if it is oh I am just not used to you being here it is like oh that is cute. Well we are - but if it is like I am not used to you being here it is like well what - I mean but are not you happy that I am here and we are together? No it is funny. I think the thing I noticed the most I mean to be totally honest is it is so nice to wake up together each day and be able to look each other in the eyes and say like are we OK? Are you OK? Am I OK?  This is a man who knows his wife is listening.  I have no idea what you are saying.  So yeah. So like on our bad days you are like why are we fighting over how to use an ice cream maker? And like I was like I am going to walk the dog because that is like all you can do. You cannot go anywhere. You know you are just like I am going to go walk the dog for 20 minutes.  So I bring all this up because amid all the anxiety and chaos of this moment and the pressures of being trapped with your loved ones and family there is one thing in all of that that brings me some comfort and it brings me some laughs because even in times of crisis like a global pandemic there will always be petty fights between couples.  I love my fiance. Obvious right? But since shelter-in-place has gone into effect I have began to notice everything he does wrong - leaving trash around throwing clothes on the floor leaving dirty dishes everywhere. I am not your mother big boy. God grant me patience and send me lots of margaritas.   So that is Meg Zukin.  That is amazing.  She is a writer at Variety. And a few weeks ago Meg sent a tweet asking for couples to send her their coronavirus couple drama - like all the fights that have happened since these couples across the country and world have been trapped together 247. She got hundreds of responses you all - so many responses that Meg made a website for them where people could anonymously submit their coronavirus relationship stories and if they want also donate money to various coronavirus relief funds. This site is called The Social Distance Project and it is so hilarious hearing these couples vent. I called up Meg and she and I shared a few of our favorite submissions. There was one my editor was asking about - about the limes.  Oh the limes is my absolute favorite story.  Let us do it.  OK. Here we go. Here we go.  Day 3 of us working from home my boyfriend got mad at me because I squeeze whole limes on my lunch and dinner and now we do not have any more fresh limes left - only got those green instant lime juice things that are shaped like a lime. And we had a fight because I tried to reach for it - which is so...  .  ...I think emblematic of the types of fights that people will get into while in quarantine together. Like not these...  Well the smallest things become the biggest things.  Exactly. It is like you become annoyed with the way someone else breathes or you know...  Yeah yeah. I love it. Here's one called Man-Child. It reads because of his flexible schedule my husband watches our toddler during the week while I am in a traditional office setting. Clearly now we are all home together and he is playing video games all day while I balance working from home and entertaining the 2-year-old. How did this happen? Why is this OK? I am going to lose it. And I guess that sets up my biggest question for you. Like you have seen all these entries. Are the majority of them stories of stress and awfulness? Or are the majority stories of joy? Like what is the big theme of all of these in general?  I think it is really split. I think there is a lot of really short glib entries about petty non-fights. And I think that there are some very serious and sad and somber stories. I think just the act of reading them and reading other people's stories people feel connected and there is this sense of community. So no one's talking about you know the human interest aspect and how it is affecting...  Oh totally.  ...People like in their real daily life.  Yeah.  And it is like if you get into a huge fight and break up during this...  You are still stuck in the house with them as well.  Exactly.  Like imagine the couples living together. It is crazy.  Totally. And this one is really crazy. It is called Spouses Without Borders.  A few weeks ago I traveled to Spain to pick up my kids from my ex-husband's vacation home. They are 4 and 6 so they cannot fly alone. When I got there the borders closed so I was stuck in my ex-husband's home with my kids my boyfriend and my ex-husband's new wife.  No no.  Yes.  Oh my God.  And this is not even done.  Oh my God.   My ex-husband traveled to America for work and cannot get back into the country. It is getting super claustrophobic here and I cannot afford a hotel right now nor do I want to leave the house because so many people are sick here. I cannot stand my ex-husband's new wife and things are getting tense with my boyfriend.  .   If I have to stay in this house another day I will end up fighting my ex-husband's new wife. Please open the borders Spain.  Oh my God.  .  Oh my God. It is amazing. It is amazing. I love this one from March 22. It is called Ration The Wine. I will not read the whole thing but the highlights are this. It starts in all caps Do not TOUCH MY WINE. So my fiance and I decide to stock up and stay in. Before this we make a list of projects food and booze we will need to survive. He chooses beer. I chose my wine. And we buy enough to keep us out of the stores for a bit. She goes on to say the other day I come upstairs from my laundry and he is sitting on our patio drinking a glass of my wine. I totally lose it and start screaming at him as if he was the worst human being in the world. And it goes on to a predictable story. It is just like reading those kind of stories I wonder - and I wonder if you have an answer for this. Do you think this isolation and quarantine right now with coronavirus is going to on the whole strengthen relationships or ruin them?  I think it will strengthen them. I think people will really learn how to - have to let things go if they want to keep their sanity. I think that couples are really going to have to just...  You just have to deal with it.  ...Just have to deal with it. And when you need physical space like find it .  Yeah. So you are isolating right now with your boyfriend. Has doing this project and getting this you know insider view of so many relationships - has it changed how you approach your relationship during this coronavirus time?  I do not know. Yeah. It is made me I think more grateful for my relationship and the patience that we both I think exercise. But I do not think it is a good thing to ever look at these stories and try to compare your relationship against someone else's especially with such little information. I think kind of it is a good idea to sort out what is actually something that bothers you on like the microscopic level and what can you live with and then - or just maybe do yourself if it annoys you.  Totally. What is the big stuff? What is the small stuff?  Totally.  I want to read one last entry because I find it hilarious then ask you my last question. This one is called Another Farting Story.  .  It reads I am the kind of girl that is never and will never feel comfortable passing gas or number two-ing in the same vicinity as their partner. Yes I am aware I should get over this. Let us just say that now living in a 600-square-foot one-bedroom apartment with my fiance I am miserably trapped. I have nowhere to literally go. And that raises my last question for you. After all of this all these entries your experience with your boyfriend is it better in the time of coronavirus to be alone or to be with that partner?  I think if you are used to cohabiting with someone and then you are suddenly alone I think that could be very difficult. But I think if you are kind of used to living on your own and you have people that you can regularly like FaceTime with or...  Oh yeah.  ...Talk phone with then I think it is kind of fine.  Yeah exactly.  You know?  I mean I will say I have begun talking to my dog. She does not talk back. Maybe one day she will .  Yeah. If you have a pet you are like totally chilling. And my younger brother said to me - it was so cute. He was like the only good thing about coronavirus is how much love all the pets in the world are getting right now.  Aw it is so true.  I know. I was like that is so true. Like...  The dogs are loving this.  Yeah they are so happy. They have no idea what is going on.  God bless the dogs.  Totally.   Thanks again to Meg Zukin writer at Variety. Her website full of coronavirus relationship drama is thesocialdistanceproject.org. All right before we go to break we actually have a special message. Last week on the show we asked a bunch of people our listeners and everyone else to tell us what is bringing them joy and helping them get through this pandemic. We heard from all kinds of folks including two people who probably bring lots of joy to lots of people the comedians Desus Nice and The Kid Mero. They both host a very popular late-night talk show series Desus  Mero on Showtime. Here is a voice memo they sent to us.  Hey. It is your boy Desus Nice. And the way I am getting through these rough times is just kind of just slowing everything down 'ecause you got nothing but time. So I am just exploring things in my apartment rediscovering my bread maker. Also I went through my fridge and I threw away all the old condiments. And you would be surprised. There are some old condiments in your fridge. You do not know it. They are hiding behind the baking soda. So listen from Desus to you check your fridge. Be safe you all. I am out.  Yo. What is up? It is your boy The Kid Mero. And I am here at the crib like you are . I know this sounds absolutely insane but now is a great time to really connect with the people that you love. You know what I mean? And do not be all doom and gloom. You know what I mean? We will get through this. This is like work. And now a public service announcement from Mero IV and the Bodega Princess. It is your boy The Kid Mero signing off.  Wash your hands everybody. Goodbye.  Wash your hands everyone. Goodbye.  Thanks for that message. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. Time for a break. When we come back we are going to play my favorite game a very special celebrity edition of Who Said That. BRB.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. You are listening to a very special home studio edition of this show featuring two friends and colleagues of mine - Kelly McEvers host of the NPR podcast Embedded and NPR's newest podcast Coronavirus Daily. She is recording in the shed in her backyard.  That is right.   Also joined by David Greene co-host of NPR's Morning Edition. And you are recording David where?  In my living room which is not nearly as cool as a shed or beneath a dining room table. I mean I feel like I need to get a cooler spot. This is not a cool home studio.  .  Get to a shed right now.  Find me a shed.  You all it is time for my favorite game. To bring some joy in this week when we all need some joy it is time for Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  All right you all this week I want to play a very special celebrity edition of the game because I have recently been obsessed with the way famous people have been living out their social distance house arrest online. They are kind of losing it and it shows. Have you all been watching this...  Oh yeah.  ...All the celebrities posting the videos where they are just losing their mind slowly?  I mean can we talk about Arnold Schwarzenegger? Like is anybody a little worried about him?  OK. What happened with him? There is goats in his house?  That is all...  There is a cigar .  That is all we need to say. There are goats in his house. Like that is now - that covers why we are worried.  Anyways in the spirit of celebrities behaving kind of badly in the age of the rona I want to play a special game of Who Said That in which every quote this week for the game will come from celebrities reacting to coronavirus.  Oh no.  You all ready?  Maybe yes.  This first quote comes from one of the biggest pop singers of all time. The quote is we will learn to kiss and hold each other through the waves of the Web. We will feed each other redistribute wealth strike. Who said that?  Madonna?   Close - another blonde singer.  Gaga.   She sings songs like Hit Me Baby One More Time .  Oh Britney Spears?  Britney.   Britney Spears has gone...  Oh my God.  ...Full-on prepper maybe socialist. She is been posting to her Instagram all week in solidarity with the people. It is been funny to watch. Her full post to Instagram reads during this time of isolation we need connection now more than ever. Call your loved ones. Write virtual love letters. Technologies like virtual communication streaming and broadcasting are part of our community collaboration. We will learn to kiss and hold each other through the waves of the Web. We will feed each other redistribute wealth strike. We will understand our own importance from the places we must stay. Communion moves beyond walls. We can still be together.  You know what? You go Britney. I did - I would not have predicted...  OK.  ...I would be getting advice from Britney Spears through this moment. But you know what? I am ready 100.  I am ready for it.  Yeah.  Kelly you got it. Next quote - come on. Go. Let us go eat some fried fish 'ecause there is no more pasta.   Let us just play you all the audio.    Come on. Go. Let us go eat some fried fish - fried fish - 'ecause there is no more pasta.  Can you tell who that is? It sounds - she is ripping on a very popular song.  Is it her own song?  Yeah.  Come on. Go. Come on.  Madonna.   That is Madonna.  Yes yes. That is Madonna.  .  That is a weird version of Madonna being herself.  Yes. This week Madonna changed the words of her classic song Vogue to speak to the times.  That did not sound anything like Vogue. That is what is so crazy.  Come on. Vogue.  .  So basically she changed the words of her classic song Vogue to speak to a reality all of us are living through right now. Fridge is getting empty. She was out of pasta had to...  Yeah.  ...Eat some fried fish made a song about it. Madonna I am OK with that. OK?  I am OK with that. And nothing's...  Yeah.  ...Wrong with fried fish. I mean fried fish to me is not settling.  Yeah. Well the thing about fried fish - if you make fried fish during a time of home isolation you have got to sit in that house till the fried fish smell goes away. And that could be days.  Oh.  That is true. That is fair.  'ecause that stuff gets in the walls.  You got to pay for it.  But it is worth it.  Right.  Yeah.  Last quote - before you go out in public ask yourself is it worth it? Can I work it? Can I put my thing down flip it and reverse it?  Missy Elliott?  Yes.   That is amazing. I am going to play that every time I get ready to go outside.  So our queen Missy Elliott turned her hit Work It into a coronavirus PSA. You love to see it. Hit the song.  Yes please.    Is it worth it? Let me work it. I put my thing down flip it and reverse it.  I have this image now of everyone socially distancing outside while dancing to this song.  Yes.  It would be so beautiful.  That is giving me life.  Speaking of beauty and beautiful things Kelly you wonderfully won this game - 3-0 I think. Congrats.  Crushed. Crushed.   Sorry. A lot of help on that first one.  You know I am happy to help. In times like these we all could use some help. Congrats Kelly. That concludes Who Said That. All right. Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week I ask our listeners to share with us the best things that have happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Jinae let us hear it.  Hi Sam. This is Emily  in Columbus Ohio.  And I am Catherine .  And the best part of our week was that after lots and lots of practice getting past fear Catherine finally learned how to ride a two-wheeler all by herself with no training wheels.  Hey Sam. The best part of my week was biking up Mount Royal in Montreal Canada where I got