 Hi.  Hi.  How are you?  I am good. How are you?  I am good. I would be...  My guest this episode is a very busy woman. When we talked she was on a promo tour for not one but two big projects.  Um - OK. So...  You doing promo for 2 Dopes   2 Dopes and What Men Want.  The Taraji movie.  It is - I am excited.  That is a big deal.  Yeah she is awesome.  That is of course the voice of Phoebe Robinson. And I am Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   Are you guys recording 'ecause this is like great?  We are always recording this stuff.  OK. Great. This is great content.  Yeah .   In this episode Phoebe tells me about everything she is working on which is a lot. There is her acting. There is her latest book. It is called Everything's Trash But It is Okay. There is all her podcasting stuff like her show So Many White Guys on top of that one that brought her fame 2 Dope Queens. Of course she hosted that show with Jessica Williams. We talk about all that in this chat as well as how Phoebe got out of debt and what it means to be your authentic self. All right. Let us get into it. We actually began our chat reminiscing about the last time Phoebe and I spoke.   Remember when I interviewed you during the election cycle?  Yes yes - back in New York. OK.  Yeah it was April of 2016.  Oh yes.  And I was doing a story about how all these candidates were getting heckled.  Yeah.  And the - and protesters would like rush the stage at their rallies.  Yeah.  And so the story that I wanted to do was like - I wonder who is good at dealing with hecklers. Oh comics. And I asked you...  Yeah.  ...Like advice for politicians who were getting heckled. We actually have the audio.  Oh God.   I just do not think a president can roast somebody. I think that looks like opposite of presidential.   That is - the way that we talked about politics...  I know.  ...Seems so - it like - before we descended into this period of like...  Yeah.  ...Anger and frustration - and not - and this is nonpartisan.  Yeah.  Everyone's angry right? Like...  Yeah.  ...Trump supporters are angry Trump critics are angry.  Yeah.  And it just like - it is hard to overstate how much it is changed.  It is changed so much. And I love like - you cannot roast somebody. And that is literally what he does all day. And I am like...  Yeah.  ...LOL...  Yeah.  ...But not an LOL. But yeah. It really is - I think right now we are in a very interesting time where people are really sort of amped up which I think is good 'ecause I think you know passivity is part of the reason why he got into the office in the first place. But I just want that energy to be turned into something that is productive. And I feel like a lot of people are doing - like my brother he ran in the midterms. And he - this is like his second time running for...  He ran for office. What did he run for?  Yeah for a state rep in District 6 in Ohio. And he won. And he flipped the district. It had been red for I think like 60 years. It was the first time a Democrat - yeah. And it was really cool to see him come from the nonprofit world and be like OK yes. And he still works in nonprofit but - in addition to being a state rep. But he was just sort of like OK. I want to use my skills to help make things better. I think that is what is really important is that getting people who do good every day in their lives in politics.  Yeah yeah.  Yeah.  All right. So that was the first time we talked. Now I want to talk about your book Everything Is Trash But It is Okay. There is this one part in the book that I love where you write about getting out of 65000 worth of debt.  Yeah. That was wild.  One -  claps for you.  Thank you. Yeah that was crazy...  Yeah.  ...But also common. That is the thing.  Yes.  And that is why I wanted to write about it. Like I was just on the phone one of my oldest friends. I have known her since I was 17. And you know she was like you never told me about your money issues. And I was like I did not tell anyone. I was like so ashamed and so embarrassed. And part of me writing about it was also like to have that closure moment for myself but also just sort of be like - I think especially with the way social media is so a part of our lives like that is the highlight reel. You know what I mean? That is sort of like yeah everyone's having fun vacations or has cute clothes or hanging out with like their best friends.  Yeah but it is Rent the Runway.  Exactly.  You do not even like that friend.  Exactly .  You know that is your mama's backyard.  Yeah exactly. And so I was just sort of like - I think you know especially with the success of like 2 Dope Queens and all this stuff that was happening in my career I think they were just like - oh Phoebe just sort of came out of nowhere and like ended up on HBO. And it is like that is not what my journey was. And so I just want to be very open and honest about like I have money issues. You are not alone. No one really teaches us about money.  Come on.  And I think us not talking about money is a way to keep people sort of floundering.  Who is us?  Well I think anyone who is not wealthy. I do not want to have kids but I have a niece and nephew. And I want to create generational wealth. I want my legacy to be where maybe I can like preserve you know black art that is like...  Yeah.  ...You know all that sort of stuff where we are - it is just sort of like if you do not have money in that way where you can sort of preserve your culture...  Yeah.  ...And like lift others up it just really - it is so hard.  Well - and it is also like so much of the persona we think of when we think of comics are like they are perpetually floundering and struggling - a mess.  Yeah.  And like so much of what you are saying is like...  Do not be a mess.  .  It is like - it is funny when you are like 25. But I am about to turn 35. I am like...  Oh me too.  Yeah. I am like have it together. You know I put on my night creams. OK? Just like I am home every night by like 11. Just like have it together.  Oh yeah.  Yeah.  Oh yeah yeah. What I love about the way you write about debt and overcoming your debt in the book - you say that everything changed for you and your money situation when you began to ask yourself a question which is what am I supposed to learn from this?  Yeah.  And you say that it took you out of a mindset of being a victim to saying what am I going to get out of this?  Yeah.  I have - how did that come to you?  Yeah. It just - and I just want to be clear. I am not saying anyone who - everyone who struggles financially is a victim.  Yes.  I am just saying my...  For your path. Yeah.  Yeah. My mentality was sort of like money is the enemy. I am in debt because money does not want me to succeed. I am never going to get out of this. And it is like all right well if you wake up every day being like you are never going to change your situation great. You will do everything to make that narrative true. And so I was just sort of like I do not want to be struggling anymore and I want to have a healthy relationship with money. And like I write about it in the book. Like pursuing comedy which is a career where you do not - I have been doing this for 11 years. I will say the first eight eight and a half years I was not really making any money.  Whoa .  But that was a choice I made. And that is OK to make that choice because it got me to where I was.  Yeah. Yeah.  But it is like acknowledging like OK well if you are going to take on this task of struggling then you have to own that and embrace it.  Oh yeah.  And so just putting myself on a tight budget that was part of like how I got myself out of debt - was just sort of like OK well you are just only going to have the necessities. You are not going to go to the movies. You are not going to go clothes shopping. You are not going to go to concerts. You are not going to go on vacations. And that sucks but that was...  It worked.  Yeah that - it worked. And my first like full-time TV writing job was for Portlandia.  Oh really?  I took all that money and I put it towards my debt. So I actually did not make any money writing on the show at all. So now how I think about money is I have intention behind it which I do not think I did before. I think I was just sort of like...  That is a Oprah lesson right there.  Yeah.  What is your intention?  Yeah and sort of just like...  Yeah.  ...If you have to put in money to like invest in yourself money to be like oh I want to like help support my family or I want to eventually use it to like start a production company or I want to you know set myself up so I can retire and like just have these sort of things that are big picture.  Yeah.  And it just helped me sort of recontextualize money.  Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah. That was a very long answer. Sorry.  I liked it. That was good.  .  So that question what am I supposed to learn from this if you were asking that question to yourself about this season of your life what would you think that answer is?  What am I supposed to learn about this season of my life? That is a great question. I think it is probably I have been a workaholic like you know forever.  Yeah. You write about that.  Yeah I write about that in the book. And I think what I have learned is that it is not everything. Like just crossing that stuff off your to do list is not the only thing that matters. It is not the most important thing. And does not mean I still do not have goals. It is just me learning that I want to have a full life.  Time for a break. When we come back Phoebe tells me all about working on 2 Dope Queens and how she and her co-host Jessica Williams began the podcast after Phoebe's work on her blog called Blaria - Black Daria. All right. BRB.   Did you ever think about quitting comedy?  Yeah. I left my day job - was a cool office job. And I wrote on my friend's pilot that did not get picked up so I did not have a job. And like you know everyone around me was really sort of like getting their footing and getting cast whether it is like SNL or you know a writing job or they are touring standup. And I was like just struggling so much. And I remember talking to my parents about it. I am like I think I am going to quit. Like I have been doing this - 2014 I started - six years. I am like and I really do not have anything to show for myself. And it was great. My parents were like LOL. You are not quitting. And also things...  Your parents said keep pursuing comedy.  Yeah.  OK.  They were just like - they were like if you really want this you are going to have to just keep going. And the most important thing they said was nothing is supposed to happen on your timeline. So you go like oh well when - by the time I am 30 I am going to have a house and I am going to have a hit TV show. And I am going to have X amount of money in your checking account. And they are like you are not entitled to that. I think it might be a uniquely American thing that everything has to happen on a certain timetable. And if it does not happen then you are failing.  Yeah. Well that is a very Western almost American - like no one adheres to time as closely as we do.  Yeah. Yeah.  Like you travel anywhere else in the world like time is like a suggestion.  Yeah. Exactly.   You know? But here we are so .  Yeah.  It is weird.  Yeah. And it is like you know getting on HBO at 34 it is like did I necessarily pick that age? No.  Yeah.  But I am not like oh man I am 34 and I am on - I am like this - can you believe it? I am on HBO.  Yeah.  It is like it was achieving that dream. It did not matter what age it happened at.  Yeah. Yeah.  And so just taking that out of my mind and taking that pressure off and just creating something that is good and then people realizing that that has been huge. So it is not going to happen on your timeline so get it out your head now guys. It is just not.  Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah.  Just trust the process hydrate and get that sleep.  Yeah .   I want to talk about the podcast.  Yes please.  I mean so like - OK from 2016 to now...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...Could you ever have imagined that the little show that you started around Black Daria would end up on HBO...  No.  ...Like not just for a limited run - like bringing it back?  Not at all .  Were you...  Not at all.  Yeah.  I mean Jess and I just started because we were like there were so many - you know she started out doing improv in LA and I did improv in New York for like a little bit. And we are just like we are only surrounded by like white guys in flannel or whatever. And we were just sort of like there is so many funny women queer people people of color that are not on late night doing standup or cast in TV shows and we think they are brilliant. So we are like we just - if we are going to do a show it needs to be reflective of that instead of just booking the same people that are already getting booked.  Yeah.  But we just did it because it was fun. You know she was on The Daily Show. I was like a struggling standup comic and writer.  Yeah.  And so it just sort of was like oh this is like a fun thing that we can do. We are just purely you know doing this because we love comedy.  Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah.  And what I like about the way you all approach diversity in comedy...  Yeah.  ...You are both very intentional about it. I have been in many places and spaces where everyone wants diversity but no one wants to talk about it. And if it like magically happens they are great with it.  Yeah. Yeah.  But what I like is how you all are like it is not right. We are going to fix it. Think about these things. Diversity - bam. Say it. Speak it.  Yeah. Because I think it sounds cool to have the soundbites. Like we want diversity - like that sounds great. But if you are not actually doing it...  Yeah.  ...Then what is the point? Like the podcast was produced by all women. And then we have had female directors...  Yeah.  ...For both seasons of the HBO specials. And it is like it is not hard to do that.  No. I do not know. If you think of these genres and spaces I guess a - it is like for forever comedy was like an eight-person table.  Yeah.  And seven of those seats if not eight were like the same dude.  Yeah.  And so saying let us mix that table up is not unfair. What was before was unfair.  Yes.  Are comics in the community mad about you all's approach to diversity? Do they - are they like quit harping on this stuff?  Yeah. Well I mean I think there is always going to be a level to that. But I do think - I think special about 2 Dope Queens - I do not want to speak for Jessica. But as - you know I came into it as a standup comic. I had been doing it for six years six and half years before we started it. And so it was a lot of like well I am a new comic so I want to put other new comics on too. So I think people really do appreciate that. It is not just me going like hey Janeane Garofalo - like just getting like a super-established comedian on because then it is like oh well you are not really sharing the wealth. Like we really try to make it especially the HBO specials like have - I think most of the comics on there either like now releasing like a debut album or they are about to come out with like a half-hour special like Nore Davis. But like they are not you know household names yet. And I feel like I am not a household name yet. And I understand that and I want to support that. And Jess and I just wanted to bring everyone with us.  What I loved about what you all did with that podcast is the way you really played with language. And I am talking about all the abbrieves .  Yeah.  I am talking about all the acronyms.  Yeah.  It is a beautiful thing. And you all started doing it. I do not know if you were first but like it is permeated the entire culture now.  Yeah. We just really were sort of like well we do not sound like Ira Glass. We do not sound like Terry Gross. Like the only way this show is going to work is if we just sound 1000 percent like ourselves. And I do remember when the podcast first started coming out I used to read like a lot of DMs on our Facebook page. And there were quite a few people who were like oh you guys talk about race too much. Why do you guys like talk like millennials?  Because you are millennial .  Yeah. You two say the word like too much. I would enjoy the show more if you did not say like as much. Just all these sort of ways where they just did not enjoy the way that we spoke. And Jess and I were just thinking well this is how we talk.  Yeah.  So I do not know what to tell you.  What can I - yeah.  Yeah. And so we just really embraced it. And we are just - we are saying well there are always going to be people who are going to feel that way.  Yeah. Tell me how the abbreviation thing came about because I love it.  Yeah.  And I guess give me some examples for folks that have not heard the podcast. Like you will be talking.  Yeah.  And like a word will become shortened. Give me an example where you...  Yeah. I will say like reservashe  instead of reservation at a restaurant supes monots  for super monogamous.   I love it.   And so I think you know Jess and I just really embraced like - you know like she is so good with an acronym.  Really?  Like we just really just sort of embraced just being silly and not taking language too seriously because I think there is an element of like what is high art? What is low art? It is sounding a particular way. And we just really want to be like well this is how we sound.  Yeah.  And I think people get - they get the joke behind it. Like I do not think people really actually think that Jess and I...  Talk like that all the time. Yeah.  All the time. Yeah that would be annoying.  That would be super annoy.  Yeah .  Wait wait. No how would I even do that?  That would be totes annoy .  Totes annoy.  Yeah .  Supes annoy.  Hi guys .   I love it. Keep going.  Hi guys. It is Phoebe Robinson from 2 Dope Queens...  Yeah.  ...And What Men Want and from Brooklyn .   Yes.  And I hope you are enjoying my interview with the beautiful talented and amazing Sam on It is BEEN A MINUTE. So keep it listening.   Now you are from a suburb of Cleveland?  Yeah I grew up in Bedford Heights and then moved to Solon if that means anything to anyone that is listening. Yeah but I was in the suburbs. Yeah.  How was that?  You know grew up with like two parents. My brother was like so cool.  .  He was like the coolest guy like straight As so charming. All the teachers loved him.  And what were you?  I was like a slacker.  .   Like not on point. I am sure they were like why cannot you be more like your brother? But I just would watch like a lot of TV. Like I was watching like Martin Felicity West Wing just like - I just loved film and TV so I would do that and just sort of coast. And it used to drive my parents crazy because they are like you are smarter than what your grades reflect. And I was just like I am lazy. And...  .  ...It drove them nuts. They were like what the hell is wrong with you?  Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah.  Do they respect the lazy now?  I think they are just happy that I am not lazy anymore.  Oh bet.  I think when I got to college and I could really focus on what I want to do - because I had a writing major you know writing classes did improv - and I really just sort of like found myself and found my confidence and was just sort of like you can live up to your potential. Like just sort of phoning it in and being like yeah I have the potential but whatever - like that is not cool.  That as not cool.  That is like a waste of a life. So just like live to your potential.   Oprah's Master Class.  .  So like you are doing all of these things now kind of like tied to your love of comedy. When did you know? When did you - like was it in childhood? Was it in adulthood? When did you say like I am doing the comedy route the stand-up the writing the this the that?  Yeah. I always wrote as a kid but I thought I was going to write like serious stuff like...  Like what?  Like I thought was going to write like serious Oscar award-winning movies. Like I...  It is not too late.  Yeah I could still do it but...  Set that intention.  Yeah .  .  But I was like I never thought about - like I was like comedic in like my regular everyday life. But I would never thought that was a career path. And I was working a couple office jobs like at a film company. And a friend of mine Lindsay  - hey girl - she wanted to take a standup class together. And I was like I do not get it. Like what is the point? Like standup is not a career. And she is like well it will just be a fun eight-week sort of vacation from your day job. And this was July '08. So I was 23 about to turn 24. And I took the class at Carolines on Broadway. And I loved it.  Really?  I loved it. And that is what changed my life. But like if it were not for her I would never have gotten into comedy.  Really?  Yeah never.  I - it is hard to even think about how to ask the question the right way.  OK.  But like all of the comics I have been speaking with on the show...  Yeah.  ...They tell me and show me that like the landscape is in a - just like comedy as an industry is in a weird place right now.  Yeah.  I am talking about the Louis C.K. foolishness. I am talking about Me Too hitting the world of comedy.  Yeah.  I am talking about the gatekeepers having to deal with these new voices.  Yeah.  Like how rampant is this environment of sexual misconduct? Like when I read about...  Yeah.  ...The bad people in that space...  Yeah.  ...Seemed like these kind of guys are everywhere. Are they everywhere?  I think they are everywhere. And I think there is...  Have you experienced it?  There is been like - it is been like light harassment which is like...  Ugh.  ...The fact that you - I can even say that I am - like I am lucky because it is only been like a little bit is kind of dumb. But yeah it is kind of everywhere. And I think it is just sort of like well this is how it is been done and it is cool. And you know like if you cannot handle it just toughen up. And it is just sort of like it is not about toughening up. It is about it being a safe workspace for everybody. And I think because standup comedy in particular there is no HR...  Yeah.  ...Unless there is like an expose that comes out that really forces someone hand to be like OK you are right. I did you know sexually harass those people.  Should there be an HR a union some kind of organization to it that is not there currently?  Oh gosh. I do not see a world in which comics will unionize. I wish they would but I do not see that happening.  Yeah.  But I think it would help. And I think - yeah I think the diversity needs to happen within in terms of gatekeepers too.  Yeah.  Because if it is all just like dudes protecting each other then it is like never going to change.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah. What is next for you? I mean you have done like...  A vacation .  Podcasts and - really? Were you - OK yeah.  Yeah no I wish . Working on standup stuff - I am really excited about that. I think eventually I am giving myself - I know I just said not about timetables but I really do want to have a production company...  OK.  ...In like the next few years.  Producing what kind of stuff?  Well I really would love to produce standup specials...  Yeah.  ...And just really like quality like TV shows and films that really represent different unique voices and people doing stuff that I am not equipped to do. I am always excited by people where I am like oh you are brilliant. I could never do that. But I want to see more of what you want to do. So I really - I think 2 Dope Queens has been great for boosting my career and Jessica's career. But now it is sort of like I want to pay it forward yeah.  Do you - speaking of Oprah Master Class  person of lessons here...  .  She called you when your first book came out?  Yeah she is so cool.  How did she get your number?  I do not know .  .  I think she just - you know it is Oprah. She could just do whatever the heck she wants.  What did she say when - OK recreate that call for me.  Oh she just was like - she said my name and I was - in my head I was like oh my God. She sounds how she does on TV. She called me Phoebes  and she was just like...  OK.  ...I loved your book and I just really relate to so much of it. And I was just like - I was just so kind of bewildered that like she read my book.  Yeah.  I was like what? Like it just was so crazy. But she was just so encouraging. And she is like you know you are a star. And like you really have a great voice and just keep like using it in like the right way. And she is just like really encouraging in a way that I think you know she certainly does not have to be. You know?  How does one know when it is time to hang up the phone with Oprah? Does she just hang up? Do you know to say like OK thanks? Like - .  Yeah it was like a natural hang-up. Like it was just cool. Like we both were like having a good time. And then we like you know OK it was so great chatting. And it was just like so - it was like perfect. It was like the perfect phone call. It was wild .  Look at you. Thank you.  Thank you.  I amma  have you sign my book on the way out.  Yasss .   And I really appreciate you. Keep shining.  Oh my God. You know what? I am only shining because you know people support me and have encouraged me.  Aww.  So thank you.  Of course. Of course.   Many thanks to Phoebes Phoebe Robinson. The whole second season of 2 Dope Queens live is streaming right now on HBO. Check that out until Friday when you will check out us again because we will be back in your feeds with our Weekly Wrap. All right till then. And thank you for listening. Talk soon.  