 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week what happens when you defund the police? All right let us start the show.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. So it is been just about a year since George Floyd was killed by a police officer in Minneapolis last May and just about a year of protests all across the nation and the world calling for police reform.   No justice.  No peace.  No justice.  No peace.  And over that year calls for reform have turned into calls to defund the police.   Money for the elders.  Not for cops.  Not for cops.  You know so much of this conversation of this movement has felt national. But the kind of reform activists are asking for - a lot of it cannot come from the federal government. And anyway the U.S. Congress seems to be a bit gridlocked on that front at the moment. So today we are going to see how the conversation around defunding the police is playing out locally. We are going to Texas - Austin Texas. In Austin last year there were a lot of actual calls to defund the police.  I mean just in the course of like four days my office which is just one of the 10 city council offices we got 20000 calls and emails from different Austinites asking for us to really reimagine the way that our city budget is written.  That is Greg Casar. He is a member of Austin's City Council. And it turns out Austin perhaps more than any city in the country over the last year has gone the furthest in defunding its police department. Last summer Greg created a plan to reduce Austin's police budget significantly and it passed unanimously.  Things that were never possible before became what community members were demanding baseline period from their council members.  Councilman Casar is going to tell us what is working what is not working yet and whether Austin can be an example to the rest of the country on how you defund the police department.   You know by some reports the city of Austin's police reforms are some of the biggest police reforms the most sweeping in a major city in the last few years. Can you big picture break down some of the key reforms and changes maybe the biggest or a few to highlight in those reforms?  Yeah. At the heart of all of this is that cities across America - not just Austin but Austin definitely - the biggest part of our discretionary budgets is usually policing and jails which means that our main response to problems is essentially policing or jails. So what we did was we said let us invest some of that money into mental health first responders. So now that when you call 911 in Austin today you hear do you need fire EMS police or mental health so that you can actually get a mental health responder to a call. Ten percent of our 911 calls are mental health calls. Or also you know we can take some of that money and invest it in family violence shelters to prevent domestic violence. We took some of that money and put it towards housing folks that are homeless. We need to think of public safety as something beyond how many folks of color can we arrest how many working class people can we arrest how many police do we hire.  How much money are we talking about here? How much money was shifted from Austin PD to other stuff?  So it really - the plan was about 100 million reduction to the police budget.  And that is out of how much of a total budget?  Just over 400 million and so that...  So a quarter.  Oh yeah.  That is a lot.  It was significant. Now some of it was a reduction that we could reinvest. That was somewhere in the 20 million to 30 million range. The rest of it was actually just taking things that are currently in the police budget and making it an independent function because it is better suited to not actually be run by the police. So we have pulled things like that forensics lab made it independent made our 911 call center independent of the police department so they can send the right responder to the right call and not kind of have a bias towards policing. So the biggest part of the cut was really making things separate from everything being police.  How do you measure success with these reforms? Is the measure of success fewer arrests fewer deaths by police? Is the measure of success other things? Like what are the metrics?  I think each program is going to have to be really held to account. A recent audit showed that Austin ranked at the very top of police shootings per capita of the big cities when you have a police officer in a mental health call. We got to come down that list. And so I think with each of these reinvestments we have got to be able to show we did better. And if it did not work then we have got to reinvest the money in something else.  You know policing is this weird issue because for years now we have talked about it nationally and collectively but it is an issue in which real change is made locally. You know you are doing change to Austin policing for citizens of Austin but you also must know that other cities and other mayors and other city councils are watching how big reforms play out in a place like Austin to see what they might do. How much do you think about that?  Yeah. I mean I get phone calls every week from council members in other cities. And the question always comes back to how is it going because folks are trying to gauge that. And I always want to be upfront with people that it is politically hard but that it is going to take that year or two of trying it to be able to show the benefits.  When those other cities call you and talk about whether or not these Austin Police Department reforms are working and how they might do it what advice do you give them perhaps advice that you wish you had gotten?  One of the pieces of advice is to really think about the void that gets created right? And I have advised other cities to say make sure you have what you are putting in its place available as quickly as you can because here in Austin sometimes there has been that gap when we said we are going to pull back some on how many police we have but then we are going to bring these other programs to bear - some of those other programs to bear have sometimes taken a little too long. You know this gun violence intervention program we really need as we see increases in gun violence - you know we have not gotten that in place here in Austin yet. I wish we would gotten it in place several months ago. And so part of what I have advised is you know we need to make bold transformational change and that change is not just pulling something back but putting better things and new things in its place and to have those things as ready as you can have them. And that is just a lesson we have learned.   Thanks again to Austin City Council member Greg Casar. So the city of Austin has cut more than 100 million from its police budget. But these cuts - some of them are not really cuts in the purest sense. Like those 911 services and the forensic lab the council member just talked about - they were just moved somewhere else in the city's org chart.  And according to the police chief it is functioning exactly as it was before same amount of money. It is just now there is like a new boss' boss' boss.  Is it the same staff?  Same staff.  Just a new boss boss.  Just a new boss boss.  That is Audrey McGlinchy. She reports on city hall at NPR member station KUT in Austin. And she has a slightly different view of how police funding has changed in that city.   So what is the actual real cut maybe if you had to guesstimate?  Yeah. I would say we cut 20 million and reallocate - and spent it on other things non-police things.  And so how does 20 million factor as a percentage of like the overall police budget?  So the police budget recently was getting up to a little over 400 million a year so it is about 5.  OK 5. So if the headline is then Austin defunded the police by 5 that is a whole different story huh?  Yeah yeah. And that is what our headline said. And it was interesting 'ecause I - there were different headlines even locally. And I think it was really tricky for people to understand what was happening...  Yeah.  ...Because I think you really have to put these numbers into context to really get what is going on. So yeah. So 5 is what they cut and spent on other things on non-police things.  Yeah. So then I am wondering if anybody is actually satisfied - like really satisfied with these reforms and this defunding on either side of the issue. 'ecause it feels like if you tell the activist only 5 was cut they are like that is not enough. And if you tell the other side that 5 was cut they would say how dare you?  Yup.  Is anyone really happy with this?  Not that I have talked to and maybe that is a failure of my reporting . But...  No no. No no. Tell me more.  Yeah. So I think you are right in that folks - you know we have various organizations here that fight for racial justice who have been asking for cuts like this for years. And a lot of those folks - you know some of them said OK this is a great first step. Great. Awesome. Next year let us cut more. A lot of folks said this is nowhere near what we wanted to see. This is not what we were asking for. We were asking for way much more than this cut from the police department. And then we had folks on the other side who - and this you know is the police union the governor of Texas folks here in Austin as well - who really felt like this was not only I think an insult to folks who work as police officers but also folks were really concerned about what this would mean for public safety what kind of effect this would have. You know OK if I call 911 is someone going to show up you know within a certain period of time? Honestly I have not really talked to anyone who felt - feels like you know the 20 million was like the right spot to hit like that was kind of the number that they wanted to see. Yeah it is really interesting. So...  Yeah.  ...Folks on both sides were not happy with this move.  Yeah yeah. What from what you can see has been the most difficult part of these reforms for the city so far?  I think misinformation. Absolute...  Really?  Yeah. I think...  OK. Explain.  Well just at its core I think understanding how much was actually cut and what that means. You know the day - I believe it was that evening after the council took this vote on the budget that the mayor was on Facebook Live basically saying wait hold up hold up we did not cut 150 million.   No function was ended. No function was reduced. The City Council voted to not take a penny away from any of these functions.  But then we have Governor Greg Abbott the governor of Texas has really talked about how Austin will become a crime-ridden city how this will have a huge effect on public safety.   If we have lawlessness in our cities caused by local decision-making policies that reduce law enforcement officers it is going to cause chaos...  It is important to note that Austin is one of the safer large cities in Texas. And sort of with the governor's backing there are a couple bills right now up in the state Legislature which basically they are looking at a couple bills that would punish any cities in Texas that cut police funding. And so for example there is one bill that would not allow a city to collect any new property tax revenue if they cut police funding. Yeah.  Wow.  I think what has frustrated local politicians who - you know the council who voted for this unanimously is that they feel like what their intention was has been misrepresented and the potential effects of their choices have been misrepresented. And now Austin may - and any other city in Texas may not be able to make a decision like this again if one of these bills passes.  Yeah. Yeah. Last question for you - what should the big takeaway about policing and reform and defunding from Austin be for everybody else?  Well here's a question I had. So I...  OK.  After - a couple months after this vote was taken there was a lot of misinformation out there about the effects of cutting money for police on crime statistics. And so I interviewed a bunch of you know criminal justice experts professors people who really look at these kinds of statistics. And there is really no provable relationship between the amount of money we spend on policing and crime statistics. But it was interesting in looking at those numbers I was really struck by how quickly the police budget here in Austin and I believe you know across - you can see this in other cities as well - how quickly it rose. So here in Austin at least over the span of a decade our police budget almost doubled which is wild. I do not think you will find that for any other city department. And it was interesting...  Yeah yeah.  It was interesting to note that in the middle of a public health crisis in the middle of a pandemic because there had been a long conversation about weight our budget for public health has not grown like that. And maybe we should be asking why. And so I think that is been the big takeaway I think for city leaders - yeah - is what are our priorities? And frankly when we put money behind something we are saying it is a priority so...  Exactly yeah.  Yeah. Do we want to change that?  Money means things.  It means...  That is it. That is the takeaway. Money matters.  Yeah. Yeah yeah. Whether you want it to or not it really does .  Thanks again to Audrey McGlinchy. She reports on city hall at NPR member station KUT in Austin. Coming up I chat with comedian Michelle Buteau. We talk about the show she hosts on Netflix The Circle. You may have heard of it. Also we discuss traveling with small twins and playing more than just the sassy best friend.   How are you today?  I am good. You know...  So when I began my chat with my next guest...  Good. How are you?  ...I was feeling a little bit jet-lagged from a work event traveling and packing and going through airports. It is a lot more exhausting than I remembered. And my guest - she agreed.  Now I understand people that never leave the house and why it takes them so long to  leave.  . That is comedian Michelle Buteau.  And now it is like - and plus like leaving with kids 'ecause I flew to England in October to film The Circle and I brought my twins with me. And I was like how the  do I - sorry. How do I...  No say it. It is fine .  How the  do I pack up twins and go to another country?  Put the twins in the suitcase Michelle. They will be quiet.  Look this is not United Air. You know what I mean?  .   Besides being a parent to twins Michelle also hosts the Netflix reality competition show The Circle the pandemic hit that just wrapped up its second season.   Welcome to The Circle the real-life game that asks how far would you go to be popular on social media if there were 100000 at stake?  Also Michelle had a recent comedy special called Buteaupia.   I realized way too late in life that I am an achievable Beyonce for government workers.   You might also recognize Michelle as Ali Wong's best friend in the movie Always Be My Maybe.    Pregnant as hell. And I am so mad at Kate Middleton. I was driving to work this morning thinking about her taking those pictures on the hospital steps like - what? - three hours after she had a baby. And she had that royal diaper on. You know she had that diaper on.   I do not want you to talk about that stuff in front of the customers.   OK. Cool cool cool.  Going to talk about Michelle's career and what she is working on and how she fits into Hollywood. But before we get there I had to go back and get a few other things off my chest about traveling. Parents of small children this one goes out to you. Yes. Also they should just give all the first-class seats to parents with small kids. Let you all have that section. Let it be loud and like a day care up there. Give you all the free wine. I will happily sit in the back 'ecause I know that you all are going through it.  Oh my God. You are an angel and I have been touched because that is...  .  If you would have told me that five years ago I would be like no. They should not have had kids. But you know what? I am with you. I stand. I sit. I kneel. I downward dog.  Yes. Yes. And it is like I just had this realization a few years ago. It was like anyone who chooses to parent a child they are literally guaranteeing the survival of our species so we should be extra nice to them. They are like the reason we get to keep having humans.  Oh my goodness. I mean what in the Hallmark are you serving?  .  What in the Christmas Lifetime movie - we have turned it over to Hulu - are you giving me? This is so sweet.  You caught me on a good day. You caught me on a good day.  I am telling you I need to talk to you jet-lagged more often because you are - I am ready to put a 5 bill in the basket. Where is the tambourine? This is nice. We are going to church.  Wow. Wow. Let me send you my Cash App. My goodness.  .  Anyway we are here to talk about a show that you have already mentioned The Circle. Now first before I have you describe what the show is to our listeners I want to say you mentioned that you traveled to London with your twins to film The Circle.  Yeah.  And one of the things that gave me the most pause about Season 1 which I enjoyed so much - you all shot it in London but all the b-roll looked like Chicago.  You know what? OK. So so many things about this statement. First of all I said England. I as not say London. What I love is that...  Oh sorry. Sorry. OK.  No no no. I am going to tell you though because when you think of England you should think of London.  That is all I think of. Yeah.  That is all anyone thinks of and they are right.  .  We  - no shade to Manchester United big up. But we shot in Manchester which is - you know I cannot even say London-like . It is its own thing. But you know it is a smaller town. And yeah this is the thing about the production company and their creative mind. This is already a very popular show in the U.K. and they are very smart because they are just showing you very happy basic Americana real estate.  Yeah yeah.  So you do not ever know where we are. You just know that you know you are hanging out with Americans.  I literally was like oh they shot The Circle in Chicago. So cool. Where was Season 2 shot?   I know. It is movie magic.  So Season 2 - are you all in London for that one too? Or not London - Lord God - Manchester .  See? I know. I know. Trust me. Trust me. Yes we are. And yeah we flew to Manchester safely. It was wild 'ecause there was no vaccine to be had back then so we were just wearing our plus-size hazmat suits and getting tested regularly and like a straight-up quarantine...  Wow.  ...Like a vintage quarantine at this point where...  Kicking it old-school - two weeks in the hotel room.  Yes. Yes honey. We had food delivered to our door. It felt like I was Tom Hanks in Cast Away but I was gaining weight. I was like OK. OK.  So for folks listening who have not watched The Circle yet how would you describe this show to them?  Oh my goodness. If I describe this show they are not going to watch it. It is like you have to watch it.  Oh .  So The Circle is an amazing reality competition show where people are quarantined in these apartments in a building and they are vying for 100000. And in order to win they have to become the most popular in the ratings. And they can either play themselves or catfish.   But they cannot see or hear each other. The only way they get to know each other is through a voice-activated platform called The Circle. And all those things sound crazy I know. But if you watch the show you will understand. And another very important thing is people go in with strategy right? They have this game plan. But much like life you could have a plan but look once you out there you never know.  Listen. Who knows what is going to happen? Exactly.  Exactly. Yes.  Exactly. I wonder - OK what kind of character would you be on The Circle? Would you be you? Would you take on a different persona? Would you be strategic? Would you keep it real? I wonder.  You know what? I am a basic bitch to be honest.  .  Like I have spent so much time trying to figure out how to communicate effectively so I would have no choice but to be me. And like look I feel like I am polarizing as . I am like cilantro. Like either you love it or you taste soap.  .  So I would either win the whole damn thing or I would be like the first one blocked. I would have to pack my knives and go.  I love it.  Who would you be? What would you do?  You know this is what I wonder. I try to think of like what type of person in the culture is universally revered loved and respected. Grandmothers. Could I pretend to be like a nice granny...  Ooh.  ...Who is just fun and wants to be hip with the kids? I feel like that kind of contestant has to win a show like The Circle right?  I feel like you are giving me Dionne Warwick vibes right now on Twitter.  Right.  How could we not?  Right? Because we all love Dionne Warwick. I am saying grandmas on the internet - a beautiful thing all the time. That would be how I present myself on a show like The Circle.  Ooh. Somebody got a comedy producing job at The Circle.  Let me in you all. I am ready for that Netflix money. Come on.  .  You know you do not just do The Circle on Netflix. I have seen you in a few Netflix movies. You have got your Netflix comedy special that came out I believe last year. You are Miss Netflix. I see you a lot and I love it. And you actually told my friend and colleague Lulu Garcia-Navarro that you did not really see a place for yourself in comedy before streaming platforms. What do you mean by that?  I mean you know I was auditioning a lot. And people loved me but I was always the sidekick or the friend or like the friend you like take to lunch the next day and tell them about your sexcapade  the day before. And with streaming - not just Netflix but Hulu Amazon Prime BET - honey you have a license to do something a bit more body positive sex positive conscious. And you know it is not as cookie-cutter and so I feel like I definitely felt more worthy and in my own skin by booking these jobs where I can be topless and do something else besides...  Yeah.  ...You know he said what girl like at a brunch.   So that was life-changing for me.  Yeah. You know hearing you talk about that sometimes trope of like the sassy sidekick is there a place in time in which you say never doing that again? Or is it still like a part of your repertoire perhaps?  I do not know. I say never say never because you know I am not that absolute. I am not Chrissy Teigen. I am not going to be like I quit Twitter and then come back...   And then she came back.  ...Like twice. You know what I mean? I am not going to be like Elton John and be like I am retiring but here's this tour.  .  Yeah. I am not like that. I am more like the Whoopi Goldberg Joan Rivers type of bitch where I am just like slow steady wins the race. And so I am here forever and all of time. You know I am the Puerto Rican Betty White. I want to be in adult diapers on SNL being shuffled around the set being like I still got jokes .   Coming up Michelle Buteau and I play my favorite game Who Said That.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. And I am joined this week by a guest whose work I really enjoy who you have seen all over the place. Tell folks who you are.  Oh my goodness. Ow is Michelle Buteau. How you all doing? Hope you are watching The Circle. If you are not watching The Circle I hope you are reading my book or at least listening to the audio book Survival Of The Thickest Plus-Sized Essays In A Small Minded World. And look if you are a woke white person and you want to talk to your Black friends about the Black content that you just saw go on over to BET - that is right - and just sign up for a little 9.99 and support some Black creators and watch First Wives Club Season 1 because Season 2 is coming out soonzies . And you can watch all the reruns of Martin. And who do not love some Tyler Perry? I can go on and on and on but I will not.  This is good.  .  This is good. I like that elevator pitch for Michelle. All right it is time for a game. This game is called Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  It is really simple. I share three quotes from the week of news and you got to tell me either who said it or what kind of story we are talking about.  OK.  I will give you a bunch of hints. Just yell out the answer when you have it. And because it is just you playing this week no matter what you are going to win.  Woo.  Here we go. First quote.  OK.  Wow. Just so detailed - you have got the rounds of my breasts. Who said that?  Angela from 90 Day Fiance.    I wish. I wish.  .  This is a daytime TV star who just had her wax figure revealed at Madame Tussauds this week.  Oh Miss Wendy Williams how you doing?   Yes yes. Miss Wendy Williams daytime talk show gossip queen - she met her own wax figure on her show this Monday. And according to a representative on the show it is taken over 20 artists over 800 hours. And the wax figure traveled over 3000 miles across the Atlantic on a cargo ship. And when Wendy Williams saw her wax figure she said wow. Just so detailed - you have got the rounds of my breasts.  Oh my goodness.  We stan. We stan.  Oh my goodness. This is the reason why Cyndi Lauper wrote that song I Drove All Night. That is amazing. Can you imagine the rounds? The rounds of Wendy's breasts employed people for hours upon end.   She just gives and gives and gives.  In this economy?  .  Honey what cannot she do now?  Right?  What cannot she do?  You got that point. Here is the next quote. For this quote you are going to fill in the blank.  Oh.  Here's the quote.  OK.  We continue to believe that the blank is committed to meaningful reform. However change of this magnitude takes time and work and we feel strongly that the blank needs time to do it right. This is some scuttlebutt about an award show that is maybe going away.  Oh my goodness. I really wanted to say the patriarchy but it is the Golden Globes.   And I am just like is not that the same? What is the difference?   Same diff - yes yes yes. So that statement was issued by NBC this week. And the blank is the Hollywood Foreign Press Association or the HFPA. That...  Yes. Yes.  That is the group that puts on the Golden Globe Awards. And the HFPA has been in trouble lately because apparently they do not have any Black members. And there is been a lot of reporting around institutional and structural problems - basically the idea that the HFPA and the Golden Globes are kind of pay for play and the studios and networks that spend the most to wine and dine these foreign press members see their movies and their shows win. I think it was most glaring this past cycle when the HFPA gave zero nominations to Michaela Coel's I May Destroy You and gave two nominations to one of the worst-reviewed shows ever Emily In Paris.  Oh my God. You know what? I just need to do a child's pose and a downward dog for that one. I mean yeah the work will not stop in my lifetime.  Yeah.  It is like so many steps. It is recognizing that it is there and it is real and it is not just your PTSD or your insecurity or just like why not me? It is the step of convincing other people that is real. That  exhausting. And then it is like what are we going to do about it? Like everyone needs their Brad Pitt in 12 Years A Slave an ally and - you know to be like help me get - you are in. Help me get in and figure out how to do it.  Yes. Exactly exactly. So on top of NBC saying they are not going to air the Golden Globes next year other big players like Netflix Amazon and Warner Media have all agreed to cut ties with the HFPA. And this one just made me giggle. Tom Cruise...  I know .  ...Sent back his three Golden Globes in protest .  Which is like this richest thing...  That'ill fix them Tom .  I know. It is like the richest thing to do. You know what I mean? It is just like ugh. It is like the king giving away one of his islands. And it is just like...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...Thank you so much. That is so nice.  I am like now...  But like look.  Yeah. Yeah.  Tom...  He is doing something.  Tom is Tom. But you know he adopted all of them kids and one of those kids is half Black so you know he at least knows about texture.  He gets it. Yes.  So that is nice. Hey Connor. Cannot wait to see you DJ in Australia one day.   I am like now imagining Tom Cruise juggling his three Golden Globes while jumping on Oprah's couch. That is my mental image right now.  I mean that is a lot going on. Definitely do not have spicy food tonight. You know what I mean? You are going to have dreams.   Yeah yeah. Last quote - this is a good one and I cannot wait to hear you talk about it. Who is this quote about? It is natural between them and the chemistry is unreal. They picked up where they last left off and are enjoying each other's company right now.   Hey.  You know. You know.  Look - what? Are we talking about Benjamin Franklin?   Benjamin Button.   Ben Harper.   Ben Stiller.  .   Who is it? Who is the Ben?  Who is the Ben?  You know...  You know who it is. Tell our folks who it is.  Yes honey. It is the infamous...  Yes.  ...Couple Bennifer.   How do you feel? I - it has rocked my world Michelle in ways that I did not expect.  .  This news that Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck are back together has taken Sam Sanders back to like 2003.  Yeah.  I felt the same feelings that I felt 17 years ago about these people who do not matter in my daily life. Explain this to me. Why do we care so much?  Oh lord. You know I think No. 1 nostalgia really.  Yeah.  I think too because they are so wildly and weirdly beloved...  Yeah.  ...And have really just made their own path in such different ways that you are just like...  And they are beloved in different ways.  Yes.  Like we love J.Lo because she is this queen who rules the world and we kind of - in this way that we feel sorry and yet love Ben Affleck 'ecause he is like the saddest divorced dad.  Yes. And also a part of our childhood - you know what I mean? He is just like the white boy that - we are all friends with a dude like Ben Affleck.   Yeah yeah.  You know the white boy that is tall that can reach the stuff off the shelf and pay for a round.  And - well and it is like I got to like tip my hat to Ben Affleck's old-school swag. Apparently he got back into J.Lo's good graces by sending her emails - like old-school emails. He did not hop in the DMs. He did not text.  Oh like...  He sent emails.  ...Yeah Big and Carrie at the end of...  Yes.  ...The first movie.  Yes.  Yeah.  He is old-school. They were seen together in Montana where they vacationed just the two of them for about a week. Whatever Ben Affleck is putting down J.Lo's picking it up. And I will say I bless that union. J.Lo and Ben giving good nostalgic vibes. Also Ben Affleck at some point release the emails. We want to know what you did to get J.Lo back 'ecause that might be some skills that I can apply to my personal life OK Ben? Share the emails.  Look look look.  On that note Michelle congratulations. You won the game.  Oh come on.  Of course.  Thank you.  It was such a joy to talk to you. I enjoy seeing you on all the streaming platforms. Michelle come back and we will do it again soon.  I cannot wait.   Thanks again to comedian Michelle Buteau. You can catch The Circle and her comedy special Buteaupia on Netflix.  Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.  Hey Sam. This is Kyra  from New Orleans. And the best thing that happened to me this week is that I graduated from med school and I am officially Dr. Kelly .  Hi Sam. The best part of my week was watching my 17-year-old daughter get her black belt in taekwondo.   I am so proud of her and I could not be more happy.  Hey Sam. This is Ambika Acharya . And the best part of my week was getting to eat an eight-course meal of dishes inspired by Sohla El-Waylly that my roommate and friend Sharon  prepared for my birthday. Sharon you are the best.  My best thing this week was the look on my parents' face when my brothers and I managed to surprise them for their 50th wedding anniversary. We have not all been together in the same place in about three years so being able to walk into the house was spectacular.  Hey Sam. My name is Hannah  and the best part of my week was passing my driving knowledge exam. I do not turn 16 for another few months but I am jus