 Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today on the show - Jordan Klepper. He is the host of Comedy Central's The Opposition. You may know Klepper as a former correspondent for The Daily Show With Jon Stewart. Jordan left The Daily Show to start The Opposition last year. On that show he plays this conspiracy-theory-minded character. The character was initially made in the spirit of Alex Jones and Infowars always railing against these unseen powers and cultural forces that he thinks are ruining America. Here's a clip.    I do not need to tell you this but the most persecuted group in America is...  .   Exactly unanimous - men. We men have never been more under attack than we are right now because we used to not be under attack at all. But suddenly frothing feminists are forcing men to make the same amount of money as women and demanding men stop shouting compliments at them on the street. Where am I supposed to shout in a library? That is illegal. Equality is just a dirty word for making me less special and that - that I will fight.   That was Jordan Klepper in character on The Opposition. Fun fact - last year before The Opposition launched I talked to Jordan for an early beta version of this podcast. You may have heard it IN NPR One. And at that time Jordan had just put out THIS special kind of spoofy documentary he had done for Comedy Central at the time. It was called Jordan Klepper Solves Guns. So it was very cool to get back together with him and talk about how the first year of his show is going so far the advice he is gotten from Jon Stewart and his successor Trevor Noah and also to hear a bit more about how Jordan grew up in Kalamazoo Mich. All right here's me with Jordan Klepper in our Culver City studios.   So the last time we talked you were getting ready to launch your show.  Yes.  It has been launchethed .  Consider it out into the world.  On a scale of one to - oh my God why did I do this? - how are things going?  I am going to put it at a level of dear Lord I did this.  OK.  Whoa which is...  In a good way.  In a good way - but also a decent amount of dear God why did I do this? That is - I understand that scale.  Yeah.  I think not until you are in the mix do you fully get how chaotic and wild it is to helm a show day in and day out for a daily type show. So I think like it is a total blast but it sucks up every part of your life immediately.  Yeah.  And I had heard that a little bit beforehand. But it is funny. As I have gone back and like talked to Trevor about it I am like this - it is kind of crazy. He is like oh oh yeah oh yeah. Did not I let you know? I am like not really. Like we joked about like oh yeah this - it is...  Yeah.  It will destroy your life. That was said in jest but you are like oh I see how that could happen. Again I could not be more fortunate. It is also like the best thing. But it is a wild ride.  Yeah. What is been the most surprising part of all of the work for you? What is the one thing that you had no idea was going be part of this?  I think as far as the work goes it is wrapping your head around being the boss. Like I am - you know I have been writing comedy doing comedy pitching TV shows performing for 15 years. So that part takes some learning and we are getting better and better with that. But that part I felt like I had the skill sets for. The thing that I had not really done is been a boss and know how to run a - you know an office of 70 people.  That is a lot of people.  And so I think like it is an interesting thing because I am - the only people who I have seen do something like this are Trevor and Jon. And it is...  I love how first-name basis you are with these like titans of comedy.  Oh let me tell you - these titans of comedy. But it is a - it is - but quickly it is like oh how do you run a room? What do these meetings feel like? It is like I have a very small experience base to pull that from. And in reality there is not a gajillion  late night shows to pull those things from. But it is like - quickly it is like oh what kind of a boss am I going to be? How do I make this more efficient? Because if you can save 20 minutes in one meeting that gives you 20 extra minutes on a rewrite. It gives you the ability to get ahead for the next day. Like those seconds count. And so that is been the fun new part that I did not give much thought to beforehand.  Yeah. What kind of boss are you? Are you the like I-hear-you kind of boss? Are you the shut-up-when-I am-talking kind of boss? Are you the - like what is your boss aesthetic?  I think aesthetically I am improv teacher boss.  All right.  Because I was literally an improv teacher...  There is that.  ...For years. And so I think I am the kind of person who is like talk to me about what your idea is let us build off of this idea and grow. And that is for part of the day in the brainstorming part. Then it is the other kind of boss where you are like all right let us set some parameters let us make some decisions let us get a little bit tougher here and there. And so you know I am trying to get my mean boss face on.  You have got to do it. You do not seem mean.  I do not know if I am inherent - I think I am still kind of Midwestern nice. I mean trust me I can be a terrible person deep down but I am not going to let people see that and use it against me.  Yes exactly. Improv at your college Kalamazoo College - the theme song is  it is Friday night and it is time for the Monkapult show. Was that it?   See I do not remember a full-on theme song. I have heard - I mean I know you have some inside insight on Monkapult's song.  I do. So yes full disclosure listeners - my cubicle mate and colleague Melissa Kuypers went to college with Jordan and she gave me some intel on his improv group and taught me those two lines of the improv song.  It - the group was Monkapult. I do not remember a theme song.  No. I was like he is going to know.  Which I - Melissa I am sorry. There might have been one. I know before Monkapult shows I was very in my zone. I still treated it like an athlete which is kind of funny. I was like - I would stretch. I would jump. I would get super pumped.  Before the improv .  Before the improv show. I would always wear - I had a bunch of Wu-Tang shirts. I would always wear a Wu-Tang - my lucky Wu-Tang shirt. I would get all hyped. Like...  I bet you had the hottest girlfriend in college.  I was the coolest guy man.  .  Yeah and I am sure those shows were impeccable. Mostly just a bunch of 20-year-olds were treating this like a basketball game. But we are loud obnoxious like a crowd of 40 people but it was a good time.  I love it. What kind of improv guy were you? Because there is some folks who are like they want to just trip and they think that is funny or like everything is a sex joke or they want to fake cry. Like did you have a thing? What was your improv thing?   I mean I think to begin with you got your crutches. You know I was definitely - I probably was high-status  or something. And I was like I can make a living off this. I was not necessarily - I was big and lanky so I would be a physical comedian. I like me some John Cleese - so big weird entrance being a little bit of a .  OK.  But I also remember the improv cheat I would do is if you really committed to a dumb object in a room you could get - a college audience would love you. Like I remember being a tumbleweed in like a Western-inspired scene.  Did you roll around the floor?  Yeah. And people really - they were - it blew their mind.  How much of that improv and that experience are you like directly using in the show?  In a couple different ways. I would say what we have actually just started doing is we have improvised a couple acts on the show.  Really?  Yeah. We have done a couple Act 2s that are literally - the writers and staff create call-in questions. They do not tell me what they are. And I go out there and I just improvise in character and we build off of that. As a mindset as well like I will use improv as a way to brainstorm and build off of stuff. I have heard a lot of people from the improv community people I have worked with in the past which is a great way to build quickly - and then you flip off the improv brain. You become more of a stand-up brain where like you are into editing. Improv's great for brainstorms. Stand-up's great for editing. You need both in a day like this. So beginning of the day - give me that brainstorm improv mind. End of the day - let us think like a stand-up and let us cut this thing down and get it precise.  Yeah. Did you do stand-up?  I did a little bit - I - kind of post facto. I was an improv guy and sketch guy. And then when I got Daily Show I started doing some stand-up on the road. I got opportunities that way which was great. Those are...  You paused before you said great.  I mean I think like you grow up - like you pick your team and my team was improv. And there is the stand-up crews and you are like - you are one or the other.  Yeah.  And you judge the other one. I judged it for years. And then I finally did it. It is great. It is nerve-wracking. It is a totally different skill set. I am so inspired by the people who are legitimately great at it. And it is good for your mind. It really is a way that like you have to boil down the funny. It plays different than when an audience knows that you are improvising off of stuff. So like I love it but I am a newbie at it.  Give me the elevator pitch for your show at its start and the elevator pitch for your show right now because I feel like some things may have changed no?  I think there is an evolution. I think like the elevator pitch to begin with was you know we are anti-mainstream anti-establishment anti-reality living in the world of the fringe - the Infowars the Breitbart.  And like your character was kind of based on Alex Jones of Infowars.  Yeah. I think that was at least partially. We were taking the POV of Alex Jones and that conspiratorial paranoid voice of the fringe and that was sort of our genesis. Then I think you kind of fast-forward to now and there is still a good amount of that DNA in our show. But what has changed is Steve Bannon is no longer a part of the White House staff. Like Sean Hannity has moved even farther right and is talking to Donald Trump on a day-to-day basis. And I think the point of view still is this anti-mainstream anti-elite but I think we are starting to draw more from honestly Fox and the way that they have gotten to the fringe faster than we thought they would.  But they still have mainstream numbers. Like the ratings are insane. They are...  But that is the big joke of it all. Like they see themselves as anti-mainstream but they are biggest kid on the block in the same way that Donald Trump sees himself as an outsider from inside the White House.  It seems like that could be hard to mock some days because it is a really interesting psychology that you are describing right now.  Yeah. I think like what we try to do and have fun with is - it can be difficult but it is also - it is a blast because it is chaotic. It is paranoid. It is creating fires where there are no fires. It is wars where there are no wars. And so for us it is all about like let us look at those tactics - using distraction creating a new enemies list creating false flags. Like those are going to be our comedic tools so let us blow those things out so people can kind of see the inner workings of the chaos that we are living day to day.  Yeah. Well and also besides the politics and the psychology of the White House or of Fox News it seems as if we have been in two or three years where the news cycles are just insane and sometimes it feels like the jokes just write themselves. I was coming out here today and I saw this headline on Twitter literally that said quote A Sinkhole On The North Lawn Of The White House Appears To Be Growing.  .  That is a real headline.  There is a mole in the White House. No literally there is a mole.  Yeah.  It is an issue. It is a ground...  Yeah.  ...Control issue.  Like it just seems as if like the last two or three years have been totally whack-a-mole.  It really - well I think - and now we sort of look through it through this lens of this is a comedy andor tragedy - or what is the difference?  Yeah. Yeah.  And so you do see these things right now. It is like well I might legitimately fear more for the end of the world than I did a year and a half ago.  Yeah.  And so I see a sinkhole in the front lawn and...  Yeah.  It seems like doomsday is coming.  Do you feel - are there equal parts of an urge to cover the White House's stuff and just like the wacky state-of-the-world stuff? Do you try to do both evenly? Like what is your breakdown? Because it is not just Trump.  No and we try to get away from him wherever we can.  Yeah.  And I think that is where we let our - what we are satirizing be somewhat of our guide. We check in Infowars. We check out Hannity Laura Ingraham Judge Jeanine. Like those are - that is what we are pulling from. And so a lot...  I love Judge Jeanine.  Oh Judge Jeanine is so fun.  She is good.  She is good TV. She is all energy.  Yeah.  She is a punch to the face...  .  ...Every time you tune in. So we got - and I think like - and our audience I do not think knows a lot of those characters in the deep Fox file that are literally Trump's go-tos. He loves Judge Jeanine. She is the one who actually gets to sit down and interview him. So we go to like what they are obsessing about. But we also know like we are in tandem with The Daily Show. So if The Daily Show is covering a bunch of that stuff we are looking for other stories that we can shine a light on and also other stories that our show can put through the machine that is our show which like I am a character I get to get weirder more emotional. Like Hannity I get to make a mountain out of a molehill. And so sometimes the fun thing our show can do - it is like everybody's freaking out finding conspiracy in the large thing today so let us find a really small story and let us bring that tactic to the small story. And we are showing not telling it.  Yeah.  And that is the fun part.  Yeah. What was your favorite recent small story that you did?  What was a small story I did? We do a segment on our show called I Do not Recognize My Country Anymore which is like just from the point of view of this character anything good that happens - what many people might call progress our character sees as the country falling away.  OK.  And so there was a little bit of uproar over cheerleaders who complained about not getting on the cheerleading squad. So a high school I believe in New Jersey had everybody be a cheerleader.  You cannot do that.  I mean this is - and this is where it is like I get the frustration here. He is like OK when you are that inclusive and everybody's included...  Who will be popular then? .  No exact - there is a pecking order here.  There is.  ...For God's sakes.  .  So my character definitely saw this as you know if you do not have jocks and nerds and those kinds of lines drawn then what kind of America is this?   All right quick break here. When we come back we will talk about how Jordan grew up in Kalamazoo Mich. and how that affects his work. All right BRB.   Were you - I am guessing you were not a cheerleader in high school.  I was not a cheerleader in high school.  What were you in high school?  I was a mock trial witness. I was a tennis player. I was a little bit of a - I was a math and science nerd.  OK.  I was a Wu-Tang Clan fan.  .  I - those - that was mostly what I - I was a Jim Carrey diehard aficionado.  What is your favorite Jim Carrey movie?  Dumb And Dumber.  OK.  Yeah Dumb And Dumber still holds up still makes me laugh so hard.  I love The Truman Show.  Truman Show is great. I mean I think like you have your multiple generations...  Yes.  ...Of Jim Carrey.  Yes.  Truman Show is unimpeachable.  Yeah.  But Dumb And Dumber man I saw that thing when it came out like five times in the theater and it still makes me laugh so hard.  That is the funny one.  That was like a sweet spot for me in comedy.  Yeah.  Until I like died inside and I found nothing funny like that was what I...   That was - yeah.  But there was like life. And you know I already loved him because he could talk out of his butt which I thought was a...  .  ...Really unique thing for Ace Ventura. And then he evolved to Dumb And Dumber...  Yeah.  ...Which is just a beautiful film.  Yeah. So liking Jim Carrey as a youth being a math and science nerd - mock trial - what has been the biggest influence on you and this show? I am - maybe mock trial. I do not know.  I do not know. Like if - drawing the line from me in high school like it is all kind of in there. But I also think like - I think I am a pretty different person than I was in - you know in high school. I think I was very curious and I enjoyed comedy. I found improv soon thereafter in college and I never really thought of that as a profession. I just thought it was something that I really enjoyed. And I think like that sort of opened up - I would say theater opened up for me in college as like - as an academic pursuit. So it was not just like this is a fun thing. It very much was. But like it was really an interesting way to view the world to be curious - acting teachers who were encouraging me to discover to - what are your emotions? What are your feelings? You can have two different sets of ideas. They can live in harmony at one point. Like I started doing improv. And when you are creating things out of nothing if you are an idiot that shows. And so immediately it made me want to know more about politics want to know more about history because that would be a part of the things that I am quite - that I am improvising that I am commenting on. And so like it was kind of an awakening in the sense of like I should be smarter and more curious. Up until age 20 I was just trying to go through all the hoops to be a successful adult. And at some point they are like oh no there is things you can be curious about that will make you a better person.  Yeah. Do you think a lot about Kalamazoo and Michigan when you are making this show? Like how much of home is in this?  Home is in a little bit of everything I do.  Yeah. Yeah.  I am not satirizing home by any means but I do think it is easy to get caught up in like a coastal POV. Like the gun special was something that I really wanted to focus on.  It was not coastal.  There was a little more Midwestern values there. But if there is anything nice about the character that you see that is probably Kalamazoo shining through.  OK. What were your parents about? What were they like?  Parents are the kindest...  I say were as if they are - sorry.  They are...  Are.  They are.  OK.  They are still with us. And they are - they are incredible. They are so kind and thoughtful and smart. I think I grew up a very lucky lucky guy. My dad is a salesman. He is a brick salesman in the Midwest.  Whoa.  My mom - yeah.  That is awesome.  That is awesome. So...  That is the job that is existing still.  It is - and it is tough. Like people are - brick is an expensive way to build and it is the kind of thing that as a salesman going around people are looking for the cheapest answer to things. And when the economy hits Michigan and people are not building houses again that affects people like my dad and my family.  That seems like a hard job.  It is a super hard job. Like my dad's in the car a lot. He is driving around.  So he is still doing it.  He is still doing it. And he is the kind of guy who is - he is great at his job because he knows how to talk to people. And the industry of sitting down talking to somebody building a relationship building trust - like in selling brick he goes to distributors and he has people he is worked with for 10 15 years and they have trust and they have that relationship.  Yeah.  But I know that is something that is becoming harder and harder to do. As times change the Internet replaces face-to-face interactions and that is something my dad's always kind of battling with.  Yeah.  But he is salt of the earth and like does not complain about it works really hard supports his family. My mom is wonderful. She is held a bunch of different jobs. She works for the Kalamazoo Public Schools right now. And she is so smart and so funny. I think I get my - I get my sense of humor from my mom who is curious and so funny and is a talker talks a mile a minute. But I think I get my attitude from my dad who is got like a great dash of sass...  OK.  ...And then snark.  I love it.  But what they both gave me growing up which was huge - like my parents and my grandparents just support through and through. They were at every single improv show I ever did.  Well 'ecause I mean so much of the usual storyline for people in comedy is like my life sucks let us make it funny.  Yeah.  Your life did not suck.  My life did not suck. I do not want to pretend that it did. I mean you know I have had ups and downs. I think everybody pulls from those things that they are - that frustrate them and they have had to battle against. But I think also the ability to perform comedy and - you know for me came from a loving environment that allowed me to stay curious.  Yeah. So your parents are awesome.  My parents are awesome.  From what I hear you...  I wish there was a more dramatic story.  No no.  But it is like...  This is good.  They are great.  They are great.  They...  Yeah.  You should...  Yeah.  You should meet Mark and Betse.  Yeah.  They are the best.   Your wife is awesome too. She works in the same field as you.  She does. My wife is the best as well. I have surrounded myself with the best people. This is the secret. If you surround yourself with the best people you are going to look pretty good.  There you go.  She is great. I - we did comedy together in Chicago. We toured. We have worked together for years and now she is assistant journalist on The Opposition with me. So we...  How does that work out?  It is mostly a blast.  Mostly. What is the not-mostly part?  I mean the only thing is like it is - we are super focused on the show which is like it becomes your life.  Yeah.  You spend all hours of the day. You come home you still talk about that. Like we are probably - sucks is when we are at home and we are still talking about Sean Hannity. And sometimes we will be like did you have any other experiences that we could talk about? She is like no I was at work all day. You are like...  Do you guys go to work together?  No I usually go in a little bit earlier...  OK.  ...Because I work harder than she does. Take that.   But no. But it is true. You know I am just a much harder worker. What are you going to do?  Wow.   So I go in a little bit earlier. What is kind of - the setup is - the citizen journalists - you kind of - we kind of all meet in the beginning of the day. And if Laura's not on the show that day - like a citizen journalist goes and works on field pieces works in the edit bay or what have you. So we do not see each other a ton throughout the day because you kind of can work - like the show is set up where if you are not on the show right now and working on the show today go off and try to make something that we can put on the show tomorrow.  Is it ever weird? I mean like are the folks ever like well of course your wife had that spot on the show tonight of course.  I would like to think - I feel like the staff is pretty great with us working there. Laura is unimpeachably talented and has honestly worked with me for 12 years now.  Well 'ecause you guys are doing videos a lot before.  We were doing videos together. We toured together. She was my head writer on the gun special. And I think that is the fun part about the show. My old writing partner from Chicago is a writer on the show. My newer writing partner who I worked with on reality TV and stuff here is a senior writer on the show a guy back in Chicago who pitched me to host a live show 15 years ago that he was producing. Work - I am surrounded by talented people that I have got to collect and work with for 15 years.  Yeah.  So it is sort of like the story of getting to do comedy - is in like this office space that I get to work in.  So then if you work with your wife and you are thinking about work all the time how do you get away from it? Like what is a vacation like for you guys? What do you do to actually detox?  Yeah I come out to LA. We chat on...  That is right.  We do some NPR chat.  About your show .  About the show - oh shoot this is - I am supposed to be detoxing right now.  Uh-huh.  On the smallest level I walk New York the greatest city on earth and I go to an art museum and I try to not think about Donald Trump for an hour and a half.  OK.  I go to music festivals to try to just have loud music playing.  You go to music - I cannot do festivals because I am tired of standing up so much.  Yeah.  I want to sit.  I mean sitting is nice.  Sitting is great.  But do not you like - I like getting pushed. That is what I...  No.  I realized this like five years ago. I was like I like going to concerts where I get pushed around. Like I like being just on the outskirts of a mosh pit.  No. See I am always like can I sit and have a bougie beer while I do this?  I like a good bougie beer.  I do not go to movie theaters unless they have a bar too.  .  I cannot do it anymore.  I like that experience.  Yeah.  But for music I am like - it is the closest thing to a sport I am going to get now in my older age.  .  So it is like put me in something where it feels sweaty it feels pushed it feels loud. I feel - you feel like you are part of a mass.  What do you listen to right now?  Right now what am I listening to? I am a big fan of Ty Segall a garage rock guy who is the best. I listen to Thee Oh Sees. I am going to a concert to listen to Atmosphere up in Minnesota.  Oh my goodness.  Yeah.  The rap the rap.  Yeah.  Yes. Oh my God.  You know Atmosphere.  I know Atmosphere.  Love Atmosphere. I got way into Minnesota rap like 10 15 years ago.  .  And what is so great is like Atmosphere the group - the rapper Slug from Atmosphere like raps predominately now about like being in his early 40s and like life in the Midwest in your 40s. And I love it.  I love that too.  And quite literally - the festival which I am so pumped about is coming up this weekend. And he is going to be - or Atmosphere the group is going to be on one stage and Migos is going to be on the other stage.  Stop.  And I know Migos is going to be great and I know all the kids are going to be at Migos.   And you are going to be like...  But there is going to be me and - like crying just hearing them talk about like what it is like to be 40 and feeling like fortunate in your life but still there is some pain. I am like oh that is what hip-hop has become to me.  Yes yes. Migos is interesting 'ecause it is like I like them 'ecause they are having fun but I do not know what the hell they are saying.   I think that - in a nutshell that is exactly it.  Yeah yeah. Taking one more quick break here. When we get back we are going to talk with Jordan about how he might mock liberals. BRB.   It is always hard to know who watches your stuff besides just like having the numbers. But in terms of your discussions on things like guns and gun safety do you think the content that you are making is reaching the people whose minds you might want to change?  I mean I would like everybody to tune in. And that is not because I want the world to be a better place. It is because I want a successful show and to be famous. So...   Same.  You know there you go. So whatever I can do to do that - sure if we change the world in a good way - yada yada yada good good good. But let us get eyeballs on screen.  Yeah.  I - you know I think there are people - and when I have gone out and talked to people who watch our shows you definitely have people who are progressive and on the left. I think what is interesting about a show like ours is because I am a character because I am not just mad because I am showing - I have had conservatives come up to me and - like I do not always agree with what you are saying but I can enjoy your show because I like an element of your character and you are able to attack some of these things through behavior and not through just anger which to me is a step. Like if you are able to see what I am doing through that then hopefully you are able to digest some of the things that we are talking about. And I hope through some of that and I also hope through some of a focus on these issues and not letting it pass that like if we can keep it a part of the conversation - like we are not out there really to change a ton of minds on guns. Like the story with guns is most of those minds are already changed. It is mostly spur people to action. Like most of America already agrees that like we should do more.  There is a checklist of like things that Americans agree on.  There is like 10 things when it comes to guns. And like eight of those things most Americans are like yeah let us...  Sure. Why not?  Yeah. Those people who should not have guns should not have guns. Great. What can we do? There is like weird holes in the system that allow bad people to get guns? Yeah. Let us block up those holes. Like most people agree on that. Those other two things we can debate. And we may never all agree on that. But those eight things we agree on like we just need people to take that and then put it into action.  You know in thinking about audience and what the show is about what would your show look like and feel like if it was a sendup of the extreme left?  We have talked a little bit about that. I think the extreme left - I mean it is funny when you go super extreme and conspiratorial we are in the same spot. You have got your anti-vaxxers feel pretty close to your birthers. And I think there was a raw water segment that we kind of went all in on.  Oh my God. Thank you for going in on that 'ecause no...  ...Water? Come on guys...  I do not understand .  I think it is good seeing that that you are like right all of these fringes we come from the same place. We are anti people telling us what to do. There is some gut feeling there. So I think wherever we can shine a light on the BS out the left we try to do that as well. I think there is fun to be had with if you were satirizing that it is satirizing the paranoia and the silos that they build their selves into. The faux elitism that also creates those silos I think that would be pretty fun too to play into. And it would basically be you would start on - and I think if I was to do that show I would start on an idea and basically talk for 22 minutes without ever getting to an ending.  Yeah.  That is the left right now.  That is the left. It is like where is the ending?  And another thing neoliberalism.  .  Yeah. Yeah.  That could be fun.  It could be fun. I think in terms of like I am obsessed with like trying to find some way to unpack the current language and orthodoxy of the left and there is a certain type of groupthink that does not just say we are the group. It says if you are this here's how you fit into the group. The gays think about this thing and they have these thoughts. The blacks think about that. The white guys better not talk about that.  .  You do not do - there is so much - there is a place setting to these tables it seems that is set by who you are. And I feel that more now than I did five years ago.  Yeah. You are saying that the identity politics is...  Yeah. And like...  ... Cutting up the left in a way that feels...  And I think that both sides do identity politics but the way that it manifests on the left is extremely academic and rigid.  Yes. It is the - what is it? I am butchering this phrase. The tyranny of small differences? The new Roseanne debate is a fascinating one. I will admit I have not seen the new Roseanne.  Here's my thing. It is like there is too much content.  Yeah.  Like unless I have to like - there is probably two shows I watch for fun and the rest of it is consuming stuff for work. 'ecause there is too much stuff.  There is so much stuff. And again I have not seen this new Roseanne. There is a show that leans conservative that conservatives like? Great. OK. Are we that upset about that? It feels like there is this land grab that I worry like progressives and people on the left it is like this is not your battle. Like ...  Well they also want the whole field.  Exactly. You have got a lot of the field.  One show that is