 Hey you all. This is Sam on the line with Sam's Aunt Betty. Hi Aunt Betty.  Hey Sam. How are you?  How are you?  I am really well. Thanks.  Well I want to talk to you today because we are doing a very special episode all about how coronavirus is changing the entertainment industry and Hollywood. And I said to myself all week putting this show together Betty loves movies.  Yes she does.   And I was thinking this past Christmas what I enjoyed perhaps the most that day - was it on Christmas Day exactly where you and I went to the theater to see Knives Out?  Yes it was. It was - I think it was before or after our Chinese thing and then we went to the movies. Yeah.  Yeah. Chinese buffet and a movie - it was a wonderful Christmas.  Does not get much better does it?  Yeah. You know one of the questions we are asking this episode is when will the current crop of TV shows and movies and content like dry up? I mean as someone who is at home like the rest of us do you worry about that day?  Never - it has not crossed my mind.   I think about it all the time.  I mean I am having a ball with stuff that was on when I was a child.  Like what?  Like Danny Thomas Show Make Room For Daddy. I love those old shows ALF. So - I mean I was an adult when ALF came out. But...  I had no idea you were an ALF fan.  I love ALF .  We are going to have to talk about that later.   Well I tell you what - I look forward to one day you and I going back to the movies again. We will find a dollar cinema that is still playing Black Panther and we will just go see it.   That is a date.  OK OK. All right.  All right. Cool.  Do the thing you do where you start the show.  All right. Let us start the show.  Wakanda forever.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. This episode we are going to talk about TV and movies and all the stuff we watch. And we are going to talk about how coronavirus is affecting all the people and businesses that make that stuff. If you are like me one of the constants since this pandemic started has been sitting down on my couch in front of my TV. I can still watch just about everything I want anytime even if I cannot go to a bar or a concert or see family and friends. Most of the stuff we watch right now it still seems steady and reliable. But coronavirus could change that. All those shows we are binging to pass the time all those movies - they do not just appear magically in our Netflix queues. Someone's got to make them. So throughout this episode we will hear about what is changed for the people and businesses that make the things that we watch. A camera operator in Atlanta tells us whether you can ever make a movie or TV set safely socially distanced. TV reporter Meredith Blake tells us how Netflix - right now at least - is one of the biggest winners in this whole mess. And author Shea Serrano talks about what we lose when we cannot go to movie theaters even if we can still watch new movies at home. But to start let us hear from Jenny Yang. She is a TV writer and comedian based in Los Angeles and she can recall exactly when coronavirus kind of put her life in the entertainment industry on hold.  Listen - you know I think when you are in entertainment or in a creative profession you kind of accept a certain level of like chaos . But I mean this is like next-level chaos. It is like game-changing chaos you know? And so I think for me...  Jenny just finished her second year writing for a sitcom which is a big deal for her. She is kind of made it in Hollywood. But that is her day job. What Jenny is really passionate about is stand-up comedy. Before coronavirus hit she would lined up some gigs. One of them was scheduled for March 11. You remember that day.  Somehow the NBA decided they were going to cancel and that is what I felt like was the canary in the coal mine .  Jenny performed anyway. But after the show she had to decompress.  I drank tequila on the rocks with two limes multiple times. And you know I like that heavy liquor flavor is what I am saying. And that night I even smoked my friend's cigarette. I do not smoke Sam. I was just feeling...   I was risking it all. I took a drag on a stranger's vape. This is what was happening that night.  She went home to reckon with her other big project the one she would been planning for years - this competitive self-care comedy show called Everything's Fine With Jenny Yang. Tickets were sold sets and costumes we are bought celebrity guest stars were booked. But the next morning she had to cancel everything.  And I was devastated. All day I was crying. I was individually hitting all the buttons necessary to refund everyone's Eventbrite ticket.  Oh my goodness.  And it was like an act in torture for me to undo this beautiful vision and dream that I had worked many many months emotionally preparing for - and then many years in a way preparing for because three years before this I bought the everythingsfine.com URL being like I am going to make this into something. And finally that moment happened. .  Yeah. Oh my goodness. So then now you have that really emotional few days of having to just click the buttons write the tweets and adjust to this new life.  Yes.  Now a few weeks into this what is your normal day?  Well you know my normal day is not much different from what I was anticipating which is to have control over my time and to work on my writing to work on producing shows at this point. Now I am - you know I think we have all quickly pivoted to being online performers. I was just joking that we are all cam girls now. You know what I mean? Like this is OnlyFans. You know what I mean? This is...  Check out my OnlyFans.   You know? What I am doing right now is doing what I have been doing but I do not get to go out and see people to perform stand-up comedy. Stand-up comedy is inherently defined by standing up in front of people.  In front of people. Yeah.  That is literally - you cannot. You are not doing stand-up comedy if you are not standing up performing in front of people. Like you cannot - it is like you know you can paint. You do not have to show people your paintings and you are still painting. But this is not the same.  Yeah.  It is not the same.  Yeah. So have you been trying stuff on Instagram Live doing comedy stuff? Like are you broadcasting yourself on the social platforms from home?  Yeah yeah. I think I would say within the first three weeks of everyone staying at home my impulse was to just try to livestream literally every weeknight. And then eventually it felt like a little too much work you know kind of encroaching on my evening sort of self-care energy. I am now producing my Everything's Fine show to be a Zoom show - a Zoom meeting. And I am going to try to do breakout rooms.  OK.  I am going to try to recreate as much as possible the live experience. So I am going to tell people get dressed up make yourself a cocktail show up 15 minutes before the show starts and we are going to have people put you into randomly assigned breakout rooms where you can recreate the feeling of going up to the bar to order a drink and then accidentally saying hello to someone new.  Oh. You know I am doing this next week. This sounds fun.  Oh my gosh - that would be awesome. Yeah.  So you like just about everyone in the biz is working really hard to figure out a new path forward.  Yeah.  I guess my biggest question is even as creatives find these new paths and these new avenues will you all make money? Are you making money right now? Are you worried about money? Like what is the financial on this?  Being a comedian and a writer - so when you are a writer-performer in entertainment I feel like you have more options. Right? Now as a performer a lot of those options have been limited because we do not have an audience that we could perform live to anymore. Right? So prior to this I used to run my own shows live. I used to tour colleges and universities. You might get a corporate gig here or there if you are a stand-up comedian right? But you know the reality is I cannot rely on that for the foreseeable future. Because I was on a TV show fortunately - and thank you to the Writers Guild of America and the power of a writers union - I have savings from that. So I was already anticipating prior to coronavirus hitting you know living off of my savings if I needed to you know? And then on the writers side if you are in entertainment that whole machine is still going because writers notoriously can be very solo and we can work from home. And I have been doing meetings with production companies and network folks and executives. You can do that you know FaceTime you know? And I am putting together pitches to sell for TV shows that hopefully someday we can make.  Thanks again to writer and comedian Jenny Yang for talking with us. You can find her on Twitter and on Instagram - JennyYangTV - one word.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. This episode how coronavirus is reshaping Hollywood. The thing about the entertainment industry - what we think of as Hollywood - is that it is not just in California anymore. One of the biggest places to film TV and movies right now is Atlanta and pretty much all filming down there has shut down. That means all those behind-the-scenes folks - the set designers the makeup artists the sound engineers - they are out of work. Jessica Hershatter operates cameras on film and TV sets in Atlanta. You may have seen her work on a little show called Stranger Things.  So I am a first AC which it means focus puller. I essentially control the focus of the camera - so changing lenses and batteries and building for new setups...  Jessica says she is anxious to get back to a production set very soon. Thing is though no one really knows yet what a safe set - a socially distanced set - should look like. Jessica recently read an article all about that in The Hollywood Reporter and some of the options are really blowing her mind.  I was very interested to read all of their ideas some of which are good ideas and some of which I think would be impossible.  Like what? Tell me one of the impossibles.  So it had not mentioned - obviously crew members wearing gloves and masks. They had talked about actors who are in intimate scenes who obviously cannot wear any protective gear because they are on camera - shooting their coverage at different times from each other and then in post-production putting that together - which you know we have the technology to do but is kind of a crazy way of having to act. They talked about you know hand sanitizer and wash stations and temperature checks when you walk in. I think the things that would be challenging are they had the idea of separating departments and limiting who is on set.  But do not you all all work together?  Exactly. Everybody needs to be on set and everybody needs to be near the actors or the camera or the equipment to do our jobs and light properly and set up the shots. And until we have an actual vaccine - which I hope happens - it is going to be really hard to prevent the spread of this especially on a set.  Yeah. It seems like the real big question is either fewer people on a set or just bigger sets so everyone can space out 6 feet and stay apart. Which do you think seems most likely?  You know that was actually mentioned in the article too. They had said a couple of things - one that shows probably will not all come back at once. It will be kind of a trickle effect and most likely the smaller shows will come back first because when you are talking about an Avengers movie there is hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people working on that set. On the little MTV movie I was on it was more like 50. And then the other big question like that was is it safer to be on a soundstage as opposed to shooting in a location? Because locations are harder to control. Soundstages you can do things like space people out or you know build some walls that - to keep people separate from each other. So I think that might eliminate some of the lower-budget shows that are not able to afford the builds on stage.  So as all of these negotiations are happening about what production looks like in a coronavirus reality I am wondering if people like you have enough say in those conversations. I assume that studio heads and directors and powerful actors can be in the room for these types of meetings but I assume that below-the-line workers like yourself are not there.  You know honestly that is the way it is for everything in the film industry so I have kind of gotten used to the hierarchy of whose opinion matters. But I do have to say that in general actors are more paranoid than the rest of us. So if anybody...  .  ...Is concerned about health it is the actors. So you know? I had a very strange incident on our very last day of shooting which was I had had a cold the week before and I had a little remnant of a cough. I was very close to the actors and I coughed twice and I guess one of the actors was uncomfortable and told a producer. And I had three producers come up to me...  Stop.  ...And tell me I was not allowed to cough.  I am not going to ask you to name this actor. But if you wanted to...  But that was at the very beginning of all of this and the witch hunt aspect scares me 'ecause I imagine if we all come back and someone so much as coughs or sneezes it is going to be a big deal.  So then I mean like what I hear you saying is that like it is actually not about whether it is safe or not - it is about whether or not people feel safe.  Absolutely.  Thanks again to Jessica Hershatter in Atlanta. All right. Time for a break. When we come back how this pandemic is changing the ways we all watch TV - and the highs and lows of TV made via Zoom conference call. BRB.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. This episode we are looking at how coronavirus has affected the entertainment industry from writers and performers to behind-the-scenes workers to just how we are consuming media while we are stuck in our homes. To see how our viewing habits are changing I called up an old friend of the show. Meredith hey. How are you?  I am OK. How about you?  I am good. I am making it. It is funny. I was thinking before this interview the last time we talked the world was completely different. We were talking about Friends the NBC sitcom. And back then when we talked that show was still on Netflix. That is no longer the case. And the entire world had not changed because of a little thing called coronavirus.  Yeah.  Does it feel like forever ago?  It does. Those two world-changing events happened since we last talked - Friends left Netflix and then we...   A pandemic erupted.  That is Meredith Blake. She is an entertainment reporter for the LA Times. So Meredith you cover TV. My first question for you - how much have viewing habits changed? How different is TV-watching right now?  It is definitely up. As of like I think mid-March streaming was up something like 36. So it is - undoubtedly it is up. You know the broadcast networks have - in some ways are being hit the hardest by this. They have seen their numbers go up a lot because people are at home. So we are seeing ratings that we have not seen on the regular in a while. There was that Disney singalong the other night they got pretty big numbers. There was the Lady Gaga concert that was - got I think like 20 million viewers or something - you know big numbers.  Wow.  So they are watching...  Yeah.  ...All kinds of TV.  There you go. If I am looking at what coronavirus is doing to the entertainment industry as like a business story as an economic story what has been the single-biggest economics shift in this whole entertainment landscape since coronavirus happened? I mean for me what stands out the most is Netflix announcing recently that since the 'rona  hit they have gained 16 million new subscribers.  Yeah. I mean it is really accelerating. You know it is funny 'ecause the last time that we talked it was about the streaming wars and you know the possible threat that these new services were going to pose to Netflix. And while services like Disney have certainly seen the benefit if we can call it that of coronavirus in some ways it is also just consolidated Netflix's kind of hold on the industry. And they are you know leading the charge. You know 15 million subscribers - that is the biggest quarter in the entire history of the company. And that is largely due to people being locked up  - locked down at home and wanting stuff to watch which I guess - you know that is the one kind of asterisk in all of this which is that - is this sustainable? - because if you are not going to subscribe to Netflix now when are you going to subscribe?  .  So all the subscribers they are getting now - it is like who is going to be signing up in November somebody who is just in a cave for five years? I do not know.   Yeah this might be the peak.  Yes .  Yeah. We are both people who have to watch a lot of TV for work.  Yes.  And a thing that I am trying to have a conclusive thought on is of the shows that are trying to make new content in the midst of coronavirus do we have a verdict on it yet? I am watching cable news do all of their interviews with folks from their homes. I am watching shows like SNL look like a Zoom meeting.  Right.  Those kind of shows are still figuring things out. But like is it good ? I do not know. It does not feel good yet.  It is a weird combination. I personally enjoy some aspects of it. I like the voyeuristic aspect of it where I get to look at celebrities' living rooms and like see what books they have on their bookshelves...  Yeah yeah .  ...That part of it I really like. You know like I - you get to see what Cate Blanchett has on her bookshelf. And I know - you know my daughter had Sesame Street on the other day. And Sesame Street's wonderful and we love it. But there was an episode where they do it as like a Zoom playdate with Elmo. And it was just like - ugh. It was just like kind of triggering.  .  Like I think we are not going to want to look at that ever again.  Yeah. A thing I cannot figure out is when all the shows and movies for platforms like Netflix or Hulu or the networks have aired how long before there is no new content - right? So like besides the weekly or daily shows like cable news or SNL all of the scripted stuff that is still being cranked out because it was done before coronavirus do we know yet when that stuff starts to run out?  I mean it depends on all of the - they all sort of have a different schedule of producing shows. Streamers like Netflix - because all of their stuff drops at once so it has to be ready all at once so it is produced well in advance of its release - they are better equipped to kind of deal with a production stoppage that we have seen. The production halt is really hurting the traditional broadcast networks which at this time of the year basically would be filming all of their pilots and basically none of those pilots have been produced. So they have an issue. They also have less you know live sports to put on the air so it is a real challenge for them.  When I hear you say that I just - I am hearing it being like that is billions of dollars at stake. These big TV networks still have millions of viewers all the time lots of ad dollars wrapped in it. Like are these networks going to just whatever happens have lost billions in the process of dealing with this?  I think there is no way around a lot of loss. And it may be that even if they had new shows to put on the air they would see advertising loss anyway just because of the way the economy is going. You know a lot of advertisers are being more skittish and withholding you know their ad buys across the board. So yeah I think it is undoubtable that we are going to see that these big companies are seeing losses. And we are already seeing it you know? So it is real. And it is a real dramatically urgent situation that we are in.   Thanks again to Meredith Blake. She covers TV for the LA Times.   All right. Time for a break. When we come back we will play my favorite game - Who Said That? - this weekend a very special disaster movie edition. BRB.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. New movies are still being released. They are going straight to on demand but that just does not feel right to me. I wanted to talk about what we would all lose if that remains the case so I called up a fellow film lover. Shea Serrano hello. How are you?  What up sir?  You know doing good - surviving the best I can. Shea Serrano covers sports and pop culture for The Ringer. He also wrote a whole book about movies. It is called Movies And Other Things. Shea and I talked about movies and the culture and we also played a very special edition of Who Said That? So we are doing this episode Shea all about how coronavirus has just totally upended the entire entertainment industry.  Mm hmm.  And I have talked to a bunch of folks who work in streaming and in TV but I really want to talk about movies with you because I mean the economic story of the movie industry right now is pretty straightforward. You cannot go to the theaters. These movies are not making box office. They might make some money on demand but they are just kind of frozen for now. But I want to talk with you about like what we lose from the culture when we do not get to go see movies in theaters with the popcorn and in a room full of strangers in the dark. It feels like we are missing something right now. I do not know. Am I reaching too far with this? Am I being too mushy about it?  No you are absolutely correct. It is so much different watching a movie on your laptop or on your TV at home than standing in line getting your snacks - like there is very much a communal experience with that. A very easy example is I went to a movie theater out in LA - you know the one right off of Hollywood?  Oh yeah - ArcLight Hollywood yeah. Oh yeah. It is beautiful.  So I saw - I was out in LA when the when the movie Joker came out. And I was like oh you know what? I have got a night to myself I am going to just go. And then as I am walking out this guy walks up to me and we knew each other from the Internet. And he was like oh hey what is up man? And we are - we were - we are now doing the thing that you do with friends when you are walking out of the movie theater and you are having the - did-you-like-it? conversation...  The conversation.  ...What-did-you-think? conversation.  The debrief.  Yeah.  Yeah.  That is part of the process. Same as when you go with somebody and you are like waiting in line to get snacks you are having these conversations. Like it is all baked in together.  Oh yeah. I kind of compare it to like - you can pray at home by yourself or you can go to church. Both are good but one is much more fun. Like one is much more fun.  Yeah.  You know it is funny I am thinking about what I am going to do this summer without movie theaters 'ecause I go to the movies a lot.  Mm hmm.  And one the things that I love most besides the communal experience is the popcorn. Like I am that dude who is like give me the largest popcorn give me that fake butter sauce layer it all throughout like grease it up. And you know what I cannot do Shea?  What is that?  I do not know how to recreate that butter sauce at home because it is not really butter.  There is no way to do it yeah.  Like what is it?  It is like some synthetic butter with some sort of MSG in there that gets you super - like you can only get that at the movie theaters. You cannot get it anywhere else. It is unbelievable.  Yeah it is unbelievable. And listen - any movie theater executives listening to this podcast episode right now I got an idea for you. If you all did take-away at-home movie theater butter popcorn kits I would buy them all. In the same way that like bars are doing take-home cocktail kits right now theaters should do take-home movie theater popcorn kits.  Yeah.  I want it.  You should have a bundle. The nachos taste different there. The pretzels taste different. The hotdogs taste different. Like let me get my pack for my home movie viewing. That is a good idea. I do not know why they have not thought of that yet.  Right? We did it here first. I am going to start the Kickstarter as soon as we are done talking.   All right Shea last thing I am going to ask of you - every week we play a game. It is called Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  And basically when I have panelists on to talk about the week of news I have a little quiz for them about various funny news stories from the week. And I will read them a quote from the week that someone famous or important said and they have to guess who said it.  OK.  But I was wondering because you are a movie buff would you play a special disaster movie edition of Who Said That? with me now?  Oh wow. OK. Let us give it a try.  You can do it. So I will give you a quote from a movie and you just say what movie it is. First quote - this place is like Dr. Seuss' worst nightmare.  Oh geez. I have no idea what that is.  OK. Steve Buscemi said it. It is in a 1998 blockbuster that had a No. 1 hit from the soundtrack from Aerosmith.    This place is like Dr. Seuss' worst nightmare.   Let us get the remote...  Oh Armageddon.   Yeah. Yeah. So that movie - it is funny like I hate that movie but I love that movie. Like...  You hate that movie? Are you crazy?  It is so cheese man. It is so cheesy.  You are crazy. That is a beautiful movie.  I know.  That is such a touching ending.  OK.  Are you trying to tell me that when you watched it the first time - or even recently - and Ben Affleck is back up in the airlock going up into the ship screaming and crying his heart out that did not do something in you?    You are going to take care of my little girl now. That is your job.  You know it did not. I am sorry. I have no soul. I know. I know. OK. Anyways listeners if you hear this go back and check out Armageddon. The whole thing is about an asteroid the size of Texas heading towards Earth. And Bruce Willis and Ben Affleck save the world. You got that one. Next quote - I promised a friend I would say hello to you today.    Hello. Hello.  Hello?  .  Please say hello to me.  Oh God. That one hurt. That is I Am Legend. That is Will Smith in the video store in I Am Legend. Oh God. That one's - that is tough. You are giving me all the sad movies today.   So that movie - the plot is like so depressing. Will Smith is this doctor and he has to end up saving the world after a virus meant to cure cancer wipes out most of the world's population and turns everyone else into like these zombies called Dark Seekers. And because Will Smith is one of the only humans left he recreates public spaces with mannequins. And so he will go to these stores and talk to the mannequins. It is so sad.  That single scene right there is a good example of why Will Smith is one of the best actors we have ever had. Like it does not make any sense that that scene would be that good.  And he just has a range. I love that man. OK. You got two so far. This is the last quote in our special disaster film edition of Who Said That? Here we go. We cannot be consumed by our petty differences anymore. We will be united in our common interest. Perhaps it is fate that today is the 4th of July and you will once again be fighting for our freedom.    Not from tyranny oppression or persecution - but from annihilation.  Yeah I know this one. That is my guy Bill in Independence Day.   Oh yeah.  And also by the way Will Smith is in that movie as well. This...  Exactly.  ...Quiz was 66 percent Will Smith.  So now we have to have you back for just a special extended Will Smith edition of this game 'ecause you would ace it.  I would ace it.  I love it.  Seven Pounds - I have seen every Will Smith movie.  You saw Seven Pounds? Oh my goodness. You are - deep cuts.  I saw Seven Pounds in a movie theater.  Whoa.  I was like my guy Will is in this? I am in. Sign me up. Opening week. And then I am watching it like oh maybe - you know maybe not Will. Maybe not this one. But next one. We will get them next time.   On that note you won this special disaster film edition of Who Said That? Shea Serrano thank you so much. All right.  All right. Thanks man. Take it easy.  All right. Thanks again to Shea Serrano and everyone in this episode who talked with me about what is going to happen to all the TV and movies I love in the midst of this pandemic. All right. Now we are going to hear from you all talking about things you all love. It is time for our listeners to share with us the best things that have happened to them all week.  Hey Sam. This is Serena  from San Diego. My 13-year-old son and I made a Swiss roll cake inspired by that junk food delight the Ho Ho. It turned out really good and was a totally fun bonding experience with my teenager.  The best part of my week was when I was having a video chat with my son and his 20-month-old daughter and she called me Pop-Pop for the first time. It really made my day.  The best thing that happened to me this week is I got engaged. I guess my boyfriend had the ring for about a month and was trying to figure out the most romantic room in our house to propose in because we do not leave our house anymore. I of course said yes gave him a big hug and then said oh I am wearing sweatpants for this.  Hey Sam. This is Stew  in Tucson Ariz. The best thing about my week happened yesterday. And I am going to try to get through this without crying but it is really hard not to. Anyway I had a radical prostatectomy. I had my prostate taken out. And I am really happy that my cancer is out of my body. I really was not going to get all choked up about this but I am really happy that the cancer is out of my body. And I love your show. And keep up the good work. Thank you Sam.  Take care. Be safe.  Take care Sam. Thanks.  Thanks for always being a bright spot on my podcast feed.  Thanks to those listeners - Stew Chrissy  Chris  and Serena. All of you could be a part of this segment. Just record yourself sharing the best part of your week and send that file to me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. This week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Andrea Gutierrez and Hafsa Fathima. Special birthday shout-out to Jinae West. She is quiet but mighty and has the world's cutest dog. And a very special happy birthday to my Aunt Donna  in San Diego. She turns one year older one year wiser and one year more amazing this weekend. Donna I love you. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. OK listeners till next time - thank you for listening. Make some time to rewatch your favorite movie this weekend. It will feel good. All right. I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon.  