  From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today on the show - Jimmy O. Yang the actor and comedian. Lot of you might know him for his work on HBO's Silicon Valley. Jimmy plays Jian-Yang on the show this misfit immigrant programmer. Besides his work on Silicon Valley Jimmy is out with a new book. It is called How To American An Immigrant's Guide To Disappointing Your Parents. The book's all about how Jimmy grew up in America as an immigrant after moving to LA from Hong Kong when he was 13. We talk about how Jimmy tried to make it in stand-up comedy how he worked really really hard to kind of not choose the path that his immigrant parents wanted for him. And we talk a lot about representation and what it means to be an Asian man on screen today. Fun fact - Jimmy is starring in a new movie. Fun fact - Jimmy's in a new movie coming out later this year. It is called Crazy Rich Asians and it is already being called Asian-Americans' very own Black Panther. So in this discussion of representation Jimmy also talks about what it means to play roles with an accent like he does on Silicon Valley. Here he is playing his character Jian-Yang.    I eat the fish.   I understand you eat the fish. But when you clean the fish you cannot just leave the fish head and guts and  in the sink because the whole house smells like a bait station. So you got to put it in the trash and then take the trash out. Do you understand?   Yes I eat the fish.  So that was a clip of Jimmy with one of his former Silicon Valley co-stars T.J. Miller. T.J. Miller himself - he has been in the news a bit lately for some very erratic behavior and some allegations of sexual assault. But we are going to leave that alone and just focus on Jimmy for this conversation. All right before we get into this chat a quick warning - if you are listening to this with kids Jimmy's amazingly fun and captivating personal story does have a bit to do with the world of adult entertainment. So there is that. All right here's me talking with Jimmy O. Yang in our Culver City studio.   I finished your book last night.  Thank you so much.  You are funny.  Thanks.  You are funny. So I was going to in preparation for this interview do something and then I was like no it is too weird. I was going to go to El Pollo Loco...  Oh man.  ...And get a bunch of the salsas...  Dude.  ...And have you tell me which one's your favorite.  You know I can tell you each one of the salsas without looking at it.  OK go.  It is the green guacamole one.  OK.  That one's by far my favorite.  Why?  Because it is watery. It is a little - it is...  I do not believe in watery guacamole bruh .  But - exactly. But it is a salsa so it is OK. They do not try to sell you as guacamole. It is all about how you look at it. It is OK.  That is a good rule for life huh?  You know?  So I bring this up because there is this wonderful story about your grandfather introducing you to America through the wonders and joys of El Pollo Loco. Can you tell that story? Because it is so good.  The first day me and my father and my whole family came to America - my grandpa has been living here for a few years already.  In LA.  Yeah in LA. So he kind of knows his way around. He is like I am going to take you guys to my favorite American restaurant.  And you came here at 13 from Hong Kong.  Exactly.  OK.  So grandpa walked us down La Cienega Boulevard and it was like...  Which is a street you do not walk down.  You do not.  .  But in Hong Kong or even in Shanghai where my grandpa's from you walk down everything right?  Yeah yeah.  So he has kind of no concept of how far to walk. And we end up walking down 45 minutes of just nothing but strip malls and six-lane traffic down La Cienega.  Where on La Cienega were you?  It was La Cienega by like Olympic.  Oh ugh. OK.  ...That massive intersection.  Yeah why would you do that?  Took 45 minutes to walk like - I do not know - like 2 miles to another massive strip mall with like a LA Fitness and everything. And I do not even know what that is. I have no concept of gyms.  Yeah.  ...Because I came from Hong Kong. Everybody was skinny.  .  And we walked our calories off. We did not have to go to the gym.  Or we are outside at the park at 6 in the morning doing your stretches. Is that happening over there?  That happens everywhere.  OK.  What are they doing? Anywhere you go there is 250 old Asian people at 6 a.m. stretching.  .  It is crazy.  I do not know how much of this makes the cut but I love it. So keep going. You are walking down La Cienega...  Walking down La Cienega - after 45 minutes in this massive strip mall my grandpa like - this is my favorite restaurant in America. It is authentic Mexican food and you cannot find this in China. And I looked up and it said El Pollo Loco.  And we should point out it is a downscale fast food Mexican drive-through chain.  Yeah.  So you go in there. What is it like for you?  The cash register person was asking my grandpa do you want dark meat or white meat? And then my grandpa had to explain to us you always order the dark meat. That is the good part of chicken - the wings the thighs...   Agree. Agree.  ...The legs.  I cannot with the dry breast.  Yeah. And he said the white meat is rough. That is for like you know dumb American people. I am like OK.  So you did not have the chance to choose what part of the chicken you got back home.  I did not have to choose. And really even in Hong Kong we ordered like the Hainanese chicken and all that. And my dad always either got the back or like the leg. Nobody ever gets the breast OK?  Really?  So I already kind of know...  You knew what is up.  ...That the breast as not the business.  .  And then there is just all these little customs that I was not used to. Like in Hong Kong you order whatever soda you want. They get it for you behind the register. Here you get a soda you get a water and you go refill it yourself. And my grandpa whispered to us - he was like hey just get the water OK? Because here you can just get the water and then go get soda yourself.  Wait wait whoa - you...  But never buy the soda because that is how they make their money.  ...You cannot do that.  Well grandpa did it. I did not know you can just turn water into Dr. Pepper in this country. And then you walk over to the salsa bar. My grandpa was like yo just take - take anything you want. And I am like what do you mean? Like we do not have to pay for this? He is like no - no just take anything you want.  .  And I am like yo this country is amazing. So that was like my first experience not just with food in America but with American freedom.  American freedom courtesy of El Pollo Loco.  Absolutely.  So - I love that. OK. So you have been here now since you were 13. How old are you now?  Thirty.  Thirty.  Yeah.  Do you still have that same sense of what read to me in the book as this inherent amazement with all that America is? Has some of that worn off for you?  Some of it of course. With age it kind of goes away like the sense of innocence seeing everything with a new lens. But now I try to go to other countries with that lens even going back to Hong Kong. I went back to Hong Kong for the first time in 17 years and I was culture shocked in Hong Kong.  You are home.  Like I was culture shocked - yeah. It is the opposite of what I felt when I came here when I was 13. The streets - I am not used to the streets being this narrow now. I am not used to people rubbing my - shoulder to shoulder. I am not used to walking after a meal to take the subway you know? And - everything - just the language. And - but it felt good.  Yeah?  It was a good culture shock...  OK.  ...Because after just a couple days of that initial shock I found myself being very comfortable and at ease. Like the weight of being a minority just being something different in this country was gone. I was just a dude.  You are just a dude.  I did not have to be like the Asian dude or...  Yeah.  ...Like be careful of oh let us try to not drive a Honda Accord and go to dim sum and play pingpong because that is stereotypical here.  Listen I would live that life.  Yeah but...  That would be a wonderful day for me.  Yeah and - and that life in Hong Kong you are just a normal dude.  You just do it.  It is not a stereotype until you come here you know?  Yeah.  So I just felt at ease man.  Yeah.  I could have done whatever I wanted whatever I liked. And I was just a dude.  You know hearing you talk about that it makes me think of this movie you are going to be in soon Crazy Rich Asians...  Yes.  ...Where it seems like you get to just be a dude because the entire cast is Asian.  Absolutely.  And the buzz around it is phenomenal already. Describe this film for folks that have not heard about it yet.  So Crazy Rich Asians is based on a book by Kevin Kwan called Crazy Rich Asians. There is three books. So if this movie does well maybe there will be a trilogy.  OK.  But most importantly it is the first movie in 25 years - first studio picture in 25 years - since Joy Luck Club that features a full Asian cast.  It is like you all's Black Panther...  Yeah see...  ...But not.  ...I said that on Twitter. People got mad at me.  Wait they got - who...  I am like this is going to be our Black Panther - obviously jokingly...  ...Yes.  ...Because the two movies are nothing alike .  Well yeah.  But for me it is like - I hope - basically with that statement I am saying I hope it is going to be a box office success...  Yeah.  ...And the cultural representation that Black Panther is.  Yes.  And then black people were tweeting me. They were mad. They tell me shut the F up. And they are telling me like why is it like whenever black people got a little bit of shine you all got to try to take it for yourself? I am like what - what are you talking about?  Twitter is bad.  Yeah. And then Asian people are like yo this movie it could stand on its own. Like we do not have to compare it like - and diminished both of the movies. And I am like oh my God.  What does it feel to make a movie like this that is in many ways groundbreaking but is also entering this cultural moment right now...  Yes.  ...Where it seems everyone is always mad about everything before it is even there? You are already experiencing that with this movie because some people are saying oh the portrayal of Asians is too anglicized or too hetero-normative...  Yup.  ...Or they are all too pretty or whatever - like...  And you know who is critiquing the hardest or the critique that I get for my acting career? Asian people. You playing an immigrant on Silicon Valley - that makes me look bad blah blah blah - all this like you play this accented character. But I try to play everything very authentically even if it is an accented immigrant Jian Yang that I play on Silicon Valley...  Yeah.  ...I try to play it - it is just a version of myself when I came to this country when I was 13 and I am trying to represent my immigrants you know? So...  Well you wrote in the book something - you basically said like the issue is not the role. The issue is the baggage people feel about these accents themselves.  Their perception.  Like why do you feel so bad about the accent?  And Sofia Vergara is sexy with her accent. Why am I nerdy and weird?  Everyone likes British accents.  Yeah. Why is it when a white actor or even a black actor does a British accent it is considered art? It is considered oh he did well. Nobody ever gave Chadwick Boseman anything like oh you are doing an African accent. You are misrepresenting African people. But you know what - you know what it is?  What is it?  And this movie is hopefully going to fix part of that. It is - there is not enough of us out there.  OK.  So everything is being scrutinized. When you are 1 out of 5 Asian people on TV all the pressure is on you and you have to represent...  Who are the other four?  ...The whole Asian spectrum.  Who are the other four?  I cannot name - I do not know.  Wait no - OK. Let us go through...  Well there is a few. John Cho is always on TV.  He is always working yeah.  Yeah. My boy Ken Jeong is always in movies TV.  Yeah he is something.  He is hilarious - like comic - as a comedian...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...I always think funny first.  He is funny.  Like you know it is...  Who else is - wait.  OK.  The list though - who else? Who else?  Constance Wu.  Oh yeah.  Randall Park. I mean that whole show you know has such - a lot of kids.  True - Fresh Off the Boat - yeah yeah.  So there are getting more and more now.  OK.  But it is still - it is like The Problem With Apu that documentary you know?  Yeah.  It is - it is just 'ecause...  This is about The Simpsons character.  He was the most important...  If you are the one you carry all the weight.  Exactly. So the problem - it is - it is not enough representation. And hopefully with Crazy Rich Asians you get a whole spectrum of Asian. And I felt so good doing that movie 'ecause I could - I can just be funny and act a fool...  Yeah.  ...Because I am not representing all Asians. I am just representing one personality.  But you know some people want you to represent all Asians.  Well they want to blame me for something you know...  OK.  ...Just 'ecause...  Do you ever tweet back? Do you ever write right back or you just...  I made the mistake of engaging...  .  ...About a week ago.  What did you do?  And it was horrible. It was like one of the worst experiences...  What happened?  ...I ever had on Twitter. Just everybody jumped on my case. You know like saying this and that - calling me a sellout calling me - whatever - Uncle Chan or something.  Oh Lord.  But like you know usually whatever I read it is very positive.  OK.  I had this girl come up to me after this book signing. It is like we are very proud of you. You know your success feel like our success.  OK.  And I felt great about that. And then I have...  Yeah.  ...People like you know tweeting me great things or Instagram message. This kid - he is like I am 15. I just came from China. I do not speak English very well and like your book is the first book I have read in English without anybody's help.  Really?  And that is really inspiring and I hope you keep doing that. So by and large it is great. And I love all my Asian fans and they are awesome. But it is this small population of people...  The haters.  ...That - it is like conspiracy theorists almost...  Really?  ...'ecause then like - you know when they tweet you something nasty you go on their profile to see who they are right?  It is never their real picture.  Never...  It is always some rando  image.  ...Never their real picture. Yeah they - one guy tweeted me. They say - 'ecause in a Huffington Post article I am like I am sorry I am not the good-looking Chow Yun-fat Asian you know but character actors need roles too. You know what I mean?  But also do not sell yourself short. Do not say that you are not good looking.  Right. Right. But I am not good-looking in the movie sense. Like I am sorry. I am not like 6'2 and super good-looking. You are going to tell me I cannot act right?  .  Like I should not be representing you because I as not this this this right? So then I had people tweeting me. They are like Hollywood chose you because they know you as not good-looking. And they want to represent Asian people with your ugly face or whatever...  Oh my God .  ...Because - and then at the end they are like because everybody casting you is white dah-dah-dah .  How do they know who is casting you?  I know. And then they said...  .  At the end of that tweet they said F white supremacy. And I am like I am not saying that do not exist out there but how is that - how does that...  You getting your check. What is supremacist about you getting your check?  They are talking about white supremacist conspiracy putting me on TV...  .  ...To misrepresent Asian people on purpose. I am like what the hell are you talking about?  Yeah.  No Ku Klux Klan member anointed me...  .  ...To be the ugly Asian person on TV. OK. You can go do it yourself. God this makes me so angry. It is like...  I did not mean to make you so angry. I feel like I riled you up.  Yeah I know. It is just...  I hear you. I hear you though.  Come on man.  Let us talk about the book.  Yes.  The book has the most wonderful title - How To American An Immigrant's Guide To Disappointing Your Parents. In 30 seconds tell folks what this book is going to give them.  It is going to give you hope.  .  No it is - I hope to give people a little inspiration of this outsider - you know making it in America assimilating first day as an immigrant and assimilating you know in a job that his parents does not believe in.  At all.  At all. I think it - my dad has been telling me since day one - I was born - being an artist is how you become homeless.  Yeah.  Pursuing your dreams is...  Oh yeah.  ...How you become homeless.  I love even - like even after you have succeeded he says - this is like the last page of your book - he says quote having you as my son is like winning the lottery - not the Mega Millions jackpot but like a small 20 price. Your dad sounds hilarious.  That statement sums up exactly who he is right?  OK.  Like he busts my chops all the time.  OK.  He is the joker of the family but it is funny.  Yeah.  It is fine. So like I...  And I feel like he loves you from what I read in the book.  Absolutely. It is a complicated relationship. We love each other. But sometimes I wish he is more like that dad or that mom that is just like I am so proud of you. I love you but that is not...  That as not him.  Culturally...  Yeah.  ...That is not it and that is not him.  .  But deep down I know he loves me.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And so the book deals a lot with your relationship with him and with your mother but it is focused really on what it is like for you to come to America at 13. So you - one you come from Hong Kong which is China but not quite. And you are already kind of an outsider there because you speak a different dialect from other folks.  Right.  So you come to the U.S. at 13 - to LA which is totally different. And you were already marginalized back home and now you are like extra extra standing out. Like describe those first few - like describe that first day at school.  It was tough looking back at it.  Yeah.  But going through it it was like - wow this is kind of amazing but scary at the same time.  Well 'ecause there was even points like you did not even know what to say when someone said what is up.  Yeah. I just looked up in the sky...  .  ...For like five seconds. I am like what are you talking about? And the girl was like what is up? And I looked up. I am like nothing. There is nothing up there and then she had to explain to me what is up meant how are you doing. And I was this foreign kid that just got dumped into a new country with a new language...  Yeah.  ...With a new culture. I never met no black people white people Latino people.  Yeah.  I have only hung out with Chinese people back home.  Yeah.  Even the Asian people here were not Chinese. They were Koreans. So I like - I had nowhere to go where I can find like a safety zone. I was forced to assimilate with everyone...  Yeah.  ...Which in a way is a blessing in disguise because...  Makes you work.  If I would have went to like a Chinese-heavy high school here in America I could have just kind of hermitted  in that sense and never really fully assimilated. You know what I mean?  Yeah. Well I love how you describe how you figured out the culture and the language. There was one big kind of TV textbook for you which was BET Black Entertainment Television.  Oh yeah.  That is kind of like how you taught yourself English and American culture. Actually we have some tape of the time where you I guess shut down Arsenio Hall's show.  Oh I did.   When I first came here - this is a true story. When I first came here I barely spoke a word of English. And I learned how to speak English by watching a lot of television. Two months into it I realized I was watching Telemundo.   I did not really know. Like what is ? And there is like 12 of them? What is that? So eventually I switched the channel. And you can still hear it in my voice today. I learned most of my English by watching BET Rap City.   Yeah. Big Tig and Tha Basement Freestyle Friday. There is nothing more American than Snoop Dogg you know? And I did not know any better. I just thought that is how everybody talked. So I went up to the lunch lady the next day. I am like ay what it do shorty? Yeah.   Talk about all of that because I find it so fascinating.  I think watching TV is one of the most important cultural lessons anyone can learn because it is not - the TV programming tells you what Americans like. And also the commercials tells you what they are really buying into right? Like even the tone of the commercials is different. Here it is funnier whereas in Hong Kong it is made more heartfelt more family oriented - right? - instead of usually the dumb bumbling husband and the wife yelling at him.  Yeah.  Like here in America.  Or like I am a man and I do not know how to change a diaper - whoa.  Yeah exactly.  I hate those.  Yeah. So that really tells you about culture. And one of the most interesting channels I found when I was flipping through channels was BET. I would never seen anything like that. It was like not just America. It is a very...  No. I have never seen anything like BET either. It is one of a kind.  It is a very specific part of America. And it was so intriguing to me as a 13-year-old boy. First of all you have got Rap City.  Oh yeah.  Right? With Big Tig and Tha Basement.  Oh yeah.  And that was amazing. I would never heard hip-hop music.  See I was on BET before that even when they were still doing Video Soul.  Oh my God.  You remember Video Soul?  No that was a little before my time.  You probably were too young for that. This was like when they were doing like straight-up just straight ahead RB. And then they moved more into rap with Rap City and Tigger.  106  Park.  106  Park was the jam. Anyways you watched BET. You are watching rap videos.  Yeah.  Rap teaches you English basically.  Rap teaches me English because to me - I could not understand a word of that. Like in school in conversation or even when I am watching a Nickelodeon cartoon I can understand some of it. But the way rappers are speaking I am like if I can understand this - this is like calculus to me.  Oh.  If I could figure this out I can understand algebra. I can understand...  .  ...Everything else. So...  OK.  ...To me like BET was like calculus. I needed to figure it out and I needed to understand what they were talking about culturally to understand America - and not just Rap City. Comic View was another show.  Oh this is - so for those who do not know it was BET's probably - their version of Def Comedy Jam.  Absolutely.  Stand-up comics are...  Just five-minute...  Who was your favorite one?  Oh I love all of hosts - J. Anthony Brown Bruce Bruce...  Bruce Bruce was amazing.  ...Rickey Smiley.  See I was all - Rickey Smiley. Oh my God. He is the best.  Yeah.  His radio stuff is amazing too. His radio show.  Yeah now he is killing it.  I used to love Sommore.  Yes.  She was so good.  Yes.  So between black comedy and black rap and hip-hop you acculturate yourself to America.  Yeah.  Were people at your schools loving you giving off that black swag?  I think they just thought I was weird.  OK.  You know but it is better to be like the weird kid than the foreign kid to some - like to be like...  Explain.  ...The weird hip-hop kid...  OK.  ...Than the weird foreign kid because I went so hard in that hip-hop direction to try to cover up that - the fact that I am an immigrant and I have kind of like a Chinese accent. I covered it up with a hip-hop accent in a way. So now they just looked at me like oh OK. Yeah. Good for him. He just loves you know BET...  .  ...Instead of like he is a weird foreign kid.  All right. Time for a quick break. When we come back Jimmy struggles through college and finds stand-up comedy. BRB.   So you love rap so much. You love hip-hop so much. You love BET so much. You end up talking about in the book how you and the friends you made in high school - Beverly Hills High School...  Yeah. My dad used a fake address.   You got to do what you got to do. You got to hustle.  He is the man. Yeah.  But at Beverly Hills High School you and some other immigrant friends form a rap group. And then you become like a hip-hop rap producer - like you make beats.  Yeah. That was...  You are a producer.  ...My first I guess creative outlet. I have always loved like just building stuff like making stuff. And this was the first thing that I found really really rewarding was making something out of nothing.  Had you had musical experience?  I played the violin of course...  You say of course.  ...Since I was like 5. You know I was in the school orchestra and everything.  OK.  So I kind of know some music. But really when it comes to making a beat especially when I was doing it when I had FruityLoops...  Yeah I remember FruityLoops.  ...Like you know those beat-making programs...  Yeah yeah yeah.  ...It was just messing on a computer.  How do I find your beats online? Are they online?  They used to be. I do not think they are anymore.  They are all the way gone. What would I search for?  I will post something. You cannot - you really cannot search for anything. I will post some on my website.  You should send us something and then we can wrap the interview with like one of your beats.  Yes yes.  Seriously.  I have some pretty cool beats. I got pretty good at it. I was selling beats at some point.  You know everyone says that.  No...  My beats are great.  ...I got to a point where I got my first paycheck.  From what?  You read it in the book.  I sure did but I want you to say it.  It was a - from a porno website...  A porno website...  ...As background music.  ...Bought one of your rap beats when you were a high school student at Beverly Hills High.  Oh boy.  Only in America.  I thought I made it. I made like...  How much did they pay?  ...Three hundred bucks man. You know that was big.   So that is high school. High school finishes and then your dad is like bro you have got to go to college.  Oh that is - I do not have a choice.  Yeah.  There is never a conversation of like you need to go to college. It is just oh what is after high school? Yeah college.  Yeah.  That is it.  Yeah.  Like which college are you going to go to? That is the conversation. So I was - I did not know any better. I did not get into UCLA or USC.  Their loss.  Yeah their loss. And then I end up just - got a - I got accepted to UCSD. I am like that is basically UCLA but in the beautiful beach town of San Diego.   Except actually totally different.  Yeah. I did not even go visit. I am like this is close enough. I will just go there.  Wow.  And it turned out to be the worst college experience for the five - next five years.  What about our listeners that are - that are alumni of UCSD and loved their time there?  I just - look maybe it is not UCSD. I should not be that biased. I just hated school.  OK.  I should have dropped out. If I was not Asian I would have dropped out.  But then you end up majoring in what? Econ?  Econ because...  Because...  ...That is the easiest major that still pleases your Asian parents. So I am like OK I will just get this econ degree done and I will say I have done it and I will figure my life out.  And you like just did it. What was it like a 2.7 GPA?  2.7 GPA - I never went to class. I was depressed.  And still got a 2.7.  I was smoking weed. And I would just show up at the final - I would cram like a week before. I never learned anything because you just cram you forget about it.  Yeah.  And I would cram and then I would go take the test. I would get a C and then I would pass the class.  Even through that though your dad gets you an internship doing what? Like some financial advising stuff.  Yeah Smith Barney - like a really nice...  That was for real.  ...High-end - yeah - firm. It is like every Asian parent's dream. Like people - other kids are like hoping they would get this internship. But a month in I just hated the Smith Barney job. Like I just - I was like - I was having panic attacks. I am like I am going to be sitting behind this desk for the next 40 years...  Yeah.  ...Managing other people's mutual fund that I do not care about. I cannot do this.  Yeah.  Like that was a panic attack. That was scarier to me than trying to pursue the arts going into the unknown.  Really?  Because getting stuck - seeing my life rotting away for sure is scarier than the unknown. So for me it was not ever a choice.  So then how did you go from there to comedy to acting?  I just had to try different things to get out of this job.  What - so what was the first thing you did after the job?  It was not comedy. Comedy was never like - I mean I watched comedy and I loved it but it was not like oh I watched Eddie Murphy Raw with my brother when I was a kid I needed to be a stand-up. It was never that. It was just - I needed to find something to do with my life. I needed to find new creative friends.  Yeah.  And I was pretty good at talking to people. I was kind of always the funny kid in the group but everybody says that right?  Yeah.  You know how many people actually make it as a stand-up?  Everybody says that they are funny and everybody says that their beats are good.   Look the main...  I got to hear a beat.  I - I will - I will send you some. The main - the main prerequisite to being a stand-up is not talent. It is not being funny. It is desperation. You needed to be that desperate to go on the stage to embarrass yourself right?  Yeah.  I always say Googling local open mics on your computer is one step away from Googling what is the best way to kill myself.  .  It is that close. Every stand-up I have ever met the guy on the stand will come - something happened in their life. They quit being a lawyer and they got a divorce or they got their third DUI they just got out of jail and now they want to try stand-up.  So you join those ranks.  Yeah I join those ranks.  You start doing open mics. And - and for a while you are actually paying money to be on stage yourself.  At the Ha Ha Comedy Club you get to go on stage anytime you want at the open mic every day which is great but you have to pay 5 to - in exchange for 5 of stage time.  Five minutes of stage time.  Oh yeah yeah - 5 of stage time. That should be my next book Five Dollars of Stage Time.  Five Dollars of Stage Time. So how was that?  I went to this open mic and I just did it and it was fun. It was liberating in a way. But my favorite part was - literally my first set was talking about masturbation just like every other new comic - right? - because you do not know what - you are just - you are just trying to survive. You are just trying to be funny.  Yeah yeah yeah.  But then people would give me taglines. Other comics would give me like - yo you should say this you should say that. And I really found this like group of misfits. Everybody was so weird in their own way. And this is like the only world where the weirder you are the better off you are.  Yeah.  So it is like the first time I felt like I really fit in.  Well - and this is the interesting thing that I loved that you talked about at length in the book. You really draw this distinct comparison between acting and stand-up.  Oh yeah.  Stand-up was very egalitarian and diverse and for everybody as long as you are funny. And acting you said quote is like the only profession where you can actually physically discriminate.  Oh yeah.  It is like they are night and day.  You know when I auditioned for Crazy Rich Asians I called my manager. I am like this is like a very important movie for us.  Yeah.  I know I am usually the quirky you know sidekick guy or whatever but let me just go try to read for the lead role. I do not care.  Oh look at you.  Like this is...  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  ...Really special for us and I am very confident my acting ability. I am like let me audition for the lead role.  Yeah.  And my manager's just like look I do not know how to tell you this but they are looking for a good-looking guy for the lead role .  He said that?  Yes. And I totally understood what he meant.  No you should have fired your manager.  No. Like I get it. Like I am a fairly decent-looking guy in real life. But my type is not the good-looking chiseled man. You feel me? Like my agent used to always tell me you have a good look. And I was like OK. 