 Usually when a band is doing a music interview for a new album they come into a nice studio with fancy mics and engineers. They sit down. They talk about the album and they perhaps play a few songs together in that studio with the perfect acoustics and all the bells and whistles. But because of coronavirus you cannot really do that right now. OK. Sounds good. And then what do you want me to do with this phone? So for this interview the band Chicano Batman had to be apart. And they had to handle all the technical stuff themselves. I will not explain too much but basically this meant that each band member I talked to had to hold two phones the entire interview one to listen to me and one to record themselves. It was a lot.  Yeah. So it is a - yeah I got it like at 25 per the instructions.  Yeah I think it is recording. Yeah.  The band members could not see me and they could not even see each other because they were apart too. Hello hello. I am speaking to half of Chicano Batman right now. How are you all?  Good.  Good man. Just right here just talking on two phones...   ...Hijacking my wife's phone.  I know. It is so weird. It is so weird.  Well tell her I said thanks.   From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. And today the most technically challenging music interview we have ever done on the show before with perhaps the only two people chill enough to roll with all the punches.  My name is Carlos Arvalo. I am guitar player for Chicano Batman.  My name's Bardo Martinez the singer of Chicano Batman.    I cannot stop reflecting upon the reflection of my own reflection. It is like a mind game that I cannot tame.  Carlos and Bardo are half of the band Chicano Batman. You could throw a lot of words at the music Chicano Batman makes. It is funk. It is psychedelic. It is soul. It is indie. It is throwback. But none of these words can really sum it all up.    Live and love. Rise above. Laugh and play. Smile all day.  Maybe the best way to describe their music is to say that it is pure authentic Los Angeles - more on that later. Chicano Batman has a new album out right now. It is called Invisible People. They are supposed to be on tour for this album as you hear this. But instead they are all home in quarantine like me. I talked with Carlos and Bardo about how you promote a new album without being able to go anywhere and perform it. We also discussed why their sound is SoCal perhaps more than anything else and how they are finding peace and joy even as it seems all the world has been turned upside down. All right. Here's our chat. Enjoy.   I have a technical logistical question for you all. Like you all are a band that is used to touring and doing shows especially around the release of a new album. How does a band of four people work right now when you are supposed to like be apart?  Well I will just answer it this way. We were going to play Coachella so we had the two dates lined up right? Now we were really like digging in and rehearsing two three times a week basically right up to like the quarantine time. We were actually in our rehearsal space when we you know started hearing of toilet paper being diminished and you know just people rushing to the grocery stores. Like straight up we had like a whole setlist ready for Coachella a huge setlist ready for our own you know headlining shows throughout the country. Looking back at it it is like - wow we were ready. Like we were sharp. You know what I am saying? So...  Yeah.  Then quarantine happened and we have not seen each other since March 12 or something like that.  That is rough.  That is one of our strengths creatively is that we work together as a group. And we might write some stuff apart. But in general when it comes time to get down to like the business that is going to get put out in terms of content we do it together. And right now we have been apart and it is been a lot of Zoom meetings and basically just been handling press to be honest during this downtime.  Yeah yeah. Before I get to the album I just want to ask - like the four of you all have not been able to see each other. Do you miss each other?  I miss all the guys. Yeah for sure.  Yeah. We actually saw each other not too long ago. We had to sign a bunch of album covers and postcards for fans. We did it in Carlos' backyard you know suited up in gloves and whatnot. But yo it was literally like my first like contact with some - with my friends you know in a minute.  It is funny because you have Bardo at one end of a long table and Gabriel at the other end with masks on their face and gloves. And I am like you know on the other side of the yard talking to them. It is like wow this is the world we live in today.  Oh totally. I want to talk about the album. I have been playing it a lot. My colleague Andrea has been playing it nonstop. I like it. And I want to break down one song that I probably had on repeat the most. It is called Moment Of Joy. It is like perfect SoCal riding music.    I am like a cloud shape-shifting everywhere. Above the ground I am flying through the air. Right past the crowd my heart is screaming loud.  What is this song about? What is the moment of joy in that song basically?  It was just a vibe man. You know I mean? It is just really a vibe.   This moment of joy is keeping me high. THis moment of joy is the light that shines every day.  It was a vibe though that I had with my daughter one time. I was just - literally when I say her - her light that shines right? - I was - just something that I connected with with my daughter. She was just singing or something. Or like I just latched onto a moment you know? And you know how it is when you latch onto a moment Sam. Like you are kickin it or you are with your - I started following your your page on Instagram. And I was just like I see that you got a dog. I am sure you know you caught your moment of joy.  Oh yeah.  You know it is something that lands on you.    Her light that shines is infinitely precious.  You know just hearing you talk through this it is like what I hear you getting at is this idea of mindfulness and this idea of being present and using your senses to just find beauty where you can wherever you can. And that is a particularly important thing to do right now when you cannot take yourself outside. You have got to find those moments of joy then hold on. If it is a concert if it is your daughter in the backseat if it is your dog - take the moments.  Yes exactly. And it is just like - I think a lot of people get lost in the superficialness  of everything especially I guess we are musicians and we are up in the mix and the musical milieu. And you know it is hard to communicate sometimes the essence of what you are feeling - you know? - even though that is what you are there to do. Right? Like we are all here to like kind of express ourselves and to be ourselves you know as musicians now. But within the music industry obviously like especially in Los Angeles it can be very jaded and it can be very like - OK well I listened to this for 10 seconds. I am not feeling it - moving on. But now at least for me that is part of my mission in doing this is you know there is a lot of depth and beautiful energy in the process of making music and the process of just living now. I guess it is a challenge to the listener. You know like yo dig in.  Dig in.    She is the pink elephant in the room.  So you all said a few times now that like there is just like a certain vibe. And I feel the vibe you are talking about in this album. But I want you - like if you could put your fingers on the vibe how would you describe the vibe of the album in like a few words?  This record is like a sea change for us. Stylistically we wanted to explore different textures different rhythms that we might not have done before on previous records. And so that was a nice shot in the arm for us and inspired us to try new things.  Yeah.  What is the vibe of this record? The vibe is to just like have you throw it on in your car - you know open it up on Spotify or wherever you are going to play it. If you have got the CD put it in. Just bump it.    The skyscrapers are tall. What you gonna do when they fall?  You know like we are just trying to make bumpin music that is undeniable. It is lit. You know what I am saying?  It is lit .    All this trouble as not worth the thrill.  I also enjoy how with the album it does not fit in any one genre. It is a little funk. It is a little soul. It is a little like throwback retro like low-rider music. Like you all have always been genre nonspecific but this one feels expressly so. And I like that too.  That is amazing.  Thank you.  And you know that was really our - that is always kind of been a goal is just - how could I put it? Like you know everybody's trying to lump everything into a genre. Like I said going back to the superficial aspects of music or et cetera the language of music you know it is like - we are all - we all use it. I mean I am not trying to say that I do not use it. I also like classify things that I listen to. But now it is like - but if you hear what I listen to it is all over the place. And - but there is a common thread to it. You know dope music is just dope music.  Put that on a T-shirt.   All right time for a break. When we come back I ask Bardo and Carlos about issues that come up a lot in Chicano Batman's music - race and class.    Invisible people - we are tired of living in the dark.  You know we have talked about how like your music is just a vibe and it is cool vibes. And you know songs like A Moment Of Joy  are all about being present and appreciating the beauty in life. But also there is stuff on here that is inherently political about things like race and class which is the theme throughout all of your work. But I want to talk now about a song that speaks just to that the song Invisible People. Who are the invisible people?  It is everybody. All of us are invisible when we you know - you are invisible to the tax man. You are invisible to - I do not know maybe the person at the grocery store. Living in a big city you are pretty invisible because of the amount of people because of history because of politics because of all these things that really you have no control over. And you know the truth is is you know you could be black white you could be Latino. Whatever it is you know these are all just classifications that lump you into something that are not necessarily who you are. You know? That is not who I am. You know? All these terms that have just been there you know since we were born.  Well you all say in the song quote...    The concept of race was implanted inside your brain.  The concept of race was implanted inside your brain. And I heard that and I was like - you know what? You are right. You are right. When you all have a lyric like that in a song like Invisible People what do you want people to take from it? And does the intended message vary based on the race of the listener?  That is a great question. And the truth is it is going to change depending on the person. But I mean I think the core message is this - that you know it is - we are just all human you know? And we are all - that is just it man just looking at all of the different labels and really start to question them you know? Down to - whiteness is a big one because everybody has you know gone through the school system and learned about civil rights. And all those - these different terms are just kind of thrown at you I think from day one to pretty much just kind of like have you believe them you know not necessarily to question them. You do not start to question those things until like you are in college in certain classes maybe if you are lucky enough to have a teacher that is really kind of looking at it as a construct you know?    It is time to start all over. You best believe we are taking over. Spinnin' the world around you...  In thinking about writing songs about race and talking about race in your work you all have been doing that. But has the way that you conceptualized race in your music changed recently? This is you all's first album since the 2016 election. It is an album that is coming out in the midst of a pandemic in which we know different races are affected differently. Like is this moment making you all through your work and just in your lives maybe think about race differently?  I will just say that we were not trying to be so expressly political. Like for this album for example if I was - if I am going to make a stand like that or make a statement like that then I wanted to make it hit you know and I wanted to make - refine it. You know? I feel like this message is a refined message and I think it is a strong one. You know? It gets straight to the heart of the matter. You know? It says the concept of race was implanted in your brain like straight up. And I feel like we all have that problem. People in our own community of Latinos of Mexican  or whatever it is - have a very narrow-minded kind of outlook on life. You know? It is not just like white Americans. It is everybody. I mean narrow-mindedness in relation to race or class or politics or music or whatever it is has you know - that is really the problem.  Totally.   When we come back how Chicano Batman's music is perhaps the ultimate reflection of their home - Los Angeles.   It is so interesting hearing you all talk hearing you all unpack this idea of your music being a little bit genre-less  unpacking the ways in which your music talks about race in this certain way. Like it all feels very LA to me. Like hearing you all talk about the album the one like universal theme that I am hearing here is that like this is an album and this is music that can only really come from Angelenos.  Look we are from LA. But we are also like - we are also a melting pot. That is what LA is.  Exactly.  I am Mexican Colombian. Carlos is Salvadoran Mexican. Gabriel is from Colombia. Eduardo's from - you know he is pretty much from East LA. That is LA like in itself. Like it is just like - and I think that is - at least for me that is what Chicano Batman was always about and kind of like challenging what this notion of being an Angeleno or an American or a person is about. You know? It is like - you know there is people who have all kinds of different identities. You know. It is like a DNA test. I took my DNA test. And you know I am African bro. I am European. I am Native. You know I am all those things. And it is like how do you represent that in today's day and age? It is difficult.  Yeah. And like that is the beauty of a band like yours. And that is the beauty really of LA. Like it is this place where everything is just there and you just see it all. And in thinking of that vibe - this vibe of the band that is kind of this bit of everything Carlos what song from your album do you think most speaks to that unique spirit?  Well I do not know. You have like a song like Manuel's Story which is like kind of displaying the multicultural inspiration that goes into making a record of ours.    The other day my uncle told me a story. He said son it gets a bit gory.  For me that song is actually - the drum beat is inspired by German progressive like prog rock music.    ...Heavy contraband. They came for him. He was not there. They came for me. The drug cartel made me a refugee.  But then you take Bardo's lyrics and he is telling the story of a family member escaping the drug cartels in Colombia. And then you have this crazy mix of styles and stories and it just creates something new and eclectic.    I saw the malice in their eyes. But I held a .22 to their surprise.  When you all can finally all get back together as a band doing your thing - that first show that first concert - where do you play and what song do you open with?  What song was going to be on our setlist Carlos for shows?  Yeah. When we were rehearsing for Coachella the setlist was leaning really heavily on all the new material. I think we were going to open a Color My Life just have Gabriel hit the groove hard from the downbeat and then we just come in after four beats.   I think we would just be grateful to be able to be in a place together where you know it would make sense that everyone could be safe and healthy for it to happen.    Are you a lucid dream? That is what it seems. I am not really sure if it is real. But I just have to say I found my way. The forest got some magical feel yeah.  And listeners close your eyes and imagine you are hearing this song at a wonderful outdoor concert with Chicano Batman and the sun shining and a perfect breeze and everything's great. Let us imagine that.  There you go. That is amazing. I am down for that.  It is like the Berlin Wall just fell.   The war is over. We won and it is a celebration.  The war is over.  That is right.  Yep.  Thanks again to Carlos Arevalo and Bardo Martinez of the band Chicano Batman. Their newest album Invisible People is streaming right now wherever you get your music. I suggest you listen to it. It is a very calming relaxing vibe.    Just a beam of light shinin' on me.  This episode was produced by Andrea Gutierrez with help from Jinae West and it was edited by Jordana Hochman. Listeners per usual we love hearing not just new albums from bands like Chicano Batman we also love to hear from you on this show. Email me at any time throughout any week. Send a picture of your dog or your cat or your newborn baby. Send some audio sharing the best part of your week. Whatever it is just hit us up at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. OK. We are back on Friday. Till then thank you for listening. Stay safe. Stay sane. Stay home too. OK? I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon.    With the feels I am on. Yeah yeah. 