 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show Asia correspondent for NPR Elise Hu and NPR Weekend Edition editor Barrie Hardymon. All right let us start the show.   I liked that one.  I do too.  Yeah yeah. All righty. Hey you all. This is NPR's Sam Sanders here - It is BEEN A MINUTE. Each week we start with a different song. I will explain this song in a second. It is one of my favorite songs of all time. But first as Aunt Betty said today here with me Barrie Hardymon editor with NPR's Weekend Edition a show that you can hear on your radio Saturdays and Sundays.  I know. It is like - it is that thing with the knobs.  And all the way from Seoul - the capital of South Korea - NPR's Asia Correspondent Elise Hu. Hi. It is late there huh?  Oh hey. Yeah annyeonghaseyo to all of the Korean speakers out there. It is 11 - yes 11 p.m.  Wow.  Well thanks for staying up late for us.  Happy to do it.  So this song - I want you guys to hear some more of it.  Yeah.  It makes my heart sing.    Remember what I taught you. Keep your heart three stacks. Keep your heart...  Keep your heart three stacks. Such a good sample.    Keep your heart. Man these girls is smart - three stacks - these girls is smart. Play your part.  You know this song?  No.  You know that voice.  I know the voice. I know the sample but I cannot - Andre 3000.  Yes.  Oh my God.  Yes so this is probably Andre 3000's best guest verse ever. He was on a song called International Player's Anthem by a rap duo called UGK. But the song which is...  Also from Houston.  Also from Houston to represent - you know. But this song is so great. Andre's verse is so great. And I play this song because Andre 3000 had a wonderful profile in GQ this week kind of like a check-in with him...  Oh nice.  ...Because it is been years.  Yeah. I was - yeah.  He has not had an album out since The Love Below which was like '04.  Oh my God and which occasionally still plays in my car .  As it should. As it should.  It is '04 in my car sometimes.  Yeah my favorite quote from the whole piece is he is asked about why he is been so out of the spotlight and he says quote hip-hop is about freshness. You can always hop but you will not always be hip.  Oh my God.  He was just like you got to know when to sit out. What is your favorite Outkast song Elise?  So I was about to throw you another quote that we use in journalism a lot which is also from Outkast which is you are only as funky as your last cut.  Yeah.  So if you have not had a good story on in a while or something that you are proud of you know you can kind of get down in the same way. So that is another life motto.  From Andre 3000. He is such a star.  Yeah.    Hate to see you all frown but I would rather see her smiling. Wetness all around me true but I am no island. Peninsula maybe.  All right we are here to talk about what happened this week. There is so much to talk about - a terror attack in New York. Indictments came down in the investigation of President Trump's campaign and possible ties to Russia. Reps from Facebook and Twitter testified on Capitol Hill also about Russia. And the Astros won the World Series.  Go Astros.  Yeah yeah. There is a lot more to talk about besides that. We will get to it all. But first let us begin the week as we always do. I ask my guests to describe how this week of news felt in only three words. I know Elise is up to the challenge. You are first.  Up and down. So it was a mesmerizing World Series. Congratulations to the Astros. I do not know if you all saw this photo of a couple in a flooded-out home celebrating the Astros win.  Wow.  Wow. Wonderful.  But it was so moving and it was like OK got to give it to Houston. There were lots of highs there. Same with Halloween. I love Halloween.  It is a great holiday.  And so things had started out really great and then took a real turn for us you know as a company and then...  Yeah.  ...And news events - yet another terror attack in New York of course which was really you know difficult to deal with at just - as the same time we were dealing with you know a crisis at NPR which I am sure we can hit a little in a little bit as well. So this week felt exhausting in that way because it was all over the place.  Yeah. I am going to go next. My three words are bigger and bigger because one story that I have been low-key obsessed with the last several months keeps growing and this is the story of Russia's use of platforms like Facebook and Twitter to affect last year's election here in the U.S. So we know that this week for two days reps from Facebook and Twitter were on Capitol Hill testifying before Congress. And every week it seems the extent to which they reveal how much Russia was involved on their platforms grows. This week Facebook said almost 150 million people on Facebook and Instagram were exposed to Russian influence or ads. That is up from just a few days ago. And if you will recall months ago Facebook was saying do not look over here. It just keeps growing right? On Twitter some 2700 accounts were tied to a Russian group called the Internet Research Agency.  I love that name.  Right?  .  These are like those lobbying firms - like so-and-so for freedom. You have no idea what it really means.   Yes yes.  Exactly. And Twitter had first said that it was just about 200. Like so the numbers keep growing. There is some 1100 videos on YouTube that were Russia-created a bunch of Facebook groups for liberal and conservative causes that were Russia-related. And my question with this is like - all right - which of the versions of this story that Facebook and Twitter tells us is true? If the numbers are so big now and months ago they said there was none were they lying to us or were they just not informed either about the full extent of Russia's influence? I do not know.  Well it shows the extent to which platforms control our lives right? And that we are essentially - and our democracies are essentially - dependent on companies and their benevolence and their you know - and their - we are essentially trusting Google and Facebook and Twitter with making good decisions for society. And I do not know that companies can carry that sort of responsibility.  Yeah.  And what it shows about algorithms - the formulas that help decide what you see on your news feed for example - is that a lot of developers and a lot of tech companies assume or have this general faith that algorithms can be neutral or that they are not biased. But of course algorithms are programmed by people right?  Yeah.  So there is decisions going in here. And so these great American companies that are making products that the world is starting to use - they are also not quite grappling or sufficiently grappling with the consequences of their creations.  Oh yeah.  And I think that is really dangerous and has not been interrogated enough.  All right Barrie you are last. You have three words to describe this week of news - go.  So I am going to go with - truth will out.  That is a weird wording.  It is actually...  I am used to hearing truth comes out.  Yeah. No well actually that is from Merchant Of Venice she says nerding  out.  Oh look at you.  That is a Shakespeare quote.  We are so lowbrow...  You are like I got to edit for that guy.  ...That we try to make fun of Barrie.  Let me edit that guy.  Oh your English phrasing was not great there.  I need to talk to William.  Oh actually that was Shakespeare.   That was like - that felt really good. I am not going to lie to you. It felt really good.  I do not know if you have heard of him - this guy Bill Shakespeare.  Right from London. Good guy.  So truth will out. What does that mean?  Yeah which is that no matter what you do your secrets are going to come to life. And I think this is the week we saw that in a couple places...  OK.  ...I mean certainly with the federal indictments in the Mueller investigation. This is maybe a case in which the truth did come out at exactly the time and place that Robert Mueller wanted it to.  Yeah.  But these things are going to come out. And then of course you know we have seen over the past couple of weeks sexual harassment stories coming to light from you know - certainly starting with Weinstein. This week the allegations against Kevin Spacey...  Yeah.  ...Became - got deeper and deeper and worse and worse. And then of course here in our own institution our VP of news Michael Oreskes also stepped down. Actually he was a VP as well - a senior VP.  Yeah.  He was extremely high-level.  He was the top of our newsroom.  Exactly.  Yeah.  Exactly.  So he stepped down this week. Catch us up on the allegations in the reporting that led to his resignation.  So I think some of that reporting is not quite wrapped up yet.  Yeah.  I think it is not quite clear what happened. But on Halloween The Washington Post's Paul Farhi broke the story that two women at The New York Times had accused Oreskes of forcibly kissing them. And obviously that is bad. But what was worse also is that it was in the context of job interviews. And then also a story...  But that was at The Times.  ...That was at The Times which was like 20 years ago.  This was like 20 years ago. OK.  And then you know I guess hours later David Folkenflik our media reporter caught up and reported that a producer here had also had an experience with him that was not physical contact but was still...  A very inappropriate conversation.  ...An extremely inappropriate...  Over dinner.  ...Three hours.  Sexual in nature.  That was sexual in nature.  Yeah.  That she had - to her very great credit - reported immediately because it is really hard to report...  Oh yeah. Oh yeah.  ...Which is a thing I think we are finding out in the next couple weeks. So this is - yes - this has sort of dominated. And since then more dominoes have fallen - women who had contact with him in both professional arenas outside of the building and inside the building. I think there have been now five...  Oh wow.  ...Women that have come forward since then.  Yeah.  And yeah it is been a week in this newsroom.  And so you know Michael Oreskes is gone now. But I think there are more questions about when top brass at NPR knew about Mike and his behavior and whether they acted as quickly as they should have. A lot of folks say they did not act until The Washington Post story came out.  Well - and especially for those who do not want to or might not sort of know these individual characters I want to broaden this conversation because in these situations companies tend to instinctively do two things which NPR did here. And we see this with companies that we cover. But now we are seeing it with our own. They silo information. And then they centralize decision making about how to respond. So with the siloing of information employees were asked a few weeks ago to start alerting management individually if they personally experienced anything. So when there is behavior that is like pernicious or ambiguous that means you have a lot of individual managers and employees making a bunch of individual decisions about how to respond to isolated acts. And so what that means for the company is that that limits the company's ability to essentially detect patterns.  Right. Right.  And so managers are forced to make these individual decisions in isolated incidents to say like oh well maybe that was one-off. And I am not sure whether it crossed the line. And I am having to personally make an individual decision about where the line is instead of having like wide values as an organization right?  It brings up a thing that I think is really interesting because I am a woman so I am part of a whisper network.  Yeah.  I think people that know me might just call it...  You are whisper.  ...A busy ladies Bible club.   But you know I am part of a whisper network. So at least I - you and I have talked about this. That - it was well-known that you know I would not take a meeting alone with him. This was well-known. And I will also say that that is - I understand. That is a hard thing. You know you heard Jarl say a couple of times in that interview we cannot act on rumors and gossip. And I think what we are going to have to start struggling now with in the age of Weinstein and Oreskes and you know the many many many more shoes that are going to drop - what is a company to do about gossip and rumors because it is been called gossip I think in order to diminish it. It is women's stuff. It is gossip. We are just talking. But what it was really doing was protecting us. We were all telling each other...  Watch out.  ...Be careful. That is a bad guy. We know that is a bad guy. So what - I honestly do not know the answer. What are you to do when there are rampant rumors? I do not know and I have - you know I had asked. I have - you know there have been times before October 31 that I did ask senior management...  What they are going to do.  ...You know what they were going to do. And I do not know the answer to that and I suspect we are all going to struggle with that.  That is another question I have. Like not to speak ill of any of our HR staff here at NPR. I am sure they are doing their job the best that they can. But there have been multiple instances in organizations besides NPR where it seems like HR is the place complaints like these go to die.  Because the HR - their job is to protect the company. Their job - you know we do say go to HR. But you know it is interesting - on our show a couple of weeks ago after Weinstein broke we talked to an HR - an old HR rep who had been watching you know at Uber and all of these other - I mean this has been going on for a while right? And she - it was interesting. She said HR is totally neutered. You should go to HR but your best bet is to band together with other women and go to the press.  Wow.  Now what that means again is we are going to have to find better ways to do this because you know again I think many women like - you know I have been here for 12 years. I met my husband here. This institution is important to me.  Yeah.  I do not want to go outside of - you know like I want a method...  To handle it inside the house.  ...That is not HR...  Yeah.  ...And is not the press but protects it. And I think that is the thing that we are going to have to find out - what - like how to bring those silos together like you say at least into a place that we can all trust.  Yeah. You know it is - after we tape this show there is going to be an all-staff meeting on Friday. This is the first all-staff meeting that is happened since this week of news about Michael Oreskes. We will see what comes out of that. But the latest reporting from our NPR media correspondent David Folkenflik - he has reported that two senior staff members raised concerns about Michael Oreskes - nonspecific but still concerns - in the recent past. And that was known and those complaints were raised before The Washington Post story. As of right now the latest that we have from CEO Jarl Mohn came from a note to staff yesterday. He said quote I let you down. I should have acted faster and more decisively. I am committed to fixing what is broken. As one step I am hiring an outside law firm to conduct a review of how we handled the matter. So more to come.  Yup. I am wearing a Betty Friedan T-shirt.  Do it.  .  Coming up more news of the week - a long-distance call to someone even further outside of the U.S. than you Elise. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. We will be right back.  Hey it is Guy Raz here host of How I Built This with the recommendation for another podcast for you to check out - namely How I Built This. Every week I talk to the people behind some of the most inspiring companies and brands in the world with stories of incredible persistence grit and insight. You can find How I Built This on the NPR One app or wherever you get your podcasts.  All right. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with NPR foreign correspondent covering Asia Elise Hu in South Korea. Hi.  Hello.  And Barrie Hardymon right here next to me in D.C. editor with Weekend Edition.  That is me. Hello.  Thanks for being here.  Sure.  All right. Before we get to the next segment quick yes-or-no answer. This week Disney announced a live-action version of The Lion King coming out in 2019. I am usually against remakes of classics like this but the casting is kind of awesome. Donald Glover is Simba. Beyonce is Nala. James Earl Jones is Mufasa. And Seth Rogen and Billy Eichner is Timon and Pumbaa. So yeah or nah?  Oh yeah.  I think this means no worries for the rest of our days.  Oh.  True story. True story.  I can co-sign this. I can totally co-sign this. I am about it. And I want to hear like a formation rendition of the Circle Of Life.  Oh yes. Yeah. All my lions get in formation.  .  That is right. I am such a nerd. Yeah.  I love it. All right. Now it is time for something that we call Long Distance...   ...Where we call a listener somewhere in the world and talk to them about the news in their neck of the woods. There was so much going on this week all over the place. We wanted to call someone who is far far away from all of it. So we are connecting via Skype to Brooke Marshall . Brooke you there?  Yeah I am right here.  Hey how are you?  I am doing good. How are you?  I am good. You are on the line with my friends Elise and Barrie. Tell them where you are right now.  Hi guys. I am calling from McMurdo Station in Antarctica.  Whoa. What is the weather like?  Cold.   Yeah it is cold and sunny right now.  How cold?  Oh that is the dream.  Probably like 9 degrees. So not that bad.  Oh that is bad.  Wait. In Antarctica do you use Celsius or Fahrenheit?  Oh good question.  Oh. You know I feel like I should make the switch but I am still stuck on imperial.  So it is 9 Fahrenheit.  Yeah it is 9 Fahrenheit.  Below freezing. OK. OK.  So that is super cold.  That is cold. That is cold.  That is no joke.  Yeah. So you are at McMurdo Station in Antarctica. It is a U.S. research facility with - what? - like a thousand scientists and researchers and support staff.  Yeah.  And so you are a part of the support staff there. Tell me how you got that job.  Yeah. So I am a steward in the galley.  What does that mean?  And I wash dishes. I scrub pots. I refill the food when it runs out. I mop. I deep clean.  So you went all the way to Antarctica to do those things.  Well I agreed to do all of these things so I could be in Antarctica.  Aha.  Uh-huh I get it.    How long was the application process?  Long. I first applied in March of 2016 got rejected and then basically rearranged my entire life to fit the qualifications that I needed to get this job - so about a year and a half total.  How did you have to rearrange your life to become qualified for this job?  Well they require that you have three months of relevant experience so I had to become a server become a waitress.  Huh.  And so I did that for - yeah for about nine months.  Wow.  ...To get all the relevant qualifications yeah.  That is so cool. How long have you been down there?  This is just about three weeks.  Oh.  Oh you are new.  How long are you there Brooke?  Through February.  OK.  You have got to tell us about the menu because you are serving food - right? - in a cafeteria. And I happen to love cafeteria food because there is theme days right? There is like chicken fried steak Friday.   So tell me a little bit about the menu and what is actually delicious.  We have these awesome action stations. So today was burger bar. We have taco Tuesday. There is a burrito bar.  Taco Tuesday - nice.  I love it.  We always have like...  Big fan of that taco Tuesday.   We had a macadamia nut tart today and this cake that was just flying off the shelves.  Can I go to Antarctica?  I know. I was going to say...  I know. We got to come and visit you.   Yeah you are most welcome.  So three weeks in how have you - or have you - kept up with what is going on back in America?  I really have not. There are - someone prints out copies of The New York Times Digest and scatters them around the galley. So sometimes you might find one from like October 28 and that is kind of your news or like you might overhear a snippet of the news on the radio if it is not too staticky. But yeah for the most part I have been out of touch and it is kind of nice.  Yeah and there is no Wi-Fi right?  No Wi-Fi. You have to get on a actual computer that is like hooked up to the wall.  Is it like the dial-up sound still?  No .  OK I was hoping.  You think it is that bad.   So then if you are not consuming as much news as you have been about America what is been the biggest change you have noticed in yourself being that unplugged in the last three weeks?  I am a lot less stressed.  I bet.  There are so many extracurricular activities here. Like I am a part of a club we call the old ladies' card club where we play UNO and talk noise. And this summer I was listening to a lot of news - like just multiple podcasts per day. And I would have to like take a break and listen to Bob Marley every now and then to just de-stress.  Yeah.  Now I - yeah it is just not there anymore.  So this is a lesson to our listeners. Once you are done hearing this podcast turn everything off.  But do go all the way through this one.  Yeah yeah. So what are your plans for the weekend? You are going to have some fun?  Yeah I am going to do some writing and go to brunch with some friends.  There is brunch down there.  Oh my God. We have the best cheese bar. It is amazing.   But like is it bottomless mimosas? What are we talking about? Is it like brunch brunch?   No .  OK. I am going to send you some Korbel.  No mimosa.   I need to have a mimosa this weekend. Hey well I am glad that you are enjoying your kind of detoxed life down there - or news detoxed at least. And I hope you have a wonderful brunch this weekend. And what time is it there? You should get some rest. It is late huh?  It is 30 a.m.  Oh my goodness.  Thank you for staying up with us.  Be safe. Send some pictures.  Yeah absolutely.  ...Of the food.  Thank you so much you guys. Oh OK.   Thank you so much. Bye.  Yeah have a good one.  Bye great to chat.  Bye.  Bye.  I do not know when is the last time I have been unplugged from the news for three weeks.  Oh I cannot think of it. I have not. I do not know what that would be...  Elise do you? Have you been unplugged from the news for three weeks before?  Never done it. Attempted it during a maternity leave - I think I lasted about 3 12 days.  Oh wow.  But still that was a long time especially in these news cycles.  Yeah. Oh yeah. Totally.  Listeners I want to talk to you for this segment. If you want us to give you a call and hear about anything going on where you live drop us a note. Email me at any time. Tell me what is going on in your neck of the woods - SamSandersnpr.org.   All right it is time to talk about our main story of the week. This is the president's big foreign trip to Asia. It is going to be an 11-day trip all throughout Asia. Elise you are in Seoul the capital of South Korea. Trump will be in South Korea on his way throughout the region. Where all is he stopping?  This is November 3 through November 14 - five different countries in Asia - U.S. allies of Japan and then South Korea and then over to Beijing China. And then there are summit meetings - ASEAN and APEC - which are really key regional conferences. Those are going on in the Philippines and in Vietnam.  That is a lot.  So this is the longest time a president - a U.S. president has spent in Asia in a couple decades.  So why are they doing this long long long trip?  Well every year the U.S. president tends to go to APEC.  That is the Asia-Pacific...  Asia-Pacific Economic...  ...Cooperation.  Yes I think that should be right. And then the other one is is Association of Southeast Asian Nations. And those two conferences happen together because so many heads of state go to them. And so those are in Vietnam and the Philippines. And I have covered APAC and ASEAN the last couple of years and they tend to be pretty important just for heads of state to show up and affirm that these alliances matter - right? - across this region where half of all of humanity lives. And then the other part of the trip is Japan and South Korea. Japan and South Korea need a lot of - they are longtime U.S. allies. There is a lot of military assets in both of those countries. And then you know this is a tense time with regard to North Korea and Japan and South Korea are North Korea's neighbors. So that is happening. And then obviously China being the major player in Asia - and what the U.S. needs to be a partner in the North Korea issue - that is going to be discussed when the president is over in Beijing.  Yeah I want you briefly to catch us up on the latest with this North Korean nuclear standoff I guess you could call it. It has not really been front-page news in the U.S. for a few weeks because of other stuff. But like I feel like the last we checked in on this there was an escalating war of words between North Korea's leader and our own. North Korea was kind of successful in launching some bombs. But what is the latest of the status of their nuclear program?  Well we should back up. They have not tested - I guess they were fairly successful in these bombs . I mean I do not know what successful means.   Right.  A little bit pregnant you know...  So I guess...  Right.   I guess I am just like being lawyerly here.  No that is fine. Correct them yes.  But yes they have tested now six nuclear devices and the most powerful one yet earlier this year and also launched several - test launched several ballistic missiles - their first intercontinental ballistic missile this summer which coincided with U.S. Independence Day. And so it is just been a series of provocations throughout the year in which North Korea's capabilities seem to be improving.  Yeah.  And that makes the neighbors in the region a lot - very nervous. We had two flyovers of Japan by North Korean missiles this year. And so Japan had to put out emergency sirens and emergency text alerts warning people...  Oh wow.  God.  ...To take cover and be careful of possible missile debris. So this was really kind of Cold War-type stuff going on.  Elise I would - because you have spent so much time I know also in Japan - when - have you talked to anybody about what it felt like to get that text message?  Because that is...  Yeah I went right over there. So after that happened I flew over to Hokkaido which is the - a northern island of Japan. And a lot of senior citizens happened to be awake that - because it was early in the morning. It was like 6 oclock in the morning. And I do not know if you have - for those of you all who have not been to Japan lately like the Japanese population is quite old so there is a lot of elderly...  Right yup yup yup.  ...And especially in Hokkaido. And so I interviewed some of these folks who were attending a missile-alert drill - a missile drill  in the wake of the flyover.  Oh wow.  And yeah it was - the one lady is really at the front of my mind. She said it reminded her of when she was a little girl during World War II and she had to actually do an evacuation. And so to have that dredged up was really difficult.  My question for you Elise - you know we have seen President Trump engage in this war of words with North Korea. I think just before he boarded a plane for Asia he had been tweeting and saying some stuff that was a bit provocative. And that makes it seem as if there is no negotiation happening right now between North Korea and the U.S. But from what I understand there is still some back-channel diplomacy happening between the two countries. What do we know about that?  The back-channel communication is largely limited to humanitarian purposes. For instance there had to be communication in order to get the release of the U.S. college student from UVA who grew up in Ohio Otto Warmbier who came back in essentially a coma and then died several days later here in the United States. And so there was definitely communication between the U.S. and North Korea in order to get him back. But beyond that there is no - at least as far as my sources understand there is no engagement happening in terms of trying to return to the table offers on either side of concessions in order to kind of get to a place where negotiations can be happening about the nuclear program. North Korea does not want to put nukes on the table. It does not believe that what they are doing is wrong because they argue that this is justified because they have to defend themselves against the evil imperialists of the United States. And as the rhetoric increases in the public and as this gets more and more dangerous as the people in D.C. talk about the military option like there really needs to be an offramp and there does not seem to be a path to an offramp right now.  You know another thing that I am watching right now is how Trump's presidency is affecting kind of the balance of power in the region. We have seen kind of in recent months an ascendant China you know for a few reasons. One - the U.S. never joined the TPP - the Trans-Pacific Partnership - so they are not a key player in terms of trade in the region which gives China a heads-up. Also this erratic language from President Trump is pushing countries like South Korea to kind of warm to China looking for some stability in dealing with North Korea. How is Trump affecting the balance of power over there now?  Well him being absent at one of the - so we talked about EC and all these nerdy diplomatic conferences. One that is tacked on at the very end of this long trip is called the East Asia Summit. And Trump is just not even showing up at that one.  Wow.  And so that is definitely ceding the floor to China in that you know you can argue that just by having the head of state there you are affirming that hey this region is important to us. But by him saying like I am not even going to attend Xi Jinping the leader of China gets to really live large and make a show of it. And so diplomatically that is kind of an own goal. But yes Sam you know pulling out of the TPP was a big deal in terms of kind of pivoting away from Asia which is the opposite direction that the Obama administration tried to go. And then the allies here are nervous. I was looking at the Pew numbers actually. And so in 2015 88 percent of South Koreans told Pew that they trusted the American president to do the right thing regarding world affairs. That is a quote - to do the right thing. Two years later - so here we are to 2017. The share of South Koreans who trust the American president to do the right thing regarding world affairs has dropped to 17 percent.  Now does that speak to the overall mood of South Koreans? Are they living their lives as usual just also pretty underwhelmed with U.S. leadership or has the Trump presidency affected day-to-day life?  Is there real anxiety?  Well yeah. I mean obviously - and we have talked about this before. South Koreans have really normalized like - the threat of North Korea has become so normalized here that you know you would not be able to live your daily life if you constantly thought some artillery was going to start striking you at any...  Yeah.  ...Moment. So yeah life goes on. But South Koreans - if you ask them they react to Trump and America right now with a real mix of befuddlement and anger because of A the handling of the North Korean threat but also his handling of the security arrangement and the trade relationship between the U.S. and South Korea.  So last question on this topic - what will you be watching most closely during Trump's Asia trip?  I want to know what the Asia strategy is. Now we have had Defense Secretary Mattis out here. We have had Vice President Pence out here. We have had Secretary Tillerson. And they have been saying the same kind of lines as the previous administration reaffirming the quote ironclad and linchpin alliance with South Korea and Japan and everything. But tensions have really been monopolized by the North Korea issue. And so I would really like to hear more about what is happening on the trade and economic fronts - and especially when you know the current administration has taken this sort of protectionist stance if you will. So there is a lot of open questions about what this looks like in 12 days after this trip is over.  All right. Thanks Elise. Taking one more quick break. We will 