  Sam Sanders here. It is BEEN A MINUTE. It is Tuesday which means it is time for our deep dive of the week. And today I am talking to Iliza Shlesinger. She is one of my favorite comedians of the moment and we talked about her new book. It is called Girl Logic The Genius And The Absurdity. It is Iliza's take on why women do what they do and how she finds humor in that. It is the same stuff that she tackles a lot in her comedy. So a bit about Iliza. She was the first woman to win NBC's Last Comic Standing. That was back in '08. And since then she has put out three big comedy specials. There was one in 2013 one in 2015 and one last year in 2016. They are all on Netflix. Also Iliza is currently on tour with new material so she works V hard. Thankfully we found some time to talk in person. We met up last week at NPR studios in New York and Iliza brought her dog Blanche the second cutest dog in the world second to my own. But yeah Blanche was adorable and a sweetheart. Anyways let us get to it. Here's me with Iliza Shlesinger. Her new book is called Girl Logic. Enjoy.   Blanche is chillaxed.  She is passed out. She is not even here.  Hey girl. Does she ever bark?  If someone knocks at a door she will bark. Or if you ignore her while you are eating. She will be like hey. I am down here.  . So I guess my first question for you is like you a working comic. You work at night.  I work at night.  How the hell did you swing a 9 a.m. interview? And you were on time.  Yes.  How did you do this?  Being on time is very important to me. I think...  Why?  Part of why I wrote this book was we always paint women with these broad strokes especially in their 30s of like you know martinis at noon pizza hung over - cannot adult today. And I am like I was up at 6 to de-puff my face for 30 to be on a phone interview at 00 to be here by 00.  And you did it.  And we did it and you know and that required last night you know not doing something fun 'ecause I had to get that sleep. I just think you know if people are taking the time to interview me like yourself or the billion interviews we have today you do the respect of showing up. You are not going to push my book if I am not interested in it.  There you go.  I think it is all about respect for your art and the people that are taking time out of their day to...  Yeah.  ...Do that for you.  Well and it is like there is this whole cottage industry of calling doing that stuff like adulting. It is like no it is just like what you are supposed to do.  It is just earning taxes. And paying them. It is what you are supposed to do. I definitely have the kind of job I could show up drunk and stoned and high and it would be OK 'ecause I am a comic.  Yes.  But that is not who I am.  That is not you.  It just is not.  Which is funny because like a lot of your comedy deals with the party goblin inside of us all...   Yeah.  ...Which is a hot mess that does not like to adult.  Does not like to do it. The party goblin I think why people like her so much is she lives in all of us. And we are all allowed that night maybe it is once a week you know where you are just like I did not think that party was going to happen and oh my God. I ate the whole thing. Yeah.  For those that have never heard party goblin...  Party goblin is this creature that lives - it is like this alter you that is inside of all of us. And it is that night where you do not think anything's going to happen. You are like I am having all these drinks this is boring. And it is that switch that gets flipped where your night goes from like snore to oh my God. We left the state.  .  And it is just this inner you. And like the next day you wake up and you are like my party goblin got me. It is the voice. It is like do that fifth Fireball shot. Go with that guy. Eat that hot dog off the floor. And she does not say much. She just kind of says like  OK. Yeah. OK. Like you can ask her anything.  OK. OK.  Let us do it. She crouches over.  She crouches over. She is got a snaggletooth a tiara a Solo Cup a red Solo Cup for a crown...  .  And she is - I just love her so much 'ecause she just wants what is best for you in the worst way. At 34 I do not see her as much as I used to.  OK.  But she is around.  Do you miss her?  No I do not miss her.  OK.  'ecause I like not having bags under my eyes.  There is that.  Yeah.  There is that. Let us talk about the book. It is called Girl Logic.  Yes.  Girl logic is a theory that you lay out in the book I suppose. What is girl logic?  So women are expected to be so many things to so many people at once. In one stride you are expected to be sexual but demure out there but conservative a good daughter a good sister mother wife by whatever expectations those are. At work maybe you are supposed to be ball busting but also being respectful but also standing up for yourself but also staying quiet. We are such complicated creatures and we are expected to do and be so many things from so many people and that factors into the way that we intake stimuli and process all of the things that we have to do all day. And so people are always like just do you. Live your life. And it is like when you are a woman it is not that easy because other people's expectations can have drastic effects on your life. So this is all about considering past present and future and every tiny decision we make and how we do it effortlessly in order to navigate life.  Yeah. And I love how you outline in the book in a way that I just do not think about as a guy simple decisions that women have to make every day are actually very complex because there are so many variables involved. Like it is not just do I have this slice of pizza or not?  Right.  It is like do I look cool if I eat the pizza?   Do I look cool if I eat the pizza?  You know can these jeans accommodate the pizza if I eat it?  Yeah absolutely. And you know I boil it down to pizza. So that is sort of like my one-plus-one-equals-two example. But the pizza one's a great one because yes there are days where you are like  that. I am starving - whatever. I am going to eat that cake. But in general - you know and that kind of goes back to the age-old debate - men and women like what do you want for dinner? And it becomes World War 3. It is not that women are choosing to be difficult. Not only do you - and this is not always but this is an example.  And not all women and not all men.  And not all women right - which in this day and age we have to have that disclaimer. This might not be you but it is my journey. Do I want pizza? OK. Am I on a diet? Did I eat pizza already? Am I feeling bloated? Am I wearing a swimsuit later? Am I going to the gym later? Did I already go to the gym? You are just factoring in things. And the aesthetic aspect of being a woman does play a big part into it because it does affect how you are judged. And you can completely disregard that but - or discard that rather. But it is a factor. And we like to think about that. So that is sort of the boilerplate example of it. So you are factoring in all these things in order to get the best version. Last time I had pizza I got sick. Oh maybe I have a dairy allergy. I do not want my nose to run. My nose runs when I eat cheese.  Oh that is a hard life.  I do not care. I eat the cheese.  .  And all girls - and by the way I am not inventing this. I am simply commenting on what I have experienced. And I think comedy when it comes from an authentic place...  It works.  So it is coming from love.  Yes like the flatbread stuff.  Yes I have been the girl that is like let us just order a flatbread and split a soda. Like do you want to split it? And it is me saying I am not better than you. I am that girl too.  I eat the flatbread.  And that is how I know you exist.  Also screw flatbread. It is pizza.  It is pizza.  Flatbread is pizza and wraps are just sad burritos.  Absolutely. Wraps are just cheese-less burritos.  Yes.  Non-Latino burritos.   Yes.  So that - you know those things factor in. I had another point. But to - and we do this in a microsecond. And this also - you also have to take into account women have these fantasies about what dinner was going to be like that night. All girls have this thing where you get like a feeling. You are like you know what? I am feeling sexual today. And then you imagine this version of a restaurant that you have never heard of. You are like it is tapas but there is candles. But it is like Mexican-inspired. But there is like fun French food. But it is like Spanish because the plates are small. But there is Christmas lights. You know and you have this night planned. And then your boyfriend's like do you want to just grab pizza? And then you are like I had a whole idea...  I had dreams.  ...About how I was going to look eating the pizza and what you were going to say to me. And you looked different. And that is because of this constant inundation of what our lives are supposed to look like from media. So you are taking into account all these things at all times.  It is never just pizza.  It is never just pizza unless it is like you are drunk. Then it is just pizza.  Then it is just pizza. Then it is just give me the pizza.   It is a really interesting time to have a book about the way women think and see the world when we are having these big conversations...  Yes.  ...About men and the way they think and see the world and their lack of logic in a lot of situations. I am thinking about Weinstein. I am thinking about Kevin Spacey. I am thinking about how there is a VIP in our newsroom that got caught up in some allegations recently and got fired for.  Sure.  What is it been like to put this book out into the world at a time when a lot of the conversation has been about men behaving badly towards women?  You know these are things I have been talking about in my standup dating back to Freezing Hot which was the second special and the Confirmed Kills my most recent one and just women's fear and sort of talking about that and touching on that. I do believe you have to have men to have feminism. Without men agreeing yes we should treat women well then it is just women arguing with each other. You know Black Lives Matter is a great example. If white people do not get that...  Yeah what is the point?  ...Then it is just black people saying black lives matter right? So you need the opposition to agree with you to make - to further your agenda.  OK.  So you need men. And a great way to bring men in - and I enjoy doing this in my comedy - is explaining my point of view in a non-confrontational way. I am not - I do not hate all men. This book is a love letter to women. And it is inviting men in just so you can see it. And I think in doing that from a perspective of love and intelligence and explanation guys want to hear a little bit more. But when you get up there and you are like I am a feminist men are disgusting then that makes good guys even be like you know what? I do not care what you have to say. So in dealing with what is happening right now these are not new concepts - the harassment rape all of these things. And these are not new things women are having to deal with. We are finally getting not so much the strength but the numbers to be able to come out and say I - this happened to me and have someone listen. So this book is at times about inner strength and my personal struggles with being perceived in a certain way because of that strength because I refuse to back down. And sometimes it is received in a good way and sometimes it is not. But you know as a woman I think what we are getting from this time is you know your story is yours. And you have a right to your life.  Yeah.  And to - you know and that is - you know we say yeah but I think a lot of women feel shamed. And I think a lot of the shaming also comes from other women. A big theme of this book is what if - and by the way there is a lot of judging in my book. But one of the themes is what if we just let women be? What if you did not judge someone for their parenting skills? Or you know what if you just walked up and said hi and gave a compliment?  Yeah.  Just giving that chance and realizing that women do not have to be your enemy which is a paradigm sort of created by men.  Because a lot of times men are just kind of like all right dude. You are cool.  Right.  We - I do not speak for all men but I feel like...  You are today.  Today I am the men. But we walk through the world less looking for male enemies I think. And it is like...  Absolutely.  ...You are just a dude. That is a dude.  Do not even think about it.  That is a dude. That is a dude.  That is a dude. And for women it is like an animal just like spotting another animal. Like what is she wearing? What does she have that I do not have? How is she going to take what I have from me? And this becomes - this is a constant thing. And it is - I say it is constant but it is not for every single woman. woman but we judge. And sometimes it is a nice judgment. Sometimes I scan a woman. I am like oh my God. She looks amazing. And I will walk up and I will just say you have beautiful hair.  You look beautiful. Yeah.  It is nice to do.  Yes.  It makes the other - and I close the book by saying you know pay a woman a compliment knowing she took as long to get ready as you did.  .  We all share this heart you know?  Yeah. Yeah.  And giving women that opportunity - and I do think you know women love to say this - like there is enough to go around. There is not.  .  However if we can teach the women in our lives if we can teach our daughters that you have something special and no one can take that away - when you have true confidence you are not threatened. When you have true confidence in your ability you bring in other women. You want to help people because you know they cannot steal your light 'ecause it is yours.  Yeah.  And that is easier said than done.  Yeah.  And it takes a long time to realize that.  Yeah. Briefly just before we wrap up the Weinstein portion of this conversation...  Sure.  ...The book is published through Weinstein Books.  Happy to talk about this.  And you have talked about how you are not going to let his drama stop your shine. Explain that to me.  Stop my shine. So this book was initially - you know and I would been working on it for about a year and a half with Weinstein Books. I have never met Harvey Weinstein. I you know...  Be glad .  Right for sure - definitely now. Happy for that. And when the story came out I was like my luck selfishly. That happened. And so my book is actually the last book to have the Weinstein insignia on it.  Whoa.  So I was like - I was talking about this yesterday. I liken it to like when your grandfather like brought home some Nazi dinnerware from the war.  .  Like somewhere in some people's house there is like a plate with a swastika on it. You are like is not this cool? Like they do not make this anymore. So I have got this print. This run of this first edition has the Weinstein W on it.  Side note - she is Jewish. It is fine .  It is totally fine to mention the word swastika. So yeah. So that happened. And I - you know I released a statement to say I completely condemn what he did. It is disgusting. But Weinstein Books as it was - it was two women. It was not a huge conglomerate. It was a - you know a small company within a big one.  So you were working with the women doing this book?  I was working with women. And I said why would I ever allow his deplorable actions to overshadow this strong friendly feminist amazing message that is in the book?  Yeah. Yeah.  So it is another example of a man doing something horrible and a woman paying the price as you said.  Yep.  So that was big for me. And I was like I am not going to back down especially when I have done nothing wrong.  Nothing.  And so now it is Hachette Books and we will not speak of the dead.   All right. Time for a quick break. When we come back Iliza will talk about something near and dear to me growing up in Texas - also wokeness and being woke and how she deals with that in her comedy even though as she says she is a bit tired of hearing that term. Spoiler alert - me too. All right. We will be right back.   So we are both Texans.  Where are you from?  I am from outside of San Antonio.  OK.  Like one we Texans are everywhere.  Everywhere.  We are everywhere.  I know.  Like everywhere I go I meet some Texans. I love it. Like how much of your Texas upbringing still influences you or does it?  I think it is...  You are from Dallas right?  I am from Dallas.  Dallas area.  No I am from Dallas.  Did I read Plano in the book?  I did attend Plano public schools for middle school but make no mistake - Dallas.  Dallas.  It is like if you are from New York and they are like oh Staten Island? You are like Manhattan.  Yeah .  But I think - I do not know. That is a good question. I - you know you grow up in Texas. There is sports everywhere there is - what is attractive. I think our childhoods stay with us to an extent so I will always think blonde hair is the way - is the way to go.   Yeah.  I am Jewish so it is not like I grew up like roping cattle or anything. 'ecause I do not want - like I think you can look at me and be like oh she was a head cheerleader - yes madam. None of that - my parents are like New York Jews.  What brought them to Texas?  It is called an in-migration. In the '80s a lot of people were moving from the East Coast to places like Dallas for - 'ecause land was cheap...  Yeah.  ...And there was industry and things like that.  Yeah.  I only know it was called an in-migration 'ecause I researched it when I wrote a pilot about it. It did not go. So I do not know. There is like - it is not as if other people do not have this but you know a fondness of country music at least for me.  Yeah.  And you know what is so strange? After the Las Vegas shooting - and I love country music - I have not had the desire to listen to it.  Really?  In the - it is the - like almost like when you stop eating sugar for a little bit then you do not want it in your coffee.  Yeah. Wow.  I just - and I planned on having it at my wedding. And I listened to it all the time. And ever since then it just feels...  Really?  ...It went from feeling warm - I do not know. Like it is a weird equation in my head. It just stopped feeling good for some reason.  Who is your favorite country artist?  Oh there is so many. I really enjoy Miranda Lambert. I do not care what people say. I like Florida Georgia Line.  Yeah.  And there is a lot - I am more song-based than artist-based.  OK.  Darius Rucker has some good songs I like.  He is real good.  Garth Brooks is great. Carrie Underwood's great.  Yeah.  Blake Shelton. Like all these people. Like you know and then '90s country. But anyway - but - so I do not know a healthy respect of sports and...  OK. You played lacrosse right?  I played lacrosse - not well but I was on the...  Were you like - so you are like a lax bro.  I am a lax bro.  .  I do not - I think women should be in the kitchen cooking. I am a lax bro. I was a very aggressive player.  Really?  I do not know. I think growing up in Texas you know you are - you are in Texas. You are in it. Like Texas lets you know that.  Yeah.  And I think it helps a little bit with a respect for people who are not quite like you when you are a coastal elite you know in that not everyone is a slack-jawed yokel and just 'ecause you are from the South does not mean you are dumb.  Yes. Yes.  And also you know being Jewish being told you are going to hell a lot .  Oh lord.  So - but I think Dallas overall is a lovely place to grow up in.  Yeah.  And I had a nice childhood.  You write in the book about not being the coolest person.  Yeah.  And like people might see...  Who is laughing now?  ...People might see you now and be like you were always the cool girl. And you write at length about how like you were not. You had a hard time making friends you said. You were the school mascot at one point.  In high school yeah.  Yeah. You did improv and that like - like so you were - I love - there is just one line where you write in the book I am nothing like the girl who rejected you. It is really powerful.  Thank you.  Yeah.  It is an interesting thing. You know people look at any girl who is not ugly...  .  ...And they are like you must have been a . And it is like you think I got this personality by like rejecting dudes? No. And I by no means was ugly and a dork and rejected. I always thought I was cool. I did not understand why other kids did not get on board. My whole life I have been like I am dope. Why is nobody getting this? And by virtue of that fact you know like I would be annoyed when like cool kids like did not care. But there was always kids that were like come sit with us. I am like no way. I am too cool for you. I would rather sit alone.  Oy .  I just always - I never said that. I always sort of had just a very clear - I just like - I know I am not a loser. I know I deserve respect. And I definitely am not as hideous as some people but I am - I knew I was not as hot as others. And as a woman you are never allowed to say that. You are never allowed to be like she is prettier than me because people will be like stop it. You are beautiful. I am like no no no. She is a model.  .  That is OK.  No that is Beyonce.  Yeah that is Beyonce.  I do not look like her .  I never will try as I might. So I think that I had always had like a healthy self-awareness.  OK.  But you know I think because we love to paint women with broad brush strokes I think especially in Hollywood in LA you know a guy looks at you and because you make him feel insecure because you carry yourself with authority people tend to look at you - we love archetypes. We love to think jock nerd cheerleader debate team queen or something.  Yes. Yes. Yeah.  But really again people are complex. You can be a jock and president of the math club. You know like life is not The Breakfast Club.  Although some days I wish it was .  Some days I wish it was. I want to be Ally Sheedy in that so bad...  Yes.  ...And leave with a hot jock. But yeah so I did - I always wanted to be funny so I sought out improv wherever I could.  Yeah.  And I did that.  Yeah.  And I would have been a cheerleader but I missed the tryouts 'ecause I thought my family was moving.  Oh.  And then I did not get to do it. But I got to be the mascot which I enjoyed so much more. I wanted to wear the hornet...  What was the costume? A hornet?  It was a hornet. I had a big stinger.  How heavy was it? How hot was it? It was Texas.  It was very hot. First time in my life I wore like a do-rag.  . I am imagining you in a do-rag now.  You had to.  Did you get the line? I used to wear one for - remember when like black guys had the waves in their hair?  Oh yeah. Remember?  Yeah. And I would wear...  They do not do that?  They still do it - well...  Well not - you do not do it.  I do not obviously. But I would do like two of my mother's old stockings with the top cut off and tie it up and then the do-rag on top of it. And you would sleep in it with grease on so you would wake up with the waves. Then you had that crease in the forehead.  I am going to go with that is a cultural experience...  Yes.  ...Particular to you.  Particular to me .  I was just sweating.  You were just sweating.  I will tell you this - my brother you know I think we are talking about like not so much appropriation but you know wanting to be like...  It is all together. Yeah.  Well he is white obviously and he wore...  He could be adopted. We do not know. But he is not.  I have a fully black brother.  .  But he would - like you know he...  He would wear a do-rag?  Yeah in high school.  OK.  Like you know kind of like - that is like - whatever.  That was the thing.  Under the throwback hat whatever.  Yeah with the tag still on it.  Yeah. So he had this like you know under - 'ecause it is the look. I do not think...  It is the look.  I do not think at the time and especially when you are younger you do not know...  You do not know.  ...Why black guys wear that. You just know that they do.  Yes.  And that is cool. And you are cool.  And you want to do it too. Yes.  So he was doing that. And we got in a fight and I ripped off his hat and it was not a wave cap. It was a sleeve from a shirt that he had just put over his head for the look of the part around your forehead.  No.  And it was just sticking straight up...  Sticking up like a little cone?  Like cut - like Bart Simpson. And I to this day - like I take him seriously. He is like a serious - he - you know he works hard whatever. He is got - but that is how I think about my brother me ripping off a hat and being like what is that?  . I love it. I hope he is listening.  There is no way he knows what NPR is so it is OK.   So walk me out of Texas. You studied and did enough in school to make it look like you were at least trying.  Yeah.  But you were not like valedictorian. That is fine.  Really - I went to a really lovely because of my parents private school. So all my friends went to Ivys and Ivy lookalikes and I thought I might as - I might too. But...  Were your grades up there?  Nope.  OK.  I just thought I might because I was positive that once I applied they would see me and I would talk about...  Could see the real you. Yeah.  They would see that I was so smart and could not be confined by the shackles of academia I needed to roam free when really - cannot do basic algebra.  OK.  Still cannot.  So you - OK so you apply to a bunch of schools. You end up in...  University of Kansas.  ...The place where hell freezes over you wrote.  Yeah. You did - I love that you read...  I read the book.  I know you - you are very prepared. University of Kansas.  Yes.  Where I was - I did not want to go. I was let down. I did not get into any of the film schools I wanted...  Did you want to do film?  I wanted - I was going to be a film major just because I - to me that seemed like a creative path.  But you were doing improv in high school.  I did improv because like you are in Dallas Texas. You are not - you cannot audition for stuff. You know like maybe a commercial but my mom definitely was not down to like - she is like I have to work. So I just sought out comedy you know while giving myself my own education and writing scripts for my friends and sketches. And I invite all the girls over.  Oh that is cute.  In our Banana Republic outfits...  .  ...We would like re-enact like Cajun Boy  from SNL.  Yeah.  Like we would do - and I was always the one bringing them together to do this...  Yes.  ...Because I was - we wanted...  You are just drawn to comedy.  Yeah. You want to get that art out.  Yeah.  And you want to imitate it and replicate it...  Yeah.  ...And whatever. And so went to KU. I made a film there.  What is the film?  Oh my God. It was called The Stage Manager.  What is it about?  And it was about the emotions in our head that rule us and...  Girl logic.  About girl logic. But it definitely - the star was a boy.  OK.  It was - he dies in the end.  .  Everybody dies.  Did you like it?  I was proud. It was - you know what is so fascinating? And I wish - whenever people talk about children they are like kids just think. Childlike sense of wonderment. They just go. And I did not know the limitations of filming anything. I did not know what you could and could not do. I did not know about sound design. I taught myself editing.  Oh wow.  So I just made this really long film because no one said I could not.  Yeah.  The film club gave me money.  Nice.  And I just made it. I just set up the camera. Like you just do it guerrilla style.  Oh yeah.  And you learn as you go. But when no one tells you you cannot - and this is what school is great for - then you just do.  Yeah.  And I did that with stand-up as well. I just did.  Yeah.  And that is a big part of it. People always ask like well how can I get started? Just go.  Just do it.  Norman Lear - I am buddies with him.  Nice.  And I read his autobiography. And he always said that his grandma would always say go know which means just go. Go do it. Go figure it out. Go experience it.  Yeah.  I cannot believe I just quoted Norman Lear. That is so dorky.  That was awesome. My favorite is someone would tell me there is no secret. Just keep going.  It is absolutely true. And when people ask you can I pick your brain? I am like I cannot make you famous.   I cannot give you a job.  I cannot help you.  Yeah.  Just go do it.  Just do it.  And people always be like can my sister sit down? She is thinking about comedy. I am like talk to me in five years when you have something that I can...  Critique.  Critique - or something that I could actually give you advice on...  Yes.  ...Because you do not - what am I going to tell...  You have not done anything yet.  You do not know what - it is like you are going into high school thinking about being a doctor. Can I sit down with a brain surgeon? He is like why do not you finish your gen eds first?   Yeah.  So you have to just go do it.  Yeah. Yeah. So you are at Kansas for - what? - a year.  A year.  Then you end up at Emerson.  Yeah. And I reapplied to Emerson.  OK. Oh because you would applied the first round.  Oh I applied the first time...  Ah.  ...Waiting for some of the losers to drop out and make room for me.  Aha. OK. Did you like Boston?  I loved it.  Really?  I am going back in a couple weeks...  OK.  ...To play there. Boston's a great town to go to school in.  A lot of students there.  A lot of students.  Yeah.  You have no idea where anyone goes to school because you are just out and about.  .  You know there is so many colleges. It is just fun. And you know it is a great starter city. The T - like their - I guess their train - is super easy to use. And because there is a lot of students it is just - when you are out on your own like it is a good - it is safe.  Yeah.  You know it is not - I mean obviously tons of kids go to NYU. But like New York City is like belly of the beast heartbeat. Like make it or break it. And Boston - they probably would not like it. But like it is great.  Yeah.  And it is fun.  And Boston pretends to be a big city. It is not.  All right.  It is a quaint little town...  It is not. It is very small.  ...Which is more tolerable...  It is easier.  ...Than like a New York.  Sure.  So you did film. You finished school. Did you go right to LA and were like I am doing comedy? Or what? What happened?  I did a Semester at Sea which is a little...  Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. That is a whole hour. Is it as much of a hot mess as I hear it is?  Oh it is so great.  Really?  I mean you are a hot mess when you are on it...  .  ...Because it starts off - every day you are jogging. You are working out. And then by the end you are like why is my face so fat? And it is like oh cause you are getting  canned in every country.  .  And you are with students from other schools.  Yeah.  But you know I am at Emerson in film school. When am I going to meet a kid from Arizona State? You know but we all...  .  You are all together. And you are all so close.  Yeah.  And you are experiencing the world.  Yeah.  Like the world is at your doorstep.  Yes.  You are - and you are just there. And by the way some kids get kicked off. Like you have to be safe.  Oh snap.  Like they tell you on the first day - they are like if you do drugs in another country the most we can do for you is bring you magazines when they throw you in jail.  Because they are going to throw you in jail.  Yeah. Like it is not a joke.  They might cane you. Yeah.  And you know a lot of kids are like oh my dad's got money. It is like you know who does not care? Cuban government.  .  Bye-bye.  Yeah.  So you know you get sort of a healthy respect for other cultures...  Yeah.  ...Because you are in them and you see what India looks like.  Yeah.  You see China. You see...  And you have got to respect it because you are a visitor.  You are a visitor. And you - for the first time in my life - and I would been to Europe before and I traveled - you understand why people call us ugly Americans. Even just speaking at the volume I am speaking to you at - so loud...  .  ...In a Japanese subway. So loud.  .  So you just kind of get you know that.  Yeah.  And I did that for a year. I - we would do open mic nights. And I started writing observations about...  On the boat.  Yeah.  I love it.  About girls...  OK.  ...And the way that they would talk to the guys on the boat. Everything - there always - you do not know when you are that young that men should chase you. So they were these like hot guys that