 Hi everyone. We are Elise's daughters - Eva.  Isa.  And baby Luna.  This week on the show science reporter at member station KPCC Jacob Margolis and the host of Good Luck America and a writer for Vanity Fair Peter Hamby. Let us start the show.    Hey you all. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders - It is BEEN A MINUTE. Welcome to you and our guests today science reporter from member station KPCC in Los Angeles Jacob Margolis. Hey Jacob.  Hey.  And Peter Hamby host of Good Luck America on Snapchat and contributing writer for Vanity Fair. Hey Peter.  Hey.  So this week will forever be the week that ASAP Rocky was introduced to the American Congressional Record.   It is true that the president speaks loudly at times and it is also true I think we primarily discussed ASAP Rocky.  That was EU ambassador Gordon Sondland speaking in testimony this week during the House impeachment inquiry.  Have any other rappers ever been included in the Congressional Record?   The context here that is that ASAP Rocky was detained in Sweden for an alleged assault and President Trump wanted to get him out because Kim Kardashian and Kanye West asked him to. That is a real sentence .  They have a hard line into the White House these days.  And now you are hearing No Limit the 2018 hit by G-Eazy featuring...  ASAP Rocky.  ASAP Rocky.  Yay.    Album dropping. Got the city on fire.   OK time to unpack the other news of this week. Each week we ask our guests to describe their week of news in three words. Peter you are up first - your three words?  My three words Elise are Democrats talking abortion. As you know - or might not know because the ratings were not great - there was a Democratic debate this week. Host Rachel Maddow asked a very important question of Elizabeth Warren.   Just this weekend Louisiana reelected a Democratic governor - John Bel Edwards. He has signed one of the country's toughest laws restricting abortion. Is there room in the Democratic Party for someone like him someone who can win in a deep-red state but who does not support abortion rights? Senator Warren.  Look - I believe that abortion rights are human rights I believe that they are also economic rights.  Warren dodged the question - so did Cory Booker so did Bernie Sanders. The question of whether Democrats should support Democrats in the South - like John Bel Edwards the now-second term governor of Louisiana - I do think there is a better answer to that question than just saying I blanketly support abortion and I am not even going to humor Democrats who oppose it. I interviewed Stacey Abrams a few months ago. She ran for governor in Georgia. She lost. But she is a Southerner right?  Right.  Like she is a progressive hero but she is a Southerner also. And her answer to me when I interviewed her on my show for Snapchat was that I oppose what John Bel Edwards thinks about abortion. I would argue with him till I you know lose my voice. But I would rather have a Democrat in office than a Republican who is going to kick half a million people off Medicaid than a Republican who is not going to support education funding. And I do think that right now one of the challenges of the Democratic presidential primary - again it is a primary. But they are talking to Democrats and having fights about taxing the wealthy...  Sure.  ...And splitting hairs over health care. Who is talking to the larger country as a whole? How can Democrats grow the tent? President Obama has been talking about this actually in the last few weeks - that Americans are kind of more interested in incremental progress than revolution and Democrats cannot be consumed by purity tests.  But are there that many Democrats in the South left especially because so many of them have more socially conservative positions?  I think it is probably folly to think that Democrats are going to recapture state legislatures...  Sure.  ...And federal seats in the South. But it is a margins game and it can matter. Think about Doug Jones in Alabama. Think about Beshear who just won the governor's seat in Kentucky against Republican Matt Bevin. Those are flawed Republican opponents that both those Democrats ran against but they were elected to four- and six-year terms in these states partly by motivating base Democrat voters. But there are still persuadable voters out there in this country. And just to pivot back to the presidential race again - 8.5 million people in the last election switched their votes from Obama to Trump 2.5 million people switched their votes from Romney to Clinton. People change their minds and can be persuaded. And I think heading into the next election season I think Democrats need be a little more mindful about growing the tent.  And it is so crazy because the Democratic Party has traditionally been known as the party of the big tent. And so what does that tent look like now? I get there is - it sounds like you are saying there is - because of these purity tests there is some tension there.  Well sure. I mean right now again they are speaking to base activists in Iowa in New Hampshire - these early caucus and primary states. They need to get fired-up Democrats out to vote for them. That is the game. That is the ballgame...  Yeah.  ...In the primary right? But go to South Carolina where you and I have both spent a lot of time covering politics there are your sort of croaky wearying white bros around Charleston right?  .  Who are a little more moderate. There is also African American voters who are much more culturally conservative than a lot of Democrats actually think they are. And they go to church every weekend. You know they have questions and can be queasy about this stuff. Again there are lots of voters around the Democratic primary who are not just living in Iowa right now. And I think that once you get past Iowa you have to talk to them and persuade them.  Jacob did you watch the debate on Wednesday?  I actually did not.  Fatigue?  I did not. You know what? I think I had child care duties.  .  And I just kind of had to take care of that stuff. I was - I have also been pretty sick.  Also the debate happened on the impeachment Sondland day - the big long - you know Gordon Sondland ambassador to the EU.  Yeah. I kind of tuned into that throughout the day as well.  Peter Hamby how is impeachment playing out in the competitive states where you have been on the ground?  What is interesting is that one you mentioned that long impeachment day and debate day. TV ratings for these things are bigger than normal for cable news. They are actually not that great though. Eleven 12 13 million people are tuning in every day right? That is a fraction of the country who is watching this stuff happen live.  Do they...  But that is huge for cable news.  Sure that is a...  And do they stick around all day like through all those hours?  I do not think normal humans are.  OK.  That is tough to measure - but no. At least that is big for cable news that is an incredibly low bar. Eighty percent of the country reported watching some portion of the Watergate hearings live. We live in a radically different time where people are getting fragments of information from Twitter Snapchat Instagram cable news. They are watching the recaps. They are you know busy with their families. And even journalists who care about this stuff have lives.  Even journalists have lives.  It is a challenge for Democrats and the media to explain what is going on here.  Jacob Margolis you are up. Your three words?  My three words are shootings feel normal. And this is obviously talking about the shooting in Santa Clarita last week of which I went out to go cover. And they do not feel normal obviously in that they feel OK. But when - I actually went out that night to a memorial...  Yeah.  ...For one of the students at Central Park in Santa Clarita. And talking to the students I was struck by a number of things. First off I asked them when you first heard about the shootings like when you were in school and you heard that they were happening what did you do? How did you respond? Did the active shooter drills help?  Jeez.  And it was really interesting to hear their responses. And so immediately entire classrooms - basically everyone moved to barricade themselves. They shut off the lights. They grabbed weapons. And they then proceeded to text and DM loved ones and friends assuming it was going to be possibly the last messages that they sent. And you know there is no drill that can prepare you for that. And I asked them did the - was the - did you go through that process because of the active shooter drills? And they all said basically no not really. The active shooter drills made it so that it felt a little less kind of foreign to us and it felt like it was more for the teachers to kind of keep things organized. But for all of them it really came down to - shootings are so common we talk about them so much in the media they happen so much in America that they knew instinctually like what they needed to do and that they might need to fight.  And it is not just these kids that are victimized...  Of course.  ...By this lack of feeling of safety right? It is almost - I mean the fact that all kids have to prepare...  Well and...  ...For shooter situations...  And...  I mean that - it means that there is this kind of subterranean fear at all times.  And that is another part of this - is that I asked them why Santa Clarita? Why your town? And - you know just trying to understand you know was the community - you know is this something that kind of felt like it was bubbling beneath the surface? And all of them said like why - basically why not Santa Clarita? Like none of us are surprised that this happened. We knew that something like this could happen. And you know at the park that night what was interesting to watch and what was kind of heartening was that when the media was not bugging them including myself they were all sitting in circles and laughing and crying and talking and comparing Snapchat and Instagram DMs and trying to understand exactly what happened and how they were supposed to process this going forward. And I stayed there until all of them went home. And I kind of watched that normal high school thing where it is like kids trying to find rides who are they going to hang out with - that sort of stuff. And part of me was like they absolutely went through an unimaginable trauma that they are going to have to contend with for the rest of their lives. But to have that community and have those fellow students that you can go through that with that you could talk about those feelings with is also really important. And I hope that anyone who needs help obviously gets it.  Jacob thanks for sharing that.  Thank you.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here this week with Jacob Margolis science reporter for Southern California Public Radio and Peter Hamby who writes for Vanity Fair and hosts Good Luck America on Snapchat. My three words are a pun - we not working.   Ah he gets my pun.  Ah I get it.  Ah OK. It took a minute. It took a minute.  Yeah. Yeah.  WeWork announced it was laying off 2400 employees this week. It is about 20 of the global staff - all part of the ongoing fail of WeWork which was once valued at nearly 50 billion. Investors were sold with a lot of lofty talk about community and millennials changing the way we live and work by a guy named Adam Neumann. He famously wooed the Japanese gazillionaire Masayoshi Son from SoftBank who is the head of the largest tech investment fund in the world to give him 4 billion in investment after a 12-minute meeting.  .  As someone who works for a tech company...  Yes.  ...and has gone through an IPO - really sympathize with these employees. It is really easy to buy into a mission and a culture of a place like that and really believe in it especially at a place like WeWork when you can kind of actually see it every day. Like you can go to these spaces and see people doing things. I have talked to a couple of people who work in tech who are just saying that WeWork was basically an investment in real estate.  Real estate. Yeah.  Right?  It just feels like so emblematic though of this scammy culture that we are growing up in or that millennials have kind of come into our 30s with - with Theranos with politicians.  The cult of personality and believing that someone is a God. And Adam clearly was not and is not. And I do not think anyone is. And I think we give a lot of these CEOs a lot more - you know some of them are clearly good businesspeople I guess and have invented interesting technologies. But the cult of the - Mike Isaac...  Founder.  Yeah the cult of the founder is clearly detrimental to plenty of people.  Our culture and our media celebrated tech and tech founders for the last 15 years.  Yup.  And investors and founders as much as they are heralded in our culture and have been for the last decade are flawed people too. And there just needs to be much deeper skepticism on a human level but also on a media level.  Jacob any final moral ?  So I - you know I have interviewed a couple of decent-sized tech people. And when they came into the room their press people you know were kind of bowing down and you know really praising them. And they had this air about them that they were kind of better than everyone. And I am curious for you as someone who is covered so much tech did you see that often too like as a journalist? And how did you handle something like that where you have to get through that cult of personality that kind of - the cult of the founder?  Well we have been through this arc now - right? - where they were really celebrated. Back when I was covering technology in 2013 2014 everybody believed Elizabeth Holmes. And Facebook was great you know? And so now five years later we are in a totally different reality where we are seeing everything kind of in full color. But yeah it was kind of the same thing. These folks roll deep. They have a lot of people around them whose economic interests are tied up with the company doing well. And so you have to see it for what it is.  And not to tie everything back to politics - after Obama won in 2008 a lot of Republicans who worked for McCain and George W. Bush moved to California got jobs...  Totally.  ...With Facebook got jobs with like Lyft and Uber and all of these big companies. When these founders travel and talk to reporters they are rolling deep with not just staff - former political staff who want to create photo ops who do rapid response who do crisis communications. Like it is a very thick wall for people to punch through to get to the real core of what - who these people are and what these companies do.  OK. Thanks guys. Time for a break. When we come back why does it seem like Mister Rogers is having such a moment? The big Tom Hanks movie about him comes out this weekend. And we will talk to a journalist and podcast host who is covered his life about why Mister Rogers' ideas are so resonant right now. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Elise Hu. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders - here this week with Jacob Margolis science reporter for Southern California Public Radio and Peter Hamby who writes for Vanity Fair and hosts Good Luck America on Snapchat. Hey guys.  Hey.  Hey.  So Jacob Peter we are seeing a lot and hearing a lot about Mister Rogers lately even though his show went off the air like 20 years ago. What do you all remember about Mister Rogers? Did you watch the show?  No.  Jacob Margolis.  But Tom Hanks - you know what? Tom Hanks has been my favorite actor and person in the world since I was a kid. So I am happy that he is...  So you grew up with Tom Hanks not Mister Rogers.  Yeah.  I certainly watched Mister Rogers when I was young but I do not have a memory of it. But like Jacob I think Tom Hanks is a treasure.  .  And I will see this movie also because Matthew Rhys from The Americans is in it.  And he is the best.  And I adore him.  That Tom Hanks film we are talking about is A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood. It is out this weekend starring Hanks as Rogers based on the real-life friendship between Mister Rogers and a journalist profiling him who will be played by Matthew Rhys. That is on the heels of last year's documentary Will not You Be My Neighbor? about the life and work of the children's TV host. And naturally a podcast is out now that goes deep on the man too. It is called Finding Fred. It explores who Mister Rogers was what he stood for and his most enduring messages. Writer and author Carvell Wallace is the host. And we got into why he thinks we are enjoying this Mister Rogers moment.   This is a time in which people take a lot of comfort in things that feel safe and neutral and good and unproblematic. And I also think that that he was working on a very complicated and heavy question even though he was doing it in a context that felt light and simplistic and that the question he was working on was the question of how to be good in a world where very bad things happen.  Yeah that is a good point. Can you explain a little bit about the milieu that Mr. Rogers started his show in? Take us back to that and how it might have some parallels to today.  Well you know he had a couple of starts. I mean when he started Mister Rogers' Neighborhood one of the first public service announcements he did as Mister Rogers as Fred Rogers was to address the assassination of Bobby Kennedy. And the idea of doing a children's television show to address the idea of assassination is so wild. And as he progressed through his show the social issues that America faced - racism violence a feeling that the fabric of the country was fraying. That I think holds a lot of similarities to what people are feeling now. So that may also be a reason why people are turning to his word.  Carvell I wonder what was your own relationship with Mister Rogers? Why did you come to want to make this in the first place?  Well growing up I remember the feeling of the sound of the trolley.   That trolley always resonated with me. Even when I was a little kid just the sound of it - it just triggered some feeling of magic and safety and love in me.   Now last time in the Neighborhood of Make-Believe...  You know a lot of his work was buttressed by a lot of theory - child development theory which the University of Pittsburgh at the time was leading in. And one of the things that he learned from that work was that transitions are incredibly important. And so the way the show was structured is that he transitioned from his entrance to the home.    It is a beautiful day in this neighborhood a beautiful day for a neighbor. Would you be mine?  And then a transition into the land of Make-Believe where problems were faced and addressed in this kind of dreamlike state.   We will pretend about that in the Neighborhood of Make-Believe.  And then it would transition back to his home where he would process what they would just seen.   So they decided that they could use everything for learning.  And so for me I was fascinated with him as a content maker and the ways in which he dealt with reality and dream states and the minds of children. But I also thought you know he does have a certain answer to some of our most pressing moral issues. And I wanted to draw that out and highlight that a little bit.  Yeah. I mean even though everything was sort of buttressed by child development theory it also seems to me like what he was doing was really quite simple right? It was this - Mister Rogers seemed to have this innate understanding of our universal need just to be seen - right? - to have somebody say I see you. I accept you as who you are. He said it again and again.    It is you I like. It is not the things you wear. It is not the way you do your hair. But it is you I like.  Why does that hit so many of us right in the feels?  Well I think a lot of this had to do with the fact that he was a religious person but he was also interfaith before interfaith was a thing. So he took concepts from Islam concepts from Buddhism concepts from Judaism. And one of the universal things he found I think was that he believed that a great deal of our destruction and destructive behaviors come from a fundamental feeling that we are not worthy of love that we are not - we do not have value unless we acquire things and take things from other people and defeat things.    The way you are right now the way down deep inside you not the things that hide you not your toys. They are just beside you. But it is you I like.  And so I think that he arrived at this idea that it would be helpful then if starting when we were very young - If I could help children feel loved and seen and accepted.    I hope that you will remember even when you are feeling blue that it is you I like. It is you yourself. It is you. It is you...  What do you think Fred Rogers would tell us if he were with us today?    ...I like.  You know I have asked a lot of people that question in the course of our reporting. And everyone who ever knew him has declined to answer that question. And I take that seriously. I do think that he could only do so much.  Yeah.  And he left it with us to do what we can do. And you know he had a vision for television. You know like he turned on TV when it was new and people were getting hit in the face with pies and kids were being sold soda. And he said this is absurd. TV should not be like this. It should be this other thing where you visit with the viewers. And you see them. And they see you. And you are honest with them. And you are connected with them. And as it happened he was very successful doing that. But TV did not follow his lead.  No it sure did not.  Everything else in children's television went the opposite direction.  Yeah.  So he was really swimming upstream in almost every sense. And I think people - because we have unhealed children that live in us that we are not seeing and that we are not loved I think we are still looking for a child's solution to being an adult. So perhaps what he might tell us is that - and he said this - this is something that he said in the last thing he ever did in television which was a PSA after 911.   I am just so proud of all of you who have grown up with us. And I know how tough it is some days to look with hope and confidence on the months and years ahead.  And he talked about two very important concepts. One is the idea that - it is a Jewish concept - tikkun olam which means to be repairers of the world.   I am so grateful to you for helping the children in your life to know that you will do everything you can to keep them safe and to help them express their feelings in ways that will bring healing in many different neighborhoods.  And the second concept that he talked about is that he spoke to adults. And he said I am so proud of you and who you have become.   It is such a good feeling to know that we are lifelong friends.  And so even there he is saying to people you are free from the burden to have to prove yourself. And so with that out of the way perhaps you can focus on repairing the world.   Carvell Wallace I am really enjoying the podcast. It is called Finding Fred. Carvell Wallace thank you so much.  Thank you. I really enjoyed this.    It is a beautiful day in this neighborhood a beautiful day for a neighbor. Would you be mine? Could you be mine? It is a neighborly day in this beautywood a neighborly day for beauty. Would you be mine? Could you be mine?  A huge thanks again to Carvell Wallace host of the podcast Finding Fred. We are going to take one more break here. And when we come back play along with us in Who Said That? It is my favorite part of the week. And see how closely you followed the news of the week. I am Elise Hu. And you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.    Will not you please will not you please - please will not you be my neighbor?  We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here this week with Jacob Margolis reporter for Southern California Public Radio. Hey Jacob.  Hey.  And Peter Hamby who writes for Vanity Fair and hosts Good Luck America on Snapchat. Hey Peter.  Hello.  It is time for a game we call Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  It is a simple game. I will share a quote from the week. You guess who said it or at least the story I am referring to. Best two out of three. If you win you know what you get?  Everything?  You get nothing.  Not even a mug ?  Not a thing. Nothing. All right. Here we go. First quote. It was so long ago no one is going to know the difference.  It was so long ago no one's going to know the difference.  The guys are just staring at me. How about a hint?  Yes please.  Yes please.  Do you want a hint? OK. It involves an actress who some people would call a pretty woman.  Julia Roberts?  Yes.  Can you give me some context clues? A couple journalists here...  OK. I am just going to tell you. News came out this month that a studio executive once suggested Julia Roberts play Harriet Tubman in a movie.  Oh that does not seem appropriate.  Oh that is really bad.  No. But as the quote goes it was so long ago no one's going to know the difference.  She said that in response to...  No she did not say anything. This was the studio executive...  Oh OK.  ...Who reportedly said this.  Why would...  Here's the back story. In an interview this month with Focus Features screenwriter Gregory Allen Howard who wrote the recent movie Harriet about Harriet Tubman said that back in 1994 when he started developing the project - that is how long it takes to develop a project around here - he heard from a studio executive that Julia Roberts should play Harriet 'ecause I guess Julia Roberts was really in her heyday then.  Yeah.  And it was the '90s and the '90s were like a much less racially conscious time.  I mean that is insane.  All right. You all got zero on that. It is tied at 0-0.  We are - you know yeah.  OK. Quote number two - It has been what I would describe as a constant sore in the family. We all knew him and I think that if we have a conversation about it we are all left with the same thing. What on earth happened?  Clue please.  OK. This would have been more effective had I delivered it in a British accent.  Oh is it about Prince Andrew?  It was Prince Andrew.   Ding.  Oh Prince Andrew said that.  Yes.  Oh I thought he was the sore.  No it was part of such a disastrous interview with the BBC...  That was a pretty bad interview.  ...About his association with Jeffrey Epstein. Prince Andrew has since withdrawn from royal duties quote for the foreseeable future.  What was he doing anyway?  He is been disappeared basically.  Yeah. I mean having started to binge this season of The Crown my idea of royal duties that you would be dismissed from are like speaking to like factory openings...  Yes.  ...And going to equestrian events.  Ribbon cuttings.  No one's going to miss Prince Andrew in other words.  Yeah.  All right. That one - one point to Jacob Margolis.  Yes.  OK.  OK.  Congrats.  One to nothing.  This is why I came here this morning.  Quote number three - It was not me - five exclamation points. Ha. And I did not hear it when I was speaking. Who said that?  Hint please.  He is from California and he is a lawmaker. Why do not we play the tape? Let us go to tape. Let us go to tape.  Yes please. OK.   The evidence is uncontradicted that the president used taxpayer dollars to ask the Ukrainians to help him...   ...Cheat an election.  Eric Swalwell.   Peter Hamby.  Eric Swalwell. This was a fantastic story and a really like welcome...  Twitter needed the break.  Yeah. It was a little bit of a breather from the impeachment hearings this week. The best is that a reporter from BuzzFeed DMed  Swalwell and Swalwell's like - I have DMed with him. He like is on all platforms. He responds to reporters. He like is on the record denying the fart in her DMs and she screenshotted it. I think an NBC producer - this was on Hardball on MSNBC - came out and said it was a mug moving across the table.  .  Oh my God.  That did not sound like a mug.  No.  No.  Do you believe him?  The fart...  It sounded like flatulence.  It sounded like a fart mug a mug that farts.  Oh yeah.  Swalwell responded to the show is tweet claiming in all caps total exoneration.  That is pretty good.  How many comms  teams got together to go ahead and respond to that situation?  I do not know.  But you two tied.  You know you are a great competitor.  Thanks Jacob.  Oh they are shaking hands.  I appreciate you.  That concludes Who Said That. Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Each Friday we ask you to share with us the best thing that happened to you all week. We encourage you to brag and you do. Let us take a listen.  This is Melissa  in Abington Pa. and the best thing that happened to me this week is that my dog Sophie  qualified to be a therapy dog. So pretty soon we will start visiting hospitals and nursing homes and other places where people would like to pet a happy dog with a wagging tail. Thanks. Have a good week.  This is Katie  and the best thing that happened to me this week is I passed the California bar exam. Yay.  I have two small children and this week I slept through the night for the first time in over a year.  The best part of my week was proposing to my best friend on our two-week vacation in Japan.  The best part of my week was that I came home from work and my 22-month-old daughter asked me how was your day?  The best thing that happened to me this week was in my acting class. One of my fellow actors just took the time at the beginning of class to say hey Cleo. I am really glad that I know you.  This is Barbara  from New York. What I am happy about this week is that my husband is home and doing well after a double bypass and a valve replacement.  This is Megan  from Nashville and the best part of my week was getting to save a life by donating a kidney to a fellow animal rescue volunteer. Both of our surgeries went off without a hitch and Kenny the kidney is kicking butt in his new home.  I hope you have a great week.  Have a good one.  I love the show.  Bye-bye.  Thank you to those listeners Melissa Katie Megara Kelly  Inez  Cleo Barbara and Megan. And thank you for sharing your best thing with us. We listen to all of them even if we cannot play them all here on the show. To share your own record an audio file and email it to the show at samsandersnpr.org. That is a wrap. I want to say thanks again to our guests for being here today - Jacob Margolis reporter for Southern California Public Radio...  Thanks.  ...And Peter Hamby who writes for Vanity Fair and hosts Good Luck America on Snapchat. Thanks again Peter.  Thank you Elise.  It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced this week by Brett Bachman and Anjuli Sastry. Our editors are Kitty Eisele and Alex McCall. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson our engineer is Josh Newell and the senior vice president of programming at NPR is Anya Grundmann. I am Elise Hu. Sam Sanders is back next week. Thanks for listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   Hi everyone. We are Elise's daughters Eva...  Isa.  Luna.  Say I am baby Luna.  I am baby Luna.    Let us start the O.  Let us start the O? It is let us start the show.    Let us start the O.   And just say it. Let us not sing it. Let us just say let us start the show.  I cannot just...   Let us start the show.  Great job.  