 I was going to give you fake Michael Barbaro voice to like get you in the mood for podcast talking but I could not pull it off.   It is Tuesday.  .  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week the never-ending election. All right let us start the show.  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders and you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend after Election Day even though this election season is not quite over yet. A lot of you are maybe still refreshing those Electoral College maps online still glued to cable news still crunching numbers at home. So this episode we have to dig deep on politics and this week's still-changing election results. We are going to talk with someone who knows a lot about politics Astead Herndon. He is a political reporter at The New York Times and he has covered this entire campaign and election season with the focus on Democrats and the left. Now we should point out we talked to Astead Friday morning. And at that point the presidential race was not called but it was trending in Joe Biden's favor. All right. With that caveat here's Astead breaking down the election and what it means for the left that there was no big blowout for them at least not yet. All right. Well with that let us get into our wide-ranging conversation about Tottenham.   Obviously.  I am kidding.  This is what I am really an expert at.   I do not even know what that is besides maybe soccer.  Yeah.  I just know you tweet about it a lot.  Yeah. You are on the right path.   OK. Anyways we are not talking about that. We are going to talk about the election. Astead you covered the left for The New York Times. You covered Biden the Democrats all of that. You know you were writing articles before this election about how some Democrats were quietly whispering in October that it might be a blowout. It might be a landslide. We are starting to see some of the reasons why it was not - you know Biden's performance with Latinos with Black men his - you know white people also. A lot of them did not vote for him. But how big of a deal is this that it was not a blowout? And like gosh does it really complicate things for Biden should he win? He is going to have to still deal with Mitch McConnell leading the Senate for instance.  Right.  Perhaps.  Yeah yeah yeah. It certainly complicates things. I mean and the story that is referencing was not only just the desire that it might be looking at polling and the like but there was folks talking about how they thought it needed to be so that - either because of a progressive agenda items or kind of repudiating Trumpism morally that they thought it needed to be a blowout to kind of open up the space for a larger more ambitious agenda when it came to the next four years. That is not going to happen. Even if Democrats pull off a kind of miracle in the two Texas Senate - or Georgia Senate runoffs you are going to be dealing with a sharply divided Congress a receded majority in the House which kind of no one expected. I mean we think that that is going to take the biggest items off the agenda. If McConnell keeps that Senate majority you can kiss that all goodbye. But I think that the biggest dreams of what people thought was possible under the Biden presidency required a blowout on Tuesday and that did not happen.  Yeah. And we should caveat I just heard you say the words Biden and presidency together. We are taping Friday morning. It is not official yet but it looks as if Biden's moving closer to victory. What does it say that Democrats had this kind of result in spite of spending so much money and raising so much money? I am thinking about Jaime Harrison losing his race for Senate to Lindsey Graham even after he had - what? - like 57 million raised in the span of a few weeks or a month or something. You know on the one hand Biden's gotten the most votes of any candidate for president ever. But on the other hand Democrats raised so much money and it did not give them all that they wanted.  Yeah I think we are seeing kind of this year the role of money being questioned period. I mean I think that one of the things Biden won in the primary was basically having no finances through most of the primary campaign that it was such a nationalized race that things like name recognition and kind of familiarity with voters mattered a lot more than your ability you know to define yourself if you are Joe Biden's level of famous. We saw this kind of now. I mean I think on one hand some of the surprise and disappointment for Democrats is that the races that they were kind of investing a lot of money in were always long shots. You know Harrison was never a favorite - people like M.J. Hegar in Texas folks like Amy McGrath in Kentucky. But where they super are disappointed are the targets in which they thought they at minimum could start with - Susan Collins of Maine Thom Tillis in North Carolina. And looks like those folks are both going back to the Senate. Those are where the real disappointment is. And you know I think that like some Democrats may have a kind of gut check going forward to not say that money and enthusiasm automatically equals a victory.  Yeah. You know hearing you talk about how money is not everything I am looking at three specific states that Democrats were hopeful for. And only one seems to be a real possibility for them to win as of this Friday morning taping. I am talking about Texas Georgia and South Carolina where Harrison is. Is the reason Georgia is still in play for Biden because of Stacey Abrams because of that on-the-ground organizing because of that like door-to-door focus on individual voters and not just flooding the airwaves with TV ads?  Yeah. I mean it does not  either-or right? TV ads can still be coupled with a level of investment. I mean the thing is the pandemic also changed the way Democrats were doing grassroots organizing. And that is kind of the nature of the game is that some stuff is going to be specific to this year. But what we do know is that you know the results were not there for them. And particularly in those reach states - Ohio Texas - there was a sense that the Republican kind of wall there was crumbling. And what we have as a reality is that Donald Trump is very good at juicing white rural turnout. And in places that have a lot of that it made the difference between making those states close or not.  You know speaking about white turnout there are other questions about turnout of other various communities many considered essential to Democratic candidates. You know we know now that Black turnout especially in some key states was up - two or threefold in some instances by some measures. Latino turnout - it is a little murkier. We do not know yet. White voters - you just mentioned them. Like what turnout story from these results so far has surprised you the most?  Well I think again not to give Trump too much credit for a likely loss but the way that - when we talk about polls and state polling missing there seems to be real evidence that he can find new pockets of voters that pollsters cannot. I think that the other side you know - Joe Biden's going to get the most votes of anybody in history. Democrats were jazzed but we knew that. I think for Democrats there is a little bit of signs to say you know the assumption that more people voting means that Democrats win like is not a perfect one. Republicans can find new voters too.  Yeah. And you know there are other things that I think the Democratic Party has just thought to be true and they are not perfectly true. You know I think the Democratic Party has long banked on just having a demographic advantage against Republicans as the nation and the electorate becomes less white. But as you wrote before there is no such thing as inevitable demographic destiny. And we are seeing right now in the shakeout of the Latino vote that that is the case. Just because people are X race or Y race does not mean they are all going to vote for the same person. Are Democrats absorbing the lessons for Latino voter outreach in the aftermath of this election?  I mean I think that they are being told to. I mean the problem - honestly it is - this election is going to be so hard for the powers to be to sort out because there are real places that you can point to around Latino vote places like Miami-Dade County around border counties in Texas even around some others we saw in north places. And then you have some good signs for Democrats among Latino voters in states like Wisconsin things like Arizona and Colorado and other places. I think that that is one of those reasons why it is so important to remember that people have overlapping identities and that these groups are not monolithic right? While the story of Texas can be one of Latino voters in border communities not supporting Biden it can also be Trump's rural appeal and  he juices people outside of cities across race at a higher degree than other people right? So people have overlapping things that define them as voters. And I think there is a tendency for us to only think of things specifically through a racial lens which is a important one but is not - what is not necessarily the only one.   All right. Coming up more with New York Times political reporter Astead Herndon. We will talk about the shadow of Trumpism.   So I am assuming because you are a political reporter for The New York Times that you just call up the candidates every day and chitchat about whatever. What is Joe Biden telling you about what his first 100 might be?  If Joe Biden were to call me up all day like I would - I would not be sitting here.  .  But I - you know I think we have seen some outlines of this. I mean the problem is the realities of the Senate are such where it is going to define that next conversation. Biden has talked about you know - and Democrats have talked about a coronavirus relief kind of package that is a necessity. But the kind of biggest agenda the kind of scope of his climate plan that we see that he has run on I do not think that that stuff is going to be possible in our current congressional realities. What we do know is coronavirus and economic relief from the virus will be the first things.  OK. So maybe no Green New Deal maybe no expanding the Supreme Court right away - some of those bigger pie-in-the-sky liberal asks might not happen 'ecause they will not have the numbers.  Yeah. I mean the Senate would have to become different people which I mean maybe. But...  Probably not. You know I was talking to McKay Coppins of The Atlantic earlier this week - on Wednesday the day after Election Day - about what these election results mean for the right and for the conservative movement. And the point that he made that stuck with me the most was that no matter what happens the shadow of Trumpism and Trumpism itself lives on in the GOP. This is a party fundamentally transformed by this man. And whether he loses or not Trumpism lives on. And you might very well see candidates modeling themselves after Trump even if he loses this election. Like you just might see it going forward. So I guess my question for you as someone who covers the left how much of the shadow of Trump will linger over Democrats over Biden even if Biden takes this thing?  I think it matters. I mean what we knew from Biden was that it was not just a promise to get Trump out. It was a promise to restore America. If Trumpism lives on Biden's task of doing that is harder and harder. And I think that that is the evidence that we are seeing is that the view of Joe Biden was always we will deliver a decisive enough victory where Republicans and those who supported Trump will have to rethink their commitment to this ideology. That victory I do not know is big enough for that to happen. And I think it is a reality check for the kind of vision of politics that Biden has even as he wins and is affirmed to come to the White House. And so I think that the impact of Trumpism living on is a different Republican Party a Democratic Party that may have to wrestle with the kind of nature of a country it did not want to deal with four years ago. And I frankly think it just kind of solidifies the political divides that we have. They are not going anywhere. And those who thought that they were only there because Donald Trump was in the White House I think Tuesday was the first kind of puncture in that myth.  Yeah I think a lot of folks on the left were hoping that you know if Trump lost on Tuesday that like the light switch would flip and it would all be like back to their before times. That is not how it is going to work no matter what happens with this election. I also think that like the way that Trumpism will continue to live on in all of our politics is the ways in which candidates campaign. I think the loud in-your-face constantly saying something tweeting something picking fights being engaged in back-and-forths - that model of campaigning is ascendant. And I think Trump's part of that. And I think you are going to see just louder more combative political campaigning period going forward. Am I right?  Yeah yeah. I think that a lesson people have taken from Trump particularly Republicans is that kind of authenticity rules and no matter if it offends you know? And I think that we are going to have people who are going to try to live in that mold. And I think you have a Republican Party in the base that expects that mold to a degree and that is why you are seeing politicians play into it.  You know one of the questions for Democrats the entirety of this campaign is which flank of the party will win - the moderate wing or the more progressive wing? Biden becoming the nominee kind of answered that question. But in the aftermath of Tuesday is that question further answered? Whose party is it progressives or moderates - right now at least?  I mean I think that it is moderates' always until proven otherwise. But I kind of think it is a distinction that is not the key. Progressives are trying to win a long-term battle that both moves the moderates closer towards them but also creates a long-term vision of power and gaining it. And I think that that is - like you can look at things like the result that Georgia going blue and say that is a win for that vision of growing power. You can say Biden's work in the Midwest is a win for his vision of like persuading some in the middle and center. And I think that there is evidence for both those groups to feel good about. It is hard to say who is winning and losing right now because...   ...You know this is going to be something that defines it for decades.   Thanks again to Astead Herndon. And listeners if you want more from this show on politics there is an episode of It is BEEN A MINUTE in podcast feeds right now all about the state of the right in the aftermath of this election featuring McKay Coppins of The Atlantic. But coming up more with Astead. He joined me for my favorite game Who Said That?   What are you eating these days on the campaign trail - or no longer campaign trail? I mean I remember by the end of 2016 I was just surviving on like kettle cooked chips and like bad cold Starbucks.  I - you know I am in Milwaukee which is where I went to college so I am eating great 'ecause I know like my spots. I have like places I want to go. And so you know I actually think a great part of the campaign trail is the food. And I think it is like the one - it is been like a few joys of all of the travel and the kind of craziness of it all. And like you know I gained some friends on the trail. And I like have like had a great dining tour of America.  Wow. Astead Herndon did the campaign better than any of you all. You heard it here first.   No just the food part you know? Everything else was a disaster.   All right man. Astead Herndon New York Times reporter covering politics and the left I want you to play my favorite game with me now. It is called Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  I share three quotes from the week. You got to guess who said it. There are no vote counters here. You are going to win no matter what 'ecause you are the only one playing. And you are going to win the popular vote and the Electoral College for this one OK?  Is it Nevada vote counters counting or is it Florida vote counters?   Let us see. Let us see. The vote counters will be from - I do not know. Who do you want it to be? Which ones do you trust more?  Well let us go with Florida so you will be faster. Nevada you will not even hear till two more days.   You are right. You are right. Florida's counting the points for this game. All right. First quote - it is a really short one. Welp. Who said that?   Who said welp?  Yeah in a tweet about the race for president.  Me.    Probably. No this was from a candidate for president who made it clear that he was not going to win and tweeted out the word welp.   That is kind of funny. Oh Kanye. I got it.   It was Kanye. It was Kanye. So the tweet is now deleted. But Tuesday night Kanye West tweeted W-E-L-P period after it was clear that he was not going to be president. But he replaced that tweet later with a tweet that read Kanye 2024. How do you feel about that sir?  I mean I feel like the same way I felt about Kanye 2020 which is that it is noise and it is kind of a meaningless narcissistic endeavor.  Yeah. I mean I have talked about Kanye running on this show before and it just - everything about that man I have to enter into that conversation with like a sigh beforehand. Like the other day a Kanye song showed up on my Spotify. And I love his music.  Yeah.  But before I could hit play and let the song play I had to like sigh and center myself before I even listen to him now.  I think that makes sense. I think that you know as someone who you know grew up very Kanye like you know was rocking double-popped collars in the suburban Chicago because he told us to it has all been very sad. But it has been an emotional journey I have been on for so long that at this point you know I think that like I have already worked out my Kanye-related trauma.  Yeah. I am kind of numb to that man now. Also we need to find a picture of Astead with the double-popped polo shirt collar.   You will not. You will not. It does not exist .   All right. You got 1 point. Here's the next quote - The one thing we know is that together we can move forward. Who said that - a major corporation?  Oh. Oh Gap.   The Gap yeah yeah. So this week The Gap - a chain that is still alive which surprises me 'ecause I feel like The Gap has died three or four times before and yet they still exist. But the Gap shared an image this week of a hoodie that was half red and half blue. And it was a gif of the half-blue half-red hoodie zipping together. And it was supposed to be this symbol of like coming together across political differences in the aftermath of the election. As soon as The Gap shared that everybody hated it. And they actually had to give a statement to your paper Astead The New York Times saying quote The intention of our social media post that featured a red and blue hoodie was to show the power of unity. But they continued It was just too soon for this message.   Thank you Gap for your bravery and for trying to heal a broken nation.  'ecause if anyone can do it The Gap can do it .  Right right right. I am like - that is what I do not get about those brand tweets. I am like who was in the room and was like it is time for us to speak up? Like no one...  The nation's waiting for our response.  Yeah yeah. It is like honestly if you just piped down I would not have thought about The Gap this week and that would have been perfectly fine.  Also The Gap might have been able to shift the nation's opinion on something like in 1999 or 2000. But they are not relevant anymore dare I say.  Right.  Sorry to any Gap employees hearing this. I hope you like your job.  Yeah I mean I do not you know - like the middle school version of me felt like you know as I was like exiting Hollister like thought that like the Gap was where the adults shopped. But turns out no it is not.   I also love that so far in this conversation you have told me that you would double-pop your polo shirt collars and shop at Hollister. My goodness - details.  Listen I had like phases of like every personality growing up you know? And so like you know I had a Hollister moment. I had like a Vans like fake skater dude moment. I had like oversized jerseys with Girbaud straps like a member of G-Unit. You know like I was just a real chameleon to like try to have friends and was only moderately successful at that.   All right last quote in the game - There is some holes in this house.  There is some holes in this house.  You are never going to get it.  No I - so I am trying to think.  It is about Milwaukee though.  It is about Milwaukee. Is holes a reference to cheese?   Holes is a reference to people's homes and something that Milwaukee wanted to do to help people with holes in their homes. Sorry this is not helpful.  Yeah I am out on that.   All right. That quote - there are some holes in this house - came from Milwaukee's Weatherization Assistance Program. Such a program exists. They basically help qualifying residents get energy-saving updates to their homes like plugging little holes in their house to keep the warm air in. So this week county superviser Ryan Clancy playing off the very popular Megan Thee StallionCardi B song WAP took a lyric from that song to promote Milwaukee's Weatherization Assistance Program with the quote...  Oh I...  There is some holes in this house.  And he apologized.  Yeah. It is like you do not have to apologize. Like he...  Yeah.  ...Took the image. But so he also shared it with - he shared that quote with an image of Cardi B and Megan Thee Stallion from the WAP video. And he eventually had to take it down and apologize. And I am just like why are we so - let - it is Cardi B and Megan Thee Stallion. We all like them. It is OK.  Yeah I know. I...  It is fine right?  I remember seeing this and thinking wait. I do not get why he is apologizing. I mean there might be like a little cringe or whatever like but like it is not like - it was not like immoral you know ? Like I like it.  I like it too. And also I just hope like - I love that WAP is like the song that keeps on giving. Like it is - it is been out for - what? - a few months now.  Yeah.  And we are still kind of like fighting over this song. I love it. I love these kind of fights. I love how petty they get. I love how like people are just hand-wringing over a song still.  Yeah. I mean I think that if we had a song of the summer which none of us had a real summer...  There was no summer.  ...That it felt like it because just the video with all of that was like a moment and such. But you know it was - really denied us our true WAP experience of like you know in the club in the sweaty group of people like with that song on which is the true I think sign of the song of the summer.    I do not cook. I do not clean but let me tell you how I got this ring.  Oh yeah. We all had to twerk to WAP at home in front of our bathroom mirrors alone - how sad.  The whole summer you know is a compilation of sad moments.   Astead I think you won this game. Of course you won this game. You were the only one playing it. Astead Herndon thank you for covering the left and Democrats for the last God knows how long. And I hope you get some rest soon.  Thank you. I appreciate it.  Thanks again to New York Times national political reporter Astead Herndon.  Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.   Hey Sam. This is Meredith  in the southwest of the U.K. Back in April I was supposed to get married but because of the pandemic I had to postpone my wedding. But today the best part of my week and probably my whole life is that I am finally getting married in just a few hours.  Hi Sam. This is Amy . I am thrilled this week to share that I got my first choice in a new assignment with the Foreign Service. And next summer I will be heading to Kampala Uganda.  Hi Sam. This is Cece  from Oakland. The best part of my week was finally getting to see my grandma's face - virtually of course. My family sent her an Amazon Alexa. And when I finally saw her face on the screen I was brought to tears.  Hi Sam. This is Yuni  from LA. The best thing that happened to me this week is last night my partner let me in on a secret which was that he sent you a best thing voice note about a month ago to surprise me. Even though it was not chosen to be played knowing him and knowing how embarrassed he would have been recording a voice note made me feel so thankful for how thoughtful and loving he is. Ross  you are the best and I cannot wait to marry you.  Hey Sam. This is Heather  in Portland. Best part of my week was going into my kiddo's room at night just checking on him before I went to bed and just watching him lie there so peacefully just sleeping soundly a little bit of snoring. With everything going on in the world it just brings me such peace to see that. He is 16 and it never gets old. Have a great week.  Thanks Sam.  Have a great week and weekend. Love your show.  Oh man. Thanks to all those listeners there - really nice to hear great news with some semblance of finality in such a weird weird week of news. Thanks to those listeners you heard - Heather Yuni Cece Amy and Meredith. Listeners you can be a part of this segment any week. Just record the sound of your voice onto your phone sharing the best part of your week and email that file to me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org.   This week the show was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry and Andrea Gutierrez. Our intern is Star McCown. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. Listeners till next time be good to yourselves. Stay safe. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  