  .  Uh-oh. It is that time of year.  No it is - I just do not get sleep.  That is not good.  I am working on it.  .  I got to figure - I got to restructure like - there is just not enough hours.  It is true.  There just is not.  There is not.  There is not enough hours for my ambition.  From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. That voice you hear - the one who sneezed the one who wants more hours in the day - that is Amanda Seales. And she could actually use more hours in her day because she is very busy. She is best known for her role as Tiffany on HBO's Insecure. You may also have seen her first standup comedy special on HBO this year or you may know her as a creator and host of Smart Funny  Black a comedy game show dedicated to all things black culture. Also Amanda has a master's degree in African American Studies and she used to be in the hip-hop duo Floetry. Incredibly the reason we sat down to talk recently was none of the above. Amanda Seales on top of all that other work she is out with a new book that is called Small Doses Potent Truths For Everyday Use. It is essays life advice little pearls of wisdom from someone who has a lot of wisdom to give. All right here's my chat with the fun and engaging yet overworked and underslept  Amanda Seales. Enjoy.   And then the worst thing is like when you think you need to go to bed and you are ready to go to bed - then you have an idea or you want to finish a thing. And you are like I should just get up and type this out right now.  That happened literally to me last night.  Really?  I was like I need to go to bed. However...  .  ...I have not put any time into the screenplay today. So I need to do something - even if it is just come up with the names of these characters.  Yeah.  Which I did. So...  Yeah yeah. Anyway - so before this interview - and actually for like a year or two now watching you on Insecure seeing your career blow up I have kept being like - where have I seen her before? And then I figured it out. You were on the college circuit.  The college circuit?  Like college tour circuit - and you were Amanda Diva.  Yes.  And you did a conference in Texas when I was an undergrad...  At A  M?  Yes the Southwestern Black Student Leadership Conference.  Yes Southeastern.  Southeastern or whatever - SBSLC.   OK. That is what it is.  .  I was like I know. I know I have seen her.  I know.  Yes because I brought your CD after the - your show.  Oh my God. You went - OK so I have been to SBSLC twice.  OK.  So you went when I was there the first time...  OK yes.  ...In '05.  Yes.  I was there in '05...  Yes.  ...My homegirl Ashley Handerson  had got - had brought me out there. And Finnie D. Coleman - professor Finnie D. Coleman.  How long - so like if I am reading correctly for a while you were doing like a lot of college stuff.  Mmm hmm.  And I am always intrigued by that as like a career path because I have talked with other comics that do that. It is a grind that in many ways prepares you for other stuff. Like it is...  Oh absolutely.  It is a testing ground.  Well when I started doing colleges I was doing them as a poet because I had done Def Poetry Jam.  Yeah.  So I was doing it - I was literally touring colleges while I was in college.  Oh yeah.  But the thing about doing poetry was that - and the thing about colleges in general is that you just never know what you are showing up to.  Yeah like do the students want to be there? Is it extra credit? What is it?  Oh let us take it to another level. Is it in an auditorium? Is it in a cafeteria?   Yeah.  Is it in a random room in the back of a library?  Uh-Huh.  You know or is it in a lecture hall?  Yeah.  Like - so as a performer and as like a Type A personality like there is a certain level of surprise that I appreciate...  Uh-huh.  ...And that I am very disturbed by.  Yeah yeah. How long were you doing like college college college shows shows shows?  I did college college college until 2005 when I found myself at Miami Ohio in the back of a bar that had a college basketball game going while I was doing a poetry reading.  Oh man .  And I felt my spirit like wither before my eyes like a leaf falling to the ground on the first day of winter. And I said to my manager at the time like I do not want to do this anymore 'ecause it is like literally killing my soul.  Yeah. How do you think that experience has shaped the performer you are now?  Well I think I just one have so much content.  Yeah.  You know like by the time I started doing stand-up I was 34.  OK.  And I had just amassed so many years of experience being onstage and having to perform in all these different formats whether it was as a poet or as a host or as a lecturer or as a musician. Then by the time I got to - or as an actor because I used to do a one-woman show called Death Of The Diva. I toured that.  Yeah.  By the time I got to stand-up you know I just had a very wide breadth of experiences to draw from in terms of content and a wide breadth of experience to draw from in terms of just being comfortable onstage.  Yeah yeah yeah. Would you play colleges now? They seem like very different places now than when I was seeing you at that conference in 2005. It is a...  Yeah I still do. I still do. I will do - I am more thoughtful about it. I mean in my...  It is a different climate on campus right now it feels like.  It is. It is.  Do you like that?  No. I do not like the idea of people coming to - I think - I do not want to blanket statement. Right? Like I do not want to say everybody comes. But I think there is a hypersensitivity that is just a part of a generational change and a cultural change that I am not fully accustomed to. I think some people talk about like oh it is so PC. I do not have a problem with being PC. I mean I do not think that I am culturally oblivious. I think it is more so just this idea of nobody ever wants to be offended. And sometimes you are going to be offended...  Yeah. Well also people - and this is not just college campuses.  ...Or addressed.  They do not want to hear a thing that does not align with their worldview.  One million percent.  When it is like oh the - one of the big reasons to go to college is to hear a bunch of different...  Perspectives yeah.  ...Worldviews yeah.  And if you - and sometimes it is like they may not even hear the message. Like I have - like I had people be like oh like you do not like Jamaicans because in my special I reference that a Jamaican man hollered at me on the street. And so this is me talking negative about Jamaicans. Like that is not a blanket statement. But sometimes I think that there is this idea of like if you even mention a group that people are from they do not even want you mention it...  Yeah.  ...If that is not your group.  Yeah let us talk about the book.  Yeah.  So you got a new book coming out. Or is it already out? When did it come out?  October 22.  Yeah.  And...  Congratulations on the book release.  Thank you.  How are you feeling?  I am feeling good now. Like at first it is just like such a new space...  Yeah.  ...That I kind of just had this weird like numbness. It was like all the feelings at once so it kind of feels like nothing. You know like if you mix all the colors together you just get a clop of like some weird color. Like...  Yeah.  That is how I was feeling. But now I feel like I have probably compartmentalized. And the book tour really helped to kind of just bring me back to center with it because you just get to talk to different people about what they are looking forward to or what they have already read. And...  Yeah.  And I think that I have never written this - you know I have written a book of poetry before but I have never written a book in this fashion where it is essays. It is blurbs. It is lists. It is stories. And it is all my point of view you know?  Yeah.  So you are stepping out naked...  .  ...You know? And like you want to feel safe.  Yeah.  And the book tour really help me feel safe.  Yes. Let us describe the book for those who have not gotten it yet. It is called Small Doses Potent Truths For Everyday Use. Describe that frame for our listeners because it is not a typical memoir. It is...  It is not a memoir.  Yeah. It is vignettes of you and your experience but about life and more than just you.  Yeah absolutely. I mean it is honest advice for the side effects of life. So like we have side effects of insecurity. You know there is side effects of being a multihyphenate side effects of a Type A personality side effects of haters side effects of the hoe phase...  .  ...Side effects of race in the workplace.  Yeah I like the side effect frame.  Thank you.  It is throughout the book and I appreciated that. What was the hardest side effect for you to write about in the book?  Well the whole section on womanhood was the hardest part...  OK.  ...Which I was surprised about because I am like I am going to do this one like no problem.  Yeah yeah.  And I think it was because I am so close to it. And I just felt like I did not want to write stuff that was kind of kitschy or hackneyed or had just been like overdone. So it was like well I do not want to write about beauty. Like I do not want to write about - I want to write about sex. But how do I write about it in a unique way? For instance like I have a whole essay about beauty...  Yeah.  ...That is literally just one sentence .  Tell us the sentence.  Well it is one paragraph. And it is Jam-Dropping Pretty Versus Gorgeous.  You know what? Every woman is pretty gorgeous fly sexy cute banging fine bad stacked pretty hot and tempting or phat et cetera et cetera et cetera in their own way. Learn and love what you consider to be pretty gorgeous fly sexy cute banging fine bad stacked pretty hot and tempting or phat about you. And do not base that on what anyone else thinks. And that is all I have to say about that.  I like it. I give you snaps for it.   Thanks.  How long did it take you to get to the place where you could write that poem down in a book with your name on it?  Did you consider that to be a poem?  It read like a poem just now.  Thank you.  Yeah.  I mean I think I read like a poem. Like you know?  Good point .  Yeah like at my core like that is there.  Yeah yeah.  And then - I mean but also let me tell you something. Like I watched Toni Morrison's documentary recently.  It is so good.  And I talked like  hello.  .  I will have - I mean I was like a full Toni all day. I was talking to my homegirl and I was like  hello what are you doing? I was like I am sorry. My bad. Like I am feeling Toni in my...  Feeling Toni.  ...Speech.  And like she does this thing where  you will wait for her words. And that is fine.  Yo.  I love it.  That right there.  .  Economy of words.  Listen. She gets it.  I have been trying to work on that too.  Yeah.  I have been really trying to work on the economy of words.  How hard was writing the book? - because it is got a lot of threads going on. Like you know like these chapters with various side effects a lot of different vignettes throughout - like you know like there is some books you read like OK. They started out like we are going to go from point A to point B. Your book goes to many many different points.  My book is like Interstellar OK?  .  We are riding on planets. We are in black holes. We are in other dimensions. Matthew McConaughey's like showing up.   Was it hard to write?  It was incredibly difficult to write.  How long did it take you?  A year.  OK.  I thought it was going to take two months because I am a very like pragmatic like - and now we are doing this and now we are going to do this.  Boom boom boom boom boom yeah.  But in that year my life really changed you know over the last two years just in terms of like my visibility in terms of my workload. I mean these two years have been nonstop. I am not complaining by any means. I am incredibly booked and blessed. But it is just taken time for me to adjust to like how to manage my time now.  So like you have been working consistently for a long time but I think it is fair to say that a lot of stuff changed for you once America began to see you on screen more in Insecure.  Yeah absolutely.  And so like when did we start seeing you like become like a regular? - like season two?  I was - well yeah.  Or it was more...  I mean I think that we were present.  You were present. But like you and Natasha Rothwell became like more later on.  Yes we became more considered like oh this is a foursome.  Yes. Yeah.  Like this is a group of girls that are friends.  Yeah.  And I think that was also just by nature of the fact that like you only got six episodes for a season.  Yeah.  Six a season - you still only get six episodes but just the repetition of...  Yeah.  ...Seeing these faces and these interactions. And I think the fact that like Tiffany just got more of a point of view you know? And that is of course by the growth of a show...  Exactly.  ...Like the growth of story.  Yeah yeah.  So - and I got the opportunity to really just kind of lock in to like this is a person that you are going to see more of.  Yeah.  You know this is the character you are going to see more of.   All right time for a break. When we come back you know those friends who ask for your advice and never ever take your advice? Amanda knows those friends too. And she has thoughts. BRB.   Let us talk more about your performance on Insecure and that character which I find quite funny and hilarious but also not at all - in IRL - like you.  I think the only thing that is different about Tiffany is her delivery and just kind of like the way that she carries herself. But honestly if you...  Do you see yourself as bougie as she is?  I am not bougie. I think for the first two seasons we felt like she was somebody who defined herself by her status like by her bougieness .  Yes yes.  And...  And her wealth.  And her wealth which actually was not the case. I think it just gave off that.  OK.  But really what it is is that she is just a very pulled up - she is very similar to me. Like she is a Type A. She likes things just so.  Yeah.  Like remember when she told Molly like listen. I did not spend time handwriting all of these place cards with a calligraphy pen so that you could just sit where you wanted to sit.   Yes.  Go sit in your seat you know? Like she likes things just so because she is put time into it.  Yeah. And she will say what she wants which seems like you.  And that is Amanda.  OK.  Yes and so it is interesting because people are like I do not like your character. And I am like you do not like somebody to keep it a buck with you.  Yeah.  That is what it is.  Yeah.  And that is me. And I say it as not shade if it is the truth.  All right. What in portraying that character is the hardest for you to get to? - the stuff that is not like you that you have to reach the most for.  Well the pregnancy stuff - I mean I have never had a baby.  OK.  And I have also like never been a part of a friend group like that.  Really?  Yeah. Like I have my individual...  Yeah.  Like I have individual friends but I have never had like a squad.  Well I also feel like the squad kind of friendship is very TV.  Is not it?  Especially in LA there is no way I am getting four of my friends together on a regular basis.  Regular is not happening.  It is LA. Someone's in Silver Lake. Someone's in Venice. Someone's in Orange County. And I am going to see you all at somebody's birthday.  It is true. It is so true.  You know what I am saying?  Yeah.  It is kind of interesting to like inhabit what in many ways for a lot of folks feels like an aspirational friend group. They are together a lot and a lot of folks do not get that.  Yeah but then - they are together a lot but there is a lot of dishonesty amongst them.  .  You know? And I think it is an important thing to explore and to like take notice of when you are watching the show you know? Like and I would say like - I would say that is probably the biggest difference between me and my character is that I am like wildly transparent. And I could learn something from Tiffany.  OK which is what?  Because Tiffany I feel has a healthy - well Tiffany has a healthy amount of temerity. And I just come through like we are all friends. We are here. Yeah.  Let us go. Let it out.  And it is like no they do not even like you.   Like just - it is just she seems to be a lot more conscious of like being quiet when it is time to be quiet.  And knowing when and where best to let those words out.  Yes and it is not like I am tactless. It is not that I am tactless and I lack no filter. It is that sometimes I feel like my intentions are not going to be reflected by the room received by the room.  Got you. Got you.  And so I need to read the room to know if this is the right room to present.  Exactly.  You know like sometimes - OK. So like if I am in a room and like there is wrong information being said it kills me.  To let it just be spoken.  Oh my...  You want to say stop this. That is not right.  That is not right.  Yeah.  But sometimes it is like you do that in the wrong room and they are like you are a know-it-all or...  Yes this was not your room. This is his room. This is their room. Yes exactly.  And like I know there is people listening who are like oh my God. I feel you...  Yeah.  ...Because it drives you crazy. You are just like no no no. Or like if you have a - it is like you know that you have like really good advice you could get somebody in a situation. And like...  Yeah and they do not heed it. This is a thing with most advice - people do not heed it.  Well people do not heed it. And so - but I will still feel like I want to give it. And I have to just catch myself and be like you know what? Unless they are asking for it...  Do not give it. Even now when friends ask for advice I just find a way to ask them a bunch of questions.  Well you know people do not really want advice. They want permission.  Yep. Yep. Yep.  .  That is it. That is it. Like...  I talk about that in the book.  Yeah.  People do not want advice. They want permission.  They - yeah.  They just want you to say like...  It is OK. They want permission to stay with the trash man or leave the trash man. They do not want you to say break up with him.  But sometimes it is like - to your point of asking the question it is like well what do you want to do?  Yes.  So then the person will say what they want to do. And a lot of times I will say - if I agree with it I will be like follow your gut.  Yeah.  If I do not agree with it I will be like well are you interested in any advice?  Yeah yeah.  And you can tell - because sometimes they will be like yes. Or sometimes they will be like I mean - you know what I mean? Like - or my homegirl Demetria Demetria Lucas she is - I talk about this in my standup. She always says permission to be honest?   Yeah.  You know because sometimes people do not want your honesty especially your friends.  Oh yeah. And like what I will do now is like try to have a series of questions that makes them work out that choose-your-own-adventure.  Oh so you are a therapist.  It is like - yeah.  Do you invoice them after?  I should.  .  But it is like all right so if you do do that thing what do you think would happen and how would you feel about those things happening? Would you regret those things happening if you did that? So knowing that...  What is expectation?  Exactly. What is your intention and your expectation and which of these two choices will get you closer to that?  There you go. That is the major - that is the one right there.  You know?  Because like I know for me I have to ask myself that question. Like if I am going into a particularly difficult conversation or if I feel like I want to start a particularly difficult conversation...  Yeah.  ...I have to ask myself...  What I want to get out of it and where is it taking me.  Yep.  Because it feels good to be - it feels good to live in your truth in a moment but if your truth has kept you from that check...  Yeah.  ...Has kept you from that love...  Yes.  ...Has kept you from that thing you need...  You got to tailor the truth and I think that is the thing. It is like it is not about learning to be phony. It is just finding a new way to be real.  I have been giving you a lot of snaps this episode. I really like it.  That is been - I mean that is something I have been working on all year.  Yeah.  And it is a work in progress.  Yeah.  I am not all the way there but I consciously pursue it.  Which I like.  Thanks.  Speaking of realness I have now interviewed - you are my third interview with someone from Insecure. I interviewed Prentice Penny.  Oh yay.  I interviewed Natasha Rothwell. Going into Season 4 how are you feeling about the place of the show? It is become this thing that is you know perhaps bigger than folks thought it might be.  I think it is great that Insecure has continued to be successful but I think that it is - the side effect of it is that I think some people seem very comfortable about where we are at as black folks with voices in this industry. And I think that it is like because of its success some people feel like we are having this like great big renaissance. And I am like - I mean there is - I mean I grew up in the '90s where like I cannot even name...  Living Single...  ...The amount...  ...Martin Moesha Fresh Prince...  ...The black...  Yeah. The Parkers...  Like the shows are in - I mean...  They are waves.  ...But they are - I mean they just number. I am saying...  Yeah.  ...Like even like Sister Sister I mean...  Yeah.  ...Smart Guy like I mean...  Yeah.  Like Cousin Skeeter My Brother And Me - like there were just so many.  Yeah.  Right now - and we are just naming comedies.  Yeah yeah.  Right now like I can count on my hand the shows that I would consider to be black shows - not just shows that have a black lead but shows that feel like a representation...  About the black experience.  Yeah. I can count those on my hand.  It is Insecure - what else in terms of like prestige TV?  Insecure Atlanta - if we are talking comedies...  Yeah.  Insecure Atlanta - and I talk about in the book just the difference between diversity and inclusion.  Yep.  And you have to have a conscious directive and intention to practice diversity...  Yeah.  ...In any space.  All right time for one more break. On the other side how Issa Rae from Insecure gave me a tip on a question that her co-star Amanda did not expect. BRB.  I want to ask you a question comparing your work in the book to your comedy work.  Ooh.  Yeah. At the beginning of your comedy special from HBO earlier this year I Be Knowin'...  Hey.  Congrats on that.  Thank you.  You have this wonderful monologue at the top saying who this is for...  Oh yeah.  ...And who it is not for. And you say quote it is for everybody except for racists rapists sexists misogynists narcissists or those that are calling the cops on black folk just living our lives. You go on but it is kind of like saying I am here for these folks not for those folks. Would not those people benefit by hearing you and reading you as well?  Most of those people are not interested in any other point of view.  If they could come to your work in an open-minded way...  Yeah.  Would you want them to and like what would you hope that they get from it? All the stuff the other folks get from it I guess.  Yeah. I hope they see the error of their ways and make a practice to change not only their own behaviors but those that they feel - share. You know like I have a great essay in here from a friend of mine Alison Faircloth. There is two pieces in here that I did not write. One is from my friend Leah and the other one is for my friend Alison Faircloth who is a woman who happens to be white and we grew up together in high school and beyond at Dr. Phillips High School in Orlando Fla. And Alison wrote an incredible piece on Facebook after the Charlottesville horror about what it would take for white people to be allies and she was like this is what an ally...  Does.  ...Is.  Yeah is. Yeah.  And I was so happy that she allowed me to it in my book because I felt like it was so integrally important that it was coming from a white person speaking to white people because it just - it is not my job to continue trying to get white people to understand racism because at the end of the day if you are a white person who is racist like you are not going to hear me because you do not even see value in me.  Yeah.  So you need to hear from another white person who can let you know that it is not enough to just be like I just do not like racism.  Yeah.  Like it is not...  That means nothing at this point.  Like do not you love when you see videos of like a person who happens to be white in a situation where they see somebody like...  And they call it out.  ...Being attacked or - and they are like...  Call it out.  ...No no no. And they put themselves in that position because they know that once they are in the situation...  It changes it.  It changes it.  It changes it.  They understand that math.  Yes.  And they do that math for the help of somebody else. And like I mean the only thing that makes me cry more than that is like videos on The Dodo...  .  ...Because I love an animal rescue honey.  Listen. Same here.  Woo.  Same here.  Love it.  Yeah. In thinking about all of the multiple hats you have worn throughout your career - we have gone through that list so many things - I found out a little tidbit from you from one of your co-stars on your show. I ended up at a wedding two weekends ago with a mutual friend of Issa Rae so we both were there. So we are hanging out and I was like Issa I am going to interview one of your co-stars. I am talking to Amanda Seales. Tell me something to ask her that will like catch her by surprise.  Oh God. What is it going to be? OK.  And she was like have her tell you about how she was like a professional gymnast in her youth.  .  And I was like OK. I will ask. So this is me asking about that.  I would not say professional because like I did not make money off of it. I spent a lot of money doing it.  .  But yeah I was like a real intense gymnast. I started gymnastics when I was 12 and I excelled up to that point by 15. And I quit gymnastics when I was 16 because I had a stress fracture on one wrist and then I like learned all my routines on one arm.  Oh my God.  And then when that wrist healed I had stress fractures on the other wrist so then I was like I guess this is a wrap. And then I went into diving. But gymnastics was a huge part of my life and I mean just thinking about those years - 12 to 16 - I mean those are...  It is formative.  ...Very formative years. And it formed me to be just a very meticulous disciplined - that is why it was so just - it was incensing to me the lack of discipline I had writing this book.  Really?  I mean my coaches would have just been...  .  Like listen. When you get to the gym and Christie says like OK we are doing 10 beam routines today and you need to stick the first three in order to start counting the rest of them when you have fallen on that third routine four times and you are just standing by that beam crying and everyone is changing and going onto floor and Christie is like you are not leaving...  Christie is the coach.  Yes.  OK.  Christie is the coach - Christie Mitchell honey. And Christie's like Amanda you are not leaving so I would wipe the tears. If you need to go to the bathroom and get yourself together do what you got to do but you are not leaving...  Get back there.  ...Until you stick the routines you need to stick.  Yeah. How many hours a day were you practicing?  Six.  Oh my God.  I mean my mom was like I mean for you home was just a place you slept...  .  ...Because I slept - I would go to school and a lot of gymnasts like homeschool so they can train - you know especially elite gymnasts homeschool so they can train longer.  Yeah.  But I really loved school and I was in regular school for the time I was in gymnastics. So I would go to school you know from like 20 in the morning until I think 40 maybe. I cannot remember.  And then you go practice.  And then you leave school and you go immediately to the gym.  So it seems like that life has prepared you for the very very busy life you lead right now.  One thousand percent and I am just trying to like tap into that. I am also just like older and I am tired.  .  Like I just feel like - I just get like tired faster you know? Like...  Yeah.  And I would love to meet an investor who just gives me a bag of money so I can you know put my company together and just sit in my office...  Yeah.  ...And make things.  Yeah.  And you know...  That is not how it works.  How often does that happen?  Not how it works.  But I ama  put it out in the universe anyway.  There you go. Put it out. I love it.  It is out there you all.  I love it. Last question for you...  Ooh.  You have just written this book that a lot of folks are going to read and use to hopefully help their lives become a little bit better. What tidbit from this book and the wisdom you have in it would you most want that 14-year-old Amanda Seales gymnast crying by the floor routine to hear or receive from this book?  I think it goes back to what I said earlier which is just that it is in you...  Yeah.  ...Because there is been so many times where I feel like all is lost or I feel like damn. If I just had this person - you know like even like me saying like I wish somebody could give me a bag of money - it is like yeah but you also know that you can make a bag of money.  There you go.  And sometimes you just need to know that. It does not change the fact that you would still love for somebody drop a bag of money you know? But sometimes you just need to know that because hope is a currency.  And hope is maybe even worth more...  I was going to say.  ...Than the bag of money.  And there is been so many times where I have had to check myself and remind myself it is in you. Like you may not be able to see it right now. Keep looking.  Thank you Amanda Seales.  Thank you.  This was a delight.  This was so fun yes.  I really enjoyed it. Oh my goodness.  And you know you have perfect hands.  What?  You have beautiful hands.  Listen. You come here every week.  .   Thanks again to Amanda Seales. Her new book is called Small Doses Potent Truths For Everyday Use. Listeners we are back in your podcast feed on Friday with our usual wrap of the week's news and culture and all the fun stuff. As always for that episode and every Friday episode we want to hear you in the show as well. Email us the best things that have happened to you all week. To share that just record your voice into your phone and send the audio file to me at samsandersnpr.org. You might hear your own voice in our Friday episode. It could be fun. All right. Till then thank you for listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. Talk soon. 