 Hi this is Eva. Elise is my mom. This week on the show Los Angeles Times reporter Soumya Karlamangla and host of Good Luck Of America ...  Good Luck America.  Good Luck America on Snapchat Peter Hamby. OK let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Elise Hu. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Sam is on vacation but I am a fellow Texan. So he trusted me enough to fill in 'ecause he knew I was going to drop enough you alls I guess.  .  As Eva said I am here today with Peter Hamby host of Snapchat's Good Luck America not Good Luck Of America.  That was cute though.  .  Very cute...  And next to Peter is Soumya Karlamangla health reporter at the LA Times. Hey Soumya.  Hi Elise.  The music you are hearing behind us here is a cross-cultural collaboration. It is the British pop star Dua Lipa with one of K-pop's biggest groups. Do you recognize this song?  Yeah.    Touch me like you touch nobody. Put your hands all up on me.  This is called Kiss And Make Up.    Kiss and make kiss kiss and make up.  It is Dua Lipa with BLACKPINK. BLACKPINK is an all-woman quartet. It is the only Korean girl group to make it on the Billboard Hot 100 list more than once.  Oh.  roup is multilingual. They are going to keep making waves too. The group collectively speaks Korean English Japanese and Thai.  Wow.  And the only K-pop acts that are bigger than ly are - guess.  Psy.  Psy.  Right.  And BTS.  Who are the like dancing dudes with the awesome haircuts?  BTS.  .  That is BTS? OK.  You nailed it.  Yes.  So right behind Psy and BTS is BLACKPINK. Now you have some cocktail chatter. What about you all? What are your favorite artist collaborations? Does not have to be international.  That is a tough one...  Yeah. You are really putting us on the spot.  You are from the South. So I was thinking of my second favorite besides this one this week - Garth Brooks and Trisha Yearwood.  I am that - I am not for that. I love country music. I am one of those like snobby like music guys who is like I do not like mainstream country though so...  Oh it is...  I have never - I have heard that a Garth Brooks show can change your life though.  I do not understand anything about this conversation.  .    Kiss and make kiss kiss and make up. Kiss and make up. Kiss and make kiss kiss and make up.  .  All right. Well then let us start the show as we do. We each reflect on some news of the week in three words. Peter I am going to let you go first.  As I reflected on the news of the week the words that jumped to mind as a political dork - that is my profession - are election do-over. CNN this week on Tuesday night decided to do another round of election night coverage with their reporters scattered all over the country and their panelists and their walls and their stats. This was because election night last Tuesday was not over. But it was treated by the national media as if it were happening all that night. And that led to a lot of narratives being formed around the election when lots and lots and lots of races including plenty of House races had not been called yet...  Were not called right.  So it was as if it was last Tuesday?  Yes.  Did they set up the sets all over again?  I mean they were open about the fact that it was not...  Like we are...  ...The same Tuesday.   Like pretend?  Yes with the very sexy branding of I think Election Night Continued.  Oh.  Yeah. I mean and look. There - in fairness to CNN I am glad they did this because political narratives get formed very quickly because of Twitter. They immediately radiate out into cable news network news the newspapers. And frequently especially with exit polling which is often faulty those narratives can be wrong. Like parsing like is this or is this not a wave is sort of a - sort of stupid way to talk about politics...  Right because it is so esoteric what makes a wave a wave you know...  Yeah exactly. I mean Democrats won the national popular vote if you want to measure the House vote that way by around 7 points. They swept into office in plenty of Republican-leaning districts. They have recaptured Orange County which is bananas right? That is like the cradle of kind of Reagan-era conservatism. Again there were these big standout races like you know Cruz versus O'Rourke in Texas your home state - in Florida in Georgia that like - those were the rock stars. And when they lost early on I think a lot of people online - in particular like on the left - were dispirited like...  Yeah like a big sense of...  Right.  ...Disappointment about the evening.  Totally. But there are these very unsexy candidates like Tony Evers in Wisconsin for example...  Yeah. No idea never heard of him .  ...Beat Scott Walker. Right. He is an uber-nerd. He is like the former state superintendent of education just like a middle-aged white guy. But Democrats won back Wisconsin - right? - which was - like Scott Walker won three statewide elections there. There is not a ton of bad news for Democrats. Was it a wave? I mean probably...  But also who is to say right?  Yeah.  Yeah.  Does the media do anything differently though next time? I mean we are lamenting the fact that this had to be an election night redo and that election night was - is always covered like it is fight night - right? - like it is an event. But do you think that because of what happened in 2018 that suddenly in 2020 CNN's going to be like all right...  I feel CNN's still going to do the same thing just because people want to know what is happening. And you want to be able to go to sleep that night and say this person won and this person lost. But maybe they will have to do seven consecutive days of election night coverage where it is changing a little by little every day.  Yeah. I could see them making it Election Week like Shark Week...  I am sure they would love that  yeah.  Well and we forget that - I do not know the exact number here. But like 30 million people voted early. Like Election Day starts well before Election Day and...  Yeah.  ...As we have learned...  That is a good point.  ...Over the last week it...  Election Month.  ...Continues after election night.  Maybe they should do Election Month...  Totally which like again...  Great for ratings yeah.  Exactly. Another reason CNN wanted to do Election Night Continued but also recount in Florida - three recounts in Florida I think. Ad commissioner - do not forget the ad commissioner race very important.  Man.  .  Senate and gov...   ...Georgia and then all of these sort of like uncounted House races. Like New Jersey was still being counted. California's still being counted.  Right. And - what? - it is been a week and a half. We are still counting.  Yeah. And that is - I am a new-ish  California resident...  Right.  But one of the things that every political person out here told me was like California takes a long time to count votes...  Yeah.  They are still counting right...  Yeah in some counties.  In some of the counties.  They are still counting...  We are a giant state...  It is like the Young Kim race yeah.  Yeah yeah.  All right. We are sitting here in Culver City Calif. Obviously there is been some big news here. And Soumya your three words please.  Yes. My three words are what is burning now?  Ah.  With a question mark because that is how I have felt every day for the past like eight days. So the - there are fires all up and down California. And the winds move really fast. And it is really dry. And so these fires are just able to spread. So I am from Thousand Oaks. So last week I woke up to news of a shooting in my hometown.  Gosh.  And then I went out to Thousand Oaks to cover the shooting for the paper. And I was sitting in a coffee shop turned around. There was a fire I do not know at the nearest - on the nearest mountain. We kind of ignored it. It was pretty far away from my parents' house. Twelve hours later we had to evacuate drive over to my apartment in LA so my parents could have a place to sleep. And then the fire luckily did not impact Thousand Oaks that much but then went over to Malibu has burned tons of houses. I think the count's up to about 500 structures three people dead. And that is not even talking about the Northern California fire where - that destroyed the entire town of Paradise. And already 63 people have been killed.  Yeah. I cannot remember any time in modern American history when a town of more than 25000 - right? - which was Paradise was...  Yeah.  ...Incinerated within...  It is...  ...Something like six hours....  ...Horrifying yeah.  The death toll from the fires in Northern and Southern California this morning as we tape at least 63 people dead with more than 600 still missing.  I know.  We should mention though that officials are still hoping that that 600 number includes a lot of folks who evacuated and just did not realize they have not been accounted for. But Soumya these twin disasters for you and for Thousand Oaks - the fire's causing so much displacement. How is the community even processing this? How are your parents?  My parents are OK. They are back to work. Our house is fine but it is just been unbelievable. Like yesterday I went to a memorial for the sergeant who died and was killed in the shooting. And you know you are at the memorial. And you look around and all of the hills around where the church was were jet black because they would all been charred. It was just like so much evidence of two horrible things happening at the same time.  Peter you and I are still pretty new to California. How have you experienced all this?  A couple things. I mean I live in Venice. So like I think the Saturday - the first Saturday after the fires really started burning...  We could smell it.  Maybe I was downwind of it. You could smell it. There was haze on the west side of LA. These fires are happening like with more frequency and intensity. Hurricanes are the same way. The stuff that people warned us about about climate change is increasingly just not 10 20 years in the future. Like it is happening right now. I do not think our political establishment is actually...  Is reckoning with it.  ...Talking about it...  Yeah.  ...That...  No.  ...Much at all. Obviously like Trump pulling out of the climate accord has like serious consequences. I just do not think it surfaces itself in the national political conversation very often.  Yeah. I learned this new term this week - climate grief...  Oh.  ...Which is something that all of us feel as we - even if we are not directly affected by the fires like you have been the feeling that we have when we watch parts of our planet burn parts of our state burn and kind of have this helplessness about it knowing that this is going to happen more and then also that we cannot do that much about it at this point. But we are all kind of connected right?  I did not know that.  Yeah.  I mean to speak to a truth in the media and the DNA of how people in Washington think at least like as much as climate change is validated by science there is still this sort of impulse to treat it as a political debate...  Right.  Yeah.  ...And a both-sides debate when it is not. But I do think a lot of sort of mainstream political journalists sort of treat it as a controversial issue.  It is like a...  Still.  ...Hot-button issue yeah.  Exactly...  Yeah.  ...As opposed to like a reality.  Yeah.  So my three words I saved for last because - and you will see why. The three words are no great deception. We had not heard much about North Korea for several weeks until Monday when The New York Times dropped a front page story with the headline In North Korea comma - there is always that comma in the North - in The New York Times headlines...  I love the comma.  Dangling clause.   In North Korea Missile Bases Suggest A Great Deception. Did you catch the story?  Oh yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.  So it used a new report from CSIS which is a - you know legit think tank about North Korea's other nuclear missile sites the ones that they have not started dismantling and that they never have declared to the rest of the world. So the immediate implication is that Trump was actually getting played that North Korea is somehow deceiving him. But North Korea when it agreed to that Singapore summit deal with Trump in June never actually signed on to anything specific.  And there was no timeline attached to this at all right?  And no declaration of even what it had.  Right.  And the second is there is no actual revelations in the report about secret missile sites that the U.S. government did not already know about.  Yeah. So you are saying that they made it seem like Trump got completely tricked and America got tricked. But our intelligence officials already knew about all of those sites.  That is right.  Yeah.  And then also you cannot really accuse somebody of abrogating an agreement that they never signed onto.  But did not Trump present it as though it was an agreement? So I feel like that is what The New York Times was saying. Like Trump said I fixed all these problems we made this agreement. Although technically you are right. There was no agreement.  Yeah I guess the deception part is the problem.  Yes.  It kicked up a big controversy in the North Korea-watcher community.  That is not an insignificant community these days.  No it is not.  Right?  There is some North - there is actually some legit North Korea news right now because Vice President Pence has been in Asia. And he did announce this week that there will be another summit. We do not know what is going to happen but there is going to be another U.S.-North Korea summit. There was somebody during the first round of summits that speculated that Donald Trump just likes to have summits.  Yeah he - Donald Trump is a master of attention. I - the first summit it was an enormous photo op where - full of pageantry. And he got to walk down carpets and shake hands. And there was you know military attendants. And like was that February?  June.  June sorry.  It is been a long year.  It is been a long year. .  OK it is time for a break. Coming up we are going to call up a parent in Baraboo Wis. That is where a photo of dozens of white high school boys making a Nazi salute went viral this week. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here today with Peter Hamby reporter and host at Snapchat and Vanity Fair. What is up Peter?  Hey.  Also with...   Was that supposed to be less?  No that was great.   No I thought it was good.  OK.  I am also here with Soumya Karlamangla health reporter with the LA Times.  Hi Elise.  Hey there. Before we get back to some serious news I have a question for you both. What is your chicken consumption like?  Low 'ecause I am vegetarian .  So zero really.  Zero.  I am not like a fitness guy who like measures his macros or anything. But I eat a lot of protein. So...  What is a lot?  I would say like I eat...  What is your favorite protein though?  Chicken - yeah definitely chicken.  You are still into chicken.  But I mix it up yeah.  OK. I am asking because the chicken industry is in a slump. Tyson reported earnings this Tuesday. Operating income from chicken fell 34 percent from a year ago.  Wow.  But beef - beef income is up 14 percent. And investment analysts say the shift away from chicken and to beef and pork is way more pronounced than imagined.  That is so weird.  You want to know why? Yeah. Part of the reason for the growth in beef and pork is tariffs. Pork prices are down. And restaurants and fast food chains are offering more pork and beef options because it is cheaper. And so to pimp out bacon Wendy's is offering a promo for a sandwich called S'Awesome Hamburger that is S apostrophe awesome.  What is in it though?  Three strips of bacon.  See that - I am pro that.  Is their sausage in it? Because it kind of sounds like sausage.  That is what I thought.  S'Awesome.   And I would also eat a sausage burger. I know that grosses you out.  No I mean come on we eat sausage biscuit sandwiches.  I just really like sausage.  .  All right. Now it is time for a segment we call Long Distance.   At the beginning of this week a chilling image went viral. It is a group of about 50 kids nearly all white throwing up Nazi salutes for their junior prom picture. One of them in front seems to go further making the OK gesture favored by white supremacists. These kids are catching national attention just as worries about the rise of white nationalism in this country grow. And the FBI released new numbers this week showing hate crimes jumped 17 percent since last year up for the third year in a row now. The school hired the photographer who took the picture. The kids say they were following his instructions to wave. The image came out because the photographer put it on his professional website. A New York-based reporter reposted it on Twitter. That is how it went viral and that is how we know about it. Huge controversy so we wondered what is it like in Baraboo this week? To talk about it we called up a dad of two daughters who go to Baraboo Nate Mathis-Vargas who is white like more than 90 percent of that town and its high school. Hey Nate. Can you hear me OK?  I can.  Well thanks for doing this. It must be a strange and stressful time.  Not a problem.  You have two daughters who go to Baraboo High School a freshman and a junior. What has this week been like?  It is been strange to be honest with you. A friend posted that picture on Facebook from the original Twitter post and I was appalled. I was like what? This is where my kids go to school. They walk the hallways with these kids. I do not want my kids surrounded by people who feel that way or think that way. And you know then at the end of the day I called my ex-wife to get my daughters on speakerphone so that the four of us could discuss it together. And they were not aware of a lot about the Nazi army itself. So they did not understand what that meant which was more shocking to me than the picture itself. It is like how did they not teach that? How do they not know that? And I explained to them that they need to know. You need to know what that means. You need to know what it means to be marginalized and why that issue is such a - like why people are freaking out about it.  And what did those conversations sound like? What did you all say to each other?  Well obviously because they are teenagers they were - and they are proud of where they go to school. And their friends were in that picture. They took the position of you know they did not know what they were doing. They did not understand what was wrong with it - you know the people in the picture themselves - and that they felt bad for the kids. And there is kids who were being threatened. And you know they were taking offense that their friend was being attacked. And the school was on a soft lockdown this last week because they...  Wow.  ...Have received threats at the school.  Wow. What does that mean for the students to be on soft lockdown as a result of a viral photo of Heil Hitler signs?  It is stressful. My daughter when I first messaged her about it and asked how she was doing she said that she - everything around the school was very tense that day. And she just wanted to cry which really hurt my heart. Like I do not ever want her to feel like that or any kid to feel like that. And a soft lockdown means they cannot - they have an open campus generally so the students can leave school to go to lunch. And during this whole entire week they have not been allowed to do that.  What has this whole episode taught you?  I feel like it opened my eyes to a little bit more about what I need to do as a parent on talking to my kids about these kinds of things. My oldest daughter - she was very offended by the fact that the whole world you know was talking about it. And she felt like it was shedding an unfair light on the city itself. And I used that opportunity to kind of explain to her what it meant to be marginalized because you know people who dealt with that and anybody who deals with you know bullying or harassment - or because of the color of their skin they were picked on or bullied or marginalized in the past. And so I said you know take how you feel right now in this situation. You are upset. You feel like everyone is judging you and unfairly. That is how those people feel every single day of their lives. And it is kind of bringing things to light.  Now I understand that more than 10 percent of the thousand kids at Baraboo High School are people of color. The journalist who first put up this photo says alumni have been writing in to him saying that the school does not seem to do much about racial bullying at school.  Yes.  What are teachers and administrators doing to be better?  So far they have only sent out a letter saying you know that we acknowledge there was a serious default on our side of the situation and that they are going to start offering more classes and more strict guidelines when it comes to what they learn and how they deal with situations when it comes to racial discrimination. And when it comes to those posts of alumni who go to school there am I surprised that that had happened? No. I mean I grew up in a small town. You know I was not out at the time. But everyone just assumed I was gay which I am. But I was bullied mercilessly about it. And you know it is because people that grow up in areas like that - they are not exposed to things in the world that they do not understand. And they feel like because they do not see it they do not understand it and the people that are around them agree with it - that it makes it OK. I do have to say that you know the school sent a letter yesterday. And I at first was very upset with school thinking that they did not do what they needed to do. And obviously they have not in the past. But now the world is watching them. And I feel like that is the best possible outcome of the situation - is the students and the school do not need to make excuses for what happened. Acknowledge it. Say it was wrong. Say we understand that we hurt people and you know go forward being better.  All right. Well here's to more difficult conversations that hopefully offer some lessons not only to the kids but to the whole community. Nate thank you so much for joining us.  Absolutely.   Thanks again to Nate Mathis-Vargas. His daughters go to Baraboo High School in Wisconsin. I am back here with Peter and Soumya. What were you all's reactions when you all saw this?  It was crazy. Yeah. And also from that interview like I honestly cannot believe that people do not know what that means.  Yeah. That is what the kids are saying.  Yeah. And that just seems like a really convenient excuse. And even if it is real that is a problem in itself that they do not know what that means.  But they would have had to know it - know what it meant enough to think it was funny.  I have a lot of thoughts about this. So I work at Snapchat. I work on political news at Snapchat. And so I immerse myself with high school and college-age people primarily. And like my show for example - 90 percent of the audience is under 25. So I go to high schools. I talk to high school kids.  Yeah.  Like if they stop me on the street I talk...  Yeah.  ...To them. I am just curious how they view the world. White high school boys think that things like this are funny. They think Donald Trump is kind of trolly  and fun because it is transgressive. And it gets people angry.  So this is just trolling...  I think...  ...To them.  ...That it is hard to believe they would not know that this is like a Nazi salute.  Yeah.  But it has been reappropriated in the sort of like Trumpy  Reddit era into just like a thing that is like fun to mess with people. And I guarantee you plenty of these kids in - if not already will in a year or two to be like oh man. I cannot believe I did that. That was a stupid thing.  So are you saying that these symbols of hate - holding up the Nazi salute - that it is divorced from its original meaning?  Yeah. I mean I think we saw that in 2016.  How so?  I am not - well I mean like with the sort of like alt-right figures.  I feel like it is supposed to be like ironic...  Yeah.  ...Nazism.  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  Which is...  Ironic Nazism.  Which like I think you could say you know there is a hard line. You cannot do that.  Yeah.  And like Millennials and Gen Z are like the largest demographic population in this country. And a lot of them are coming of age at a moment when things like this are just in the water.  So what do you think should happen to the kids?  Look. I think they need to have cultural conversations with people who do not look like them.  Yeah. Yeah.  I generally do not think people in high school should be like tortured forever by their actions but they should have to reckon with what they did.  Yeah I do not think that there should be a formal punishment. But I feel like they need a history lesson and talking to - like Peter said talking to people who are not like them. But...  Yeah and it sounded like...  ...And dealing with it on a personal level needs to be done.  It sounded like from the dad too that they are having some really awkward and difficult conversations that needed to be had.  Right.  And the kids are learning a lot. All right. Time for a break. When we come back we will play Who Said That.  .  Should I say who said that?   Who said that?   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here today with Peter Hamby reporter and host at Snapchat also a contributing writer at Vanity Fair. Also here with Soumya Karlamangla health reporter with the Los Angeles Times.  Hey.  And it is kind of the El Segundo times now right? It moved.  Yeah we are right across from LAX. We have a view of the planes landing.  Oh lovely.  It is kind of nice.  There is an In-N-Out Burger over there.  There is. There is like two restaurants. It is good   Well you all now it is time for my favorite part of It is BEEN A  Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  The game is simple. I share a quote from the week. You have to guess who said that or at least the story where the quote is coming from. Best of three. And the prize we have this week for the winner is - wait for it.  Chicken .  That would be so good. I should just get like a gigantic frozen chicken. And if you win you have to...  I will give it to Peter.  Yeah exactly.  Yeah you have to give it to Peter.  He loves chicken.  So I win.  Big fan of protein.  I love protein.  And you can just yell out the answer when you know this OK?  OK.  Here we go. First quote - If you see a staggering and disoriented raccoon please do not approach it. Who said that?  Is this like a high raccoon?  OK.   I am just going to give it to you.  Yes.  It was close enough. If you see a staggering and disoriented raccoon please do not approach it is a quote from police in Milton W. Va. where they have had multiple calls about raccoons stumbling around town. They suspected rabies. But according to the police it turns out they appear to be drunk on crab apples . Police in Gilbert Minn. also got reports of birds getting sauced and flying into windows cars and acting confused.  Wait. Crab apples?  So raccoons were getting drunk on crab apples.  How do you get drunk on a crab apple?  I guess the effect of a crab apple on a raccoon's system leads it to act...  So I cannot get drunk on crab apples.  No. I mean you can try.  You can ferment it like sit it in a jar.  Like in my bath tub.  Yes.  Exactly.  Speaking of fermenting so the reason why the birds were getting drunk and flying into windows - an early frost meant that berries fermented before the birds flew south for the winter. And so they were eating them and getting drunk.  I feel like these are signs of the apocalypse. Like you might be listening to this tomorrow. But then all of us will be gone.  Yeah birds are always a little creepy...  Right.  ...And a sign that things might be going wrong. Soumya you get a point.  OK. Great.  All right. Next quote - If I walked into Congress wearing a sack they would laugh and take a picture of my backside.  Oh that is Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.   Peter Hamby everybody.  Politics expert. Give us the context.  This story was so ridiculous.  It was crazy and dumb.  An emblem of our stupid politics.  So dumb.  Ocasio-Cortez new House member the youngest ever woman elected to the House has obviously been getting lots and lots of media attention in part because she is a young woman in part because she is a democratic socialist in part because she embraces social media. She embraces the media. She is not like one of these cautious politicians. Anyway she is also - really gets under the skin of conservatives. And there is a conservative reporter on the Hill who saw her and sort of said like oh this looks like she is wearing like a really nice jacket and skirt like does not look like this...  She cannot afford rent or something like that.  Yeah. She cannot afford rent. Or she is struggling or whatever.  It does not look like she is struggling with something like that.  Yeah. And like that is part of her biography right? Like she is a working-class like waitress et cetera. And like this guy got ratio-ed to hell on Twitter.  .  Like everyone replied like dude what are you doing?  So this guy's name is Eddie Scarry. He is with the Washington Examiner. And the tweet was worse than we are even portraying it as because he said does not look like a girl who is struggling.  That is so dumb. I mean like so many - there are just so many more important things to write about and talk about than like getting your stupid content retweeted. I - last time I looked I thought he might have deleted the tweet...  He has.  ...Not that that matters these days. But he did delete it.  But your knowing about this dumb story gave you a point in Who Said That. So you all are tied.  OK.  Fun.  Let us move on - best of three. Here we go.  All right.  Just yell it out if you know it. I was concerned that I might slip that the ground would be too slick. But it was wet and grainy enough that traction was not a problem.  Is it an athlete?   Clearly not.   I am going to give you another quote...  OK.  ...From the same...  From the same like...  ...Person.  ...Fictional farmer from a Depression-era novel. Go on .  You are going to love this when you know who it is. Snow in my face the flakes smaller more biting now maybe sleet - lots of Oxford commas.  This is like experiencing...  Is it Beto O'Rourke?  Yes.   Yes. This was so weirdawesome.  Soon-to-be former Congressman Beto O'Rourke lost his campaign for Texas Senate. And he wrote his first noncampaign Medium post about his run in Washington D.C. on the first day of snow. And it was this weird stream-of-consciousness description of the run. At some point somebody...  He ran to the Lincoln Memorial...  Yes.  ...And like wrote down one of the quotes that he read on the memorial.  Yeah.  I mean like look. He is having some feelings right now right? Just - you know he is having some emotions.  He is processing.  And like a lot of people like were reading the tea leaves in this like...  Right - right - he is running.  He is running. Literally he is running.  .  He is running or he is running.  That is amazing.  Yeah. Yeah.  But that is the question right? Is he running or is he running?  I will say this. He is absolutely in the conversation as a 2020 presidential candidate because he is singularly the most exciting Democrat in the country...  Yeah.  ...For Democrats. He is raised like - he raised scads of money...  A gazillion dollars - yeah.  ...Online. He is authentic at a time when that is really like a fetish in our politics.  Right.  Like he - and he is young right? Like he represents kind of generational change. But like he is a little emo.  Yeah. Yeah.  He is a little emo and he is having some emotions.  All right. Who won? Peter Hamby.  I will give you all my chicken.  I appreciate it .  I know. I actually think this chicken is a great prize that we thought of. So thanks Soumya.  Yeah.  OK. Now it is time to end this show as we do every week. We ask listeners to share with Sam the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage you to brag. Let us take a listen.  This is Kelly ...  ...And Patrick  on the Blue Ridge Parkway.  We are driving from Dallas to New York. And it is the best thing that is happened to us