 As someone who covers Georgia politics did you ever expect it to be like this right now?  I have only been doing this job for about a year.  OK.  And it is been crazy from the beginning.  .  You know I went from impeachment to coronavirus to elections so it is just been crazy.  .  I do not know not crazy.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show the runoffs in Georgia and why they have become a national race. All right let us start the show.   From NPR I am Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend. We are - what? - two weeks or so removed from Election Day 2020. I would say we made it but as you know election 2020 is not over yet. Donald Trump's campaign is still contesting vote tallies across the country. But we are not going to talk about that this episode. What we are going to talk about is another piece of election 2020 that is not over yet - two runoffs for the U.S. Senate both happening in Georgia this January.   Right two Republican incumbents. Here's the math heading into them - 50 Republicans 48 Democrats meaning Democrats need to win them both 50-50 means Vice President Harris would break the tie in the Senate.  To figure out what is really at stake I called up a reporter covering both of these races Tia Mitchell. Tia is the Washington correspondent for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. And to start I asked her to break down who the candidates are.   In one runoff there is incumbent Senator David Perdue a Republican.  He was one of those outside candidates who had never run for office before.  He is facing off against Jon Ossoff a Democrat.  A lot of you guys remember him because he ran for Congress in 2017 in a special election and he lost then in a runoff.  In the other runoff there is incumbent Senator Kelly Loeffler. She is a Republican and she was appointed to the role after an unexpected Senate vacancy.  She is only been serving for almost a year.  She is up against Raphael Warnock a Democrat.  Even though this is his first time running for office he is been an activist on progressive issues.  So with all eyes on Georgia right now I had a lot of questions for Tia.   So I was reading the other day that already in these two races more than 120 million has been spent and that number will only grow between now and the actual runoff which is - what? - early January. How big of a deal is that amount of money in these races? And what does that look and feel like if you are just a person in Georgia? Is it just bombarding you everywhere you go?  Absolutely.  .  That is what it looks like especially if you are you know one of those super voters. You are getting mail or...  Wait who is a super voter? Not me.  You know somebody who like votes all the time. I might not be using the right language for it but...  Sounds good to me. I like it. I like it.  ...A frequent voter who you know can be counted on to show up.  Gotcha.  But just in general on TV you are seeing these four individuals - Ossoff Warnock Perdue and Loeffler - at every commercial break. And when you turn on YouTube you are seeing digital ads. But it also means that there is a lot of attention on Georgia. You have a lot of national media sending their reporters to Georgia to cover the race. And so I mean in some ways I think Georgia finds it cool to be the center of attention.  .  It is something that Democrats in Georgia have been saying like pay attention to us.  Yeah.  We can make a difference. And it is finally coming true.  Yeah. I have been hearing about a lot of progressive activists just flocking to the state right now the GOP also just sending folks down as well. Do Southerners like all that outside influence when they are getting ready to vote in a very important race - two very important races?  So I think it is interesting because you know Republicans usually point the finger at Democrats and say look you are raising all this money in California and New York for Georgia races and you are bringing all your carpetbagger friends in you know to try to influence our Georgia races. But now Republicans are doing the same thing. You know they have a 50-state fundraising strategy that they just launched.  Oh wow.  And you know they are sending folks to Georgia too because it is so crucial. I think for Georgia for like the residents of Georgia it is not so much about who is saying what at this point. You are not changing a lot of minds. It is turnout.  Yeah.  It is getting people to show up to cast their ballots. We have not even talked about the whole attack on Georgia's election process and how that may or may not influence people to participate because if you are a Republican for the past few weeks you have had the leaders of your party tell you that Georgia does not know how to run an election.  There is also this conundrum that Republicans face on trying to maintain excitement from Trump voters until this runoff. And for that reason some folks believe Republicans have been slow to tell Trump he lost his election 'ecause they do not want to upset Trump because that might mean upsetting his supporters. From what you can tell which side seems more juiced up right now in Georgia Democrats or Republicans?  So that is what - you hit the nail on the head. It is a very delicate balance on the Republican side. As much money that is already being spent and as much attention that is already on Georgia I still think we are not at premium juice levels yet. You know what I mean?  Yeah yeah.  Like everything is going to ratchet up once absentee ballots start getting mailed out and once early voting starts and things like that. But right now the Democrats have a much more cohesive message in this buildup period whereas...  Really?  ...Republicans are split. Again like you mentioned Senator Loeffler and Senator Perdue are very clearly falling in line behind President Trump. So they have called for the secretary of state to resign even though he is a fellow Republican. And they have cast doubt on the validity of the election process in Georgia in ways that other Republicans worry could depress turnout. But Perdue and Loeffler do not want to lose Trump's support and they do not want to turn off Trump supporters. So they are kind of clinging to what President Trump's talking points are right now.  You know at least nationally Democrats in Georgia seem to have a more unified face. You know everyone on the left has fallen in line behind Stacey Abrams and her work to mobilize potential progressive voters and Black voters. Is that portrayal of solidarity actually true for Democrats in Georgia?  Yes. For right now Democrats are much more unified because the stakes are very clear for Democrats. Either you win both seats and you help President Biden with his you know new administration or you lose either one or both and that makes it much more difficult for this president that Georgia already helped deliver you know? So Stacey Abrams is such a high-profile voice not only because she has this playbook that everyone's crediting with you know providing a blueprint for how Democrats can compete in Georgia and she is turned out to be right in a lot of ways but she also has her own credibility she built up when she ran for governor in 2018. And the thing that made her really special then was she campaigned statewide. Georgia has 159 counties.  That is a lot.  Yes a lot.  Wow .  Stacey Abrams visited every county when she was running for governor because her philosophy was I might not be able to win a majority of voters in this county but there are some votes I can get.  Yeah. You know there are so many interesting data points in the Georgia results this November and possibly more interesting data points to come in this runoff in January. You know we saw Black voter turnout increase almost exponentially in some instances in the state. What in your mind are the biggest demographic stories come out of Georgia right now when it comes to these votes?  So Georgia's demographics are changing particularly in the Atlanta suburbs becoming more diverse more people of color younger voters making the state more Democratic. You know right now Republicans still control the Legislature the governor's office and all statewide elected offices. But you have this one recent bright spot for Democrats with Joe Biden carrying the state. And they are hoping that this trend will continue. But the other thing that really helped Joe Biden win Georgia was college-educated white people who particularly in Atlanta suburbs but all across the state you know they had soured on President Trump and were willing to give Joe Biden a chance. So that is again something that is going to be a data point we look at in this runoff because you know in one race we have Perdue versus Ossoff. There is a age difference but they are both white men. But in the Loeffler-Warnock race there is a different racial dynamic there with Warnock a Black man who is a pastor of a Black church and who has championed very progressive issues very publicly in a way that Republicans are using to you know paint him as a radical progressive whereas Kelly Loeffler is a white woman a wealthy white woman who lives in Buckhead the posh Atlanta suburb. The question is where white people fall in these races can help determine whether Democrats can win.  Thanks again to Tia Mitchell. She is the Washington correspondent for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. All right coming up what is next for the left after election 2020?   So my next guests - I brought them on to talk politics but we had to start the same way all conversations start these days - a discussion of COVID. And I wondered with them when if ever things will feel normal again.  The question is not the vaccine. It is when do you feel comfortable going to see your favorite band...  Exactly.  ...Next to 20000 people in Madison Square Garden?  When is Coachella back?  Yeah when is Coachella back?   Yeah. When can Kevin Hart tour not in his living room?   That is mostly what I am worried about.  Those are comedians W. Kamau Bell and Hari Kondabolu. Kamau is the host of the CNN series United Shades Of America. And Hari created and starred in the 2017 documentary The Problem With Apu. On top of that work Hari and Kamau host a podcast together. It is called Politically Re-Active. On the show they react to politics from a progressive point of view. So I brought Hari and Kamau on to talk about what this year's election results mean for the left for progressives and for the Democratic Party going forward.   I think honestly first question - what does it say about the state of the left that it was not a clean sweep which many Democrats thought they might get going into Election Day this month?  Says a lot about the infrastructure of the Democratic Party. I mean I feel like this constant desire to look for the middle like try to - it is like you had Clinton and you had Obama and you are still going towards the Clinton model. Like that is what I find so strange. It is like instead of a really charismatic figure that is going to mobilize you know the progressive left as Obama did it is like well let us try to get these moderate Republicans. And so we won this election but it did not win over you know and activate a lot of the left. I mean I think a lot of the progressive left was activated by our hatred of Donald Trump but not our love of Joe Biden.  Kamau?  I think it is also about when the left is like we did not - it was not a clean sweep often I think it is about who was running not about the ideals 'ecause in Florida that Trump won they also got 15 minimum wage. I mean I think we have not said enough. Oklahoma elected a nonbinary Muslim millennial - Oklahoma. So like it is like - I think...  Yeah.  ...If you find the right people who have the right ideals then you can have success. And I think a lot of times there is sort of a negotiation for the middle. So like I do not - I think that is - it is the people who lost not the ideals.  I - one of the questions I have been grappling with since Election Day is which flank of the left won quote-unquote? And I say - and I am using left and progressives and Democrats interchangeably. I know some listeners will not like that but bear with me. You know but all of the things you all have said - I still have questions. Like Joe Biden was this candidate who could not help lead Democrats to a clean sweep but he also got more votes for president than any other candidate in the history of America.  .  Was it like - so like what does it all say? Is there one clear message for the leftprogressivesDemocrats in this aftermath? Is it go more to the left? Is it go more to the center? Is it get more charismatic candidates? Or is it kind of a grab bag of like lessons to be pulled from this?  Definitely a grab bag of lessons. I mean I think - like look Donald Trump also got a lot of votes as well. So this is less about I think motivation as much as access to voting. I mean the mail-in ballots made a huge difference. So I think it is a victory kind of for everybody in some way 'ecause we stopped the bleeding. You know this election was I was pro-tourniquet. You know who is going to stop the bleeding? A Democrat will stop the bleeding. OK that is a step. From here we can build.  So I think that maybe we have not stopped the bleeding yet. We think we have a chance to stop the bleeding. I think right now Biden's like the surgeon. He is like I am ready to go in to operate. And they are like you cannot come in the room yet. Like we are not ready.   Meanwhile Trump's in there like every kid who plays Operation -  - you know? So I think there is a...  Leaving his forceps in there.  Yeah yeah yeah. I think there is an opportunity to stop the bleeding. So I do not think we are there yet. I do think that it is a victory for acknowledging the fact that once again Black women at the core of the Democratic Party are the ones who did this.  Yeah. You know when you talk about Black women Black voters in the Democratic Party it leads to this larger conversation about the way race is working for Democrats right now. I think for a long time there has been this assumption in Democratic politics that quote-unquote demographics is destiny. And as the nation gets Blacker and browner of course Democrats win in that formula. But we have seen in these election results in some parts of the country 1 in 3 Latino men voted for Trump. Almost 20 of Black men voted for Trump. There are parts of the country in which people that Democrats expected to get on their side went for Donald Trump even after years of really harsh rhetoric on race. What is the lesson there for Democratsthe leftprogressives?  Just because you speak the same language does not mean you agree on everything.  .  I mean like that is obvious. But like how come everyone's like I do not understand we expect the Latino vote to go this way but in Florida the Cubans voted that way and the Mexicans voted this way and the Puerto Ricans voted - yeah because they are not from the same place...  'ecause they are different.  They are different.  Yeah.  They speak the same language but that does not mean they are the same. And you know one way we can explain that to people is that hey you know how America - a lot of us speak English and we do not agree on everything? Yeah.  .  A language is a way to communicate. It does not mean that you have a set of values that are ingrained in the language.  Yeah yeah.  I also think there is really a misunderstanding about how some immigrant groups come into this country and what they are looking for and I think - and what their history means. Natalie Morales on Twitter put this great Twitter thread together about why she believes that Latino immigrants coming to this country often vote Republican and it is because the ways in which democracy has been framed in the country they come from they are afraid that that means socialism and the way in which the right in this country has said the Democrats want socialism.  Yeah. In the aftermath of this election and all these issues that we have just laid out being very clear and present for Democratic Party leadership what should those party leaders be doing differently going forward - those mostly coastal mostly white Democratic Party leaders?  Maybe they should travel to the rest of the country. Maybe they should actually...  I think they should be packing their bags and getting out of the way .  Or that. That would be - I guess I was thinking realistically as opposed to what I would prefer. And I just like...  What would you prefer?  They had a good run.  I think it is time to pass the baton.  Yeah.  You know there was an interview with AOC in - by the way which is another example about how out of it - like no one's using NP for Nancy Pelosi or CS for Chuck Schumer. Nobody's - you know what I mean?  You could start that. You could start that here.  Nobody's going to know what we are - NP - oh no problem.   But AOC had this interview in the Times and she is like people are blaming progressives for losing - you know losing seats and stuff like that and this kind of discussion of what is viewed as socialist policies and she is like that is not why you all lost seats. The Democratic institution lost seats 'ecause none of you have like working social media and webpages and did not use any of the infrastructure that Barack Obama built in 2008. And you know what? The Trump people - they are using social media. They are using Facebook. You know there is something to be said about like this you know generation's a lot quicker. Like I already feel like my brother who is 2 12 years younger than me he almost feels like another generation 'ecause he had the Internet two years longer. Now you take 20 years of the Internet new technology a bunch of things have happened that change the way different like groups five years apart see the world and then you got like Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi...  You know NP and CS.  .  My apologies to NP and CS. Some intern has to I am sure show them how to use Twitter.  So I hear this critique of the more moderate wing of the Democratic Party. Do you all in the aftermath of this election have any critiques for the more progressive wing of the left? I mean I am already seeing so many stories where Democrats of all stripes are kind of saying did we need to call it defund the police?  .  Like do you have any critiques of the left flank the hard left flank?  My only critique is they did not start calling it defund the police during Jim Crow. That is my major critique. And I have heard - I was in a conversation about this this week. And I go I know some white people. .   And the thing about...  Sam did you lose your NPR funding 'ecause Kamau said that?  .  I think we will make it. Stay tuned.  But like the idea that like defund the police is too harsh I was like yeah but you guys did not listen every other time we tried to say please stop beating us stop killing us. You did not listen. So guess what. The critique gets harder. And I was somebody who heard defund the police and at first was like . And I was like what am I afraid of? And so for me it is like if you are afraid of this idea of defund the police what you are telling me is you have not Googled it. So I do not think - I think the - whatever whatever. The progressive wing - they are going to keep raising the stakes the more that the moderates do not listen.  I mean ultimately what we are asking for is what you are going to eventually allow us to do which is have a level of equality and equity and justice. It is going to happen. We do not want to wait a hundred years 'ecause especially now we do not even know if the world has a hundred years. So like give it to us now. Enough is enough. You have had the country the planet for too long.  That is a good campaign slogan. Give it to us now.  I do not know. I think that is a little bit aggressive.  Put that on bumper stickers.  .  I think I would say can we borrow it for a little while? Can we do that?  .  May I have it now? May I borrow it?  Can I have it for a week or so and then I will give it back. And if it is in good condition...  Can I have a test drive of democracy?  NP CS hope you all are listening.  They have no idea that is them though.   Neil Patrick Harris is like you talking about me?   All right you two this was fun. Will you all stick around through the break because afterwards we are going to play my favorite game which is called Who Said That?  Sorry I cannot do it. But thanks for asking.  Goodbye Kamau.  Oh you cannot?  Of course I can Sam.  Oh you - OK.   I was really scared for a second.  Like no this is the fun part.  All right.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am your host Sam Sanders joined by gosh two great guests who I am going to allow to introduce themselves. Go ahead. Tell our listeners who you are.  I am Hari Kondabolu.  And I am three-time Emmy Award-winning host and executive producer W. Kamau Bell.   That is why you did not want to go first. You wanted to drop that on me. OK I will see your nothing and here's three Emmys.   And together the two of you host a podcast called...  Politically Re-Active.  ...All about...  Politics and reacting to it.   There we go. There we go. All right so every week on the show I play a little game called Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  I share three quotes from the week of news and you got to tell me who said it. Will you all play?  Yeah.  You all are going to face off against each other. Is that going to be weird two guys who are friends and host a podcast together having to compete against each other?  No we are basically in competition with each other so it is not a problem.   OK OK. Well then let us just get to it. Here is the first quote from this week of news. Tell me who said it. Hey guys. I am here at 'American Idol' confessional. I met Ryan Seacrest today and I have my audition soon so stay tuned for that. Very very nervous but very excited. She is a child who has two parents that are involved in politics. Both of her parents are on different sides of Donald Trump but they are still both Republican.  Oh.  Oh.  Oh it is - she is on TikTok.  Yeah Conway...  Conway's daughter.  Which - and her name is?  Loraline Conway .   No no. Starts with a C.  Claudia Conway.   Claudia Conway Claudia Conway.  Claudia Conway. So Claudia Conway the teenage daughter of Kellyanne Conway former adviser to President Trump and George Conway. He is a lawyer who has been opposed to Trump very publicly for years. Their daughter Claudia after really making a name for herself on TikTok trashing her mother basically for working for Trump she is now trying out for American Idol.   Hey guys. I am here at American Idol confessional.   I met Ryan Seacrest today. And...  How surprising is this development for you two?  Not at all.   This is America. What are you talking about? Yeah.  I got to say when Kellyanne Conway announced that she was leaving the Trump White House to spend more time with her family after Claudia was ranting and raving on TikTok I said - you know what? - this is not over. I said they are not going to go quietly into their home. All three of them I think want to be famous.  Yeah.  All right who got that point?  I did. I did. I did.  Kamau. Kamau got that point.  Oh whoa OK. You did. You did. You did. All right next quote - you not ready for this trailer. You could not be ready for this trailer. Happy Thanksgiving. It is a '90s sitcom coming back to streaming.  Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air.   Yes.  Yes yes.  Will Smith. Will Smith.  So Will...  He did not say Will Smith. I said...  Oh no. No.  How game shows work everybody.  Jordana and Anjuli my colleagues are the judge on this call. Who gets that point you all? Tell me. Uh-oh uh-oh. They are typing. Hari gets it.  How did he get it? He did not say Will Smith.  'ecause they want tension for the third question.  Oh OK.  Well actually it was a split vote. One of them said Kamau. One of them said Hari. We are going to give you both half.  We are in Wayne County now. Is that how we are doing it?   Yes yes yes. So anyways that quote comes from Will Smith. He is been all over the place the last few weeks promoting Fresh Prince coming to the streaming platform HBO Max.   You not ready for this trailer. You could not be ready for this trailer. Happy Thanksgiving.    Now this is a story all about how...  It actually hits HBO Max on November 19. That is Thursday of this week. And I got to say I am excited that it is coming back. I love Fresh Prince. I loved Fresh Prince as a kid. But I am not sure I am going to sit down this weekend and watch a bunch of Fresh Prince reruns. Are you all?  I might.  You might OK.  I mean I have always said that like the thing that can get me through a six-hour flight is whatever airline has like all the Fresh Prince episodes - just stack like six or seven of those in a row and then you are good. But Uncle Phil's not there so it just feels a little weird.  Uncle Phil is dead. But for this reboot they brought back both women who played Aunt Viv.  For real?  Light-skinned Aunt Viv and dark-skinned Aunt Viv back in the house.  Oh wow.  They got both the Aunt Vivs together. They seem to be on good terms. But honestly what I want to watch is the next chapter of Fresh Prince where the dueling Aunt Vivs come face to face.  Yes.  So now it is...  That is what I want.  Now it is directed by Jordan Peele OK.   All right last quote - no hints for this one. You have just got to guess it. I just held up a map and I just pointed to all the places I got to go in the world and all the things I have gotten to see because of them. And I said how do you repay people like that? And I said oh well how about a million bucks? Who said that?  George Clooney.   All right.  Thank you. I win.  OK.  Game over.  .  I have a Google alert for George Clooney so I know this story.  Wait. Whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa.  Hold on a second. Hold on a second.  Why do you have a Google alert for George Clooney?  OK I do not really have a Google alert for George Clooney. But my wife is a huge George Clooney fan...   ...So I think I probably read enough George Clooney stories that Google sent me this story.  OK.  Can we edit this into a tie? George Clooney.   Man it is a tie.  I am going to let - because I do not like to make hard decisions myself it is up to my colleagues. And they will let me know at the end of this who won. But first...  Anjuli - come on Anjuli.  Oh my God. Oh this is - I am a Black voter in Detroit right now.   Well you know what it was Kamau? The signature on your last answer did not match the signature on your driver's license.  OK that is fair. That is reasonable. That is very reasonable.  All right so that Clooney quote - that came from an interview he gave to GQ recently when he was telling the story of how he gave 14 friends each a million dollars in cash in a little bag. According to Clooney he did this in 2013 as a way to thank his closest friends for being his closest friends. So he got 14 million in cash. He found a place in an undisclosed location in downtown Los Angeles. And then he brought a van that said florist on it and loaded it up with the 14 million in cash. But here's where it gets so bougie  not that it was not already.  I know.   Clooney says quote I bought 14 Tumi bags and then I packed in a million bucks cash which is not as much as you think it is weight-wise. He got Tumi bags. Listen if I get my friends a Tumi bag that is it.  That is it. That is it. That is it.  That is it. You got a Tumi bag.  The other part of the article that was clear - the article I read said that just to be clear this is before he had his new money from his tequila company.  Oh yeah.  So he - it was like do not worry guys. He is well more - he is made way more than that money back. Like do not worry about it .  Have you all tried his tequila - what is it called? - Casamigos or whatever?  I am not a tequila drinker. I had a bad run-in with tequila the first time I ever drink alcohol.  What are the two of you going to name your tequila company or brand? That is my last question for you.  I mean Tequila Mockingbird seems like .   I cannot beat that. He gets that point.  Tequila Mockingbird - I am into it. This has been a pleasure. W. Kamau Bell Hari Kondabolu hosts of Politically Re-Active a podcast you should check out I am really glad that we had this time together. I have not laughed this much since the before times.  You are welcome.  It is been great Sam.   Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.  Hey Sam. This is Theresa . The best thing that happened to me all week was playing tag with my 3-year-old and my mom. We were all just laughing and laughing and laughing. And it was definitely the most fun that I have had in a while.  Hey Sam. My name is Hayley  in Portland Ore. The best part of my week was that I adopted a little kitten. He is a black fluffball and his name is Henry  and he is the joy of my life right now.  Hi Sam. This is Quincy  in St. Petersburg Fla. The best part of my week is that my new rollerblade wheels and bearings came in the mail. It took me a few months just to find blades in my size and then I got so excited and I rode them every day and the wheels got destroyed. So I was anxiously awaiting new ones and bearings to come in the mail and now I am able to get back out there in the Florida sunshine and do what I love every day.  Hey Sam. This is Tex . I just finished hearing this week's show. And it has been a really tough three months - last three months and I have been storing so much angst and so much pressure inside me. And just hearing the stories of other people being thankful - I am in the car and I just burst into tears all by myself. And it was a really good cry. It was something that I needed to do. My body needed to do it. And I just - I felt really thankful for it. So I just wanted to thank you for that. And I wanted to thank all of the other listeners that give the time of the day to say thanks again.  Thanks for the show Sam. Bye-bye.  Thanks Sam.  Love your show. Bye.  Oh games of tag kittens rollerblading really good cries - all amazing things. Thanks to all of those folks you heard just there for sharing - Tex Quincy Hayley and Theresa. You all warmed my heart this week. I appreciate it. Listeners you can be a part of this segment as well. At any point throughout any week just record the sound of your own voice on your phone telling me the best part of your week and then send that file to me via email at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. This week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry and Andrea Gutierrez. Our intern is Star McCown. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. And our big boss NPR's senior VP of programming is Anya Grundmann. And very special thanks to my colleague Mathilde Piard. She is our podcasting marketing guru over here at NPR one of the show is greatest advocates and always trying to find ways to get this show in people's ears. Thank you Mathilde. Listeners till next time stay safe. Be good to yourselves. We will talk soon.  