 Hey you all this is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show me.   How long have you been longing to say that Betty?  Oh never.   Hey Betty thanks for doing this today. I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today the one the only - you usually hear her just announcing our guests each week. But today my very own Aunt Betty sister of my own mother is on the phone from her office in Delaware to be a guest on our show.  Nice to meet you Aunt Betty.  Thank you. It is my pleasure.  Can I call you Aunt Betty?  Absolutely. You can call me Betty. You do not have to call me Aunt Betty .  Also Dan Pashman is here. Hi.  Hey how are you?  Dan Pashman hosts a podcast called The Sporkful. It is a podcast which you say is not for foodies. It is for eaters.  That is right.  I like that. I like that. We are doing a special Thanksgiving episode. And my Aunt Betty is one of the best cooks that I know. So we had to have her involved. You are. I am not joking.  I have to  the great. Thank you.   Well all of you all can cook 'ecause Carrie Joe  could cook - my grandmother. She was a very...  Yeah mom could cook.  Yeah. Anyway so I was like Betty we are going to do this show. And she texts me and says you all have to call me because if I call you they are going to charge my office.   I said OK. So we called Betty.  I am a state employee. We do not play there.   So we are taping the show in advance. But we got a lot of good stuff for you. I am going to be talking with you Dan about thanksgiving food. But the thing that I am most excited about today is that we are going to take calls from listeners and hear a few of their Thanksgiving horror stories.    really proud of that tape.   It is the little victories.  It is the little victories. So we are doing this because of two simple reasons - I love thanksgiving and I love horror stories. That is it. So Betty I prompted you last night in advance of this conversation to share if you would a Thanksgiving horror story. Do you have one or several?  Oh you know I think every adventure into the kitchen is a potential horror story for me.  Why?  Because I am just going by gut. You know I do not use - unless I am baking I will use a recipe. So it is - this looks like it might taste good in there. Let us try this. So I do have a horror story. I made - in the South we call it dressing. Up here you all call it stuffing. But I made dressing and could not get the flavor right. And I just kept thinking that it needed more sage. So I kept...  Oh I know this story...  ...Adding sage and adding sage.  I was hoping you would tell this story. I did not want to make you tell it but I wanted you to tell it. And I am glad you are telling it. Go ahead.   So by the time I finished and I cooked it it had a slight green tint to it.  Dan I was there. It was not slight green. It was verdant.   So of course when Sam comes in all we talked about the whole weekend was that green dressing. And I had to coax him into eating it because it was just too green to be appetizing.  If I recall the turkey was green too.  The turkey was not green.   Just the dressing.  But here's the question Sam. How did it taste? Did it have enough sage?  Betty's never cooked a bad meal. Presentation and plating might be an issue sometimes...   ...If the dressing is green. But it is actually been good. So my whole mother's side of the family - they are all from Alabama from Birmingham. And they just know how to cook good Southern food. I have never had a bad meal from my mother or any of her sisters. I promise that. That is true Betty.  Oh well thank you. I am going to write that down and pass it on to the others.  Although Donna  never cooked.  Well Donna is more organic lately so she cooks differently.  Yes yes. And like Alsa  could just cook two things very well. So we just made her cook those two things. She would do fried chicken very well and potato salad very well.  And she made the best banana pudding from scratch...  Oh yes.  ...You ever put in your mouth.  Oh I love banana pudding. Nilla wafers - does she do it with the Nilla wafers?  Vanilla wafers yes old fashion.  So Betty you have to get back to work. But I want you to give us one quick bit of Thanksgiving advice for those cooking this year because you do a pretty good job of it.  Well thank you. So my advice is - for those cooking this year - is just to really remember why you are there to be thankful for each other and for health and for family and for whatever you are thankful for. You are going to have a sink full the dishes. You are going to have a ton of garbage to take out. Do it. Keep smiling. Get folks to help you as much as you can. But you know what I tell people?  What?  If it is not good it is free.  You do not have to eat it. It is free.   Exactly. All right Betty.  All right thanks.  Bye.  Bye Betty.  Bye. Bye Dan.  Dan in just a bit we are going to hear some Thanksgiving horror stories from our listeners. But I want to talk first with you a longtime food journalist about something you have declared recently. You have said you are going to swear off Thanksgiving content.  That is right. Yeah we did a Sporkful podcast last week that we called the last Sporkful Thanksgiving special ever. And it is bold Sam. It is bold...  Why would you do this?  ...And it might be a terrible mistake. Basically you know when I first - I started in news like you - in radio. And I started this food podcast as a side project many years ago and it became my job. And I was worried when I first started making food my career that if it became work that I would lose my passion for it.  Yeah yeah yeah.  And I had to say for the most part that has not happened.  That is good.  But the one issue has become Thanksgiving.  Why?  Because I always used to love Thanksgiving. And I found myself dreading it because there is so much anxiety around it. And especially when you are in the food media you are expected to have something new and different to say every year on Thanksgiving. It is the most food-centric holiday - like it is the only holiday where the food is the point really.  Yeah - which makes it the best holiday.  Agreed.  I guess so to reclaim Thanksgiving insanity you are just swearing off...  First of all if I keep doing new Thanksgiving specials I am part of the problem.  The Thanksgiving industrial complex.  Exactly. I do not want to be part of big Thanksgiving special.   I mean but - yeah OK. I see that. So then where is all of this energy that used to go into you being caught up over Thanksgiving - where is it going to go now?  I want to focus on drinking.   Is there a certain Thanksgiving cocktail that you can recommend?  The autumn bonfire.  The autumn bonfire.  This is Rosie Schaap's perfect cocktail for a fall day in the kitchen.  Wait. Let me guess what that drink would contain...  Please.  ...Based on the title. Autumn bonfire - Fireball .  No. It is one part Applejack...  OK.  ...Which is an apple brandy.  OK.  One part smoky scotch...  Smoky scotch...  ...Like a - something sort of peaty or smoky...  OK.  And that is kind of where you going to get that fire - that bonfire vibe from. One part non-alcoholic - apple cider or apple juice...  Oh yeah.  ...A couple of dashes of bitters and then a splash of maple syrup.  Maple syrup - is it weird that I like the smell of fake maple syrup more than the smell of real maple syrup?  I do not think that is weird.  Thank you.  I mean you know especially because like you know there is something deep about pancake syrup as it is technically - the FDA requires it to be called.  Oh really?  Because you cannot call it maple because it is not actually from maple tree.  Oh it is not maple. Yeah.  So it is called pancake syrup. But there is something about that that is sort of like...  It is good.  ...Corn syrup with caramel food coloring...  Right up my alley.  ...That just taps you right into childhood you know? Like if you grew up with that like it is just - but I think you should give thought to how alcohol takes up stomach space. Like...  Alcohol usually frees up some space for me. It always makes me hungry.  Really?  I eat when I drink.  All right. Well then you should be drinking on Thanksgiving. Where is your cocktail Sam ?   Well Dan I hope you enjoy your first Thanksgiving-free Thanksgiving. Well that is not the way you say it. How would you say it?  It is going to be Thanksgiving-full really Sam. I am going to focus on the holiday...  ...And not the pomp and circumstance and the stress.  ...The stress the stress.  OK.  In fact I am going to be so relaxed. I am not even making dessert. I am not even buying a fancy dessert. I am buying an amazing dessert.  What is the dessert?  I am going to get a Patti LaBelle sweet potato pie.  Can you get those? - because they were sold out for a while right?  I think they upped the supply.  The Patti pies...  That is right.  Is the pie that good?  It is really good. It is really good.  OK.  I mean look. It is like the part of you that pancake syrup taps into.   The Patti pie does that too?  Right. Right.  I love it. I love it. Well now we are going to hear about probably some bad Thanksgiving food. We are going to have you stick around and help me listen to some Thanksgiving horror stories.  Let us do it.  Do not go away. I am Sam Sanders and you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. We are taking a break from the news this week and we have got a special Thanksgiving episode. Let us get back to me and food podcaster Dan Pashman. He hosts a show called The Sporkful. And we are taking some calls from listeners. We have got three lined up. They are sharing some Thanksgiving horror stories.   First on the line we have Lindsay . Lindsay hey.  Hi.  How are you?  I am good thanks.  Good good. You are on the phone with me and my friend Dan Pashman. He has a podcast all about food. Where are you calling from?  I am calling from Philadelphia.  OK. OK. All right. What is your Thanksgiving horror story?  So it does not actually have anything to do with food.  That is fine.  My horror story was when I was in high school my mom decided during dinner that we should change up the traditional going around the table and saying what everyone is thankful for and saying what the person next to us should be thankful for.  That is so passive aggressive.  It really was.  Why would she do that?  Well just wait. She went first and came over to me and said that I should be thankful for her.   That is mom 100.  Seriously that is like mom squared.  Well we only got through two people before some bad feelings erupted and dinner was over.  Like just over?  Yeah just over. People left the table. The only one still left was my grandma who had her hearing aid turned off.   Dan what do you do in moments like that?  I mean you guys got to focus on the food. It is your family. It it will all blow over eventually hopefully. Wait. Lindsay what did you say the person next to you should be thankful for?  Well I was the cause of the problem. I told my brother who I was angry at at the moment for who knows why - but told him that he should be thankful that anyone still speaks to him.  Oh my God.  I was an angry teenager.  Oh so was I.  And was that the end or did he then go next?  Nope that was the end.  OK.  The next Thanksgiving we did not continue that tradition. We stuck to the saying what we are thankful for ourselves.  Good. Good. Good. Hey well thanks so much for your call.  Thank you. I love your podcast.  I appreciate that. Bye-bye. All right. Let us take another call. We have Robert  on the line from Wisconsin. Robert you there?  Hey Sam. How are you?  I am good. I am good. How are you?  Wonderful.  Good. Good. You are on the line with me and my friend Dan Pashman. He has a podcast all about food.  Hey Robert.  Hey Dan. How are you?  Good. How are you? What is your Thanksgiving horror story?  Well I was - I started hosting my whole extended family for Thanksgiving. Just out of college I was like 24. I was all proud of myself that I could do that with my young wife and our little children. And maybe the third or fourth year we had a new house. And I was trying to show off my new house  Thanksgiving. And this was the first house where I had a garbage disposal. So I was excited about that. So I did like you know two dozen potatoes did a big batch of mashed potatoes. And I just washed all the potato skins down the garbage disposal because I thought that is what you could do.  Why cannot you do that? I would think you could do that.  Well you know you cannot as it turns out...  .  I learned that because about a half hour in - you know half hour later my sink is full of water and will not go down. So naturally I just ran more water in the other side of the sink thinking that somehow this will magically make it all go away. Obviously this is not working. So I just said I am going to be a plumber now in addition to a chef and start to take apart the under stuff of the sink to try to figure out why it is clogged.  Oh man. You are bold.  So you know thinking ahead I grab a little ice cream pail to catch the water. I am a terrible judge of water volume.  .  So I unplugged the sink from underneath the sink and there is like six or seven gallons of water in there.  Oh my goodness.  And it all just immediately pours - floods my entire kitchen.  Potato water.  Potato water - gross nasty viscous potato water - and a couple weeks later a plumber came and had to like cut out a 4-foot section of the pipe in the basement because the - what he - he described it as four feet of concrete that had resulted from all those potato peelings.  Oh my goodness.  No. Wait. Just so I can understand Robert did you actually run the disposal?  Yeah. It mashed them up and made them into like this wet paste which then hardened in the pipe.  Oh oh.  You made potato peel glue.  Right.   So could you clean up in time for that 30 meal time?  Yes.  Look at you.  Yes. Everything worked great. That is why I said it was a horror story for a while there. But I was quite heroic. And I told everybody exactly what I accomplished and all the craziness of the water and the flood in the kitchen. But everything worked out great.  Was there anyone in your family who was like I told you so?  No - because growing up I never had a garbage disposal. So I kind of blame my parents for never teaching me how to properly use a garbage disposal.   It is their fault.  Right.  Well Robert thank you for sharing your story with us. I hope you have a wonderful Thanksgiving weekend.  Same to you - thank you very much.  All right man.  Take care Robert.  Bye.  OK - bye bye.  Dan before we take some more calls let us take a second to plug an episode of The Sporkful that you put out recently that was really interesting. It was a story about a sandwich shop in Aleppo.  Yeah a friend of mine told me that he had been to this sandwich shop years and years ago before the Syrian civil war started back when you would go on vacation to Aleppo.  Yeah.  And it was this life-altering sandwich. And it was clear to him that this sandwich shop was a destination spot...  What was in the sandwich?  He had a chicken sandwich. He had a tongue sandwich. And I got the impression it is kind of one of these - similar to like a falafel or shawarma place where you can choose different salads to put on there. So the exact sandwich you are going to get can vary depending on which salads you pick. But it is got a protein. It is got some pickles...  What is the bread about?  French baguette.  Ooh OK.  But this is one of the things that we learn. So I basically sort of set out to find out what made this sandwich shop special to people in Aleppo.  It was that special?  Yes it was - this was a known place. This was like the Ben's Chili Bowl of Aleppo.   OK.  And - or the Franklin Barbecue in Austin or La Taqueria in San Francisco...  The line's across the street.  Yes well-known and like a destination for locals. So we set out to find out what made this place special and also is it still there? We were able to get calls into Aleppo. And it is interesting you ask about the ingredients. One of the things that I learned in pursuing this place to try to find what made it special was that these sandwiches really unique to Aleppo because one of the things that my friends had experienced when they were there was the French bread. Syria - France occupied Syria for decades after World War I.  Yeah.  There is also - there is hot peppers in these sandwiches which you do not find all over the Middle East. But there are a lot of - some of the spices that you find in Syria were brought by Armenian refugees who came over during the Armenian Genocide.  Oh OK. So this sandwich kind of tells the history of Syria.  Right. Right.  Did you - and have you tasted one yet?  I have not. I have not. But I am dying to. And - well I do not want to give away too much because it is really a good ending. But I think that it is a satisfying conclusion.  Is it in your feeds now?  Yeah wherever you get your podcasts.  OK you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. This is a special Thanksgiving edition of the show. I am here with Dan Pashman from a podcast called The Sporkful. It is a show about food that is not for foodies. It is for eaters. That is a very good catchphrase.  Oh thank you.  Yeah yeah - glad you are here man.  I am glad I am here too. Thanks for having me.  Yeah. We are taking calls from listeners hearing about their Thanksgiving horror stories. All right Dan - time for one more call. Jen  you there?  Yes. Hello.  How are you?  Good good - thanks. How are you?  I am good. Where you calling from?  So I live in Denver Colo.  Cool cool. Well you are talking with me and my friend Dan.  Hey Jen.  Hi.  Tell us your horror story.  OK. So this was about five years ago. My husband and I went to his folks' house for Thanksgiving. And my mother-in-law and my sister-in-law have never really gotten along. There is always been a lot of kind of back-and-forth jabs that happen and just a lot of tension there.  Yeah.  My mother and I get along great. We have a wonderful relationship.  Hang on Jen. I am sorry to interrupt you. I just want to make sure I understood. Who is it that does not get along?  Sorry yes. It is my mother-in-law and my sister-in-law.  So your husband's mom does not get along with the woman that your husband's brother married.  Yes that is correct. That is the scenario.  OK. Got it. All right.  OK. OK.  OK.  Yeah yeah yeah. Sorry a little confusing.  It is all good.  Anyway so - yeah. Just these really passive-aggressive jabs are coming from my mother-in-law. And...  Like what? Can you give me an example of one?  I am trying to think of some of the things. But like some of them are kind of awful. But like at one place she said like oh you know it is a really good thing that you guys do not have kids because your kids you know might be kind of ugly.   No. No.  Like yes. Exactly.  Jen I am going to need you to do a quick fact check. That is not passive-aggressive.  That is just aggressive.   That is like - that is totally mad aggro.  .  Oh my God.  Totally fair. Very fair.  What did you all say when she said that?  So the whole time everyone - and like in my husband's family everyone just is like super conflict-avoidant. Anyways everyone's just like sitting like kind of this like fake smile plastered to their face. So then on Friday my...  You guys survived the actual dinner on Thanksgiving in spite of this.  Yeah. Yeah. Exactly yeah.  OK.  We kind of like - fake smiles - push through. So we sat my mother-in-law down and said like hey listen. You need to stop this. Here's what is happening. Here's all the things you are saying. Knock it off.  Yeah.  So that totally blew into this like screaming match. Just like horrible - like...  Oh no.  All of these things that are being brought in from like all this past stuff. And so like right in the middle of this my poor brother-in-law and sister-in-law come walking in. They have no idea what they are...  These are the ones that she is been insulting.  Yes. So then she turns on them and just unleashes.  Whoa.  Huge yelling match. Everyone's angry. Everyone's yelling. Meanwhile my father-in-law is just sitting reading the newspaper not looking up.   No.  In the recliner not even reacting. And so we are just like all like yelling at each other. It is this total crazy thing. And then all of a sudden he just like - my father-in-law puts down his newspaper. He stands up. And he says there'ill be no more yelling in this house. That is enough. If you are going to yell you have got to take it to the Dairy Queen .  The Dairy Queen. Is that where one goes to yell?  .  Apaprently. Anyway so yeah - kind of - so - and then he just sat back down and picked up his paper again. And it totally broke the tension. Like all of us kids left and went out and got a drink.  You did not go to Dairy Queen?  We did not go to the Dairy Queen.   What part of take me to the Dairy Queen did you not understand Jen?   Have you gone back since then?  We have not actually...  Good .  ...Since the last time...  Actually Sam they now have Thanksgiving at the Dairy Queen.   It is where we do all our family get-togethers you know?  Exactly.   And no one fights.  Yeah. The funny thing is my husband and I still to this day whenever we are having an argument and we feel like ourselves getting upset with each other then we turn to each other and we say do we need to take this to the Dairy Queen?   .  Can I adopt that like as a new catchphrase of my own?  Yes. Please do. Please do. Yeah. Any time you feel like you are going to yell...  Take it to the DQ.  ...Or are angry just take it to the Dairy Queen .  Take it to the Dairy Queen. You better get a Blizzard buddy.   Exactly.  Hey. Well thank you for the call. I hope you have a drama-free Thanksgiving weekend and...  Oh thank you so much.  ...Maybe still go to Dairy Queen just as well. Yeah.  Yeah. We might have to go get some ice cream just because you know?  Exactly. All righty take care.  Bye Jen.  Thank you so much. Bye.   I have got to say Sam I grew up with a Dairy Queen like 1 mile from my house.  Blessed.  It was super old-school. Like there was no inside.  Just a drive-through. walk-up drive-through.  A stand yeah.  OK.  And there was a summer when I went. I got a vanilla Blizzard with MM's every Little League game.  Yeah.  I put on a lot of weight that summer.  That is OK.  .   Before we finish just want to thank everyone that sent us their Thanksgiving horror stories. I got sick. I ate too much. I left the giblets inside the turkey.  Classic.  Yeah. It seems like we all kind of have the same universal Thanksgiving problems.  Although Butterball re-engineered the plastic bags that they put the giblets in inside the turkey so that if you do accidentally cook the turkey with it in there you can still eat the turkey.  I do not trust that.  .  So the plastic just melts inside this carcass? No.  .  No Dan. I do not trust that.  It may not be organic.  Yeah. You think?  .  Anyways for all those enjoying Thanksgiving and the weekend after it pace yourself. Be good to yourselves. If it does not work out just order pizza. It is OK.  And drink.  Yes yes. All right Dan. I think we did it. Dan Pashman host of The Sporkful - check out his final ever Thanksgiving episode. Is it in your feeds now?  Yeah wherever you get your podcasts.  OK. And also behind that episode there are two great episodes all about your search for the Aleppo sandwich.  That is right.  Some good stuff there. Thanks man. Appreciate it.  Thanks man. Happy Thanksgiving weekend.  Happy Thanksgiving. Thanks again to Dan for hanging out. Now it is time for us to end the show as we always do. We ask you our listeners to send us the sounds of your own voice sharing the best thing that happened to you all week. We play them right here. Let us take a listen.  Hi this is Carla  and my 8-year-old son Tomas .  Hello.  The best thing that happened to me all week was when my grandmother got here from Bolivia.  Aww.  And the best thing that happened to me all week was when my mom - Tomas' grandmother - came from Bolivia to spend two months with my wife and with Tomas.  Yeah.  Hello. My name is Malachi .  Hi.  And I am 8 years old. The best thing that happened to me this week - I lost a tooth.  On Sunday I completed my first marathon.  All right.  I went into a virtual queue this morning and came out on the other end with Hamilton tickets.  All right.  I was informed that I won a brand new mattress bed frame sheets pillows for filling out an online review.  OK.  So I am able to give my parents a brand new bed for Christmas.  Do it.  Hey Sam. This is Kylie from Durham N.C. The best thing to happen to me this week was a rose-induced game of knockout with two deflated basketballs during our Friendsgiving. I do not like sports but I do like my friends. And it was very cold but I still felt warm inside.  That sounds real fun.  Hey you guys. It is Maggie  in Maine.  Hello.  Like a lot of people I have been wanting to do more in the world but my husband and I both work full time. And we have got three little kids including a baby. So time and money are pretty short right now. But we live in Maine where real estate is cheap and we have this big old farmhouse with plenty of space of which we are not even using.  OK.  So after a few months of trying we finally connected with a family recently arrived in this country from Burundi.  Wow.  They are asylum seekers and just need a little while to get on their feet. It has been such an awesome week. I went from having no kids in the local public school to three 10th graders.  Oh my goodness.  And I have learned all about that. We are all figuring out how to talk between English and French and Kirundi.  I bet.  I have five extra sets of hands to hold the baby. And it is been a great week.  Hi Sam. This is Shauna  from Bloomington Ind. And the best thing that is happened to me all week just happened this morning. I received a phone call from a number I did not recognize and when I answered I found out it was a board member from Habitat for Humanity telling me that they are excited to bring me on as a homeowner.  Wow.  And this will be the first time for me owning a home. And as a single working mom to twins and a child with special needs it just warms my heart more than I can express to be able to have this opportunity. I am so grateful to be able to give my children the space and accessibility that they need.  Yeah.  And I just wanted to share that with you.  I hope you have a great week.  Thanks.  Happy Thanksgiving.  Wow. Thanks so much to the voices you heard there - Carla and Tomas Malachi Jocelyn  Joan  Eli  Kylie Maggie and Shauna. As always you can share your best thing by email. Just send me an audio file to samsandersnpr.org. Do that any time at any point throughout any week. We listen to all of those that come in even if we cannot include them all in the show. And that is a wrap on our Thanksgiving edition of It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. The show was produced by Brent Baughman and Anjuli Sastry with Steve Nelson and editing help from Jeff Rogers. Anya Grundmann is our VP of Programming. We are back next week with our regular format - a wrap on the week of news and culture and everything else. I am Sam Sanders. Happy Thanksgiving. Talk soon.  