 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show from NPR Music and Pop Culture Happy Hour Stephen Thompson and All Things Considered host Audie Cornish. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners to my guests. As you know we usually begin the show with a song - a song - also hi. Say hi. Sorry.  Hi.  Hey Sam.  Thank you all for being here.  It is BEEN A MINUTE.  It has been a minute. I am glad you all are on the show this weekend. As you know we usually begin the show with a song that tells the story of some newsy thing from the week. We have been playing around with that format trying other things. This week we are going to play just a snippet of a song because if we play more than five seconds of it your eardrums will bleed.  I think I know what this is going to be.  Me too.    OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer.  OK now stop playing it. Please stop playing it.  I am making that my cellphone ring.  Have you all heard this song OK Boomer?  Oh yes.  Yeah.  Explain it for our listeners.  Audie why do not you take this one?  You want me to take a try?  Yes.  OK. So essentially the kids...  Gen Z.  ...Gen Z not elder millennials. None of that millennials you are old now.  We are old.  Gen Z is very annoyed with the way they believe prior generations have messed up the world. And whenever somebody says like you are too young you do not know this - or something that seems sort of outdated or antiquated to them they say OK boomer.  Yes. And this phrase OK boomer has like become a phenomenon. It is all over TikTok.  It is. The song's amazing.  The song is by Peter Kuli featuring Jedwill.  Very nice.  It is all over TikTok. It is become several memes. There are OK boomer T-shirts.  In Gen Z style the merch is dope right? Because that is how they fight the power - through inventive creative purchasing.   But also I have to say - because I have a 15-year-old daughter and she will occasionally come back to me with OK boomer.  Even though you are Gen X.  Are you a boomer?  Even though I am 47 years old. I am right smack in the middle of Generation X - a generation that has defined itself in opposition to baby boomers.  That is true.  And so it feels like a personal affront to me when she does this which is why she does it. It works.  You are defined in opposition to everything - would also be on-brand.  Post the song once more Brent.    OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer.  It is so distorted.  I wish I had this song when I first started at NPR when I was like 24 and any reference I made at all to like modern culture - someone would be like what do you mean? And I wish I could have been like OK boomer.    OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer. OK Boomer.  As Aunt Betty said I am here with two great guests this week. Audie Cornish host of NPR's All Things Considered and Stephen Thompson editor and reviewer for NPR Music - also panelist on NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour. Audie we are going to start the show as we always do - our panelists having three words on the week of news. Your three words are focused on the I word this week - impeachment.  All in favor.  OK.  That is my phrase because finally there was a vote. The vote was to move forward with a formal House impeachment inquiry. For people who are trying to play catch up what is happened so far has been an inquiry done by committees - committees who were tasked specifically with interviewing witnesses with collecting testimony in private - in part because some of that testimony may have needed to be classified in part because I think politically Democrats wanted to make sure they knew what they were getting into and possibly bring in a coalition of Republicans who sat on those committees who might be somehow swayed by the testimony they heard. Judging by the partisan vote we saw this week none of them were convinced. And in fact two very conservative Democrats also voted with Republicans against moving forward with an inquiry.  So this vote will start to make a lot of what has been closed-door impeachment proceedings public Audie? We are going to see some things shift?  You are going to see something.  OK.   You know I think what is confusing to people is for those of them - yep Boomers - who saw the impeachment inquiry of Bill Clinton they saw a process that was first investigated by Kenneth Starr right? So you had an outside committee doing the work that here we saw House committees doing. In this case you have the house itself doing the investigation. There is nothing in the Constitution or whatever that says you cannot do that. That is a way of doing it. But it has allowed Republicans to essentially make the argument this is in secret. It is not how courts work - which of course impeachments do not work how courts work. It is not the same or else we would put it in a court. But it very much is a believable argument to people - to voters who say well look why am I watching a process that is playing out in a series of quote-unquote closed-door testimonies and yet the press is able to report to me word-for-word opening statements right? And it is too media-wonky to sit around and explain how that works but it is very jarring. And I think this was supposed to put a stamp on it of - sort of an official stamp to say look we are - everything is aboveboard.  Yeah. My question with all of this is like what does it change for the average voter - American outside of the Beltway? I mean I feel like at this point there have been investigations into this president since he took office and I am not sure if Nancy Pelosi making this formal changes the way people think about it all. I mean Audie what do you think? You were out in - what? - North Carolina.  I have to say you actually just nailed the description I heard in North Carolina. Now I was sitting with evangelical voters - black and white some with military backgrounds with mixed opinions about the president. But I was intrigued by this sentiment - the idea that they have investigated him for so long. And I said to someone well it is actually only been a couple of weeks. And they were like no no but - you know you remember? And they were referring to the Mueller report. They were referring to basically every scandal in a way. They kind of folded it into one long investigative conversation. Now to that kind of voter especially a suburban maybe center-right-ish person these arguments that the president is making and that Republicans previewed in the House floor vote this week resonate which is look. They found something and now let us go to this show trial.  Well and that way it allows Republicans to shift from saying this is happening in secret to this is a show trial...  Right.  ...You know? Because if this had been done in public there would have been a discussion about how - about grandstanding and how this is all just meant to get headlines and get people on TV. And so it is a little frustrating to have so much of the debate about this be focused almost entirely on process instead of the facts of the case which I do not necessarily feel like I hear as much about from the parties involved.  Listeners if you want more impeachment coverage...  Who are you listeners?   ...If you feel like it is impossible to keep up...  Please donate now to your local station.  ...No we are going to plug my NPR friend and colleague Steve Inskeep. He is hosting a special podcast stepping through the entire impeachment story and how we got here. It will help you make sense of all the characters and what is going on. It is going to be in the Up First podcast feed first thing Saturday morning and also on your local NPR station. Stephen you have three words that are unimpeachable actually.   Not necessarily the biggest news of the week but my three words are Jesus Is King.  OK.  No I have not gathered you here to tell you the good news.  I would be fine with that.   I think that would actually be a fantastic conversation...  Oh boy.  ...But Jesus Is King of course is the title of the new album by Kanye West.  I had not heard.  I know.  There was almost no promotion of this work.  Yeah no discussions at all.   And it is an album fully about Kanye West's conversion to evangelical Christianity and it is a very gospel-infused hip-hop album. And there is been a lot of curiosity about this. Kanye has been in the news constantly through some of his political statements through various you know revelations about his life. Kanye's very good at staying in the news. And this album you know has finally come out. And it is - and as a music reviewer I am - I love a deeply felt breakthrough. I love strong emotions. I love - I will take passionate misses over rote repetition of hits right?  OK.  And as a human being I love it when self-centered people locate a purpose that is bigger than themselves.  I feel a but coming on.  But...   ...I found this album extremely frustrating because here is this massive spiritual shift that has taken place in his life and listening to it it is like when you used to take a math test in school and your brain knew the answer but your math teacher docked you points for not showing your work. I feel like we have never really gotten shown the work of this spiritual transformation. And so listening...  Is that because you did not have the money class or power to get into a Sunday Service? I am just saying.  This is his concert series that he was doing.  Yeah. If you were up in the Calabasas mix you would have seen his transformation.  Well talk to me about the Sunday services because...  Look. I am not going to. Here's why. As a latent Gen Xer I think Kanye is my new Madonna. I think Madonna is someone who people spend a lot of time comparing to other young women. No. She is a person who was always transforming from album to album always creating. They were not always hits. They were not always misses. And the patina of religiosity and spirituality and the conversation and dialogue with that community was always very present in her work. And like Kanye you never quite were sure where her spiritual connection actually was in all of that marketing.  Yes.  And it is the same with this. He is selling a dirty sock on the merch page.  Yes. This is the thing that is - that I find frustrating as someone who has literally loved Kanye since day one and will probably always love him. There is a patina of prosperity gospel on top.  Not a patina. It is.  And that comes through on....  I mean his car karaoke with James Corden is on his jet.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And so like he has these lyrics - so like my favorite song on the album is this one called Water and it is this beautiful thoughtful song. But then you listen to Kanye rapping and you are like I do not like this.  .  Right.  Quote - in the song he says Jesus please reveal. Jesus give us strength. Jesus make us well. Jesus help us live. Jesus give us wealth.  Wealth yep.  This is my devil's advocacy ironically for Kanye West as a person who has been ride or die for him for a very long time. There has always been a strain of black political thought that is the Booker T. Washington kind of like - we got to do it for ourselves. We have to create wealth for ourselves. And that is what I see he is reaching for but does not actually have the academic knowledge to make real and manifest in his work.  Yes.  If people want to listen to an album that is infused with gospel in a way that feels both organic and joyful you have to go back to Chance the Rapper. That is what - that is why that album was remarkable.  Yes.  It was digestible A to a white public that was like I do not know about the rapping.  .  And then they really liked that because it was very easy to understand.  Yeah.  But it also is full of joy and love by someone who does feel - who does have a spirituality.  Well and it is so sad because there would be no Chance the Rapper without Kanye.  Yeah.  So much of the DNA of what Chance is doing...  Exactly. Exactly.  ...Comes from Kanye's earlier happier more soulful work.  It is so strange. I feel like this album should be called TMZ Is King.   It just feels like you know it is another performance.  What does Kanye releasing a pseudo-gospel album say about the relationship between popular culture and Christianity right now if anything? Or is it just a Kanye thing?  I think it is tricky because Kanye is at heart a performer. And so naturally this performance of Christianity is going to feel performative.  Yeah.  And I think it is sometimes hard to convey these deep spiritual beliefs in a way that is not cutting every corner.  You know who is going through a transformation? Kim. She is getting her law degree.  Right. I want to know more...  Let her make an album .  One thing I will never listen to is a Kim Kardashian album. I will tell you that.  How dare you?  I know.  Also what has this world come to...  Where she is at the White House and he is at TMZ?  Well sure but where we are sitting here saying you know who I want to know more about...   Is Kim Kardashian. Yes.   Listeners stay tuned. After the break we are going to talk about the Internet's favorite actor Jeff Goldblum. He is become a certifiable meme. Someone you know probably has a crush on him. After the break we talk to an author who wrote a book all about why we love Jeff. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined this weekend by Audie Cornish host of NPR's All Things Considered and Stephen Thompson editor and reviewer for NPR Music also panelist on NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour and superfan of The Masked Singer.  .  Just accept it. Just believe it.  I am also a sometime panelist on Pop Culture Happy Hour.  You are. I am sorry.  That you are leaving that out off of my CV is starting to bother me.  Audie actually has 8 jobs.  Yeah I think every description of everybody who has ever been on Pop Culture Happy Hour should begin with Pop Culture...  Panelist with Pop Culture Happy Hour. I am sorry Audie.  OK. It is all right. You seem like a nice young man.  OK boomer.   All right. Top line thoughts on Jeff Goldblum go.  I think sometimes as a people we all just want to rally around one person and be like you know what?  We like him.  That guy.  Jeff Goldblum has become this guy. For whatever reason across the Internet over the last few years he is become universally loved and quirkily meme-able in this fun fun way. And he is like having a moment - so much of a moment that this week a trailer dropped for his upcoming Disney streaming TV show called The World According to Jeff Goldblum.   I am not here to be didactic or professorial in any way.   It is like a funhouse. I know nothing. That is the premise.  It is a show just watching Jeff Goldblum go around doing fun stuff.   He is become that level of celebrity. We just watch him walk around. To unpack this moment I actually called up author Helen McClory. She has just released the paperback version of a book called The Goldblum Variations which she wrote. The book is this collection of like fictitious stories and musings and puzzles and games.  Subtitle - Audie's Fantasy Journal.   Whoa. OK.  So this book is just like a fantasy riff on the idea of Jeff Goldblum. So Helen talked to me about it and here's our chat. Hi Helen.  Hi there.  Do you have the book in front of you?  I do yes.  I was wondering if you and I could read a bit of the start of it to let listeners know what it is all about.  Oh yeah. That sounds great.  I am actually flipping through right now to the first page which is titled A Variety Of Jeff Goldblums.  OK. A Variety Of Jeff Goldblums.  The Jeff Goldblum that leaves  and sands down a pine table brushing the grain with the heel of his hand bends down and takes a spirit level to it saying gently to the wood well done you.   The Jeff Goldblum that has never forgotten your birthday having chanced upon it in the Wikipedia article about you which he has started to contribute to although he does not really know anything about you at all. And while his contributions are always peevishly removed by moderators he is only writing kind and harmless things like saying your favorite color is pink. When citation needed it might not be so though it might be because he Jeff Goldblum has surmised the favorability toward pinkness in you stranger.   The Jeff Goldblum that lets tears flow when he deadheads his roses in winter.   The Jeff Goldblum that is reading these stories with his chin in his hands. My my my. What a book. So we have given listeners a little snippet of what the book is but tell them what the book The Goldblum Variations is all about.  It is an exploration of a variety of Jeff Goldblums across the multiple universes. And it is got little excerpts micro-fictions games and even a choose your own Jeff-venture.  Oh also you should note he is read aloud from this book.  I know.  Have you seen that?  It broke my brain when that happened.   But this is Goldblum Variations. And what is inside it? Oh OK. I am reading this. I got...  This Earth sees Jeff Goldblum making choices he did not make in our world.  So - OK an entire book about this man - this is on the heels of his ongoing - or the Internet's ongoing obsession with him. Why do you think people like you and me and a lot of other folks are obsessed with Jeff Goldblum perhaps more than we should be?  So he is a celebrity. We know him. We think we know a version of him or versions from different films but he kind of has this quality that makes him kind of shimmer and switch in interviews. And then we - with the idea of celebrity as a kind of idea that we can fill with our own hopes and dreams people try and do that with Jeff Goldblum but it just ends up being this weird fusion I think. And so that is why he is so meme-able .  Yeah. Well and he also - I have noticed the fact that he is benevolently mischievous. He is got a twinkle in his eye. You never know what he is up to on that red carpet in that interview. He is a little quirky. But you know whatever hijinks he gets into they will be good-hearted.   No it seems to be that way actually. He is - he kind of is this like airy bubble you know that is just traveling around doing what it wants.  Yeah. And so like what do you think it is that has made him this Internet hero of sorts?  I think it might be to do with the fact that the generation that first watched Jurassic Park is coming - like has come of age and that is a very easy film to make into popular memes and share around - and that nostalgia and joy. There is the fact that he is just incredibly stylish. I think he is upped his style game.  Yeah. He also does this thing where he does a lot to keep himself in the eye of the Internet. Like he had a food truck pop up in Sydney Australia recently called Chef Goldblum's. He reads books aloud to strangers on planes. It seems like he likes the game of internet meme-ology .  Yeah definitely. He is playing along. He is got a little wink towards it all.  So I was trying to think of parallels to Jeff Goldblum and his role in Internet culture right now. And the only other actor I could think of was Kevin Bacon because for a decade or two everyone was into like Six Degrees Of Kevin Bacon. And it was this game that you played around Kevin and his celebrity. But also it was this mythology-making of Kevin where we put attributes onto him that we maybe did not even know.  Yeah. I think...  Do you see that parallel?  I do definitely. But I think there is something a bit more diverse about the possibilities with Jeff Goldblum. It is almost a structured meme with Kevin Bacon because you are going down that chain and adding things on. But with Jeff it is just scattered everywhere and could take any form. He could just pop up wherever.   I was even trying to think of someone else the Internet always likes. Like everyone loves Meryl Streep. We just love her but she is not nearly as meme-able and not nearly as - she has not become nearly as much a figment of our imagination in the way that Jeff Goldblum has. And part of me was wondering after I thought about that - you know is this whole actor we obsess over in a weird quirky way - is that space only occupied at least in my eyes by men?  I think - there is only one woman I could think of who would possibly hold that spot if she ever got to that stage. I do not think it is happened - but Tilda Swinton because she has that kind of...  She is kind of weird.  But cool as well.  Yeah. Last tidbit - favorite Jeff Goldblum film role?  Oh do not make me choose.  .  Honestly I have got a big place in my heart for his role in Ragnarok because it feels like he just turned up on set and said whatever he wanted.    This revolution has been a huge success. Yay us. Pat on the back. Pat on the back. Come on. No? Me too - because I have been a big part of it cannot have a revolution without somebody to overthrow so you are welcome.  Helen McClory author of The Goldblum Variations Adventures Of Jeff Goldblum Across The Known And Unknown Universe thank you.  Thank you so much for having me.   Thanks again to author Helen McClory author of The Goldblum Variations. Back here in studio with Audie Cornish and Stephen Thompson - can I tell you my Jeff Goldblum truth?  Please.  I do not know how it began.  .  But for the last year or two a group of friends and I have had a group text chain called Jeff Goldblum Forever. And we just send funny means and GIFs and articles and photos of Jeff Goldblum to eachother.  He is built for it. He is built for it.  Yeah.  He really is.  His face is just - everything is too big.  Yeah.  And it comes together in something so symmetrical.  Yes.  My Jeff Goldblum story is the biggest humble brag ever so I have never told it. You are all hearing it on It is BEEN A MINUTE.  Tell it. Yes.  So I worked with the folks at Hamilton for a PBS special and they said you have to see the show. And I was like but I have no monies. And they were like we are going to send you to the show. You have to see it.  Yeah.  And when I saw it the seats next to me were empty. My husband goes to the restroom. And while he is in the restroom a one Mr. Jeff Goldblum shows up to squish into the seat next to me.  I am your husband now.  Yeah I know.  He takes your husband's seat?  No he - there were empty seats and he sits down. And he is - of course he is enormous. He is all legs. It is like The Fly is trying to sit in a Hamilton seat. And I text my husband like Jeff Goldblum. Jeff Goldblum. Jeff Goldblum. Do not look. Do not say anything. Do not look. Do not say anything. And he comes back and he is like what? Who? Is it Jeff who? - like totally boomering  the situation.   He was boomering.   But I bet Jeff loved the attention.  I do not know. He just pretended not to hear. And I did not talk to him because I was too nervous. But I literally was like - it distracted me from Hamilton.  Oh wow.  Oh no.  I could see being...  A Lin-Manuel performance the night before the Tonys.  Wow.  But in my mind I was like Jeff Goldblum Jeff Goldblum.  That was the Jeff Goldblum performance.   It is time for a break. When we come back my favorite game Who Said That? You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. BRB.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined this weekend by Stephen Thompson editor and reviewer for NPR Music also panelist on NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour and Audie Cornish also a panelist on NPR's...  .  ...Pop Culture Happy Hour.  Thank you. Thank you.  And when she is not doing that she hosts a little show you may have heard of. It is called All Things Considered.  It is on your radios.  It is time for my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  It never gets old.   It never gets old.  No it does not .  It never gets old. You both have played this game before.  Yes.  What is you all's record? Do you remember?  I am sure it is zero and zero because...  .  OK.  I am terrible at it.  OK. Stephen's probably won once or twice.  I think I have won at some point. But I usually...  OK.  ...Lose everything.  OK. Well the game is quite simple. I share three quotes from the week of news. You have to guess who said that or at least get the story that I am talking about get a keyword. The winner per usual gets absolutely nothing...  .  ...Except for bragging rights.  Now do we buzz in? Or do we just jump in with the answer?  Just yell it out.  Yell it out.  First quote - whether in restaurants on the way to the game or at our seats Nats fans have been nothing but thoroughly friendly engaging and welcoming. Who said that? This language was in a quarter-page ad taken out in The Washington Post this week. What kind of person would run that kind of ad?  Oh. Oh right. The Astros...  The Astros.  ...Fans.   Yes.  The Astros coach.  The Astros fans yes.  They took out an ad.  The Astros fans took out an ad.  That is so strange.  An anonymous Astros fan took out a quarter-page ad in The Washington Post this week to thank Nats fans for being so nice while Astros supporters were in D.C. for the World Series.  I am from Massachusetts. Was this sarcasm?   No.  Really?  They were very earnest. And they said - speaking of Boston they said sure as we walk around in our rainbow Astros gear there is the typical good-natured banter but none of the true vitriol we have experienced in other cities. I am...  Yeah that is us.  That is Boston.  .  Hundred percent.  I mean I...  But that was so sweet.  ...Speaking as a Brewers fan who has attended a Nats game I will say I have experienced similar amounts of friendliness less so as a Packer fan at the...  Really?  ...Washington football team's stadium.  Audie you got that point.  How? Wait.  Really?  What?  Cause I helped you out.  Oh because...  .  I said Astros fans.  You did say Astros fans.  I do not even want the point. I mean I do not think I...  OK.  ...Deserve the point.  You got a point. We got to move on. Next quote. Audie you are up one-zip.  All right.  Next quote - for instance it is not credible for us to say we are working hard to stop people from gaming our systems to spread misleading info. But if someone pays us to target and force people to see...  Mark.  .  ...Their political ad they can say whatever they want.  Mark Zuckerberg.   Nope. The other one. The other one.  Jack Dorsey.  Yes.   Oh.  Did you all hear about this?  Wow I...  Yeah. This..  ...Definitely lost that point.  Jack trying to one-up Mark...  Yeah.  ...In the Washington social media suck-up battles.  Exactly. So that quote came from Twitter head Jack Dorsey. In a series of tweets this week he laid out Twitter's new policy on political ads. And that policy is that Twitter will not run them at all. This is in response to Facebook head Mark Zuckerberg saying that his company's stance will be - Facebook will run ads from politicians if they pay for the ads. And they will not be fact-checked by Facebook which has made a lot of folks mad. And Dorsey seemed to this week try to one-up him and kind of give a little subtle jab.  Well because...  Definitely a tweak.  And also...  Yeah.  ...Lord knows no misinformation has ever been spread on Twitter.   Thanks Twitter.  I just feel like - and I do not ever want to seem like someone who feels sorry for these titans of tech. But no matter what Jack Dorsey does no matter what Mark Zuckerberg does they will not satisfy most people.  No.  Like the Pandora's box is open. And there is just...  It is another case of your own mythology falling apart. You came to the forefront of the public saying we will change your lives for the better. We will make everything easier. Everything will be glorious. And then it was like uh welp.   Sorry.  Sorry about that. We are just a platform.  Also the product is you but we are not a utility. But maybe you could pay for some of it but not all of it. But they want to play it both ways and that is why they are struggling.  Cannot do that cannot do that - last quote I said to the responder that I am in full Halloween makeup and do not want them to be frightened.   Who said that? What Halloween costume would give a first responder the most fright?  Oh. I thought this was a reference to Wendy Williams...   ...Who got terrified by an audience member dressed like a zombie. Google it.   It is amazing. She stops the show and is like security. OK.  No. This is...  But go to your story. It also sounds intriguing .  This is a quote from a woman who was dressed up going out for Halloween...  OK.  ...Got in a car accident. Her car was totaled.  Oh I heard about this.  But as she calls first responders she says when you get here do not be too alarmed.  Oh.  It is just my Halloween costume.  Is she dressed as a corpse?  No she was dressed as a bride.  She was dressed as something bloody - dressed as something very bloody.  Carrie...  Yes.  ...From the movie Carrie.   Yes.  She was dressed like Sissy Spacek.  Three for three.  You just annihilated me. You just destroyed me.  .  With assistance with assistance.  Right .  No no. This one was much...  No no no.  ...More of a point than first one.  The Sissy reference is so - I was not helped with that.  OK.  That is knowledge that floats in my brain...  I absolutely...  ...In spite of...  OK.  ...My best efforts  not because of.  Yes. So that quote comes from 20-year-old Sidney Wolfe. She totaled her car in Ohio this week after she hit a deer which happens sometimes.  I am from Wisconsin. It happens all the time.  Yeah yeah. But as she is calling 911 to get help to come out to see her she said hey. When you show up...  .  Do not be too alarmed. It is just my Halloween costume. She was dressed as Carrie from the film Carrie...  Yeah.  ...Which means she was wearing a prom dress with blood...  .  ...All over her face and the dress.  I say this as someone who - honestly I cannot stand adult Halloween.   I love it.  Do not at me.   I love adult Halloween.  I just think Halloween's for the kids. And it is a wrap. But I am going to give props to what sounds like an amazing costume.  Speaking of props congrats to you Audie Cornish. You won. You swept Who Said That?  Swept - that was a...  .  That was just...  Yeah. Congratulations boomer.  I actually forgot this was a competition.  .  Yeah - you know me too.  Like when you started saying congratulations I was like did I win something?  .  That is how easy it was to defeat me.   That concludes Who Said That? Congratulations Audie and Stephen too. Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week we ask our listeners to share with us the best things that have happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. They always do. Brent hit the tape.  Hi Sam. I hope this finds you well. My name is Meron .  Hi this is Risagna .  Hi this is Mohammed .  Hi this is Elizabeth .  Hi. I am Aya .  We are first-year medical students in North Carolina. And the best thing that happened to us this week is we... AYA   Finished anatomy.  This is our first milestone in medical school. And we are super excited. Bye.  Woo.  Hi Sam. This is Danielle  from Ravenna Ohio. The best part of my week was that I gave out full-sized candy bars for trick or treat yesterday.  The best thing that is happened to me this week is that I turned 50.  Best part of my week was driving a combined 9 hours to adopt my new kitten Nova .  Hey Sam. It is Katie  from North Carolina. October has been kind of a crummy month for my husband and I so we decided to take a trip last weekend to Washington D.C. to see our best friend. Neither of us have been since we were in middle school on those trips where you rode in on a charter bus. And that trip to D.C. was just what we needed.  Hi Sam. The best part of my week was that I and my 73-year-old mother who is a two-time breast cancer survivor flew down to Texas to spend the week with my 22-year-old daughter who has transplanted herself down there. It was a really really good week for us three generations to be together enjoying Texas when it was not too hot. And we had good food and lots of laughs. And actually that was the best part of my month - love your show.  Thanks Sam.  And I hope you are having a great week.  Wow. That was good.  Yeah.  Yeah - so sweet.  Shout out to Danielle with the full-sized candy bars.  I know.  I salute you.  I salute you.  The