 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week answering your questions about climate change. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. Beginning this weekend the U.N. will hold a conference on climate change in Glasgow. And as you have heard by now more than ever scientists have said it is very critical for us to start making some really big changes to avoid the most catastrophic effects of global warming. Happy Halloween everybody. The scares are coming from inside the house. Climate change is here. You know climate change is such a big problem for everyone that I sometimes find it very difficult to even talk about both in my personal life and frankly on this show. But all that aside I am still kind of hopeful because I think that hope is something we should have something we have to have for this kind of thing right? I mean that is what the posters tell me. That is the thing that keeps people going in sad movies and TV shows - hope. Are you all hopeful? Do you ever feel the defeatist weight of it?  No no no.  No .  OK. Tell me tell me.  I do not like that word .  OK.  We are anti-hope establishment .  OK. This is Kendra Pierre Louis and Ayana Elizabeth Johnson.  My name is Kendra Pierre-Louis. I am a senior climate reporter with the Gimlet Spotify podcast How To Save A Planet.  I am Ayana Elizabeth Johnson. I am a marine biologist and a writer formerly co-host of How To Save A Planet co-creator of that show and co-founder of a think tank called Urban Ocean Lab.  I am going to own the fact that I grew up extremely Catholic. And so for...  OK.  ...Me the thing that I feel like gets lost in all of this is like morality right? Like and I think that is why I do not like hope because hope has this expectation that is tied to an outcome. So if you do not think that you are going to achieve this outcome then what is the use in trying right? Whereas I am very much shaped in the idea that there is a right thing to do and a wrong thing to do. And so like why would I do the wrong thing just because doing the right thing may not get the outcome that I am looking for?  Also can we just preface this whole conversation by saying that going to Mars is probably not the answer.  Like it is absolutely bananas to me that somehow we think we can colonize Mars which it does not have - you know like there are just many - you know does not have a breathable atmosphere.  They do not have the water or anything that we got down here you know?  Right?  And it is like really guys? Anyway we invited Kendra and Ayana on the show this week to answer some questions from listeners and myself about climate change from where we should live to how to talk to your kids about it to what we could do that might actually help. Spoiler alert your compostable straws - not really doing that much.   Let us get to our questions from our listeners. Both of you answer at will as you feel it. This one comes from Elizabeth . She wrote quote I have moved around the country a fair amount for school for work but it seems like almost everywhere is plagued by some elements of the climate crisis - fire season in California dwindling water in the Southwest hurricanes along the East Coast. As I try to decide where to put down roots everywhere feels precarious. My question is how other people dealing with this? How do you decide? Am I freaking out because I am an older millennial and this is our thing?  I have a solution as to where she should live though.  Ooh say it.  I mean it is half a joke but Duluth Minn.  Really? OK.  I did a story years ago where these researchers sort of crunched the numbers about like where would be the better places in the United States to live in a warming world. And a lot of the sort of Northeastern Finger Lakes - or not Finger Lakes - Great Lakes regions sort of hit that sweet spot. But it is really tongue in cheek. She is right. There is no place on the Earth that is untouched by climate change. And she is not wrong to be thinking through sort of where does she want to live. It absolutely drives me bananas when I see things like - I like looking through like Redfin you know? And I see these beautiful homes that were built in a flood plain two years ago. And that makes me absolute bananas. But it is not like an absolute. With very few exceptions if you are talking about the United States there are very few places where you absolutely cannot live and you absolutely should not live right? Like there is a saying in disaster research that there is no such thing as a natural disaster. There is a natural hazard - a tornado a wildfire a hurricane. But a disaster is when that natural hazard meets a human population. And so when you talk to researchers about climate change they do not just talk about mitigation which is you know reducing greenhouse gas emissions stopping the worst effects of climate change. They also talk about adaptation. Climate change is here and it is with us. And we need to learn to live with it.  Yeah. Well also you know I think what I hear in this question - because I hear people ask it a lot where can I live to avoid climate change? - what they are also asking sometimes is where can I go live to not have to change my way of life whatsoever?  Nowhere.  Where can I go where I still get the same big house with the big yard and grass that I water every day and an SUV that guzzles gas steak every week and never having to think about climate change? And the question perhaps is not just where should I live but also in what way should I change how I live wherever I am?  I think we can still have a nice quality of life in the future. I think we just need to shift our expectation of what that looks like especially around consumption. And so I think yes if the thing that brings you joy is like huge bonfires and Hummers and...  Big lawns.  ...Traveling everywhere by airplane and...  Yeah.  ...Eating nothing but factory farmed beef three times a day like yeah it would be great if you stopped doing those things. But also like I think it is been such a distraction and honestly like a failing of the environmental movement in some aspect to allow this whole question to be framed as one primarily of individual choice as opposed to how do we change building codes? How do we change our agricultural policy? How do we change our transit options? And what fossil fuel companies have done expertly with billions of dollars of investing in marketing is to convince us to all obsess over our own carbon footprints over our own waste...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...Over our own individual impact instead of saying yo it is not my fault that every time I turn on the lights it comes from coal. Like can you all please fix that? Can we just...  Yeah.  ...Start with that? I think it is also important to think about whether we should rebuild in some places at all right?  Yeah.  It becomes this thing where it is like...  I think this about New Orleans all the time and I feel bad even thinking it.  I think it about a lot of coastal places. And it is like...  Yeah.  ...This concept of managed retreat. And so figuring out what managed retreat looks like in a way that is respectful of communities and cultures that does not just displace low-income people is really hard. And I think the sooner that we start talking about that kind of thing the better because we are talking about huge investments after every storm. And every storm is an opportunity to think not just about how we rebuild but about where we do that.  Exactly.  And it is not just water. Remember it is also - like wildfires are another huge...  Yeah. Oh Lord yes.  ...Issue.  Yeah.  Or if you are in Southern California it is both.   Coming up we answer more of your questions including how to deal with all of this existential dread. There is a way. I promise. I know that we talked about collective versus individual action already but because we got so many questions like this from our listeners I feel like I have to ask it at least once. This one comes from Amy . She wrote quote what is the easiest change I can make to mitigate climate change? By easiest I mean something a fairly ordinary middle-aged mom can do and stick with. And like I know it should be about the collective larger structural. But people still want to know what can I do right now?  Drive less.  OK. I hear that. I could do that. What else?  Or give up your car altogether. But...  Ooh no no no no. I do not know about that.   That is not easy Kendra. I mean I think the hard answer is like there is not that much easy stuff that is going to make a big difference. The bigger a difference you want to make the more you have to like actually do right?  Yeah.  I mean quantitatively in terms of carbon emissions the biggest thing you can do is often just not make more humans. And no one wants to hear that of course. So I think the option that I often push people to is politics.  Yeah.  Like make sure you are pushing to elect representatives at all levels of government and voting in every single election to ensure that we have people in power who actually get that climate change is happening and are willing to make laws to address it.  Yeah.  Yeah. Piggybacking on that there are a lot of - she said she was a mom. This is the only reason I am saying this. There are a lot of mom climate groups. So she can find one and she can join them. And because they are mom climate groups - like I do not know how old her kids are but like they are generally kid-friendly right? Like it is not a thing...  OK.  ...Where they will need to find child care any - you know like they will work around you as a mom. And so that may be an entryway into it because I know that saying you know get involved in politics - it is like well how? Well that is an - like finding a group of people who are already doing it and there are a number of them in your area is an easy sort of way of figuring out how to get involved.  I have a follow-up question in terms of like what things can people do individually? And that is what stuff should I stop caring about when it comes to individual action? Like over the course of the pandemic just being at home a lot more I have started to think a lot about how much food I am wasting. And it is like to the extent you can eat all the food you buy because it takes a lot of water and energy to make all that food. And I feel like doing that and taking that seriously has been good for the planet. But there are other things that just increasingly feel nonsensical and not worth the ugh . Like what is the deal with the straws? Do I have to have a pasta straw? Do I have to have a compostable straw that like breaks down in a few minutes?  Do you need a straw at all?  That is - there you go. There you go. But there is like this like obsession with that stuff.  I mean some people do but like...  Yes.  You may not need any sort of straw.  The funny thing about the straw though is that we...  Yeah.  ...Obsess over the straw and we do not obsess over the like thing that we are putting the straw in you know?   Oh my God. I saw this dude walking down the street in Brooklyn carrying like a plastic to-go iced coffee cup with a metal straw in it. And I was like bro you have completely missed the point.   There is so much plastic that you are about to throw away. Just miss me with this virtue-signalling.  That is the thing the virtue-signalling.  That kind of goes back to the systems thing. A lot of it is baked into like how we structure everything in this country and it is like structured to go. And a friend of mine brought in one of those like reusable cups. She like went to all the effort. She loved iced coffee would carry her cup around. And she went to - I am not going to name the chain - but she went to the chain. And they literally took a plastic cup and tucked it into her reusable cup.  Oh lord.   And so like there is again a limit to how much you can expect an individual to do.  Yeah.  It takes so many of us acting in mass you know? So like I know in California there are anti-plastic legislation bills. Like that is where the change happens right? It does not happen because you are a good person and you do not use a straw or whatever. It happens when we change it so that like it is not an option for most people. And it is bizarre that it is an - like you know?  And also I bet that place that you are ordering delivery from you could probably walk down the street and go pick it up maybe. Like I have been trying to do that more.  .  I wanted to get my little boujee  artisanal sandwich today for lunch and I walked to go get it.  Get out of here .  Listen felt nice. Took the dog too. All right next question comes from Ellen . She wrote quote What can I tell my 15-year-old when she is scared about her future because of climate change?  Tell her to get to work.  Yeah channel that fear...  She is part of the solution.  ...That anxiety into action. I mean the only reason I am not constantly having a panic attack is because I am doing my part right? Like I am trying to figure out how to be useful every day. And the way that I recommend that people think about that is think about this Venn diagram of like what are you good at in one circle another circle being like what part of this like huge challenge of addressing the climate crisis do you want to work on? Is it bike lanes or composting or energy efficient buildings or whatever? Pick your part. And then the third circle of the overlapping Venn diagram would be what brings you joy? What gets you out of bed in the morning? And figuring out where those three things overlap for you - your skills your - which part of the problem you want to work on and what brings you joy - that is the way to deal I think with the sort of emotional overwhelm. And joining something - do not try to save the entire planet by yourself. It is literally impossible. So think about what group or initiative you can be a part of.  Yeah. You know I have a follow-up just from me. I am hearing you Ayana say composting a lot but not say recycling.   Uh-huh.  And I am bringing this up because I have increasingly read reports and stories and heard podcast episodes that kind of speculate or say that like a lot of recycling that we think is being recycled is not being recycled. Can I get some expert feedback on that?  Yeah only about 9 of the things we toss in that bin only get...  Wow.  ...Actually get recycled.  Plastic.  Nine percent.  Plastic.  Plastic.  OK.  Yeah.  Plastic.  OK.  So paper glass metal - you are golden. Plastic is the problem.  Oh that is good to know because I was at this point where I am just like I do not even know if I should do it.  So you should absolutely feel like  about your takeout containers that are all plastic.  Yes but you can recycle other stuff pretty successfully.  Aluminum cans newspapers yeah. Yep.  OK. OK. I like that.  Wine bottles.  I mean that is better than nothing. Yeah yeah.  But the other thing is we always focus on recycling but we forget the first two Rs are to reduce reuse.  Come on.  Right? We go straight...  Come on.  ...To like...  Repair repurpose - there is plenty of other R's...  Yeah.  ...Before we should get to recycle.   Stay with us. Coming up how movies like The Day After Tomorrow can actually make a difference.   The team and I noticed with all the questions that we got from listeners whether on Twitter or in our inbox there was just this tone of defeat and nihilism and what can I do? It is all the worst and it will never ever get better. And I think some of that if not a lot of that comes from the way that my industry our industry covers climate change. This is not to cast aspersions on those out there in the trenches covering the story of our time. They are doing the work that needs to be done in many respects. But I as a news consumer often feel like the way that American news media covers climate change just is not quite right.  Yep.  And it is not helping.  Yep.  But I want to ask you two who are really in this work am I right to feel that way?  Yes.  And if so what should change?   OK let us start with fire. Because you live in California one of the biggest issues with the way national media in particular reports on wildfire is that they treat fires uniformly bad. And that is a problem because we know that the thing that we need to reduce fire risk out West is we need to burn more fires.  Yeah.  But it is hard to get people on board with that messaging if the only thing that they have ever learned is that fire is bad right? So that is just like one concrete example. The other is kind of hinting at more broadly which is journalism will tell you the problem but it very rarely centers a solution...  Very true.  ...Often I think because national media overall is a little bit actually uncomfortable with climate change because it really challenges journalistic strictures of objectivity because I joke all the time that I have a pro-Earth bias but that does not mean I have a technology bias right? Like that does not mean that I am like this technology is a solution and that is not the solution. And that is where I think objectivity comes in. We all want a habitable planet. And it is dumb for me to pretend that I do not  right?  Yeah.  And so because the solutions are telling people to get civically engaged it brushes up against this idea of activism. And often we - where I think we draw the line as a podcast is we kind of think of it as a buffet. So we are going to give you an - as many solutions as possible and you can choose how you are going to enter into acting on climate based on the number of solutions that we highlight that are out in the world. And often climate reporting does not even tell you the name of a bill that is on the docket. They often do not tell you when public comment periods are open so people can engage in that way. They often do not tell you - they bury what a political candidates' climate affiliation is right? Even now when we are talking about Joe Manchin very little of the coverage is focused on what is the impact of climate change in West Virginia right? Like he is making a decision for his state but what is that decision going to do to impact his constituents?  Come on.  Yeah.  We are not getting that.  Very vulnerable populations there in terms of...  Yeah.  ...Flooding and other impacts and...  Landslides.  Yeah.  It is a huge risk for landslides. West Virginia has very little climate coverage actually. And so - on both sides right? Like both - Manchin is not an acting in the long-term interests of his own constituents but also his constituents are underserved because many of them based on the reporting that I find do not clearly understand what their climate risks are.  Yeah. Yeah. And so the reporting that we do have is disaster reporting often which then does not...  Yeah.  ...Say like how could we have avoided this? What could we do differently in the future? - which is not biased. It is just practical right? It is solutions journalism which we are starting to see more of but not nearly enough.  Yeah. Well and also what I hear you saying when like - I could see a whole lot of old-school news editors pushing back against the very idea of solution-based journalism 'ecause I know some folks that have been in the field for decades who would say a journalist's job is not to solve a problem but to explain it to you. But I kind of feel like all right if the whole world is damn near on fire how about you all do give me some solution journalism too? I want that right? And that requires a certain shift.  Profile the people who are working on the solutions right?  Exactly.  Profile...  Exactly.  ...case studies of people trying to implement things and do what Kendra was saying about really dissecting what is working what is not and why. That does not mean you have a bias. It means you are reporting on the world's attempt to deal with this problem. And I guess I would just add that when it comes to media and climate it is not just the news right? What we need is climate to be a part of every story. I mean Michaela Coel - I loved your interview with her and I loved I May Destroy You because there were those moments where she talks about climate anxiety right? She acknowledges...  Yeah.  ...That this is the context of the world that we live in. It should be something that comes up in every sitcom every romantic comedy every drama. Every you know genre of music should have this as the context within which our lives are now unfolding because that is the truth. And when we look at culture and we do not see in art and music and TV and film any evidence of the fact that we are in a global devastating terrifying already unfolding crisis then it is very easy to pretend that this is an isolated problem. And so what I would say is in addition to needing much better news reporting we also need media writ large and culture more broadly to be including discussion of climate not as necessarily the theme. I am not saying we need more documentaries that no one's going to watch on Netflix even though we all put them in our queue right? Like that is not what I am advocating for. But like let us just acknowledge that this is the context within which every other decision we make unfold.  Yeah.  I interviewed the director of The Day After Tomorrow Roland Emmerich and that movie did more to move the needle on climate change than - what is that Al Gore documentary?  An Inconvenient...  Oh.  Right. Like...  ...Truth.  Yeah.  Yeah.  People...  The frog-boiling...  ...Who watch...  ...Documentary from Al Gore.  Yeah. People who watched The Day After Tomorrow bought hybrid vehicles 'ecause it was like 2004. They started pushing their elected officials to do things on climate change. It made it real and palpable to them in a way that nothing prior to it had. And I re-watched it before our interview. And there is a scene in the movie where there are all of these Americans crossing the Rio Grande into Mexico to get away from the effects of climate change. And obviously the reality is that the reverse is happening. A lot of people in Central America are being impacted by climate change and that is why they are migrating north. But it was really interesting to see that he was predicting these migrations you know 15 17 years ago.  Wow. Wow.  So Sam...  Yeah.  ...When you talk about migration when you talk about justice when you talk about TV shows all these amazing guests you have I am sure there is a way to bring climate into the conversation .   Yes there is. Yes there is. My first question will be to any guest all guests from now on tell me your thoughts on pasta straws. Let us start there.   No that is not the point.  I am kidding. I am kidding. I know I know. I am teasing. Big thanks again to Ayana Elizabeth Johnson. She is a marine biologist a writer and the co-founder of the Urban Ocean Lab. And thanks as well to Kendra Pierre-Louis. She is a senior climate reporter with the podcast How To Save A Planet. And of course thanks to all the listeners who wrote in with their questions. All right. This week's episode was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Liam McBain and Audrey Nguyen. Our intern is Nathan Pugh. We had engineering support from Daniel Shukin. And our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. All right listeners till next time be good to yourselves. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.   Thank you all so much. I rarely have a talk about climate change that leaves me feeling a bit better. But this one did that so thank you.  You just like our jokes. We are saying the same scary facts just with more jokes.  .  The comedic timing makes it all different.  