 Honestly first question to every other former church kid I meet - what was your favorite church song growing up?  Oh gosh. I mean I was a Lord Your - Lift Your Name On High  sort of traditionalist.  OK.    You came from heaven to Earth...  I liked any song with hand Movement...  .  ...Anything where there was an accompanying sort of gesture that would go along with it. I was very into that.    Lord I lift your name on high.  Now how would you all sing? Was it just like an acoustic guitar? Was it like a band? Were you all rocking out?  Well it depended. If it was a Sunday morning like if the adults were in the room it was very traditional piano only. If it was youth group that is when things would get a little funkier with an acoustic guitar or maybe a tambourine.  So my guest today as you heard he grew up in church. But as he began to learn more about the faith he also began to realize something about himself - that he is gay. Today he tells us that story.   From NPR I am Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE. So for this episode let me tell you right off the bat we are not going to talk about a few things. We will not discuss this week's debate. We will not discuss the election. We will not discuss coronavirus or the economy because if you are like me you have probably already heard enough about all of those things already this week. So instead this episode we are going to celebrate a very special day. Coming Out Day is Sunday October 11. It is a day that means a lot to me. So in honor of it this episode right now - a beautiful coming-out story from a guest who grew up a church kid just like me - actor writer and comedian Joel Kim Booster. You might know Joel from his comedy specials.   Yeah I was adopted from South Korea. South Korea for those of you - you might know this. It was the only country in the '80s that would fly a baby to the U.S. You did not have to go and pick it up. So in many ways it was like the GrubHub of babies. You know they would just...   ...Fly a baby straight to your door. No hassles no fees. It was great. But yeah so it was an interesting thing for me growing up with this face in an all-white family in an all-white town. Like I fully knew I was gay before I knew I was Asian. That is...   But we are not talking about Joel's career on the show today. In honor of Coming Out Day this weekend Joel is going to share his coming out story with us - how he came out to his family and his friends and his church but most importantly how he came out to himself. Listeners heads up - there is a discussion of sex in my interview with Joel perhaps not the best interview for the kids. OK with that here's Joel Kim Booster telling his story of coming out. Happy Coming Out Day to everyone out there. Enjoy.   My conception of sexuality was like forming when I was like so so young. Like I started jerking off when I was like six or seven. So like I was like hypersexual at a really young age. And like really it did not - the shame and everything that came after it it was all so instinctual when I was like a young young kid. And it was only when I started to hit like prepubescent 9 10 that I started to connect the dots. And like this private thing that I thought I was the only person in the world who did became suddenly you know reflected in the POV of what we were learning in church and stuff like that...  Yeah.  ...About sexual mores and everything like that. I actually specifically - this memory will like always be stuck in my head is - I was like watching an episode of 2020 about gay dads. And my dad was in the room and I remember my dad being like that is wrong and that being sort of like a very early sort of like cajole - like memory of learning the wrongness that like I had inside of me and that - yeah. So that will stick with me. Thank you Barbara Walters.   Listen - she is a fount of endless stuff.  Yeah.  How hard was the compartmentalization? Like so you know you like guys. You know that is part of who you are. But you are also going to a conservative church and you know that your family and your church will not accept this. Like...  Well...  ...It honestly was pretty easy for me to compartmentalize like as a kid. I was just like OK well I cannot be gay right now. Like shut up. And like you just live that life.  That - I mean that happened way later that I had to go through - where for so long sex and romantic sort of affection were separated so completely for me. Like I did not - it was not like you know I had sexual feelings for men and then I realized it was wrong and then I started to suppress that in favor of trying to make it work with women it was more like I developed sexual feelings for men and then sort of apart from that through watching TV and movies and you know learning from society basically that you know a man ends up with a woman romantically developing those sorts of fantasies - like at the same time that I was like jerking off to Scott Bakula in Quantum Leap drag...  .  ...I was like also fantasizing about like marrying a woman you know? And I think part of this too was easier because I was home-schooled for so long too. So it was really easy to compartmentalize that stuff. It was not until I was like 13 14 that - and really started to understand the reality of like OK this is not a phase. This is not going away. Like and understanding that sex and romantic love were sort of intertwined or supposed to be that I...  Yeah.  ...Fully understood you know and then started to compartmentalize and be like OK well I cannot address that. I cannot deal with that. I cannot do that. And just you know started to try and pray the gay away on my own.  What was that ideal hetero marriage that you thought about as a kid? What did that look like? Who was your wife?  My wife was this girl named Alisha  that I met at Bible camp.  Oh my goodness.  But yeah. So that was like the fantasy for a while - was like I was going to get over this gay thing. I was going to beat it. That you know obviously did not happen.  Yeah. What did beating it look like for you in your mind?  I think it was like for me I thought there was still like time to develop sexual feelings for women. Like I really thought that like not necessarily that like the sexual feelings for men would dissipate but that eventually it would even out a little bit. Like if I looked at enough straight porn if I looked at enough like women or like - you know? And like what I now sort of recognize as like diva worship almost - you know? - that it is like I almost was able to convince myself that the way I idolized certain women growing up was akin...  Oh yeah. Idolizing Beyonce is actually not - ...  Yeah. It is not far away from...  ...Sexual attraction.  Yeah exactly. It is not far from like sexual attraction.  Yeah.  So I was like if I - you know I am so into - this is like such a weird crush but Jeri Ryan who is low-key responsible - or part-way responsible for President Barack Obama. She was married to the senator that Barack Obama replaced because in their divorce proceedings it was revealed that he tried to take her to BDSM clubs. And...  Oh I remember that.  Yes yes. She starred as Seven of Nine on Star Trek. And like that was like my early celebrity beard was Jeri Ryan.  .  And I was like oh I am so into her. I would like print pictures off the Internet when we first got the Internet and a printer. Like literally - and back then it took a long time to print out a picture of anything - line by line.  Oh I remember. Yeah that HP LaserJet situation.  Exactly. And I really convinced myself that like me sort of stanning this woman and women like her like Britney Spears and Beyonce and all of these people was akin and could be akin to a romantic sort of feeling. And I just eventually thought that my penis would catch up.  Coming up how Joel left the church and found a new support system with the high school drama kids. Ah classic story.   How did God play into all of this as you are going through this from being a kid up until you are you know coming out towards the end of high school?  I do not know. I was not...  Are you thinking about whether God likes it or not? Is that even an issue for you? Or are you just kind of like...  I for - I have always been a very research-oriented person.  OK.  And I remember really thinking like the Bible was inspired - you know the Holy Ghost inspired these men to write the words of God. And that was something that I needed to believe and did believe. So for me when I realized that being gay was like just not something that I could get rid of through prayer I started doing research. And you know thank God for the Internet. Like I would go on forums for Christian teens and ask about you know like is this a compatible lifestyle? And I stumbled actually on like really early scholarly work on sort of the translations of the New Testament and sort of pairing that with historical context of the day and learning that you know the words that we have translated to just be homosexuality in the NIV is actually much more complicated because of historical context. And what you know Paul was writing to the Corinthians actually about was not so cut-and-dry as like two men two adult men having sex or two adult men in a loving relationship. It just was not. And I remember bringing this to a church leader...  Ooh brave.  ...And I remember the church leader telling me that - because it was written by a mom whose son was gay and who had come from a very similar faith background that I did. And this was you know sort of the research that she had done in conjunction with like actual scholars. And I remember emailing this to one of my church leaders someone that I really trusted and believed in and I knew and I was friends with. And she - you know she had just sort of graduated from Bible college herself and so she was like in my age cohort. And I remember her emailing back and being like you know it is very clear that this mother loves her son but she is wrong and what she is doing is really harmful. And that was it. There was no real explanation for why she was wrong.  If a teenager sends something like that to a youth pastor it is also kind of a cry for help. It is also you kind of saying I am struggling with these things - can you help me?  Yeah.  This is you trying to come out to her. Did she ever in light of that email you sent ask about how you were doing and if you were having thoughts and feelings around your sexuality?  No. Well here's the thing is you know I am a - I read as pretty gay I think to most people. I think there is like well maybe a little bit of...  What? No not you .  Yeah. There might have been some ambiguity back then because I was trying really hard you know? I was like - but I think most of - at that point what happened was you know I had made a gay friend at my high school and I had talked briefly about hanging out with that person. And I remember getting called into the office with all the church youth group leaders my youth pastor and being told that I had to either stop hanging out with this person or not come back to the church. And...  Wow. What'd you do?  I never went back.  How old were you then?  I was 16 then.  OK. OK.  And it was a watershed moment for sure because for me I knew which way I was headed and I knew that like it was just like a dam was about to burst and I could not really hold back. And I was dealing with so many other things mentally at that point that I just like could not - I needed support.  Yeah.  And I did not - and I knew I was not going to get the support that I needed because especially like - thinking back this is like such a 2005 2004 or whatever year it was mentality of just like playing chicken with me rather than - you would think now - I think a smarter church leader even a smarter evangelical church leader would have said...  Would be like you are gay we get it.  Like yeah or like let us hold on to this kid. Like let us - like let us keep him in the fold. Let us keep him coming to church every week. And at least that way you know we will have access to him. But instead they gave me this ultimatum that I think that they had expected me to adhere to and I called their bluff and I said OK I am gone. And I called my dad. I had him pick me up and we never went back to that youth group.  It is funny hearing you say that because like my church never gave me an ultimatum. They were maybe even a bit more strict than your church. They definitely knew that I was about to be a gay because they tried to pray it out of me a few times. But they never were like you cannot come back anymore. And I wonder I do not know which approach is best. Like at least you knew when to cut things off. I think for many years I was trying really hard to continue to be in a place where I knew I just did not fit anymore.  Well I mean it is easy for me to talk about this in hindsight. But at the time you know like I did stop going. But I was like fairly convinced I was going to hell you know?  Yeah.  Like at that point it was like I am not going to beat this thing which is like such an odd way of putting it but that is how I thought about it at the time. I am not going to beat this thing and I have no home here. So I might as well just like go crazy while I have the chance here on Earth and then eventually I will go to hell.  Oh no .  And that is that on that you know?  Oh my goodness. It is so - I do not know. I want to just like find young Joel Kim Booster and give him a hug and be like I am sorry you had to go through that.  .  That sucks. Do you - I do not want to ask if you feel sorry for yourself but I do want to ask looking back years from now how do you feel about that 16-year-old 17-year-old kid and what he was going through?  I mean I am looking at it now with - that was half a lifetime ago. And I am so thankful that everything happened in the way that it has because I love my life now. And I do not know you know - there were so many steps that of course like hurt to get there. I mean there was so much tumult with my family before getting here and a lot of therapy to get me here. But like ultimately I am glad that it happened because it was certainly like emotionally ripping a Band-Aid off. But I do not know if there was a better way to do it in terms of where I was at at that point in my life.  Yeah. Yeah. I want to flashback to that moment in high school when everything starts to just happen. You are growing up in the church. You are being home-schooled. You have these aspirations to just I do not know become a youth pastor in adulthood.  Yep.  But then you end up asking your parents if you can go to public school to do drama club - right? - to like do theater. And they let you go to public school and then everything changes. Take me back to that like...  Everything changes.  ...First public school moment when everything just hits the fan.  I - it was standing in choir class behind a kid named Esteban  who was wearing Axe body spray...  .  ...And like getting a boner. And I believe he was like freshly out and like is like you know - I do not know. And like the excitement of that of like standing next to an out gay kid who was so hot to me at that point and like smelled so good and like all of that...  You know he did not smell good. You know he smelled bad 'ecause it was Axe body spray.  I do not know. Axe body spray - it still - something in me will react to it...  .  ...I think because of that moment.  Wow.  But like - but for real I mean - and that was that. And I think like being surrounded by kids for the first time who were very open to it who knew it about me before I even knew it about me and who sort of - for the first time I was around people who you know were vocalizing the opposition that were saying like no gay is OK and like you know - this is a pre-Glee era certainly. I mean kids are coming out left and right these days. But like I think I was one of like four or five out kids at my high school at the time. And so it felt revolutionary and it felt very - I do not know - empowering in a way and scary in another way.  Yeah.  And - but I had a lot of - you know I had that cliche drama clique that was there to support me. For the first time in my life I had a support system that was going to stand behind me and make sure that I was OK.  Coming up Joel talks about losing his religion but finding a few other things in the process. How much of the way you were raised still shows up in like your sexual life now? I think for me one of the biggest things was like because you are growing up in this church background and you can never really show any of the same-sex desire you have to anyone around you you start to lead a life in which you are allowed to be gay but secretly. And so all of your first experiences have to be an incredibly big secret. And then even when you realize you do not have to do that anymore your predisposition is keep it secret. Were there any lingering effects of your upbringing that you are still unpacking when it comes to just like the way you live out your sex life as a gay man?  No .  Good. Good. You got over it.  Yeah. I think that there are definitely some of the - I think like there is a frankness to the way that I see and approach sex that is a direct result of and maybe a direct reaction to the secretiveness of which it was sort of - that surrounded it while I was growing up. You know it just was not something that we talked about. I was never given any sort of sex ed. It was personal and private. And I never understood why and I still do not understand why because it is just - I do not know. I always felt it as a bodily function and I still view it that way. And - 'ecause then when I had it and I started having sex I was like this is the thing that is wrong? This is the thing that we are not talking about? It is like it is a fart you know? Like it is just like one of those...  .  It is something our body does. And it just - it seems so silly to not - at least to me - not to talk about it. I understand not everybody views it that way and I - you know I never want to push that viewpoint on - to overcorrect to be as legalistic about it as my parents were on the opposite. But - and I am very curious. I mean I am still so curious about it to this day. I think a lot of my work is centered around that curiosity because so much of it I learned in practice and not in theory. And so it is fun to sort of be curious and sort of ask people like well how do you do it? And there is no right answer. And that is why it is a fun question for me to continually ask ad nauseum.  One of the things that comes up a lot when I talk with people about God and sex whether they are straight or gay or whatever is that regardless of who you are when you grow up in a strict religious upbringing there is just this pressure in general to be relatively asexual. You know sex is not...  Chaste yeah.  Chaste and pure and like almost ignoring that humans are sexual beings.  Yeah.  And I think a lot of people still kind of carry that with them in their adulthood whether they stay in church or not. You seem to be totally over that. Do you think that was just the way you are or was there a thing or a moment or a process that got you there? Like just...  I just think it was in me. I really do. Like I was like always - I was that kid in the middle of the living room floor like humping his stuffed animal...  .  ...As a child you know? Like I was like always always always - like from the moment I realized what my penis could do I was like this is a miracle. This is like the greatest thing in the whole world that like it can just do this. And it can just make you feel like this any time you want it to really. So yeah I do not know. It was like - that was like the first and the easiest thing for me to sort of let go of when I untangled myself from the church. And I think that there are definitely like shades of - you know there is been a lot of like shading work and therapy and whatnot that I have done as an adult to make sure that I am approaching sex in a healthy way. But like in terms of exploring it and viewing it as a gift - like that is how I have always seen it. And yeah I have never wanted to hide my light under a bushel as it were  - a basket or whatever.  Hide your junk under a bushel. No.  Yeah yeah. No no no - not for me.   Do you ever imagine a time in your life - here now later - where you would go back to church go back to God go back to some kind of religion or organized whatever?  I mean I go to church every time I visit my friend Sarah .  OK.  I do it out of...  Her church.  ...Respect - yes. I do it out of respect for her. And there is a big part of me that like you know - I think I have always searched for community wherever I am because that is something that was you know sort of instilled in me in a very young age because of church. I definitely do that. But I found the community that I have been looking for I think in the gay community. And they stand in for what church used to stand in for for me. And church now becomes a dance floor or you know a warehouse party or a game night you know? It can be all of those things - just getting together with those - with my community.  Yeah. I know that you are agnostic now. But if you had to look back over your journey with your sexuality and religious beliefs and say this was a lesson God was trying to teach me through this or this is a lesson for everyone else through this story what is the lesson and the moral of the story?  I mean I guess - wow that is a heavy question. That is a heavy question. You really knocked me over at the end here. I was doing so well. I was feeling so articulate. I guess the lesson for me is that the road is long and you cannot see - you know I think like sometimes it is that optical illusion where you think you see the end of the road but it is actually just a hill you know? And once you are over it there is a whole other stretch that you cannot even see from where you are standing. And it is about perspective. And I think like it is really easy even when things are hard even when I am going through and have gone through - I mean right now is such a great example of it. It feels like this is never-ending and that I will never leave my house again and I will never get to dance with my friends again. And I feel lonely. And I feel you know unshakable sadness sometimes - is that it is just - when you cannot see the end it is just a hill. And you will be - and you will have a whole other stretch. And then that stretch will you know bump and obscure itself as well. But it is - I am somebody who always really really wanted to know what the endgame was which I think is why Christianity was so comforting - 'ecause it was like well I accepted Jesus in my heart.  And I will go to heaven.  So I know what the endgame - yeah.  Yeah.  Exactly. No matter what I know what the endgame is. And I think having that stripped away from me was what really set me off balance for a lot of my you know later adolescence into young adulthood. And being OK with not being in control and not knowing has been you know the greater growth I think of my - this period of my life.  I love that. Life is a journey. The road is long. You will never see all the hills and the turns. But keep driving.  Yeah.  But look at that. You got me in the heart space Joel.   This is the part where we end the interview.   Thanks again to Joel Kim Booster for sharing his coming out story with us. Coming Out Day is Sunday October 11. Enjoy it everyone. All right. This week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Anjuli Sastry Jinae West and Andrea Gutierrez. Our intern is Star McCown. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. That is a wrap for this week. We are back in your feeds next week. Till then be good to yourselves. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon. 