 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show from member station WBEZ in Chicago anchor and host of the Nerdette podcast Greta Johnsen and investigative reporter Dan Mihalopoulos. All right. Let us start the show.  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend from Chicago and the studios of NPR member station WBEZ. I am here for some fun station visit stuff and I am so happy to be joined in studio by two WBEZ stars - WBEZ anchor and host of the Nerdette podcast Greta Johnsen and Dan - you know what? Betty's going to say your last name better than I can - but Mihalopoulos.  Yeah.  Like - no you say it.  Well I mean in Greek or English?  I want to do it right. Say it.  Mihalopoulos is fine or you can say Mihalopoulos.  Oh.  Dan Mihalopoulos.  That is great.  Investigative reporter on WBEZ's government and politics team. You all we are joined in studio by my current song obsession at the moment.  Yes.  Can we pump this?   Greta knows what this is.  Oh yes.  Dan you know what it is?  Not sure.  .  It is the theme song to the HBO drama Succession. You feeling it out?  I like it. I like it.  You like it.  It is so good.  OK. OK. So HBO's Succession is the critical darling of 2019. It is this family drama that is believed by many to be based on the saga of the Murdoch family of Fox News fame. And I am playing the theme song this week because the theme song has become its own sleeper hit. People love it. And what is crazy is that this song has proven so popular and so catchy this week one of the best rappers of our day Pusha T recorded and released a rap remix...  No.  ...To the theme song of Succession.    Secrets sabotage borderline felony suicide...  Greta's freaking out.    Selfish pedigree. When the love's gone and the hate's there better watch out.  Oh my God.  Do you like it?  Yes.  So Vulture has reported that fans of the show have been asking for a rap remix since the show launched. And finally Nicholas Britell the composer of the song - he said yeah let us do it. And he said quote There is only one person on the list of people to reach out to. Of course it had to be Pusha. There was no backup. There was no plan B. So now we have a rap remix of the theme song of Succession. And literally on my morning run this morning I was playing this.  Yes. Oh my God. That is amazing.  What theme song would you like rap-remixed Dan?  Oh a rap remix - what is that song from The Departed?  Oh wow. OK. Done.  I cannot place it right now.  I want a Cardi B remix of The Golden Girls theme song.  Oh wow.  It is her birthday. They said that on Morning Edition.  Happy birthday weekend Cardi B. Please remix the theme song to The Golden Girls.   All right folks. We are going to start the show as we always do. I am going to ask my panelists to describe their week of news in only three words. Greta you are up first.  So I chose MeToo is not over which counts as three words 'ecause MeToo is the hashtag.  Is a hashtag - OK.  OK.  OK. All right.  I am not cheating. I saw you start to count...  I was like...  ...Right as I said it Sam.  Yes. Yes. OK. So we should preface - we are going talk about a sensitive story from the news this week. And just to warn listeners this story involves some details about sexual assault. OK. Go ahead.  So yeah we are just about two years into what we call the MeToo movement. And almost two years ago now Matt Lauer who was the host of NBC's Today Show for 20 years was fired over allegations of sexual abuse. Those allegations have become much clearer recently especially with this book that is coming out soon by Ronan Farrow and it is called Catch And Kill. And it is got very grim details allegedly of some assault that took place.  Yeah. So this allegation - a former junior colleague of Matt Lauer's has accused him of raping her in his hotel room while he was in Sochi covering the Winter Olympics in 2014. She told Ronan Farrow for his book that he forced sex on her without her consent. And according to NBC News apparently that complaint ultimately led to his firing in 2017.  Yeah. So this book is coming out on Tuesday and people are talking about it. And Matt Lauer decided to put out this open letter this week...  Yeah.  ...That...  ...With very strong words.  With very strong words. And a lot of people are characterizing it as essentially victim blaming. And you know it is just kind of bringing up a lot of questions once again about this very intense ongoing story around - you know like we are two years into this thing. We still have not figured out a lot of rules or structures beyond like the legal code which in a lot of these cases does not actually do a lot right?  Exactly.  And so then it is like what do we do with this? And is...  And where do these men go?  And where do these men go? And is there space for them to be able to try to reconcile some kind of future in the public or do they need to just back off into the mist and - you know?  Yeah.  And I think it is just a really interesting question and I wish I had an answer. I do not.  Yeah.  But I also do not think it looks like this open letter that Matt Lauer wrote right?  Yeah.  Like there is no...  There is no...  ...Degree of apology in this thing.  I mean he said quote it is - that her allegation is quote categorically false ignores the facts and defies common sense.  I just think that when anybody categorically denies anything it is sort of like really though? Like...  Yeah. But categorically I was like OK.  You know like I just think that I would be much more interested in seeing a man in power acknowledge that maybe something went wrong that...  Yes. Yes.  ...He was not aware of even. You know like I think there is a way to still say that you did not do anything if you really did not do anything but acknowledge that like it is all very complicated...  Exactly.  ...You know?  Yeah. Dan you cover corruption...  Yes.  ...And this MeToo saga is also a story of uncovering corruption and what happens once it is uncovered.  Absolutely.  Like seeing this kind of story play out with various chapters over time when is it possible to feel like justice has been done with these kind of things?  I think a lot of it is what people do after they have been caught. I think...  Yeah.  ...Maybe you knew what you did at that moment but when you realize who you have hurt and the consequences of your actions...  Exactly.  Yeah. I mean it seems like ideally we would get at least three statements out of someone who has faced allegations this severe. Right? It is like I was wrong I still have a lot to learn and I am going to do whatever I can to help solve the problem. And like literally no - none of those things were in this letter.  No none of them.  And none of them have been in a lot of these - you know like over the last couple of years people - men who have been accused have kind of popped up after they are - what they have decided is an appropriate amount of time to stay in the background - I am thinking of you know folks like Jian Ghomeshi and John Hockenberry even in the public radio world...  Yeah. I mean Louis C.K. the comic.  ...Who wrote - right. Yeah you know? And like they will write an essay or whatever. But very few of them seem appropriately contrite given the accusations that were put against them...  Exactly.  ...By women and what they have gone through since. Right?  I mean I wondered - you know when the MeToo movement started when the Weinstein story broke I kept saying to myself - how long does this moment last?  Right.  And now two years into it I think it is going to last a while.  Oh yeah.  And I think it is probably a good thing.  Yeah. And I think that is the other question - right? - is what is the net good? Like how do we measure impact and should everyone have fallen who did? You know there is a lot still to figure out. But I think as long as we are talking about it that is what is really important.  Oh yeah. Oh yeah. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here in Chicago at the studios of member station WBEZ with two WBEZ stars...  .  ...Dan Mihalopoulos investigative reporter on WBEZ's Government and Politics team and Greta Johnsen the host of the Nerdette podcast and WBEZ anchor. Dan do you have three words?  Nerd and the nerdette. So the nerd gets his turn here.   And it is - three words I will say them both in English and Latin.  Oh nice.   I do not know much Latin but I do know quid pro quo - pay to play.  Pay to play. And this is in terms of political corruption huh?  Both in D.C. and in Chicago.  Yeah.  Yeah how many indictments have we had just like in the last three weeks?  Well we have had more raids than indictments.  Raids right. Right right right.   We have had some indictments recently yes. But we have had a ton of raids. They are all over the place. The feds are swarming in Chicago and in Illinois. They have been at City Hall. They have been at the state capitol. They have been at district offices. They have been at little village halls - is what we call them in Illinois in some very not village-like industrial suburbs of Chicago.  Yeah.  And they are serving subpoenas they are coming armed with search warrants and they are looking at a lot of schemes that involve people basically abusing the public trust for their own personal gain.  Yeah. I want to draw some parallels and comparisons between Illinois corruption and investigation around corruption in D.C. But first give our listeners outside of Chicago kind of a laundry list of the kind of corruption stuff that is being investigated and like indicted right now.  Yeah. There is a number of people who are under investigation. And we do not know how all of them are going to end up but the people that are getting in the federal heat right now and feeling that federal heat include some of the most important members of the state legislature a state senator who is one of the most powerful senators. They raided his office at the capitol in broad daylight. There are also investigations of contractors lobbyists. At City Hall we have a couple of aldermen. One has been indicted already for a pay-to-play scheme - a guy named Ed Burke who - coincidentally Donald Trump's property tax lawyer for...  Whoa.  ...The Trump Tower Chicago building...  Wow. That is crazy.  ...One of the tallest buildings here downtown. And another alderman named Carrie Austin her office got raided. She is got a number of relatives on the payroll here who are...  Wow.  ...Also being looked at by the feds.  So nepotism business shakedowns pay for play. My favorite one - someone in city government was like arranging to have the snowplows plow his block first .  Well we do not know if he arranged it as advertent.  .  But we know that it happened magically...   ...That these trucks went a mile off of their route and would go down his side street.  That is so Chicago.  The Chicago-est  thing.  It is so Chicago. Oh my goodness. My big question for you this week is how has the Trump presidency and all of the corruption investigations in D.C. affected the way corruption in politics plays out or is investigated or is perceived by the public in the rest of the country? Does it have any effect?  Well the rest of the country or Chicago? You know I mean Chicago's very different. I mean this is a town where - I think it was 12.5 voted for Donald Trump in 2016. Mostly we write about Democrats and report on Democrats here and...  Because they run the state.  ...Investigate Democrats because they run the state and especially the city. But most of the people here who do vote Democratic look at that. And they do not say well because of this corruption at Chicago City Hall or in Springfield I am going to support Donald Trump - because corruption is an issue I think but it is not the issue. You know there is the economy of course for everybody. And then there is you know - who is for me?  Dan how long have you been covering politics now here?  In Chicago?  Yeah.  Twenty years.  Twenty years - so at this point like do these raids surprise you at all? Is this just like - you know it is just like - oh yeah another day another raid - no big deal?  Yeah. I mean there are periods when the feds are more active than at other times. But we have certainly seen several periods like that in the last 15 to 20 years. Yeah we have seen this stuff and we try to not cross the line from skepticism to cynicism.  Yeah. I wonder if you are a Chicago Democrat - an Illinois Democrat under corruption investigation is your line - well I am not Donald Trump - could be worse? Is that what they are saying sometimes?  Yeah essentially. I mean - but here they are not even going to have a Republican  running against them...  OK. Yeah.  ...In most cases. I mean there is some Republicans that run statewide and they have not won anything in a long time. So it is not going to get them that far. But no absolutely many people like you know Rahm Emanuel our last mayor you know...  A lot of corruption allegations.  ...And our current mayor you know they currently get into it with Donald Trump. And they say you know - it helps their popularity when they put themselves against someone that is that unpopular.  Yeah yeah.   It is time for a break. Coming up we are going to ask an existential question - to cellphone or not to cellphone in the theater?  Oh .  There is a heated debate taking place right now in the performing arts over whether it is OK for showgoers to use their smartphones during a musical or play or a symphony. One leading playwright right now says sure why not? We will break down his argument and have this fight together after the break.  .  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders. And do you all hate when people say the Windy City?  Nobody says it here.  Nobody says it but it is whatever.  OK I am not going to say. I am in Chicago.  I am in Chicago with two WBEZ reporters - Greta Johnson host of the Nerdette podcast and WBEZ weekend anchor and Dan Mihalopoulos investigative reporter on WBEZ's Government and Politics team. I have a question for both of you.  OK.  Have you ever had to tell someone to put their cellphone away in a play or a musical or something like that?  I am so tempted all the time.  .  I have yeah. It was in London actually I think last year.  .  On West End?  No at a soccer game at Arsenal.  .  Wait - a soccer game?  Well there was a tourist next to me - like me just - and he was trying to film the entire game on his phone. I am like dude the game is on TV. Like...  .  So every time the ball would go toward his side his phone would be in front of me.  .  And I finally just told to put it down and he did 'ecause I think he was scared of me.  .  It was like who would actually say something like that?  I got in trouble on Twitter once when I tweeted live reaction to one of the Fast And Furious movies from the theater. I was in the back row. No one was even three rows close to me.  Back row is totally fair.  And I was like oh it is fun. But it is - people on Twitter were like I will find you and beat you.  Wow.  Anyway I bring all this up because right now in the theater world there is this big - I know. I got to say it like that - theater.  I love it. I love it.  There is this big debate going on over whether or not you can have your phone out in a musical or a play or a classical performance. This debate in recent weeks has led to actual physical confrontations at shows. So I called up NPR freelance theater reporter Jeff Lunden to ask him why folks are so up in arms about this and who is right. So Jeff began by telling me about one really egregious recent example of a cellphone dust-up at a musical in New York. There was this off-Broadway production of a show called The Wrong Man. And in that show the staging is such where some audience members are actually seated on the sides of the stage.  And there was a guy who was sitting  at the side of the stage on the stage who was filming with his cellphone - with his smartphone. And Josh Henry who plays the lead kept on sort of looking this guy's way.  While singing?  While singing.  .  And you can see it because they were filming the show that evening. He kind of looks at the guy and reaches his hand out and grabs his cellphone ...  Oh my goodness.  ...Takes it and throws it under the bleachers...  While still performing?  ...To the applause of the audience. He does not drop a beat. He is just singing his song.  That is talent.   It really is.    Because the cycle just gets harder to break. And it...  And there've been some other instances as well. This violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter she stopped playing Beethoven to make a woman stop recording her.  Yeah. She - apparently this person had been videoing the performance in the first row...   ...During the first movement of Beethoven which is an intense piece of music.  Yeah yeah yeah.  Then she pulled out a second cellphone with...  Stop.  ...To get the second movement. And she just kind of looked at this woman who is in the first row and stopped. So this stuff has been going on a lot.  And there is a third instance that kind of flipped the script. So Jeremy O. Harris - he is a playwright who has one of the buzziest plays of the year on Broadway Slave Play. He was texting during the show with Rihanna who came to his show. When questioned about it afterwards he said of course I am going to text with Rihanna if she texts me during my show. It is Rihanna.   It is true. I mean you know there is this part of me that is like laughing about it but there is another part of me that thinks gee Rihanna could not you just put your cellphone away and text him once it is over?  No one tells - no one puts Rihanna in a corner Jeff.   OK.  So this is not just an etiquette debate. It is a legal debate as well because taking video of these performances - you are - what? I mean you are like taking intellectual property that like they own and you should not be taking yourself. Is that part of it too?  Exactly. I mean these are words and music people have created that are part of their intellectual property. And also the performances of the actors are their own. And they do not want them distributed. You know and part of going to the theater is about being in the same space with the same people. It is different every night because the audience vibe is different. The acting is different. For somebody like me who goes to the theater a lot it is kind of a sacred space.  Yeah I wonder - this debate is still raging in the world of theater and symphony and orchestra. It is not raging for like movies. Everyone pretty much knows you will not have your phone out once the previews are over. And if you do you will be shushed or removed or you know reprimanded. Why is there still - like why does it seem to still be a thing up for debate in theater when it is really not up for debate in movies?  I think it is partially a generational thing. And I - you know because I think people are very excited to be shall we say in the room where it happens right you know?  .  Because it is something that is kind of unique. And I mean look. If I go to a pop concert I pull my phone out and I take pictures. Not the whole time. But I do not know - maybe that is just sort of part of the way we are now memorializing our own events.  Yeah. So with this debate there is one man in the theater world who has been perhaps the most vocal about all of it. I want to talk more about him and his stance. This is Jeremy O. Harris writer of Slave Play - one of the buzziest plays of the year on Broadway. And he has previously said about all of this there is no right or wrong way to watch the theater. The forum is dying. So I would rather people just be there than not to be quite honest. Does that argument kind of hold water for you? He has a point. Just get the butts in the seats man right?  Yes to a certain degree.  OK.  The truth is that historically if you went to see Shakespeare at the Globe...  Yes.  ...You know people were walking around and throwing fruit and vegetables at actors you know?  .  And frankly if you still go to Kabuki theater in Japan right?  Uh-huh.  You know that goes on for like four hours five hours six hours. People are sitting there eating and talking.  Yeah.  So there are different rules and different times in different societies. And I think you know theater has to figure out a way to acknowledge that it is 2019...  Yeah.  ...And that people are kind of living in social media.  Yeah but also I think some of it is there is is a certain class of theater person that sees the phone in the show as a sign of disrespect. But what if the phone in the show is a sign of admiration and a sign of saying I want to be excited and show folks that I was here and spread the word about this thing? Like is there any way that the theater world transforms itself to see the cellphone in the theater as a form of flattery?  Well they are not unhappy if somebody takes a picture at the beginning...  Yeah.  ...Or somebody takes a picture at the curtain call and puts in you know at Slave Play tonight or whatever...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...In their social media. They love that. You know the real question is - and you know having spoken to somebody like Patti LuPone about this you know it is hard for them to concentrate when it is kind of in their face.  Got you. Got you.  And they are trying to kind of set up a world and there is kind of an intrusion in it. I mean we all know that theater is not real  and that the people who are on stage...  What? It is not real. What?  It is not real. They are portraying characters.  . Wait.  But you know for the people on stage they do want to...  They want it to feel real. They want it to be - they want to be locked into their characters and not be distracted.  Yeah and they want the audience to be locked into the character.  Yeah yeah. Now you talked to Patti LuPone about all of this. What'd she tell you about the whole Cellphone-gate as - that is what I am calling it.  She said where is the respect?   Where is the respect? What are you doing there? Why are people coming to the theater if they do not want the theatrical experience?  There is a line of criticism that I have been seeing on all of this that says part of the reason someone like Jeremy O. Harris of Slave Play is attacked for his cellphones-are-OK stance is because he is young and he is black. Does any of this debate to you seem coded by class or by race or by age?  Insofar as the etiquette rules were kind of written in the 19th century and the 20th century...  OK.  ...By European culture...  Uh-huh.  ...That may be the case. I think more than anything else though it is sort of a generational thing that people who are really part of the smartphone generation this seems like the most natural thing in the world to do.   Thanks again to Jeff Lunden NPR freelance theater and arts reporter. Time for a break. When we come back my favorite game - Who Said That? You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders in Chicago this weekend joined by two Chicago rock stars. WBEZ anchor and host of the Nerdette podcast Greta Johnsen thanks for being here.  Oh my gosh Sam - so excited.  Oh yeah. And Dan Mihalopoulos investigative reporter on WBEZ's government and politics team.  Pleasure to welcome you to Chicago.  .  Listen anytime they bring me here I am so happy because you all know how to eat...  Yeah we do.  ...In Chicago.  Yes.  Oh my god. You all know how to eat. I love it so much.  So much carbohydrate and cheese...  Yes.  ...And meat. It is exquisite.  Bring it on bring it on. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Are you ready for my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  I am ready to beat Greta. The nerd will beat the nerdette.  Oh dang .   All right. This game is very simple. I share a quote from the week. You have to guess who said it or just get a key word from the story. The winner gets absolutely nothing.  Dan should we put a wager on it - a little deep-dish or something?  I am not sure - well...  .  I am not sure that I should be as confident because I have been focused too much on local yokel stuff...  Yeah.  ...You know local yokel news here.  Well we will see what happens man.  I picked easy quotes this week because last week I had to help my panelists out a lot.   I heard that.  So they should be a little easier to get.  A scoreless tie.  Yeah this will be easier. All right first quote - here's the thing I am friends with George Bush. I am friends with a lot of people who do not share my same beliefs that I have.  Ellen.   I knew that too.   This quote comes from Ellen DeGeneres one of I think America's sweethearts. But she is in hot water this week.  Yeah.  She is had to defend herself this week after a photo surfaced of Ellen at a Dallas Cowboys game sitting next to former President George W. Bush. And she got a lot of blowback on the internet because of his record on LGBTQ rights because of his history with the Iraq war. And she said quote when I say be kind to one another I do not mean only the people that think the same way that you do. I mean be kind to everyone - does not matter. Do we care?  I mean I do not know. Oh gosh I wish I could remember word for word - what is the James Baldwin quote about like I am willing to engage in respectful conversation with you as long as what you believe in does not involve my oppression essentially?  I will say when I saw this whole dust up and everyone being so mad about it I was just like I do not have the time. I do not have the time to worry about who Ellen DeGeneres is gallivanting with. I really do not care.  .  All right who got that one? You all were so nice. You both raised your hands.  Right. I mean is there...  We are so Chicago.  ...I do not see a buzzer here.  Just yell it out. Just yell it out. Just yell it out.  OK OK.  So we are going to give that first point to Greta even though I think Dan you knew it at the same time.  I mean I did yell it out first.  Yes yes. So this next one just yell it out.  I was robbed.   Very polite Dan.  Here's the quote - when you pay for Snoop Dogg you are going to get Snoop Dogg. Who said that?   I have no idea but I love it.  It is - the simplest answer is the best with this one.  Yeah he did something this week - did not he? - at a show.  Yeah but who said that quote?  When you pay for Snoop...  Who would talk about Snoop Dogg in the third person?  Snoop Dogg.  OK.   Thank you for the really intense hint Sam.   Yes Yes. So this was a quote from...  Which I did not get.  This was Snoop Dogg talking to TMZ this week after the University of Kansas had to apologize for a Snoop Dogg performance.  Oh wow.  So last weekend University of Kansas had Snoop Dogg out to perform at a basketball event on campus called Late Night In The Fog. But during the performance at this university event Snoop Dogg brought out dancers on poles...  Oh wow.  ...Fake money and he used profanity in a bunch of his songs. He made like a strip club scene. I just - like what do you expect when you invite Snoop Dogg to your campus?  Right? Yeah.  He is a known quantity at this point.  .  He is calmed down though a little bit has not he? I mean...  He like coaches little league baseball now.  ...Have you seen that show where his wife would kind of yell at him all the time for leaving stuff lying around the house and coach - yeah football too. I think he had - when he had - his kid had a football team.  That is what it was.  Did not he get all the good players on his team and dominate the league?  Yeah he was a really cute...  Pop Warner...  ...Pop Warner football coach.  Oh my God.  I watched that and loved it. Who got that one?  That is Greta.  I did.  That is all Greta.  OK.  All Greta.  OK.  .  She assumed that Snoop Dogg speaks about himself in the third person.  I mean you helped a lot.  Uh-huh. Uh-huh.  Really you should have that point Sam.  Well you know it is for you. It is for you.  .  Last quote. You ready? Quote I could not dare do that. For what? Who gains from that? Not my people.  Oh wow.  I will give you more of the quote.  OK.  It is from a celebrity profile this week about her not doing a show.  Rihanna.   OK yes. Yes yes. The rest of the quote was There is things within that organization that I do not agree with at all. And I was not about to go and be of service to them in any way. This is Rihanna in a recent Vogue profile talking about why she refused to play the Super Bowl halftime show a few years ago. There was a bunch of coverage and gossip about her being asked to play and Rihanna saying no because of the way the league was treating Colin Kaepernick and his take-a-knee protest. And now she finally said for sure on the record yeah I did not do it. I do not like the NFL.  You know it is funny because I did not actually read the Vogue profile. But I follow just enough journalists on Twitter who are all really indignant about the part of that...  Yes.  ...Where the reporter says that they had not prepared any questions...  Yes.  ...To interview Rihanna.  Yes.  And that was the part that my people got real intense about.  I was mad about that too.  It was like how do you do that?  All I know is if you want to read a good Rihanna profile look up The New York Times Magazine profile of Rihanna written by Miranda July.  Oh wow.  A couple months ago right?  I bet. Yeah.  Yeah. That one is just a thing of beauty. I think you all know how this has played out. But Greta you won.  I got shut out.  I sure do.  .  The nerd is nerdier than the nerdette.   This has been shown.  Congratulations.  Thank you.  Yeah yeah yeah. All right. Now it is time to end the show as we do every week. We ask our listeners to share with us the best things that have happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. Brent hit the tape.  Hey Sam. This is Erin . I am an expat in Tokyo Japan. Right now I am walking to a giant fireworks festival in Futako Tamagawa which happens to line up with my 31st birthday - feeling very lucky. Thank you.  Hi Sam. This is Abby  from Los Angeles. And the best part of my week was going camping with my sister Suzanne  and adventuring in the river like we were kids again.  The best part of my week was going to a haunted house with a big group of my friends.  The best thing that happened to us this week was the birth of our first child our daughter Hazel .  The best part of my week was receiving the news that my dad's cancer is in total remission again. Goodbye cancer.  The best thing that happened to me all week is our oldest daughter closed on her first home all by herself. And we are so proud.  Hey Sam. The best thing that happened to me all week was that I am - got a tattoo with my father. It was an amazing experience to see my 65-year-old father get a tattoo for the first time.  Hi Sam. This is Leslie  from Bennington N.H. The best part of my week was my commute to work every single day because right now the colors of fall here in New Hampshire are so incredible that it is like driving through tunnels of fire.  So the best thing that happened to me this week is I started rehearsal for To Kill a Mockingbird on Broadway. And then I got nominated for an award for my last show. What? Who dis?  . OK. Oh my goodness.  .  That was Broadway actress Ros Coleman. Oh my goodness. That is amazing.  That is awesome.  Called in like everyone else right?  Yeah.  .  Congrats Ros. Also any listeners when you all go to Ros's show do not pull your cellphone out.    Respect the art. Respect the craft. Thanks to the rest of those listeners you heard from - Erin Abby Charlotte  Koby  Jen  Cee  Caitlin  and Leslie. Oh before we go we are going to play one more best thing for you. If you like this show just know that it could not have happened for the last year or more without our fearless editor Jordana Hochman. She is been out for a few weeks now because she had to go do a very big thing. She will tell you herself.  Hi Sam. It is Jordana and...  Ian .  Yeah. And who is with us?  Maddie .  Yeah. Maddie's with us. Maddie - who is Maddie?  Is my baby sister.  Yeah. And so the best thing that happened to us all week is getting into a routine with Maddie and learning all about her. And what do you like the most about Maddie so far