 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show the co-hosts of Nancy from WNYC studios Tobin Low and Kathy Tu. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend. That is to you all.  Oh.  Oh.   I was like are we here? Are we not here? We are here.   That is what this week of news did to you all.  Yeah. We are fuzzed out.  I am so fuzzed out. Listen. I had to just - like I had to avoid TV screens during like the Kanye situation at the White House. I was like I cannot. But I digress. We are not going to talk about that this hour.  Great.   Anyway as my Aunt Betty said my two guests today are a very dynamic duo. You may know them from their work hosting the podcast Nancy a show full of stories and conversations about the queer experience today. I am talking about Tobin Low and Kathy Tu. Thank you so much for being here.  Thank you for having us.  Yes.  I am so glad we messed up within the first minute.  I know.   The pressure's off.  Professionals ...  It is only up from here.   They are joining me from NPR studios in New York City. I am in LA. The magic of technology has us all dancing to The Cure. Are you dancing yet?  There is some shoulder movement.  OK.    I have waited hours for this. I have made myself so sick. I wish I would stayed asleep today.  This is my favorite song from The Cure the goth-rock band that was like really big in the '80s. And to be honest it is the only song that I know from The Cure. It is called Close To Me.   And it makes me kind of happy. So I am playing this song because The Cure is in the news this week. They are one of the 2019 nominees for induction into the Rock  Roll Hall of Fame.  Oh good for them...  Oh Cleveland...  Yeah yeah yeah.  We took away different things from that.  Sorry.   Cleveland is great. I love Cleveland. So there are actually 15 nominees this year names you might know like Def Leppard and Devo and Janet Jackson and Radiohead. But I kind of want to see The Cure get inducted because I want to see what the reaction of their fans will be. So fans of The Cure are iconic and legendarily goth. And so...  I see.  ...They - like they are the kind of fans that would be - if The Cure won they would be like whatever. It does not matter anyway.  Yeah. Would they actually be kind of pissed that they went mainstream in that way?   Exactly. So...  Yeah. But they have been around for so long they are mainstream-ish  you know...  You know we are playing them on public radio. They are over.   So anyway...  Good point.  ...Congrats to The Cure and all the other groups. We are going to start by having my two guests describe their week of news in only three words. I am going to go first this week but I will...  Yes please.  ...Keep it short I promise OK?  Cool.  My three words are a brewing storm.  Aha.  For obvious reasons.  Yes.  Hurricane Michael hit this Wednesday. Governor Rick Scott of Florida called it the worst storm to hit the Florida Panhandle in a century. As of Friday morning there are at least 11 deaths caused by this storm over a million power outages. And you know the same week this storm hits there is a new report out from the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. And basically the thrust of this study is we should all be freaking out over climate change.  Well the number that is burned in my head now is 2040 and how that feels like tomorrow because it basically is.  Yes.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Well so basically this study says all of the things that all of the countries had said they will do to fight climate change - it is not enough. The Paris Agreement is not enough. This report says that to like save the world basically we would have to reduce emissions by 45 percent by 2030.  Right. Right.  How do you do that? That would require entire economies to change fundamentally. It would require like new technology...  New technologies.  ...To suck out greenhouse gases from the air.  Right.  We are not there yet.  Yeah.  Even though it is such an immediate thing - because you know climates are actually changing and we can see it. We can feel it. But it still also feels like it is kind of far off. So you do not have an immediate like response to any of the actions that you take.  I feel like the conversation - at least between me and my partner - also immediately went to like - you know? We are a gay couple. And so if we were to ever have kids it would be a very intentional choice. It would be you know are we going to go down this route of adoption or having a surrogate or you know all those different things? And I feel like out of that article was immediately a conversation of like well do you - do we want to have kids in this you know sort of bleak-looking thing.  Yeah.  And I know that is like worst-case-scenario thinking but it is - I feel like it is a real conversation people started to have.  Oh it is. And there are experts who are saying the best way to actually lower greenhouse gas emissions and lower your carbon footprint is to have fewer kids or do not have kids at all.  There you go.  Like there are scientists and experts saying that is the way forward which is really interesting to think about.  Yeah.  We need Al Gore back with the PowerPoint presentation. Where did he go?  What is he doing?  He grew a beard for a second. Remember?   He was like man of the woods for a little bit...  He should come back with another documentary that is like no seriously now.  That is what he should call it. No Seriously Now.  Yeah.   Tobin do you have three words?  Yes. Well I am going to cheat a bit and do four if that is OK.  It is all right.   My four words are that was my mom.   This was a news story from this week that I feel encapsulates the weird alternate reality we all live in which is that this mother of what seems to be a very sweet son posted on Twitter about him in - with a photo. He is a Navy veteran and he is doing a pose in his uniform. And she goes on to write about...  Describe the pose. Describe the pose.  .  It is like a power stance.  He is got one knee up on I believe like a park bench. And he is leaning on his knee. It does not help that his uniform - his Navy uniform - is pristine. So he looks less like a veteran and more like somebody in a community theater production of Anything Goes.  Well he has his elbow...  .  ...On his like hand. And he is perched up and smiling and grinning with one hand on his hip.  Right.  It is like...  Yeah.  It is like school photo day.  Exactly. And he is cheesing also...  Yeah.  ...From ear to ear.  So I have the exact text of the tweet actually. I will read it.  Oh go for it.  This is from the mother of the son in the Navy uniform. She says  this is my son. He graduated No. 1 in boot camp. He is a gentleman who respects women. He will not go on solo dates due to the current climate of false sexual accusations by radical feminists with an axe to grind. I vote. HimToo.  Right - that hashtag had been before used to talk about how men are also victims of sexual assault but has now been sort of claimed by this other argument about men being afraid of doing anything basically...  Because the climate is such where...  ...Because they might be falsely accused for...  Yeah.  Right - exactly. So that was the initial tweet. And then Twitter took that and just dunked on this mom...  As Twitter does.  ...For a full day. And you had people writing things like - basically putting up like the guy from Psycho...  .  Oh no.  ...And tweeting like this is my son. He loves his mother. He runs a motel. It was like that sort of thing.   Oh no.  But then the son from the photo decided to create a Twitter account and joined Twitter to say that was my mom.  Oh I am seeing the tweet that he posted in response. He is wearing civilian clothes but still doing that pose with his hand on one hip elbow on the other knee perched up on his hand with his face. And he says  that was my mom. Sometimes the people we love do things that hurt us without realizing it. Let us turn this around. I respect and believe women. I have and never will support HimToo. I am a proud Navy vet cat dad and ally. Also your meme game is on point.   So he low-key disavowed his mom.  A little bit - I mean I think that to me this story is so emblematic of this thing that I think we are all going through which is so many people are bad at talking about sexual assault.  Oh yeah.  And not just that - like in this - you know when people say like we need civility - we need both sides of the conversation - there is sort of this like false setup of on one side we have women who have been assaulted and are talking about it. And the other side given equal weight are men who are falsely accused. And it is like that is not the way this works.  Right.  Like that is not the opposite side of this conversation.  Yeah. Well it also points to this really interesting way that even amongst families and amongst people that are close to each other there are really divergent views of the MeToo movement of sexual harassment and assault of what constitutes that. Like these conversations are not even happening yet within families.  Right.  And it should.  They should.  Yeah.  So update - this Navy guy Pieter Hanson - he already has 43000 followers.  What?   You better work that Pieter - spon-con.  I do remember his brother saying that he is always trying to get him a date. So I think this probably has worked for him.  .  Oh my God.  Way to go Pieter - way to go Pieter's mom - everything is...   All's well that ends well right?  Let us hope.  Yes. Kathy you have three words?  Sure. I have got Coming Out Day.  OK.  National Coming Out Day is always every year on my birthday...  Oh.  ...Which was yesterday.  Happy birthday.  Thank you. I am now 33 years old.  Your Jesus year.  And - what?  Jesus died when he was 33.  .  Wow.  Wait for it.   Wow. You are so lucky.  What a day .  What a day. Anyway go ahead. I cut you off.  National Coming Out Day - I remember when I was coming out back in college. I used to feel embarrassed about it because even though I was fine with it on my own I felt like it was almost being broadcast. Like my sexuality was being broadcast in a way because of this quote unquote holiday - this national day. And as I have become more comfortable with myself it is become less of a burden and more of like a cause for celebration. Now I get to share my birthday with National Coming Out Day.  Yeah.  And it is like - it is great. I love that.  Yeah - totally.  It is a great thing. Who else gets that huh? You do not get that Tobin.  I do not.  You do not.   Yeah yeah. Well so this is actually the 30th anniversary of National Coming Out Day. And we were lucky enough on the show to do an episode all about it. So listeners - it is a new podcast feed right before this one. And we have coming-out stories from listeners. We have some archived tape of like Ellen coming out way back in the day.  Ellen.  But you know it is one of those things where like we have seen coming out change over the years as sexuality and gender has become more fluid. But every year you are reminded like the day is still needed because it is still hard for some people. And until it is not hard for anybody you probably need it.  Yeah. I definitely think that we still need it. And the people that say that it is not needed - I feel like those are the people that this day is not for you know? - the people that is like who cares if you are going to declare that you are coming out? That is because this is not for you. It is for the people that need to see it - need to see it happen need to see people of all different ages and colors social class coming out so that they feel like they can too.  Yeah.  It is important.  So tell me more about this episode you guys had with Samira Wiley.  Yeah. So recently we just dropped an episode with Samira Wiley the actor in Orange Is The New Black and The Handmaid's Tale.  Yeah I love her.  And she is so great...  Love Samira.  ...And just such a fun person to be around. But we asked her about her coming out. And she told us that she was accidentally outed by a cast member in the first season of Orange Is The New Black.  Oh wow.  ...When she was not out. I just assumed that she had been because she...  I think everyone kind of thought by the way she presented you know?  Yeah. And she is such a - she plays such a confident gay woman on Orange Is The New Black. I think we all just assumed. But she was not comfortable yet. And she - she said that it was a thing that was taken away from her. It is a thing - being able to come out in your own time that is the thing that you have for yourself. And that was taken away from her. And so to you know eventually come back from that and then to still be a proud gay woman that takes some time. And...  Totally.  ...I think people need to not feel the pressure to come out on National Coming Out Day you know regardless of your - where you are in the world where you are with yourself on your journey on like whether it is even safe for you to come out - like that is a very personal decision.  Totally.  But if you can we will celebrate you.  Yeah.  Most of us will.  And the thing that I always remember about Coming Out Day is for most of us it is never just one day.  Right.  .  Oh man.  You are like I got to do it again? Goddamn.  And again and again and again...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...And again.  Yeah.  You all it is time for a break.  Woohoo.  But we are going to come back.   When we come back we are going to talk about voting. Florida votes next month on whether to restore voting rights for more than 1 and a half million felons in the state. We will tell you why this measure is gaining more bipartisan support than you might think. And also after that my favorite game Who Said That? This week it involves wine.  Oh.  I am never going to get anything.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two great guests a dynamic duo you might say - Tobin Low and Kathy Tu hosts of the podcast Nancy.  Hi Sam.  Hello again.  I love the name of you all's show.  Aw thanks.  Nancy.  It...  That is...  ...Has an energy to it.  ...That is also how we say it.   Nancy.  Yes. Before we get into the news again quick question for you. When is the last time you went trick-or-treating like door-to-door actual walk on the block?  Oh my God.  Oh probably when I was truly a child.  OK.  And I have a very strong memory at that I was that kid that embarrassed my parents at every house.  .  You embarrassed your parents? What did you do?  I think at the time I had no filter. And so it would be things like someone would open the door to their house and I would be like your house smells.   You know like just whatever came to mind. And so there would be a lot of like yanking me back.  .  Nice.  Being like next house.  Nice.  I think I...  And you Kathy?  ...Trick-or-treated at a mall maybe because my parents were not OK with going to people's houses.  Yeah.  Without like you know bringing a gift so.  That is fair.  I did not do it because we were church folks and Halloween was the Devil's holiday.  Ah.  Ah.  So we did not do that. But I...  Interesting.  ...Bring up trick-or-treating because it is in the news this week. There is a town in Virginia where they are banning trick-or-treating for anyone over 12. Did you see this?  Oh come on.  The city...  Come on.  I know. The city of Chesapeake Va. has a ban on the books right now of anyone over 12 years old trick-or-treating.  What happened there? Like something caused this.  Who hurt them?  Is this the town from Footloose?   Is this where Footloose takes...  Yeah.  ...Place?  Who got hurt?  I would not doubt it. The city's rationale is that like when kids trick-or-treat they are just kids being kids. But when teenagers do it they are just trying to start up mischief. The local government website says they will focus on making sure the evening is safe for everyone not actively seeking out violations. For example they say a 13-year-old safely trick-or-treating with a younger sibling is not going to have any issues. That same child taking pumpkins from porches and smashing them in the street more likely will.  Oh my God.  . Chesapeake Va.  Wow.  Man the Grinch that stole Halloween. Anyway...  .  ...Now it is time for a segment we call Long Distance.   That is a segment where we call up somebody somewhere in the world and talk about the news in their neck of the woods. If you want that to be you just send me note at samsandersnpr.org. This week we are talking voting and who can vote and who cannot vote. Right now in Florida if you are a convicted felon you are banned from voting for the rest of your life unless you obtain a very hard-to-get pardon or clemency. That could change very soon. This November Florida voters will vote on Amendment 4. It is a ballot initiative that would restore the right to vote to more than 1 and a half million former felons in the state. This would be a very big deal if it passes. And it is already a big deal if it does not because this movement is one of the rare instances of relative political bipartisanship on display right now. One of the groups that is leading this movement is the Florida Rights Restoration Coalition. One of their leaders is a black liberal. The other is a white conservative. That just shows you how bipartisan this issue is. That white conservative is a former lobbyist. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges some years ago. His name is Neil Volz. I called him up this week to talk about his story his advocacy and if this Amendment 4 can pass. Hey Neil. How are you?  Good. How are you doing?  Pretty good. Just trying to make it you know?  Absolutely. I know the feeling. Appreciate the opportunity to talk with you.  Thanks for your time. I know you are very busy right now. You have been traveling all over the state. Where was your last stop?  Gosh I was in Bradenton and Tampa. And I am sitting here in Fort Myers.  OK. So I want to back up a little bit. You used to work with a guy who is very well-known in D.C. whose name our listeners may have heard Jack Abramoff...  Right.  He had a humongous lobbying scandal back in '05. And...  Right.  ...You pleaded guilty to felony conspiracy as part of that?  Yeah. I mean in 2006 12 years ago I pled guilty to - on a services fraud charge. I got a felony. And honestly man it changed my life. It blew up my life as I knew it. And I made mistakes. And I was greedy and selfish and made decisions I should not have made and crossed lines I should not have crossed. Lost a house I got divorced and moved down to Florida to start over. And that was really a you know a humbling experience but also an eye-opening experience in terms of you know watching my employment go from a nice job with a view of the White House to cleaning toilets and working the night shifts man making minimum wage.  When you were cleaning toilets where were you doing that?  I was working at the Edison Restaurant in Fort Myers. That - the restaurant would close. I would go in on the night shift and clean up the restaurant.  OK.  Yeah.  And so in Florida you are one of 1.5 million felons there who do not get to vote. What do those people look like?  Yeah. So if you look at the 1.68 million people who are disenfranchised in the state of Florida less than a third are African-American. The largest portion are white. Then you have got folks who are Hispanic-American. And we went to Trump rallies to get petitions and Hillary rallies and nonpolitical rallies and - you know? - people from all walks of life ultimately.  Yeah. One of the things I found interesting when digging into the stats around who these felons are is that actually a very small fraction of these folks go to jail. They are just folks in the community. They have a conviction. But they are not these you know hardened prisoners that we sometimes think of.  Yeah. So if you look at the statistics from the Florida courts and the Department of Corrections you will see that about 170000 people a year get a felony conviction in the state of Florida. And yet about 75 percent of those are not sentenced to prison you know? There are people who are in our communities working with us sitting next to us in school next to us in - at the synagogue or the church or - you know? And why should somebody have their voices silenced for the rest of their life for something that they were not even sentenced to prison for?  Opponents of what you are pushing will say well wait. Florida already has a program to let felons regain their right to vote. It is a clemency program where you apply to have those rights reinstated. Is that enough?  Yeah so Florida has a clemency process in which people can apply for clemency from the governor and some elected officials. And that process does not work as well as it should because what you are looking at is a mandatory waiting period before anybody can be heard...  Of how long?  Of five to seven years depending on what your situation is. And then you have got an administrative backlog which most people are waiting 10 to 12 to 15 years beyond the first five to seven years. I have friends who served in the military who you know came back and wrote two bad checks. And they were waiting 30 years later to have their case heard.  OK. So your group is pushing for a blanket restoration of voting rights for all felons after a certain time. But do you think that there are any felons any criminals any crimes where those folks should not get the right to vote back?  Well the Amendment 4 - it would provide for the restoration of the ability to vote for people who have finished all portions of their sentence. It would not do that though for people who have a murder conviction or sexual felony offenses.  OK.  And that is definitely a reflection of how this amendment came about. This amendment came about by people. Like the people put this thing on the ballot and collected millions of signatures. And that is what we came up with based on what the public was saying they wanted to see.  This is an incredibly crazily divided time in our nation's politics. And it seems as if this issue has not been that divisive. It has garnered support across racial lines and party lines which is a thing that is so unheard of especially right now. Why do you think this issue has not been so divisive?  I think this is something that people from all walks of life can just grasp. Like there is a universal value here that so many of us can attach ourselves to and believe in. And that is just a simple premise that when a debt's paid it is paid you know? And that is one thing that we see wherever we go whoever we talk to. Whether you are a person of faith or not or you know whatever your background is deep deep down we see that people can grasp that simple basic concept and value. And so it is really neat to see this idea of you know you have got the Christian Coalition and the ACLU on the same page on an issue in a time when things are very divided and very partisan. And we are excited about that.  All right. Neil I know you are very busy right now. I thank you for your time. I hope you are safe out there on the road. And we will talk again sometime soon.  Thank you. I do appreciate that.   Thanks again to Neil Volz with the Florida Rights Restoration Coalition. If you want to hear more about that Florida Amendment 4 initiative there is an upcoming episode of the NPR podcast Embedded hosted by a friend of this show Kelly McEvers all about this issue. Look for that in a few weeks. Kathy Tobin this could be a big deal. One and a half million voters in Florida which is a perennial swing state that could change everything.  Right.  Yeah and I learned a couple of things from this phone call that I did not know which - I did not realize that somebody can be convicted of a felony and not actually serve any jail time.  Yeah. And in fact most felons do not go to jail at least in Florida right now you know?  I mean listening to him talk about it I was very curious about this aspect of it where it is getting bipartisan support and where that comes from. It seems like there so often can be more movement on an issue if you can point out that it affects white people as well.  True.  Yeah.  True. True. True.  That sort of...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...Can get the ball rolling...  Yeah.  ...In a way that other issues might not have as much traction.  Yeah. You know there was a poll in September on this Amendment 4 from the University of North Florida. And support in Florida was 71 percent to give these felons back the right to vote. And this amendment only needs 60 percent to pass.   All right. All right. It is time for a break. When we come back we will play my favorite game. As I said earlier this week it involves wine. So it is going to be fun.  I am going to lose.  .  You are not going to - stop with that defeatist talk.  She is a non-drinker. So that is...  Oh then you are going to lose.  So there is a little bit of a reason there.  I think I am going to lose. It is OK. It is OK. I win at other things in life. It is fine.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. BRB.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two great guests today Kathy Tu and Tobin Low hosts of the WNYC podcast - say it real excited-like.  Nancy.  Nancy.  Yeah. All right. It is time for my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  I think you both know this game and how it works no?  Yeah I did a little bit of news scrolling last night to be like remember the quotes remember the quotes from this week. And I am still probably not going to do well .  I love how every week without fail my panelists are like you know I studied for this. And I am like it is a game where I literally tell you every week you are not going to get anything.  OK. OK. Cool.  Great.  People still study.  All right.  It is OK now.  I - but Sam I did not.  .  Good. That means you will probably win.   This game is so simple. I share a quote from the week. You both have to guess who said that or at least get the story it refers to get a key word. Just get close. As I said earlier the winner gets absolutely nothing.  Great.  But maybe some bragging rights.  Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool.  You all ready?  Yes.  First quote is quote I got very mature 14- and 11-year-olds. My 14- and 11-year-olds drink wine. That is how mature they are. Who said that?  Oh boy. Can we get a hint?  A famous athlete.  Currently playing or not?  Currently playing.  Oh man. Well Serena does not have a 14-year-old.  She does not.  Who has a 14-year-old?  .  Plays basketball.  Is it LeBron?  Yes.   I told you you were going to win.  Yeah.  Yes.  So LeBron James who just moved to the LA Lakers he had an interview with USA Today this week. And he for whatever reason told all these sports journalists that he lets his kids drink wine.  Oh LeBron.  I think that is fine. I am OK with that.  What?  .  Basically he said whatever mom and dad are having the kids have it too.  That is not how I grew up.   It just feels like to me like LeBron's trying to be cool mom. He is that mom who is like well if they are going to drink they might as well do it here at the house so I can watch them.   No.  Like he is cool mom.  I think what we have learned today is that one day I will be a cool mom.   As long as you guys are in the house it is cool.  Exactly.   Kathy you are up 1-zip.  Oh no. We are against each other? OK. Here we go.  .  Wait what did you - how did you think this works?   Tell me how you thought this was going to work.  Oh I just thought it was like when you play sports at the YMCA and it is like points do not matter.   We will keep it that way for this one.  All right.  Next quote you ready?  Uh-huh.  Yes.  Ever since I played Trump black people love me. They love me. Everywhere I go...  Oh yeah.  ...Black people go crazy.  I know this one too.  Well then say it.  Yeah we will say it together.  You guys.   Alec Baldwin.  Yeah.   You both get a point. Alec Baldwin who lost his mind in an interview recently with the Hollywood Reporter - he was talking about the reaction that he thinks he gets after playing Donald Trump on SNL for so long. He says black people love him for it. A lot of folks did not like him for saying that - like me. Like come on Alec. Also what I love about that quote from Alec Baldwin it is him actually sounding like Donald Trump.  Also it is like I have a black friend.  Oh yeah.  ...Or I would have voted for Obama a third time. Sort of like in that family.   It is - I am not going to say if it is tied or whatever. We are going to be competitive for this last one OK?  No it is fine. Kathy has two. I have one. I am a big boy. I can handle it.  But you could tie it right now. Then we could go to like a freaking overtime whatever situation.  OK.  OK.  Like a final death thing or whatever. Anyway just get the keyword or what this thing is about or something OK? Ready?  OK.  Yes.  Here we go.  Quote the passenger was advised of the policy and asked to deplane.  Oh this was a person who tried to bring on a comfort animal that was...  What was the animal?  Was it like a...  Was it a peacock?  ...Squirrel?  Yes.   Wait which one was it? Was it a squirrel?  It is the squirrel.  It was a squirrel.  So the peacock which happened a few weeks ago turned out to be performance art. Did you guys...  Oh.  Oh.  But this one was real. This week a woman was kicked off a Frontier Airlines flight - of course Frontier Airlines because frontier - lord lord. She tried to bring an emotional support squirrel on a flight out of Florida.  You know what? I have been watching this show called Dr. K's Exotic Animal ER and people have the most insane pets. A squirrel does not actually faze me right now.  .  Wait 'til somebody brings their comfort lynx. Then we will...   Then we will talk.  So this lady tried to hop up on the plane with her squirrel. Officers had to come through and be like you got to go. Apparently...   ...She did not resist. She just left. But there is this amazing video on Twitter this week of her leaving the terminal. She is being wheeled away from gate 15. And as she is being wheeled by the crowd she just flicks them all off.   She flicks them all off.  Wow.  What would you all's service animal be?  Apparently skunks are a great animal - pets.  Apparently they are not.  Wait...  Who told you that?  I got this from Dr. K's Exotic Animal ER...  What is this show?  .  What is this show?  And - it is on Hulu. It is amazing. And after you have gotten the skunk...  You take out the gland.  Yes. I do not know if that is good or bad for the skunk.  But that is their power. You cannot take that...  I do not know. But...  Oh my God.  They become the cuddliest little comfort things.  Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope.   All right. Congratulations to Tobin. You won.  Thank you. Thank you.  Congrats Tobin.  You are welcome. Yeah. Now it is time to end the show as we do every week. We ask our listeners to share with us the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. Brent hit the tape.  Hey Sam. This is Abby  from Cambridge Mass. I am calling from Santiago de Compostela Spain where I just finished a month-long more than 505-mile-long pilgrimage by foot on the Camino Frances. We are now rewarding ourselves with some well-earned food and wine. Hope you have a great week.  Hey Sam. This is Austin  in Sheboygan Falls Wis. The best part of my week was walking through the front doors to my first ever house for the first time.  Hi Sam. This is Katie from St. Paul.  This is Erin  from Milwaukee Wis.  This is Jess  from Lansing Mich.  The best thing that happened to me all week...  ...Was finishing my very first marathon...  ...The Twin Cities marathon...  ...Chicago marathon with a smile on my face at the end.  ...With lots of friends and family cheering me on.  Hi Sam. It is Michelle ...  Malia .  And Andrew .  And we are excited because the best part of our week is that my mom...  My .  ...Is here visiting us in Boston from Hawaii and it is her first time in Boston in 25 years.  Hi this is Sam  in New York. The best thing that happened to me all week was texting my dad who I miss a lot and having him explain how the stock market works to me for the umpteenth time and actually finally getting it this time - I think.  Hi Sam. My name is Matt . I 