 Can you hear me?  I can.  OK. Thank you for your patience. First things first tell our listeners your full name and whatever title you want to go by.  Yeah. I am Victor Leal. That is V-I-C-T-O-R L-E-A-L. I live in a small town in - on the South Plains called Muleshoe Texas. And I guess I am the owner-operator of Leal's Mexican Food Restaurants.  Yes you heard that right. Victor Leal is from Muleshoe Texas. Oh you do not know where that is?  You got to be kidding. I mean I would be shocked if there is anybody out there in the United States that does not know where Muleshoe is.  .  But in case there are one or two people that do not know we are on the South Plains. Muleshoe we are about 30 miles from the New Mexico border. We are between...  So Victor Leal - besides running that restaurant he is really involved in politics. He is a Republican and he is worked a lot with the state Republican Party. He was even for a few years mayor of Muleshoe Texas. The city secretary actually put him up to it.  She had about 15 or 20 folks corner me at the restaurant and said you know you owe it to your hometown to do this. So they asked me to run in ...  Wait wait. They came to your restaurant and said you need to run for mayor sir?  Yeah. I was - I was...  . Being mayor led Victor to more political work and as a part of that work Victor has done a lot of outreach to Latino voters in Texas. And a lot of that outreach was for the Republican Party. But outreach to Latinos it can be tricky.  And I think one of the biggest mistakes that we made - and I am part of this - is I assumed well Latinos all think like me. I mean we are conservative. We are pro-life. You know we are Catholic. We are whatever. We are hardworking. We are independent. But  it is a pretty rude awakening. That is not the case at all. We are a pretty disparate group . We...  And Victor says that kind of political diversity in the Latino community it exists even in his own family. And it is really clear this election.  So my mom is a lifelong Democrat. She is excited that she is going to vote for Joe Biden. My - I have one older sister very conservative probably vote for Donald Trump. I have a younger sister who is excited to vote for Joe Biden. I have a younger brother who is very conservative...  Victor told me that diversity of opinion makes it really hard for anyone to get Latino political outreach for all Latinos right. And he says right now the type of Latino outreach he is seen from both parties it is pretty bad.  They have just dismissed us. You know they have dismissed by and large the Hispanic community. I think there is - we are going to be - as a group if you put us under one big umbrella we are going to be the second-largest voting bloc this election. And you really - so what is been egregious is that by and large we have essentially been ignored.   I am Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. In this episode the power and diversity of the Latino vote and why no one it seems when it comes to talking to that community gets it right. We will hear more from Victor later on whether he is seen any effective political outreach to Latinos this election. But to start we are going to look at the very word Latino and how this big blanket term obscures a whole bunch of different communities with different experiences and different histories why there may be no such thing as one Latino vote. That is after the break.   Lisa Garcia Bedolla studies Latino politics for a living. She is a professor and vice provost for graduate studies at UC Berkeley and she wrote a book that is pretty on point for this conversation. It is called Latino Politics. Lisa how are you?  I am doing well. Thanks. How are you?  I am good. I am good. When I talked to Lisa she told me that that word Latino it can mean a lot of different things especially when it comes to politics. So Lisa I want to start by talking about a recent news event that reveals a lot about the way politicians successfully and unsuccessfully try to appeal to Latino voters talking about the whole Supreme Court nomination process. Before Amy Coney Barrett was selected by President Trump there was talk that he might appoint Barbara Lagoa a Cuban American judge. And the thinking from the Republican Party was well this might help him get Latino votes. You wrote an entire Newsweek op-ed that said probably it will not and also this kind of thinking is kind of offensive. Explain.  Well at its core is this idea that if I am a Latina - and I should say for full disclosure I am a Cuban American Latina so theoretically the type of person that would be most excited about such a nomination - that somehow this woman's ethnic national origin racial identity would trump any policy preferences or policy concerns that I have. So the idea that if I disagreed with the president on health care or on education or on his immigration policy that somehow all of that would disappear simply because this woman happens to be a co-ethnic member of my community. And that...  Yeah.  ...Presumes a level of flatness - right? - and sort of noncontent to Latino political attitudes that is reductive in ways that I think are really problematic - that essentially it is just about your race and you are not going to think about anything else beyond that.  Yeah. And no one actually votes that way - not even white people.  No.   You know? Like it does not happen that way.  Nope.  You use a phrase that I love in your op-ed. You call it mariachi politics. Years ago we used to call it Hispandering  but it is the same kind of idea. What does it mean?  The idea - and I should say Democrats and Republicans have done this now for decades...  Yes they do.  ...That you are going to have a rally and you are going to have a mariachi band and that that is somehow going to tell Latino voters that you are on their side and that you understand them but again without any actual content. Right? So that if I hear this song - or Vicente Fernandez you know he played at the Republican convention when George W. was on the ballot...   .  ..That somehow that is going to make me ignore what you are actually standing for you know from a policy standpoint about education or about jobs or anything like that. And so it is this idea that somehow symbolic outreach is all we want. And my...  Mmm hmm.  Marisa Abrajano who teaches at UC San Diego wrote a great book on this and she showed that Spanish-language ads actually have less policy content from all candidates...  Wow.  ...Than English-language ads - right? - so this idea that somehow all...  Wow.  ...We care about is that you speak to me in Spanish I do not actually care about the content of what you are saying. And again it is insulting. Right? And it is really reducing us to you know tacos and mariachi bands...  Mmm hmm.  ...And not real policy.  Yeah. You know it is good to hear you say that both sides do this. I will never forget last campaign cycle when Hillary Clinton had a whole day where she was talking about how she is just like your abuela.  .  And everyone was like no madam. No madam. We are not doing this.   Yeah exactly.  They all do it.  Yes. Yes they all do it. And again it really is about this idea that we are all the same too - right? - because not all of us listen to mariachi music. Right? Not all of us speak Spanish. And so there is that layer of it too - that not just that all we care about is culture but that we all have the same culture.  Yeah. And most Latinos in the U.S. are English first right?  Correct yes.  And so you know this gets to another big point that you made in your op-ed and in all of your research and writing. You know when we talk about the quote-unquote Latino community or outreach to that community it is not just one community. It is dozens if not hundreds of different communities. And you list some of the things that really draw distinctions within this larger group in the op-ed. You call them multiple axes of diversity. I like that. What are some of those big dividing lines?  Thank you. Well the first big one is national origin. While it is true that about 60 of Latinos in the United States are of Mexican origin even among Mexicans depending on which part of Mexico you are from that makes a big difference be it the north or the south. And then you also have generation. There are some people who have been here since the border moved. Right? And there are some people who just got here last year. And there is everything in between. And then there is nativity. Some are citizens some are not citizens. And then there is geography which is really important - that even people of the same national origin depending on where they moved to they have a very different set of life experiences. One concrete example is if you are Puerto Rican and you ended up in Chicago versus if you are Puerto Rican and you ended up in New York - very different relationships with other communities very different history of political engagement. And so even within the same national origin you have significant differences depending on where people land how long they have been here and what the opportunity structures are in the place where they landed.  Yeah. Well - and then also one of the things that I find really fascinating when we talk about like the Latino community - I think the American assumption is that all Latinos are brown. But there are white Latinos and there are Black Latinos and there are Latinos who speak English and some who speak Spanish and some who speak Portuguese. Why do you think America is so hell-bent on reducing such a diverse group of people to one group? What is that about?  Yeah. Well I think the first thing is to just remember that Latin America is a product of colonialism. Right? And so the Spaniards and the Portuguese encountered a large Indigenous population many of whom died off but many of whom did not - right? - that was already there. And then they imported enslaved Africans to do work. And then after slavery they imported Asian Americans many Chinese to do work. And then people you know trying to try their luck in the New World arrived too. This is why Jose Vasconcelos says that we are la raza cosmica. Right? We are of every racial background. I think the challenge is then once we came to the United States we came into a system that has a very sort of literally Black-and-white racial structure - right? - where...  Yeah yeah.  ...Your Blackness was really about you know blood quantum - right? - in a very kind of biological way. And so you have folks who come in who do not - first they are racially ambiguous because they do not fit in those you know boxes - right? - that were already here. And you can even have significant differences in phenotype you know in sort of your physical brownness or Blackness within the same family. And for Latino families that came during Jim Crow this was a big issue. Especially you know here in California you had stories of Mexican families where you know pools were segregated. In California the Mexicans could only use the pool the day before the polls were cleaned right? And so some siblings would get to use the pool on the white days and other siblings could only use the pools on the...  Wow.  ...Mexican days depending on what they physically looked like. Right? And so...  My goodness.  ...I think that ambiguity is really - does not fit in the U.S. context. And so they had to create a box. And so it is this brown box that does not really fit.  Yeah.   Coming up - the limits of identity politics and who is getting Latino voter outreach more or less right?   Back to these multiple axes of diversity within the Latino community - national origin race class gender identity nativity geography ideology which of these do you think is the most predictive in terms of how someone might vote in an election for president?  That is a really good question. I think the better way to think about it is - this is one of the reasons I do not like the whole concept of identity politics is that it is not about...  Mmm hmm.  ...Your individual identification. It is really about your social position. Like where you sit and how where you sit which is the combination of all those things - right? - in an intersectional kind of way affects your life experiences and the ways in which your life experiences then - that those things are the lens through which you understand you know candidates and politics and what you care about.  Yeah.  Right? And so you could have you know a Mexican and a Salvadoran living in San Francisco working in the same industry that even though they are of different national origins their experience of their work life and the things that came out of that you know structure make them think about labor or unions or economic policy in similar ways. And so it is really about kind of where you sit in the hierarchy that then affects you know what it is that you think is important from a government standpoint. And it just so happens that Latinos are more likely to sit - right? - in lower rungs of that hierarchy. And that can help explain why then they care about social services and they care about education - because they tend to be younger and they tend to have kids. Right? And they care about immigration because they tend to know people who are affected by the immigration system. And so it is really kind of how that combination of experiences then drives how you understand what matters in politics.  Yeah. You know it is easy to have a conversation about mariachi politics or Hispandering and blame the politicians for getting this wrong and being tone deaf. But there is also a media conversation to have as well. A lot of the way that the entire country conceptualizes what it means to be Latino is because of how the media portrays this community. And one of the things I notice a lot in the discussion of this community - there is this kind of assumption in the coverage of Latinos in politics. There is an assumption that most if not all of them are new or recent immigrants. And the story of immigration is shown to be something that all Latinos have. But we know that is not true. You know my colleague Andrea her family comes from the Southwest. They have been there for a very long time. The immigrant story that is painted about most Latinos is not Andrea's story and her family's story. How do we accommodate that? How do we speak to that - like the narratives being placed on these communities not just by politicians but by media writ large?  Yeah. I mean it is true that a significant proportion of the community has arrived since 1970 after the change in the '65 immigration policy. So it is true that there are a lot of folks that have that experience. I think though that there is something almost comforting because of the ways in which Latinos do not kind of fit in the U.S. racial hierarchy. I think there is something comforting about saying that they are new. And I think it is more uncomfortable to acknowledge that long-term presence. And this reminds me - if you want to Google something way way back when Johnny Carson was the host of The Tonight Show - I am showing my age I know - Linda Ronstadt...  That is OK.  ...Was on the show.  Love her  ...And she had just come out with Canciones De Mi Padre which was a - it is a Spanish-language mariachi album.   .  And so Johnny Carson you know he is - you know they are going in their little banter. And he says well what made you decide to you know do this music? When did your family get here? And she said we have always been here. The border moved.  Mmm hmm.  Right? We were here since it was Mexico. And it is the only time I ever saw Johnny Carson just flummoxed. Right? He did not...  .  ...Know what to say because that is so contrary to the story. And so...  Yeah.  ...I think there is something about conquest right? In order to justify conquest you have to tell a new story. And our story does not allow us to acknowledge that we actually took the land from people who were already here.  Yeah yeah. You know another thing that I find troubling in the way the media characterizes Latinos when it comes to politics is this general surprise every time any poll indicates that there is small but consistent Latino support for Donald Trump. You know in some polls Latino men 1 out of 3 of them support Trump you know? And there is not - there are folks all over the country who are Latino who like him yet every time this is discussed you can almost hear the journalists clutching their pearls.  .  Why cannot folks like me wrap our heads around the fact that some Latinos actually do like Donald Trump?  So I think the first thing it is back to the point about being reductive about a community. It is absurd to...  Yeah.  ...Think that in any group of people you are going to have 100 agreement. You are talking about a very diverse community with different life experiences which lead to different ideological orientations. We have people who immigrated to the United States to flee left-wing regimes - right? - who were deeply conservative in their country of origin.  Yeah.  Why do we think that that would change necessarily when they get here? The other part though - I think the piece about the gender gap is really important and one that is not talked about enough. And this is not just true among Latinos. You have significant gender gap in terms of Trump support among all racial groups in the United States. And the difference is that the level of Trump support is higher among Latinos. But even among Blacks - right? - Black men are - they are still very unlikely to support Trump but they are more likely than Black women. Right?  Mmm hmm mmm hmm.  And I think this is where the intersectional piece becomes really important in understanding the degree to which the toxic masculinity that is part of Trump's message appeals to men of color in the similar ways that it appeals to white men. And so to realize that if we want to address oppression you have to address - this was what bell hooks said way back in 1990 - in 1984 is she said you have to address everything at once because these different...  Yeah.  ...Lines are how the system supports itself and sustains itself because it is not just you win we lose but it is well some of you win and some of you lose. And it is got these other pieces that do appeal to men of all races.  Yeah. Machismo knows no race.  .  It is everywhere.  That is true.  If you could advise the Biden and Trump campaigns about effective outreach to Latino voters what would be the biggest piece of advice you would give them the missing piece in their strategies?  I think what we have been talking about this whole time - right? - that there is not one group and that people have real needs and real interests that need to be addressed in policy - right? - that there are - Latinos and Blacks are much more likely both to get COVID and to die of COVID. And that is because we are the essential workers right? We are the ones that are cleaning. We are the ones that are serving and cooking and then trying to you know have our kids go to school when we are not there right? Kids are trying to go to school remotely but they do not have a parent there to help them. And so I think just remembering that people are really - especially right now - are really suffering and they need real solutions and a real commitment to understanding that there are differences in need - right? - across communities and that you actually have to know something about that community in a meaningful way in order to address those needs - and so long as we are treated as this kind of one-note superficial you know universal monolith it is almost impossible that we will have the policy solutions we need to actually address what people are facing day to day.   Thanks again to Lisa Garcia Bedolla. If you want to hear more from her on Latino politics she wrote a book all about it. It is called Latino Politics.   With all that in mind I wanted to go back to Muleshoe Texas. You remember Muleshoe.  You got to be kidding. I mean I would be shocked if there is anybody out there in the United States that does not know where Muleshoe is.  That is Victor Leal from the beginning of this episode and he was telling me that Latino political preferences are all over the map. You will recall his whole family is politically divided. But Victor also said there are some things that most Latinos he knows agree on.  There are areas where we do have - it might not be you know 90 or 80 but there is still a broad consensus in the Hispanic community for health care.  Victor says education is also a big issue for Latinos that he speaks with. The data bears this out. The Pew Research Center looks into this stuff a lot. And we should note here in their polling they use the term Hispanic. A recent poll of Hispanic voters from Pew last month shows that Hispanic voters rate the economy health care the coronavirus pandemic and racial and ethnic inequality as very important to their vote this year more so than U.S. voters overall. But back to Victor - I wanted to know what he thought about outreach this year. Who do you think has been doing the best in terms of outreach to the Latino community this year in 2020 - Democrats Republicans Trump Biden somebody else?  I am sad to say this. But in a lot of ways I think that in Texas I think Beto O'Rourke has - from what I am seeing - has done a pretty phenomenal job of getting people on the grassroots. I am getting a lot of texts. I signed up for his texts. I am getting folks asking me almost daily to help them phone bank to help knock on doors.  What does it mean to hear you say that one of the most galvanizing forces in Latino politics in Texas this year is a white guy named Beto?  .  What does that say about the community? No shade to Beto. I have interviewed him - nice guy.  I love the way you said that. Yeah. I think that - you know I have been saying Beto so long I kind of feel like he is one of us. He is Hispanic.   Victor told me the thing about Beto the thing about all good political outreach to Latinos to anyone - it is about working the grassroots. Victor says Beto traveled all across the state to all 254 counties in Texas back when he ran against Ted Cruz for the Senate in 2018. Beto lost but not by much. And when he campaigned wherever he went Latino voter or not he just listened. And Victor said this was the thing - he talked about real policy real substance.  He was able to express and articulate his positions in ways - you know when he was on the stump he would take any question and he would thank the person even if they were in opposed even if they were there to heckle. And this was...  Actually having something to say and actually listening - that is good outreach for Latino voters and well good outreach for every other voter too.   This episode was produced by Andrea Gutierrez with help from Star McCown. It was edited by Jordana Hochman. Listeners we are back in your feeds on Friday as always. Till next time stay safe. Take care of yourself. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  