 I mean I am basically lip-syncing President Donald Trump . And it is weird that he is president. And so you know what is even weirder than that? I got my big break lip-syncing him .   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. This week on the show a political-ish episode. It is impossible to ignore the election which is just days away from now even though sometimes we want to ignore the election for our sanity. So knowing all that this episode our conversations will be on the theme of politics but they are not at all depressing or anxiety-inducing I promise. First up Sarah Cooper. She was a breakout star on TikTok and Twitter this year because of these really hilarious videos she would make lip-syncing to the words of President Donald Trump. It made her so famous that she is now out with her own Netflix special.    This story is about Sarah Cooper who was a morning news anchor from the spring of 2017 to the fall of 2020. At her peak Cooper had a HUT rating of 54 and a 27 audience share.  She will tell us all about it. After that we will chat with some friends over at Pop Culture Happy Hour about things to watch on TV to watch on Election Day perhaps that are about politics but not about this election. All right let us get to it. First up Sarah Cooper. Her new Netflix special is called Everything Is Fine . And I got to say I have never seen anything like it before. Sarah tells me why she wanted to play a newscaster on the edge in this special. But first we talk about those Trump lip-sync videos and what point she is trying to make with them.   When the trappings of the presidency are removed from his words when the flags are not behind him when he is not wearing the suit when there are not people in the press watching him say the thing it is just the words.  Yeah.  It really reveals itself. Also what I find really interesting is like a lot of times in your videos seeing a woman say what that man had said and seeing a Black woman say what that white man had said...  Yeah.  ...It totally can be screwy and like make you just kind of think things out more .  Well I mean that is the thing that is kind of  about it is that like yeah a rich white guy gets up and says - he can say almost anything because we are so visual that the visual perception of it...  And he said that he could say almost anything yeah.  Right. He said he could get away with anything. But we do not like hear with our ears. We like hear with our eyes. You know what I mean?  Yeah yeah.  There is so much about our perspective and where we are in life that kind of clouds what we are listening to and what we are able to like discern. Oh and he is been doing this - and he is pulling the wool over people's eyes for decades like this. And you get - you have a Black woman and all of a sudden you are listening a little bit closer. You know...  Oh yeah.  ...You are a little bit like wait what - what is she saying? Like I do not know if I trust her. And it is kind of why this exposes him so well is because we are all just trained to trust a certain image and not really trust another one.  Did you ever expect as a Black woman trying to make it in comedy that Donald Trump would be part of your path?   Well no. I mean I guess - I got blocked by him in 2017 so it is like - I feel like I have had this long you know history of not liking him. And I have had a history of kind of calling people out on BS. So I guess those - you know and he is kind of the king of BS. So I guess it all sort of makes sense when you are looking back on it. But I do not like the fact that you know my bio or whatever is forever you know inextricably linked to this man that I absolutely hate which was part of the reason why I wanted to do the special which is like yes I want to give people you know what they have enjoyed for these months of the lip-syncs but I also want to do other things and show more like...  Yeah.  There is more that I want to talk about. And there is much more to life than Donald Trump even though it feels like he is sucking the life out of all of us.  Let us talk about the special. It is called Everything Is Fine . And the whole vibe of the special is that everything is not fine. I do not want to give away too much but you play a morning newscaster on what should be a fun cheery morning show...    Good morning and welcome to Everything's Fine the morning show where everything's fine. I am your host Sarah Cooper.  ...Pretending that everything is OK. And every sketch that goes on you realize more and more that everything is not OK. And there is this panic and despair just barely contained under the slogan everything is fine. And it is really - it kind of captures the emotional zeitgeist of this year .  Yeah.  Like what was the impetus for this? What gave you the idea for this framework for the special?  Well I have always had a secret desire to be a morning show host. It looks like a lot of fun.  Really?  Yeah .  OK .  I thought it would be fun to do that just because I have been watching all these anchors report this horrible news and all of these like very confusing statements. And so I had this idea because we are all kind of glued to the news of an anchor who kind of like you know buckles under the pressure of all of this news and having to keep reporting all of this news. And it kind of just made sense because you know I can do fun things like have Donald Trump call into the morning show. And so I get to play the other character in a lot of my videos which is this person who is like what is going on? What are you talking about?    How are you doing Mr. President?  So we have many exciting things that we will be announcing over the next eight weeks I would say.   Oh exciting.  We are going to get things done.   Wow.  We are going to get things done that they have wanted to see done.  And then in between those like morning show vignettes there is other sketches and parody commercials and all kinds of stuff.  Yeah yeah. You know you have this all-star cast of guest stars in the special - Ben Stiller. Maya Rudolph plays the meteorologist.    Thursday you might want to break out the sunscreen again because it is going to be a hot one - 123 degrees with a humidity index so high a friend of mine who works at the EPA called me crying. He is a grown man.  Jon Hamm plays the Mr. Pillow  guy. Megan Thee Stallion just shows up and teaches you how to twerk.    So all you got to do is dip and sip.   Dip and sip.   Dip and sip. Dip and sip.  How did you get all these famous folks to be in the special with you? It is kind of amazing. Hats off. Kudos.  Thank you. I mean I had a very good casting team. I mean and Natasha was just like very instrumental in that too. I think she called in some favors too. But like...  This is - and just to pause to say that is...  Yes.  ...Natasha Lyonne. She directed the special right?  Yes Natasha. I am so - like do you see it? Do you see this? I am just like going Natasha like it is no big deal.  Natasha - you know? You know?  Natasha Lyonne. I do that sometimes and my husband's like - I am just like yeah Ben texted me. Ben who? And I am like oh Ben Stiller you know?   Yup yup. Yeah yeah.  And that is my life now. But yeah.  That is a good life.  So  - it is. I think a lot of people just wanted to be part of something. You know like this is a pre-election special. And you know the goal is to make people laugh but it is also to remind people that we have an election coming up and we need to do something about it because everything is not fine - and just like admitting that.  Yeah yeah. There are so many sketches in the special where I am like did not think you were going to go there.  .  And then you do.  Yeah.  Like there is this one part of you as the morning talk show host. You leave the desk where you are broadcasting and you go to the back and like talk to two other producers. And they start going over like the polling data for your character.    All right looks like 35 of our audience likes that you are Black 30 of our audience does not like that you are Black 50 of our audience does not know you are Black. But thankfully 80 of our audience feels extremely threatened by you Sarah.  And it was weird and bonkers and bananas. But I also kept saying to myself this must come from some very personal experience...  .  ...For Sarah Cooper. Does it?  Oh God yes. Oh God yes.   Tell me more. Tell me more.  Well you know I am Jamaican. And I - you know I have just always had this thing. People have asked me what are you since I moved here. You know in Jamaica everyone's just kind of Jamaican. Ethnically it is very mixed. Like my grandmother was Chinese - full Chinese...  Oh wow.  ...But she had a Jamaican accent.  Yeah.  It was the weirdest thing. Everybody's just kind of really mixed but are all Jamaican. And so you come here and you know people are just like oh are you Mexican? Are you from Brazil  you know?  .  And so yeah I have just always been sort of confused by that. But then also with my parents - and I talk about this in my stand-up - is my parents being like we are Jamaican. We are not African American we are Jamaican - which is technically true but that is not how this country sees you. You know what I mean?  Yeah.   And I feel like when my parents named me Sarah a white lady just moved into my body and kind of gentrified my whole personality you know? Like my mom... And so I have this story that I tell about like walking home from the bus stop with my best friend Stacey  who is Jewish.  Yeah.  And a white high school kid drives by and yells out the N-word. And I turn to Stacey and I am like how could they call you that 'ecause I think they are talking...  .  ...To her.  Oh my God. Oh my God.  And she is like no I think they are talking to you you know?  .  And I go home and I am like Mom Dad you know I think I am Black.  .  And they are like  no mon. We are Jamaican.  .  And then I am like well I think you are Black too actually. So you know it is just a weird identity crisis you know experience that is just never-ending with my experience in America.  Yeah. You know the election is Tuesday. And Donald Trump who in this weird way has been your muse - he could lose. What happens to you and what you are doing comedy-wise if that happens? Will you still be drawn to political satire you think?  I think I always will be. And I have always been interested in politics and what is going on in the world. I hope though that politics takes up less of our emotional energy in the future. It is not that I do not think we should vote in the midterms. I am going to vote in every election until I die. Like I have that...  .  ...Feeling now that I had not - I did not have before. But at the same time you know I have just seen like my mom like unfriend my uncle because he said something nice about Trump you know? And it is just like...  Oh wow.  You know we are - it is creating all these rifts. And this is the only good thing about sports. I do not really like sports that much.  .  You know I do not like going to games. But when you go to a game and you see so many people like all cheering for the same thing it is just a very...  Yeah.  ...Like awesome feeling. And I feel like I want to have more of that kind of like we are all sort of united cheering for the same thing kind of feeling in the future. So I do not know if that even remotely answers your question but...   Yeah.  Awesome. Well we are going to take a break. But after the break I would love to play my favorite game with you. It is called Who Said That? Will you stick around?  Yeah of course.  Yay. OK. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders joined this weekend by very special guest Sarah Cooper. Hi Sarah.  Hi. How are you?  I am good. It is an honor to talk with you. You are having a really big year. Your lip-syncs of Donald Trump have gone viral on TikTok and Twitter all year and now you have just put out a comedy special on Netflix called Everything Is Fine . Congrats on your big year.  Thank you so much. It is been insane.  Yeah yeah. First I got to ask you 'ecause it is the season what is your favorite Halloween candy?  Oh God. Well this is going to make me lose a lot of people but I love candy corn. I am a big candy corn fan.  Oh Lord. I am sorry. The connection's dropping. I cannot hear you.  Oh no Sam. Sam.   Come back.  It tastes like wax.  I do not know. I just - maybe - I do not know. I just like it. I like it a lot.  OK OK. All right what Halloween candy should be banished for all time?  I would say those Easter Peeps.  Oh yeah. Screw the Peeps.  I know that that is not a Halloween candy but...  I want to get rid of Milky Way.  I agree with you. I...  I do not know what is inside of those things. What is that?  My sister loves Milky Way and it is disgusting.  It is so disgusting. What do you even call the filling?  It is nougat. And it is like yeah you do not even like saying the word nougat.   Yes yes.  Maybe that is what it is.  All right well we agree on that at least. All right now with no further ado let us play Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  This game is quite simple. I share three quotes from the week of news and you got to tell me who said that or guess what story I am talking about. You are the only player so you are going to win no matter what. Congratulations in advance .  Thank you.  All right first quote - much has been made of the fact that these writings were published anonymously. The decision was not easy. I wrestled with it. And I understand why some people consider it questionable. Who said that?  That was obviously said by the great Sir William Shakespeare.    No. It was...   No?   No no alas. It was a news story from this week about someone who came forward finally and shared who they are with the world...  OK.  ...After writing anonymously about Trump for a while.  OK so his name is like Sam Daniels  or Chad Simms  or something like that.   Close. It is in the same arena - Miles Taylor.  See? I knew it was something like that yeah.  Yes yes yes.  I was like a white guy. It is going to be a white guy.   Yes yes. So Miles Taylor worked for the Trump White House for a while. He was the chief of staff to Kirstjen Nielsen. She was the Department of Homeland Security secretary. And while he was working for her working for Homeland Security working in the Trump administration he wrote an anonymous op-ed in 2018 for The New York Times where he said that he was part of the resistance inside the Trump administration working to thwart Trump's worst inclinations also wrote a book. But now this week he is finally said it is me Miles Taylor. It was I. I am not sure how I feel about that.  I am wildly unimpressed - wildly unimpressed by this gentleman. You were working inside to thwart and all you could do is write an anonymous op-ed? You could not record him saying the N-word and have that released?  .  Like you could not do that? That is what you should have been doing.  All right you got that point. Next quote - the aromas are meant to evoke everyday things that bring adults joy like brand-new shoes or freshly cut grass.  That quote was from the immaculate Julie Andrews.   You are really just...  .  You are dreaming big today. You are dreaming big. This is - this was a big part of all of our childhoods. It was a craft kind of thing that we can play with with our hands. In fact play is in the name of this thing.  Play-Doh. Play-Doh.   Yes madam yeah. So that quote comes from Play-Doh general manager Leena Vadaketh. She was talking to HuffPost about a new line of adult Play-Doh Play-Doh for adults. This...  Wait what? That sounds sexual.  Yes madam. I know. And it really - and that makes me feel weird.  Yeah.   But these new Play-Doh flavors or scents - they are - they are officially called Grown-Up Scents and the scents include Overpriced Latte Mom Jeans Dad Sneakers Spa Day Lord of the Lawn and Grill King.  No. They have - wait wait wait. They have adult Play-Doh flavored - no sorry - smells like...  .  Sorry. Is it clear that I used to eat Play-Doh? OK sorry.  Same same   Scented like mom jeans?  Let us be real here. If you are going to make adult scented Play-Doh you also have to make it adult flavored Play-Doh...  Yeah.  ...'ecause everyone eats Play-Doh.  Everyone eats Play-Doh. I would eat the Play-Doh if it tasted like you know cheesecake. Cheesecake Play-Doh - that is...  Ooh. I am trying to think what would I want for adult Play-Doh? Whiskey Play-Doh. Whiskey Play-Doh - let us do it. It is 2020 you all. All right here is the last quote - we danced rode bikes swam near whales kayaked watched a movie on the beach and so much more. I realize that for most people this is something that is so far out of reach right now. So in moments like these I am humbly reminded of how privileged my life is. ThisIs40. You know this one.  I think this was said by - oh it is the Kim Kardashian family.   Yes yes but Kim - Kim Kardashian West.  Yes it is the Kim yeah.  So she turned 40 recently.  Yeah.  And she shared some photos of the party she had. Turns out she had close friends and family quarantine for two weeks and then she flew them all to a private island for her 40th birthday party. And when she shared the photos of it she was trying to say oh this is so humbling. But everyone was just like Kim shut up. Stop it. We do not want to see this. I mean how did you feel about seeing those images of her literally on a private island partying while the wait staff in the back was wearing masks?  What hashtag did she use?  ThisIs40.  OK so when you were reading that at first I was like oh this is sincere and this is genuine. And then as soon as you got to the hashtag I was like oh no this person is just full of it.  .  I just - take your family on a vacation but do not post pictures of it.  Do not post.  Why would you do that?  That is the COVID rule.  Yeah.  I will say I found it quite interesting to see who was not there. Kanye West was not there.  Well he is campaigning. He is campaigning. He is on the campaign trail.   I forgot he is still on ballots.  He is in his bus kissing babies and you know doing what campaign political people do yeah.  Oh my God. I cannot wait to see your President Kanye West lip-syncs. That would be wild.  I cannot wait. I saw his campaign commercial and I was like I have to do that. Like I have to.  Wait he has a campaign commercial?  Yes. You have to watch it.   Families are the building blocks of society of a nation. By turning to faith we will be the kind of nation the kind of people God intended us to be.   I am Kanye West and I approve this message .  Oh my God. Oh my God. This year...  This year.  ...2020 is either the gift that keeps on giving or the curse that keeps on cursing.  Keeps on taking away.  Yeah yeah.  Yeah.  Well one bright spot - you won the game. Congratulations.  Thank you so much. Here's hoping. Here's hoping it continues.  Here's hoping.  We can make it out of the...  We can make it.  ...Quicksand that is 2020. We can pull ourselves out.  Yes. Sarah Cooper thank you so much for your time. This was a really fun chat. Congrats on your really big year. Listeners her special's on Netflix right now. It is called Everything Is Fine . You have never seen anything like it. Check it out. Sarah thank you.  Thank you so much.  Listeners coming up Aisha Harris and Linda Holmes of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour. They offer some viewing suggestions for Election Day you know other than cable news. This week on the show - politics without any of the annoying maddening depressing stuff. Election Day is just around the corner and we wanted to stay in the spirit of things right now and talk about politics this episode and our civic duty to vote and elections and government all that good stuff but we wanted to do it without having to get too in the weeds and too much into the infighting of this campaign season. So we asked two friends of the show to come on and tell us about the kind of politics that we can all really get behind - politics of the pop culture variety. I am joined this week by two amazing guests Linda Holmes and Aisha Harris of Pop Culture Happy Hour who as of this week are now hosting a daily show. Welcome and congratulations.  Thank you Sam.  Thank you Sam.  Why would you all ever ask for more work?   There is just so much pop culture. We have to cover it all.  OK that is a nice answer. Well let us get into it. I want us to talk about the fun side of politics in this election season and the fun side is all of the pop culture that exists around elections and politics. So you two culture vultures I brought you here to share what you are watching reading listening to that is about politics but not as disastrous as this current election season. I am going to have you go first Aisha. Share a pick with us.  Well so when thinking about this I realized that you know at a young age I was primed to hate politics.  Oh.  I mean so my earliest encounters with politics was all the TV sitcoms that I grew up watching as a kid. I was an '80s baby '90s kid. And there is probably not a single family or kid TV sitcom from that era that does not include one episode that is about one student running for student council president or like president of something.   OK.  And so my pick is the - an episode from Season 4 of The Wonder Years...    ...By with a little help from my friends.  ...In which Kevin Arnold...  Wow.  ...Who is the lead protagonist runs for student council president against Becky Slater. And Becky Slater is...   Becky Slater is like the popular girl. Everyone likes her. She also like has all of the money and the funds to like launch this huge campaign. And Kevin like just cannot compete. And there is usually the protagonist who is described as honest and loyal and is reluctant to join and they get swept away. Like politics is corrupting. It ruins their ability to make rational choices. And this episode of The Wonder Years really encapsulates that in a really interesting way because by the end of that episode Kevin realizes that like he is sunk too low. He had gotten his hands on her speech and he...  Oh.  ...Was going to read it for her because he is a slacker. He is like I have not written my speech yet I am just going to wing it. And then someone steals it for him. And so he goes up to the podium and he is about to recite her speech and then he decides he is not going to go through with it.    As I stood at that podium a lot of things raced through my mind - things like what it takes to win and what it feels like to lose. But as I looked at that speech I realized what I had become - someone I hardly even knew. And I knew what I had to do.  So he decides like - you know what? - I need to be the better boy the better man. I cannot do this. I am out of it. And so you know those are the types of things that I was watching as a kid was seeing these supposedly good characters get swept up briefly into politics and then realize actually this is not what I thought it would be. I have been corrupted. I am jaded. I am out. And I think it had a...  Really?  ...Huge influence on you know the way I felt about politics in some ways.  What is the biggest lesson of this episode for our politics right now you think Aisha?  You know I think it is that  as cynical as it sounds anyone who goes into politics has to really really want it. And in order to really really want it you have to make compromises. And often those compromises might include your integrity and your morals. And...  Oh my goodness.   This was supposed to be a jolly uplifting episode.  I know this was supposed to be fun.  I am kidding. I am kidding. It is fine.  But I do think that you know it is a lesson worth at least exploring and there is no better way than through - or there are plenty of better ways. But there is probably no more fun way than through TV sitcoms of the '80s and '90s.  Yeah. You know I am currently binge-watching Grey's Anatomy. And the great thing about that show is that there are no elections whatsoever.  .  It is true. But there...  There is a ton of other drama...  Are there?  ...But no elections.  It is true. There is - I mean there is sort of some scrambling for power in terms of...  Oh yes.  ...Gently in terms of...  Who is going to be the chief.  ...Who is going...  Right.  ...To be the chief. But yeah I think it is - yeah. I think I would be glad to have no elections and like Meredith Grey not running for mayor of Seattle or whatever.  Although she would win 'ecause she always wins. It is so annoying.  Oh yeah. That is true.  Always gets what she wants.  It is true.  All right Linda give us your politics election pop culture pick.  So a lot of people sitting in the seat I am in now are going to serve up The West Wing to you. I am not.  OK.  I am going to choose the proto-West Wing the West Wing before The West Wing which was the film The American President which Rob Reiner directed from a script by - yes indeed - Aaron Sorkin. You know you have Michael Douglas playing the president Annette Bening playing the lobbyist that he falls in love with bunch of really lovely performances of staff. Interestingly Martin Sheen is basically the - like the Leo McGarry of this movie is Martin Sheen.  Yeah.  Michael J. Fox is in it and is really charming and funny in it. I have always really really liked this movie. And to me this is the best of Sorkin's kind of I wish politics worked this way.    ...Family values.   The president does not answer to you Lewis.   Oh yes he does A.J. I am a citizen. This is my president. And in this country it is not only permissible to question our leaders it is our responsibility.  It is madly oversimplified as a lot of his stuff is. It is a bunch of almost exclusively white people talking about kind of politics in this very abstract sense talking about like you know we should all restore honor. There is a speech near the end where the president talks about how he wants to get - he wants to ban handguns. And he talks about I am going to go door to door until I convince people that I am right. And that is the kind of thing that always had a lot of appeal to me was the idea that you could do retail politics in that way.    If you want to talk about character and American values fine. Just tell me where and when and I will show up. This is a time for serious people Bob and your 15 minutes are up. My name is Andrew Shepherd and I am the president.  I just think it is a really charming movie and you know I greatly prefer it as a piece about politics. I prefer it to The West Wing.  OK. I love some good Sorkin scripts so I will watch this.  Yes yes. You should try it.  You know I will say the show that makes me feel the most like I feel watching politics right now is Season 2 of Succession...  Yeah.  Yes. Yes yes yes.  ...For a few reasons. I mean one it is just really really well done. But two it gets at this sense I think a lot of people have right now in our politics regardless of whether you are on the left or the right this feeling like there are just a handful of really really rich people and rich families in charge of everything and half of what we experience on this national scale is just about their family fighting.  And I...  That is right. And I think...  It feels so true right now.  Yeah. And I think also for me Succession - the thing about Succession that has always made it a particularly powerful story about rich people - and I often do not really like you know get-a-load-of-those-jerks television.  Yeah yeah.  But I have always really appreciated the way that they present that family as consumed by essentially a joyless quest to become rich and powerful for its own sake. They are not people who really take any pleasure in the things that they do with money even when they are out on a beautiful yacht or having...  Yeah.  ...A beautiful party. They are not happy. They are not satisfied. They are not really enjoying themselves. They are just thinking about what is the next move. And I think that sort of joyless quest to control money and other people is a particularly kind of nihilistic frightening and yet rings true kind of feeling of power and stuff.  Yeah.  Wait can we sing the theme song ?  Oh yes.  Good. It is like my favorite thing.  It really is a good theme song.   .  . Yes yes.  . Oh it is so good - so good.   All right. I have one more last question for you. For those who just do not want to watch the election results on Tuesday just do not want to watch it what should they watch instead?  That is a great question. So my other - another thing that I always enjoy that makes me think about what is possible is of course Parks And Recreation...   ...Which has a sunny but yet also sometimes very melancholy view of being involved in local politics and being a person who wants to try to improve your own community. You know there is a storyline where Leslie Knope runs for city council and it has a very bittersweet quality to how that story plays out.    I am more than a city councilor. I am an unstoppable force of energy. And I will use those days to work as hard as I can.   These are all your ongoing projects everything you are currently working on for Pawnee. You have things to do. You have a month left. Use it.   Ann you poetic noble land mermaid you are right once again.  And I do think that if you are needing to focus on the fact that there will always be things that we will all have to do to support and improve our own communities no matter what happens in larger higher-profile elections I think there is a great moment when she talks to somebody about what local government is for and says you solved a problem that is what we are supposed to do.  Oh I like that. Warm fuzzy. Aisha?  Does it have to be politics-related 'ecause I really do not want to...  No it can be whatever.  OK . I mean my advice is watch whatever makes you feel like warm and fuzzy like any time you are sad or depressed. For me that would be Singin' In The Rain and...    I am singin' in the rain just singin' in the rain. What a glorious feeling I am happy again.  Any time I am feeling incredibly blue if someone close to me has been hurt or has died like that is the movie I go to. It just makes me happy all the time and it has nothing to do with politics. It is great.  OK. I will recommend the Season 6 two-hour finale of Grey's Anatomy.   OK which one is that? I...  This is when they have the mass shooting at Seattle Grace.  Oh God. That one.  Oh man.  Yeah.  It was so much - where Mandy Moore is all of a sudden caught up in the drama.  It is so much.  Mandy Moore - what?  Sam I think what we are witnessing here is your gradual retirement from your current job...  Oh yeah.  ...In favor of your ultimate destiny running NPR's Grey's Anatomy podcast.  Yes please.    Nobody knows where they might end up.  Thanks again to Aisha Harris and Linda Holmes hosts of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour. That show is now publishing episodes daily. Also listeners look for an episode dropping in that feed next week where I will be a guest a panelist talking about - you guessed it - Grey's Anatomy.  Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.  Hey Sam. This is Liza  from South Burlington Vt. The best thing that happened to me this week was getting to introduce our dog Gus  to snow. Gus is a stray from Alabama so safe to say he was not amused. But I am hoping we can turn our Southern gentleman into a powderpup .  Hi. I am Carol  - Portland Ore. - and the best part of my week was getting an email from the press I would submitted my chapbook to that they would love to publish it. Woohoo - not a rejection.  Hello Sam. My name is Kayla  and I am speaking with you from San Antonio Texas. The best thing that happened to me this week was that I scored a really great score on my Optometry Admission Test. And I am so happy to be recording this right now because while I was studying I told myself you are going to get a great score and when you do you are going to record a voice memo and you are going to send it to Sam and it is going to be on the podcast. So I am doing that now and I am just so very happy and thrilled.  Hi Sam. This is Debra  from Atlanta. The best part of my week was finding out that all four members of my household had voted and we are super excited about that.  Hi Sam. This is Jeanne . The best part of my week was finally being able to celebrate my mom's 91 years o