 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show correspondent for NPR's Code Switch team Karen Grigsby Bates and the host of NPR's Embedded Kelly McEvers. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend.  Yes.  As Betty said I have two wonderful guests in-house this morning.  Woo.  Kelly McEvers host of NPR's Embedded thanks for being here.  Thanks for having me.  Karen Grigsby Bates of NPR's Code Switch team thank you as well.  You are welcome. Happy to be here...  You are wearing my favorite dagger scarf. This is another one...  Yes.  This is a different dagger scarf.  .  This is actually daggers and knives. The other one is swords. But yes on Fridays when I do your show I come with weapons.  Yes. So also in studio today we have Rihanna because she is in the news this week. But let us just give Rihanna a moment to sing to us.  Yeah.    But I wake up and everything's wrong. Just get ready for work work work work work. You see me I be work work work work work. You see me do...  I am playing this because there were some headlines this Thursday about Rihanna and how she turned down a very big gig. She was asked to play the halftime show at the Super Bowl in 2019. And she said no because she wanted to stand in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick and other NFL players that have been taking a knee in protest at NFL games.  And if people have been turning their noses up at the fact that she is not singing her company Fenty Beauty is on track to be like the most successful  - the biggest grosser.  Wow. This is her makeup line?  Yeah her makeup line which is good makeup.  Yeah it is interesting. I mean there is a point at which you are big enough...  You do not need the Super Bowl.  ...You can say no to the Super Bowl. That is pretty amazing. I mean that is definitely the thing I thought when I saw that headline. I was just like OK...  Well she is in sync with her fans because I think a lot of them...  Right.  ...Are like...  Yeah.  And who could ever do a better job than Prince? So...  Thank you.    Now you need to forward...   And give me all the work work work work work.   You see me. I be...   Work work work work work work.   He see me do my...  We are going to start this week by having all of us describe our week of news in only three words. Kelly you are up first.  I hate to be dramatic...  It is OK.  ...About this week of news actually...  Yeah?  ...The past couple weeks of news. But my three words are this is scary. And I am talking about Jamal Khashoggi the Saudi journalist who was living in the United States and who is believed to have been murdered by Saudi officials in the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul Turkey.  Who you knew?  Yeah.  You were in the Middle East.  Yep.  And he was there at the same time?  I actually lived in Saudi Arabia for a couple of years.  Yeah.  And at the time Jamal Khashoggi was still based in Saudi Arabia. He was a journalist for a long time longtime journalist. And it was really interesting. I was actually going back yesterday and just looking to see if I had any interviews with him. And I found some interviews that I had done about very specific stories you know? We did not have like broad-reaching conversations. And it just was such a stark reminder that it was only one king ago in Saudi Arabia but it was a totally different time in Saudi Arabia. King...  You think it was safer then or now?  King Abdullah who was the king then was seen as a reformer. Now this - within the Saudi context you know it does not...  Comparatively speaking yeah...  Yeah exactly. I mean we are talking about degrees here. But - and Jamal Khashoggi at the time was one of the many Saudis who believed in that project. And so we had a lot of conversations. And I - the funny thing that struck me was how frustrated I was by him because he was such an optimist.  Really?  He was so optimistic that reform was inevitable. He was kind of one of these moral-arc-of-history-bends-toward-justice-type people. Just like you cannot - with the way the population is exploding in the Middle East the fact that young people see a world outside of them - because the Internet - you know and want better for themselves you cannot not reform.  Yeah.  You cannot not change. And I said - in this one interview I said well what about after Abdullah? And he is like it is inevitable. The next king will have to do better.  And then this happens to him...  I know.  I mean so Kelly watching this story unfold American intelligence officials now seem to believe pretty forcefully that Prince...  Mohammed bin Salman.  Yeah.  The crown prince of Saudi Arabia.  They believe that he was involved or at least really knew about this.  That he had information about it...  Yeah.  There is decent reporting - I think by The New York Times and The Washington Post - that there is at least circumstantial evidence that he knew about it maybe perhaps even ordered the killing.  Why would they want to kill him?  He spoke out against the current rulers in Saudi Arabia. It is interesting though. I mean he did not - you know we sort of paint him as this dissident. But he was still a dissident within the Saudi context. Yes he had left Saudi Arabia because he felt like he could speak more freely outside of the country which is something I would guess was a very difficult decision for him because to do that you are leaving your family behind...  Yeah.  ...And family is so important there. But he criticized the kingdom within sort of the Saudi context. He is like I am a Saudi first. I am a Muslim. I still have very strong beliefs that this country can make it. He still had that optimism. He was also very - he was very critical of President Trump.  Yeah.  And he was in the process of you know getting together a kind of think tank to talk about and you know fund Arab democracy initiatives.  Yeah.  This is a pan-Arab think tank right?  Yeah.  It went across nations.  Right. And this is just the kind of stuff that the rulers in Saudi Arabia do not want to talk about. They do not want to talk about freedoms and democracy...  Yeah.  ...Right now.  What should we make of the response to this killing by our president and his White House? At first he was refusing to even suggest that he might believe that the Saudis were involved. It is a reality in American foreign policy before Donald Trump was around...  Sure.  ...That...  We would give...  U.S. presidents would give Saudi cover...  Yeah.  ...And give them a pass.  I mean...  And so I mean I could see Obama or George W. Bush doing the same thing but in nicer words.  Right - and doing the sort of due diligence of sitting down with the king you know once a year saying we care about human rights. You should not have jailed this blogger. That is bad. And it is almost like you sort of go through the motions and everybody knows that it is like that thing. But still it is that thing you do right?  Well...  Go through the motions yeah.  Yeah. You...  ...Pointing out that there is a strategic reason for why we are still literally holding hands with the Saudis...  Yeah.  ...You know that they are a military ally.  I will tell you one reason why I said this is scary.  Yeah.  You know I have lived in countries where journalists are called enemies of the people. And we see what happens when journalists are called enemies of the people. Just Thursday night at a rally you know President Trump is defending a congressman from Montana who attacked a journalist.  Yeah.  I do not want to live in this world. I do not want this world to come home in the country that I thought I was safe in.  Karen do you have three words?  Yeah. I am kind of tired of the whole business but my three words would be it is my history.  What is that?  And that came from Senator Elizabeth Warren.  Oh.  Oh.  Yeah you are tired of it too.  This story - OK it started Monday. And I am already - it feels like I have been living this saga for a year.  You have been living it for two years because candidate Donald Trump...  Oh.  After she mentioned I think in 2016 that she had Native American ancestry that she came from Oklahoma I believe...  The Cherokee Nation.  ...That that had been you know Cherokee territory the president started calling her Pocahontas.  Which led her to this week on Monday releasing a five-minute video that Warren says revealed the results of a DNA test that she took which found quote strong evidence that she has Native American ancestry dating back six to 10 generations.   I am not enrolled in a tribe and only tribes determine tribal citizenship. I understand and respect that distinction. But my family history is my family history.  So basically she is saying yeah. You know I have always been told this story in my family. It was told by my mom and dad by my mama and papa. They have always said you know this is what it is. And I can take it if you are bashing me. Do not be talking about my family.  Yeah. But the strangest thing to me in this entire saga Karen is that it seems as if Senator Warren never actually consulted the Cherokee Nation before she did this.  Yeah. And they...  As soon as...  ...Had some feelings about that.  They had some words.  Yeah.  As soon as she put this video out they said actually when people use DNA to assert tribal identity or ancestry it is insulting to us because that is not the method that we use.  That is not how we...  This is a cultural thing.  Yeah that is not how we...  It is bigger than just blood.  Right.  Yeah. And you have not lived this way or had the experience...  Yeah.  ...That we have had.  Right.  So it is kind of hard for you to come out and say this. I interviewed a sociologist who also does a lot of work with DNA at Columbia. Her name is Alondra Nelson. And she said the problem with doing these DNA tests and then claiming oh I am really German instead of Italian or I am really whatever is that DNA is technical and identity is social.  Exactly.  So you cannot really mix the two.  Yes.  They are running on parallel tracks.  And she is got to live an entire life as a white woman and get whatever you get out of that. Also it is like the one time we have a national conversation about native people they are centered on white people.  Yeah.  It just feels weird to me.  I mean in some ways it is like going forward how should we talk about this?  Well and also...  I think that is that question because there is this weird thing in American culture of like I have got - you know my great-great-grandmother was a Cherokee princess or something like that.  Yeah.  It is really awkward. I mean people I think say it less and less. But like you know is it time to just sort of reckon with all of that and like actually learn the history...  Yeah.  ...Of which tribes intermarried and which tribes did not and what does that mean? And what does it mean to the tribes right?  Well and even if we know that...  Not what does it mean to us.  Yeah.  Geneticists say that in America probably only about 5 percent of us have really any native blood at all.  I have three words.  OK.  They are - no not yet.  OK.  What does that mean?  I have been talking about how it feels as if we are already in campaign 2020 mode.  Oh yeah.  Oh no you said that wrong.  No.   Not yet. And I am bringing this up because of two Democrats that have been getting national attention for months now. You have mentioned Liz Warren from Massachusetts. She is one. The other one is Beto O'Rourke. He is running for Senate in Texas...  In your neck of the woods.  ...Against Ted Cruz. I actually interviewed him on this show months ago. But this coverage of Beto O'Rourke and his race against Ted Cruz has been fully nationalized.  Oh yeah.  They had a debate this week. And it got national coverage.  Yeah.  I saw journalists from New York and D.C. live-tweeting this thing. There are...  There is podcasts.  ...More than one podcast...  Yep. Yep.  ...About Beto O'Rourke.  Yep.  He is running for the Senate not for president. And it seems as if he has become this great hope for liberals especially in this season of Trump. But even on his best days the polls have him down by like at least five points.  You are right. The coverage has shifted. And then the conversation was about how much money he is raised right?  Yes.  And then there was a big question about is he going to share that money with other Democrats...  Democrats yeah.  ...The other national races where Democrats are neck-and-neck for Senate...  Yeah.  ...Races in tight states? Is he going to help them win?  Yeah.  And the answer was basically no.  It is my money.  Right.  .  And it was like - and then the sense - the narrative kind of became but that is OK...  Because he is going to run in 2020.  Because he is going to run in 2020.  Like literally...  Like that is...  Everybody's going to run in 2020.  Yeah.  Right.  There are already polls of Democratic candidates coming out for 2020. It is insane. And the other candidate that is making me think of 2020 already is Elizabeth Warren...  Right.  Because you know she had this video out about her ancestry. She talks about Donald Trump. Donald Trump is in the video. Everyone forgets she is running for re-election in the Senate this year against someone named Geoff Diehl. I have been talking to folks this week...  It is like who he?  ...Who...  Huh? Who this?  I have been talking with folks...  Yeah.  ...This week who do not actually know that she is running for Senate this year because they all think she is running against Donald Trump.  They are focusing...  Right right right right right.  ...On 2020. Yeah. Yeah.  You know? Like I do not want to live in this world just yet.  Yeah.  I do not - I am not ready for it yet.  Let it be.  Do not talk to me about Iowa.  Let these races play out.  Do not talk to me about polls.  Yeah.  But they have got to start raising money...  No...  ...Now. They...  ...Karen no.  ...Have to. That is...  I do not want to.  ...Why they are out there...  No.  ...Eating pork chops at the state fair on a stick and you know...  I do not want it.  ...Doing all the rest of it.  I do not want it.  Too many pork chops.  Too many butter cows.  I am tired.  Oh. Well because you do not want it Sam the entire political system will go on hold...  They want it.  ...Until you are ready for it. Let us know.  That is what I am asking for.  There you go. OK.  On that note let us go to break.   When we come back we will talk about the mysterious case of fake hoax studies appearing in real academic journals. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests at NPR West - Karen Grigsby Bates correspondent for NPR's Code Switch team. Hey Karen.  Hey Sam.  And Kelly McEvers host of NPR's Embedded podcast. Hello.  Hi.  Quick question for both of you before we get back to the news. Have either of you ever been to Nebraska for fun?  Kind of.  Where?  I drove the length of the state. And I remember it being - the parts that I went through - very beautiful.  Kelly you been?  Yeah. See I already grew up in the cornfields and the flat prairies so no.   So I bring this up because the state of Nebraska is out with a new ad campaign to boost tourism to Nebraska. But their whole sticking point is that the state is boring and that is why you should come. So...  Well after this year...  Wait.  Yeah you know? Are you worn out by the chaos that you see...  Yeah right?  Yeah.  ...Every week and every day?  Come to Nebraska.  Come to Nebraska and unplug.  Come to us...  Literally.  ...Where nothing ever happens.   Their slogan in one ad is lucky for you there is nothing to do here.  I think that is genius.   I think they should tell people you know take a drive through the prairies.  You know what?  Watch the sunset.  Yeah. They should like - be like the Internet turns off as soon as you cross into Nebraska like...   We as not got no Wi-Fi.  You cannot - no.  Come on over here.  No social media like come and unplug.  Yeah.  Yeah.  John Ricks runs Nebraska's tourism commission. And he talked to NPR on Thursday and explained what this campaign is all about.  Nebraska's a place where honest perspectives and life's simple pleasures help you realize what matters most.  You know I never had any desire to go to Nebraska. Now I am going.  .  I will do it. It sounds great.  You want to have pie on somebody's front porch.  I want to vet that person first.  .  You cannot trust everybody's cooking.  I want to vet their pie.  Cannot trust everybody's pie.  That is what I am saying. I do not care about the conversation but I - you know the pie.  Yeah. Yeah. All right. In other wacky news I want us to talk about a story in academia and the strange fight happening in that world. Over the last year or so these really crazy studies have started to show up in some peer-reviewed journals. One was a study about rape culture at Portland dog parks among dogs. Another study argued that professional bodybuilding is bigoted because it does not include a category for quote fat bodybuilding. Then another study replaced anti-Semitic phrases in Hitler's Mein Kampf with feminist buzzwords. Yeah. So all these studies were part of a big hoax - fake studies placed in real journals to show that a certain type of scholarship is corrupting academic research. These hoaxers call it grievance studies. They associate it with fields that are focused on identity  like gender studies or queer studies or critical race theory. I had to get to the bottom of this. So I called up one of the three hoaxers. Hello James Lindsay.  Hello.  He is a mathematician.  My background's in what is called enumerative combinatorics which nobody's...  Sounds hard .  It sounds hard. It is basically solving puzzles.  And I had a lot of questions for him. But first I had to understand what he means by the phrase grievance studies.  Grievance studies is - this is a little bit of a complicated term because people think we are talking about particular fields or subjects. And that is not correct. Grievance studies is something of a method. It is an approach to studying certain things. To be really really crisp with it the actual definition would be the definition for what is formally known as critical constructivism which is this idea that society is built out of power dynamics that are regulated in language. And so the studies come from a position of not just say social marginalization or oppression or search for equality but rather one of actual grievance where they believe that the system is rigged against them and they are frustrated with that.  So James and two colleagues of his - Helen Pluckrose and Peter Boghossian - they got 7 out of 20 of these hoax studies published. Now we should note here all of these hoaxers are self-described liberals. And James says all of this reveals something wrong with left-wing academia.  We care about how these topics are covered. And we are sick and tired of looking at this political circus that is dominating our political landscape right now.  OK.  We feel like the left has loons. The right has loons. And we are on the left. We need to clean up the left. And we hope the right is going to do it too.  And just to narrow down on that when you say these topics you are meaning things like gender studies queer studies race studies - that kind of area.  Yes exactly. Gender studies - the study of race gender sexuality anything to do with identity really - needs to be done right. It needs to be done carefully. It needs to be done rigorously. And it needs to not leave a vacuum into which say right-wing pundits can fill the space and gain traction.  Got you. So I just want to make sure that I am understanding this and want to kind of make it digestible. I hear you saying that some wings in the fields of gender studies queer studies race studies have gone too far and that you wanted these hoax studies to prove that.  Yeah in a sense. What we wanted to prove was that they are relying upon broken methodologies that allow them to launder ideas through the scholarly process. So they can start with some opinion or even a prejudice and push it through the scholarly process because there seem to be flaws in how that material's being evaluated by the peer-review system. And then it comes out looking like knowledge on the other side.  Got you. So then what did you want these hoaxes to accomplish? Do you want to diminish these fields of study? Do you want certain scholars to go away? Do you want certain journals to go away? What did you want to tangibly happen as a result of these studies?  I would like to see the scholarship on these topics which is incredibly important be done better. I would like to see rigorous work done where criticism that comes from the outside and says hey you know this methodology does not work or this blatantly disagrees with what we know about biology. I would like to see it to where these fields which do this cannot reply oh you are just speaking from a sexist or a racist perspective whenever you try to challenge your ideas.  Yeah.  So I am looking for reform not destruction.  How many hours a week were you working on this?  I personally put in between Thanksgiving and when this came public in October this year. I personally put in about 90 hours a week probably on average.  Were you not working while doing this? And if so how were you making money?  For the first half of the project I kept my day job. And it became increasingly difficult to keep up with both. And the stress was enormous. And it was very difficult. Over the course of the study we actually had a number of anonymous donors reach out to us. And...  How did they find you?  Well we are not completely disconnected from the world. And Peter and I had done a previous hoax attempt called The Conceptual Penis As A Social Construct.  OK.  And so various people had been aware of this. They have asked to be - to remain anonymous obviously in today's political climate and the nature of how controversial stuff can be.  Got you.  If it matters more money came from left donors than right donors.  Noted. What has the response been like?  Well we figured that there would be a lot of pushback. And there is actually been a lot more encouragement. You kind of see some scholars are pushing back against it and saying that we were mean which - that is irrelevant even if - we are not. But even if we were that would not mean anything. They are saying we are tools of the right which is also false. And then on the other hand a lot of the encouragement has been really thorough. These are mostly people on the left. Of course the right is celebrating this. But a lot of people on the left are coming and saying you know what? We are the left. And we do not know how to speak out against this. And we just hope that more people can.  You know when I was reading about these hoax studies part of me says well what if the bigger problem is in the method these journals are using and the journals and their standards not with these grievance studies fields themselves? Like is the bigger issue here that these journals should stop taking crap articles?  Possibly. One of our papers we submitted that had statistics in it - and they told us to take the statistics out because it was confusing. That was a bit worrying.  Which journal was that?  That would be Porn Studies.  Lord. God.  I am not kidding.  I - OK.  And another one of the journals that accepted one of our papers and was working with us on a second one is Hypatia. And if you want to disregard Hypatia then you have to disregard all of feminist philosophy more or less because it is one of the leading journals in that field and the home of many of the leading systems of thought within feminist philosophy. So Hypatia if you want to put it down to you know bad journals or whatever bad methods of the journals Hypatia is a hard one to pin that on because you are throwing a lot under the bus with it. You know my opinion is if you want to throw feminist philosophy under the bus because of our paper more power to you. But you are actually probably making a mistake.  But you know that people are going to see these hoax studies and these headlines. And a lot of folks are going to say this is the reason why we need to shut down gender studies programs and race studies programs. And like you - that is going to happen.  Yeah. But if we made the decision to act entirely based on the way that bad actors might make use of our work we could never really do anything that touches a controversial issue at all. So if the right wing wants to misuse our work to do this then it is on par with what we were exposing in these academic departments. What we are after here is the truth. What we are after here is better conversations.  Yeah. One of the thought experiments your hoax studies launched me on was trying to create hypothetical hoax studies about public radio. Give me a hypothetical hoax study title about my line of work.  About your line of work?  About public radio. Yeah yeah yeah.  You would have to put a catchy thing on the front.  I am into it.  Like your show is called It is BEEN A MINUTE. So we could call it It is Been a Minute Too Long.  .  And that would be...  Colon.  ...The main title. The subtitle would have to be something along the lines of how well-intended conversations on public radio perpetuate America's racial divide.  I would read that study. I am curious. I am curious.  Well I can make it up for you...  Wow.  ...In about...  Wow.  ...Three days if you...  Wow. OK. OK. James Lindsay thank you for speaking with me. I am sure we will hear a lot from our listeners. But I look forward to it.  Thanks Sam. I think this was great.   Thanks again to James for talking with us. I think my biggest question with all of this is all right if you are trying to push these fields to greater truth how do you get there through these lies?  Right. Right. Right.  These hoax studies. Is it helping?  I know. I am so tired of hoaxes like in this post-truth era. Like we need more truth not less.  Yeah.  I get really upset about Sacha Baron Cohen.  .  No. I really do - like posing as a journalist.  Yeah.  You know the more of that we have it just undermines the business of truth altogether I think.  Yeah.  Yeah.  All right. It is time for a break. When we come back my favorite game - Who Said That. Karen is ready .  No. I just always - like every time you say that it just cheers me up.  I love it.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests today - Kelly McEvers host of NPR's Embedded and Karen Grigsby Bates correspondent for NPR's Code Switch team. I am so happy to have you both in-studio.  We are so happy to be here.  We are happy to be here.  It is time for my favorite game - hopefully you all's favorite game too...  Yeah.  ...Who said that?  Who said that?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  I always want to get that pitch.  I know?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Very nice.  That is why is your favorite thing right?  Yeah yeah.  Just because of that.  Who said that?  The rules are quite simple. But the game's quite hard. I share a quote from the week. You have to guess who said that or at least get a key word the story I am talking about. The winner as you know gets absolutely nothing.  .  The best prize of all.  The best prize - first quote fill the center of the rolling paper with your ground cannabis. Distribute it evenly so that your joint does not resemble a hill with the bulge in the middle.  Was that an instruction for Canadians now that cannabis is legal?  Yes.   Oh.  Why would anybody have government instructions on how to roll a joint?  'ecause it is - Canada would.  So this week Canada made history in legalizing marijuana for recreational use amongst all Canadians. And it is a government endeavor. So the government is selling the weed at their own dispensaries. And some provincial governments had said we will take it even a step further and show you how to do it.  And show you how to use it.  .  So the government of New Brunswick has a cannabis 101 website.  Oh my God. I love this.  They tell you how to know if you are too high. They tell you...  .  ...The difference between indica and sativa.  Do not eat the Cheetos. Whatever you do do not eat the Cheetos.   Oh my god. I love this.  They tell you how to roll a joint. It is a amazing.  Lest there be any doubt we are going to get you proficient in...  We live in a new world.  They also had this section where it is like if you feel like you are too high you got to stay hydrated. You got to lay down and take a nap. Like they have all the bases covered.  Yeah.  It is really sweet.  I love it.  Who got that one? OK Karen got that one.  Yes.  You are up 1-zip. Next quote all of us redheads in the U.K. are wildly excited...  Oh because of the new royal baby that is...   Oh man. I am D'ed . I got nothing.  Did you know that she is pregnant?  I did know she was pregnant.  Yes.  Did you know she was pregnant by her redheaded husband...  Yes.  ...And so there was some...  So therefore.  ...Possibility that there will be a redheaded baby?  Yes.  What they are maybe not prepared for is if they have a really brown-skinned redheaded baby because genes are genes.  Genes are genes. So that quote comes from Jacky Colliss Harvey who is from the U.K. and who is also redheaded and who has a book called Red A History Of The Redhead. We know that Prince Harry and Meghan Markle announced that she is with child this week. And I actually love these little storylines. I love a good royal baby.  And this is really a royal baby because she is royal by marriage but this baby will be royal by birth.  Yeah.  So she is not royal-adjacent.  This is like royal royal.  Royal royal.  Once you are the mama of one of those yeah you are in.  It is also like there are all these questions like will this baby be black? Will it be a redhead? And I am like it will be rich. It does not matter.  It will be rich.  It is a royal baby.  And it will be very very loved.  Yes.  Yes.  But I have to say...  The baby could be purple it is going to be fine.  Under a microscope - yeah.  ...I am looking for a picture of great granny Lilibet with this little brown baby on her lap.  Last quote - ready?  OK.  I as not dead snitches. I am using another word.   For the radio?  Yeah.  Who was killed off in something this week?  Oh.  Oh this is Roseanne.  Yeah.   Three for three K.G.B.  Zero for three - lame-o over here.  It is OK.  Well the only reason I remember is because I was actually looking through the news. And they were talking about her tweets and about - her tweet was in reference to the sort of reboot of her show...  Sure...  ...The Conners.  ...And that she is not on.  Yes - so - yeah yeah.  And how they dealt with her which was she died of an opioid OD.  So backstory - a few months ago her iconic show Roseanne was rebooted. So that show was on the air. But it was cancelled because of Roseanne Barr's frequently...  Oh it was cancelled because of one...  One specific tweet.  ...Racist tweets. She tweeted about Valerie Jarrett...  Yes.  Yes.  ...A former Obama aide. She called her a monkey. Show gets canceled. But they bring back this show The Conners. But in the first episode to explain why Roseanne is not there they announced that her character has died of an opioid overdose.  Well we find that out during the show. The thought was that she had a heart attack. And as the show goes on you find all these places where she is squirreled away...  Oh...  ...Three four eight pills...  That is really interesting.  You know what? I would be mad too. I would be mad if you all took me out that way as well. I am sorry.  Do not take me out that way.  Well she did not have any say in it you know?  I am with Roseanne on this one. If you all ever take me out of this show...  We will say Sam is traveling. We are not quite sure when he is going to return to us. But keep hope alive.  Aunt Betty will be guest hosting for the foreseeable future.  I think it is good that TV and network TV is tackling opioid...  Yeah.  ...Is tackling this crisis. But do not do it to me. Karen congratulations. You won.  Why thank you. Thank you very much.  Like a sweep - big big time.  Super embarrassed.  I will walk the rest of the day with a glow.  Wow.  Yes. Well that is every day Karen.  It just means you are working harder than me Kelly.   All right. N