 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR business correspondent Alina Selyukh and Supreme Court correspondent for BuzzFeed News Chris Geidner. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders - It is BEEN A MINUTE - here with two guests today Chris Geidner legal editor at BuzzFeed News. How busy has your week been?  It is been a week. We have - but we have had a lot of those recently so...  That is true. That is true. Also here with Alina Selyukh business correspondent for NPR guessing your week was pretty busy as well.  Pretty busy.  Well I am so glad you both made the time to talk with me to wrap up the week of news. And I am so glad to be playing this song what I am playing for you both right now. It is a new - well old but new Prince song. It is called 17 Days.    Called you yesterday - you did not answer your phone.  I feel like I am already ready for the weekend just listening to the song.  Right?   ... Knowing that you probably were not alone. Turn the voice down a little.  Want to call you...  So this is from an album of old Prince demos that was released late last month. The album's called Piano And A Microphone 1983. And it is these nine unreleased Prince demos from way back then. And so the thing about this is that like these are not the like finished versions of these songs. These are the demos the scratch tracks - just Prince at the piano playing the songs to show his band and his team how he wanted to do the songs with the full band later. And there is these really interesting moments in these songs. Like you can hear where Prince starts to beatbox to basically show the drummer how he wants the drums to sound.   .  Wow.   .  It is just amazing. And so - but what is so weird about this is that like because these are demos there are big questions as to whether or not Prince wanted this released.  Right.  He also famously fought streaming services like YouTube and Spotify. So the fact that you can hear these songs on those platforms it is weird. I feel guilty hearing this stuff. But I also love it.  Yeah. I mean I think that that is one of those things. It is sort of like your journalist instinct is like yes we want to see this.  Yeah. It is like people must know. But would he have wanted people to know?  Exactly.    Let the rain come down. Let the rain come down - the rain come down down. Yeah - rain.  Anyway Alina and Chris are here with me to look back on the week of news and culture and everything else. All right first we are going to start by having each of my guests - and me too - describe our week of news in only three words. Chris you have been covering the opening of the Supreme Court's term this week. You have seen the current justices back on the bench. You go first.  Yeah I mean we - we are in this strange position again of starting out a Supreme Court term with only eight justices. And the thing was that within the court like it was a very different world from what we are seeing outside. And the three words were compromise for now. You have got this truly 4-4 court. There is no swing vote right now. You have got these four conservatives these four more liberal justices. And what it was is that you saw different sorts of questions. You saw sort of like one of the cases was about the death penalty which in the past has led sort of Justice Alito and Justice Sotomayor to face off rather strongly against each other. And yet during this case it was sort of like well I disagree with your position and would like to understand how it is that you think this. It was not what we are used to.  So they were nice.  Yeah. It was...  They were nice.  It almost felt like Chief Justice Roberts was like - sat them down before the term began and was like guys we are in a tough spot right now. We all know it. Let us be adults.  Be classy.  Yeah.  So what cases are on the docket for this new term? What are the big ones?  It is sort of an understated docket. We do not have huge cases that everybody is going to be paying attention to at first. And it really will depend on where the justices come down with their decision. One of the cases that is gotten a lot of attention is this question over dual sovereignty whether or not you can face criminal charges both under federal charges and state charges. And this case has been focused on by a lot of people as like that if they get rid of dual sovereignty that Trump will be able to pardon people because there will not be able to be state charges against his associates. But the fact is that a lot of states already have rules that if you have been charged under federal you cannot face state charges including New York.  Yeah. So then what I hear you saying is that right now because the court is deadlocked 4-4 it is a lot less political than it might be. Although what the U.S. public is seeing as far as the Supreme Court goes right now is just Kavanaugh Kavanaugh Kavanaugh which is very political.  Yeah.  It is a juxtaposition.  I really think that last Thursday was a really bad day for the court. That was not a person who I can see on the Supreme Court. Like it was brazen out-and-out intentionally acrimonious partisanship. If you remember when Justice Ginsburg like made those comments about Trump during the campaign she actually did pull back and...  She had...  She had to...  ...To apologize right?  ...basically apologize for it.  ...Apologize.  And I imagine...  Yeah.  ...That that was the result of a conversation with the chief justice.  So Alina what is your take on all this as someone watching it but not particularly covering it?  It is hard to say. The memory of a news cycle is extremely short these days. So I hesitate to say that if Brett Kavanaugh becomes the new Supreme Court justice that you know 20 years later this moment in history will not be perceived much differently than you know the Anita Hill hearings. You know fast...  It is just a thing that we kind of just shrug off now.  Right. So I hesitate to say that it will have some kind of transformative moment. But I also do not discount the possibility that it will be a transformative moment. I just...  Yeah.  ...Think we have to see how exactly the nomination plays out.  One big difference that I think is part of the changed times is I mean remember when Justice Thomas took the bench there was only one other woman on the court.  Right.  And it was a woman appointed by a Republican president Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. I mean after last week...  Right.  If Brett Kavanaugh joins the court he is going to be joining a court with three justices who - I mean I am sure Justice Sotomayor has - yeah.  Things to say to him.  Has some thoughts yeah. We should say here we are taping this Friday morning. So you might hear this after we know for sure whether Brett Kavanaugh has been confirmed for a seat on the Supreme Court. All right I am going to go next. My three words are California versus Trump. And I say that because the issue that I geek out the most...  No.  ...About is in...  No.  ...The news again. I am talking about net neutrality Alina.  .  You know I love this stuff.  The silence you hear is me leaving the room.  .  I know you are tired of talking about it as a tech reporter. But I am going to make you talk about it...  Sure.  ...Just for a little bit. I am bringing it up and talking...  It is important.  ...About California because the Trump Justice Department this week sued the state of California to block California's new net neutrality law. The back story is a few months ago the Trump administration rolled back existing net neutrality rules. And California in response said we will make our own. I think before we go anywhere else with this I am going to let the tech reporter tell us in a nutshell what net neutrality is.  So I think the line that I sent to you guys is someone said to me on Twitter - I think this week last week I do not know it is all weeks together these days - is that net neutrality for the tech reporters and the tech lobbyist world is like the Internet version of Hotel California. Because the issue has been going on for 10-plus years.  Yeah.  But anyways the long story short is net neutrality rules went off the books in the summer. And the net neutrality rules previously established Internet service providers were not allowed to make your websites slower. They were not allowed to charge a little extra for slightly faster speeds loading speeds. They were not allowed to strike deals with like Netflix to get your Netflix slightly faster than your Hulu. Similarly in California's case what California brought back are all of those rules plus in addition one other rule that prohibited like a Verizon from giving you access to Hulu that would not count toward your data restrictions.  So basically California was saying these ISPs these service providers cannot play favorites which is the basic kind of in a nutshell what net neutrality means.  Right. I like to describe it as how much power should your Internet service provider have over your Internet experience.  So then - so California puts these rules in place on the state level. The Trump DOJ sues. But the bigger point for me is that this is yet another example of California showing a type of resistance to Trump that may not be the first thing that we think about when we say the word resistance. Like we say that word. We think of people on the ground protesting. But there is a resistance to the Trump White House coming from state houses. Chris what does this kind of legal resistance - how effective is it?  I mean a lot of it is from the AGs. It is from California AG Becerra. It is from New York AG Barbara Underwood. Also there have been some counties - Santa Clara County in California San Francisco County. You basically have always had this. I mean if you remember all of Texas' lawsuits against DAPA and DACA under the Obama administration?  Oh yeah.  This has been the way for the AGs of the other party of the president to sort of try and say we are back to our dual sovereignty .  I was just going to say that.  They - it is states trying to say we want to do our thing and we should be allowed to do so.  So is that more effective than protesters just on the ground saying stop Donald Trump?  I mean I think they are two totally different things. They - I think that...  Yeah.  ...The reality of what Trump has done has led to a lot of lawsuits that probably regardless of the environment on the ground Democratic AGs would have fought back against. But the...  Yeah.  ...The fact is that in a liberal state you cannot go wrong right now by...  Suing Donald Trump .  Putting your name - yeah by getting a lawsuit that is your name v. Trump.  Some more to come for sure. Alina...  Yes?  ...Do you have three words?  I do. My three words are up to 15. And this is about...  I know what that is - OK that is about Amazon.  ...Money...   ...Yes - dollars. So Amazon made huge waves this week announcing that the company will raise the minimum wage for its lowest-paid workers up to 15. So this is mainly for warehouse workers and this is big because - I do not know if you knew this but Amazon is now the second-largest private employer in the United States.  Really? Who is the first?  Walmart. So...  Oh my goodness.  Wal-Mart's No. 1.  OK.  Amazon's No. 2. And this change will affect by Amazon's estimates 350000 workers this year.  That is a lot.  And about a third of them are expected seasonal hires. And did you know what the federal minimum wage is? It is 7.25.  Oh my god.  OK.  So this is much higher than that.  It is like double.  It is remarkable to me. I mean thinking...  Yeah.  ...How long it is been since I had my first job and it has not changed that much.  It just does not change. And actually...  Well I remember it was five something when I was just starting out.  Yes.  Yeah.  And then it bumped to seven while I was still like an adolescent. But it is been there for a long time.  Yeah.  So my question though Alina is like is it fair or unfair that I saw this news from Amazon and said oh well it is also a PR ploy? You know they have had some critique of their business...  Yes.  ...Practices how they treat employees. They have had some critique over the fact that Jeff Bezos is so rich while their employees are making some 11 an hour. Is this a thing that Amazon had to do for some good PR as well?  I think the PR is a convenient element to this. To give you an example Senator Bernie Sanders has spent many years battling for higher wages for minimum-wage workers and has criticized...  And fighting Amazon - like he is been calling Amazon...  Yes.  ...Out for a while now.  He introduced a bill that is called Stop BEZOS Act. So...  .  ...You know...  That is specific.  ...No love lost there.   Yeah.  And on Tuesday when Amazon came out with this announcement I talked to Senator Sanders and his line was I have got to give credit where credit is due and Amazon and Jeff Bezos made the right call. It is a good decision. So it is - yes PR is definitely part of it. And another really huge element to all of this is that the economy is presenting an extremely tight labor market. There are more job openings than workers. And Amazon is heading into the season - holidays are coming up. They are going to be fighting for these workers that they need but also Walmart needs and Best Buy...  Yeah.  ...Needs and all these other retailers need. And you know having a 15 minimum wage and this bump in coverage of that I am sure cannot hurt.  Helps them attract workers. Well I could talk about Amazon all day as you know Alina.   Let us do it. What is stopping you? This is your show right?  .  All right. It is time for a break. When we come back I am going to talk with two high-school students in Texas and their friends nominated them to be on the homecoming court. But they are both young women and this set off a bit of a firestorm. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. Here with two guests this week - Chris Geidner legal editor at Buzzfeed News and Alina Selyukh business correspondent for NPR. I have a question for you both. Be honest. Do either of you remember your homecoming from high school?  Well I have only been to one because I was an exchange student so I remember it extremely vividly. But it was also...  OK.  ...Extremely confusing because I had never known that such an event existed. It was very strange.  Uh-huh. Chris?  I think I went.   I was a closeted gay boy in Youngstown Ohio. So I went with a girl.  OK.  And I know I went to like homecoming and prom but they were not the notable life moments that they are for some others.  Yeah. I remember going to prom junior and senior year. But I remember the homecoming dance. I was in marching band so we finished you know the marching band stuff for the game. I walked in the homecoming dance which was like in the like main hallway of the high school. And then I was like I do not want to do this. And I went right home.   Oh my God.  I literally was there for three minutes. Anyways I am bringing up homecoming because it is the subject this week of our Long Distance call.   Listeners you know Long Distance is a segment where we call up someone somewhere in the world and talk with them about the news. So this week I talked with two students from Austin High School in my home state of Texas. Their names are Cecilia McBride and Story Dornsife. I asked them about their homecoming story. They are your average teenagers in the high-school band. Cecilia plays marimba. Story's in the color guard. So where are you both now?  We are both hiding in the corner near our band hall .  So fun fact - I also was in marching band when I was in high school. I am from Texas just about an hour south of you guys.  Nice. Where did you go?  I went to Judson High School for two years and to Clemens High School in Schertz for two years.  No...  No way.  No way.  Yeah buddies . I was a saxophone player. I was a drum major. So I am having fond fond fond thoughts of my days hiding in the corner of the band hall .  Wow. We actually just played Judson at a competition on Saturday.  Really? Small world. Small world.  Yeah .  Cecilia and Story - they are a couple and their friends nominated them to be on the homecoming court.  We just - honestly just wanted the opportunity to win together. We did not have to win together. But I mean we did not even have the chance - or at least originally we did not.  Cecilia wanted to run on the homecoming court as a king but the school administration told her that only boys can be kings and only girls can be queens. Cecilia and Story said that this made it impossible for a gay couple to actually win together. They pushed back and the school actually changed the rules that same day. They decided to have no gendered titles in the homecoming contest - no kings no queens. Everyone on homecoming court would just be known as quote royals. But that did not make Cecilia and Story happy.  I mean it is definitely a step forward but it is another way of avoiding acknowledging same-sex couples.  Story how do you feel about this?  We think they were overcompensating rather than just  - and that while it should not have been specific of gender they should have just made it so you are voting for two people regardless of their gender. That person got to choose whether or not they were announced as a king or a queen or anything in between. And it was up to them. It was not up to the school to say we are going to take out couples. We are going to take out genders because one couple wants to run together.  A spokesperson for the school told us quote We can say that we believe the resolution is an appropriate one. Austin Independent School District is committed to creating a safe supportive environment for all students and staff including those who identify as LGBTQ. Since the change Cecilia and Story have been dealing with the fallout. Other students support them but do not like the outcome.  They are pretty much in the same place as we are when they say that they do not think that the school did what they should have done. They do not like the new policy. It is not what homecoming is supposed to be about. Outside of Austin people that are hearing about it - their comments online - they are not very positive.  What is been the worst kind of comments?  They are mostly basically saying that we are  and that we are snowflakes and that we are asking for special treatment and that this is exactly what they would have expected out of electing a same-sex couple - is that they would ruin homecoming for everybody else.  People really think this is going to ruin homecoming?  Well we ended up taking away the whole homecoming tradition.  Got you. Is there going to be other stuff that you all go through throughout this year - your senior year right?  Yeah.  That will have to - I mean like there is probably going to be other gendered roles for other senior year traditions as well. Like is there going to be a situation when it comes to prom king and queen? What happens next?  Yes. Actually the - one of the teachers that has been talking to us throughout this whole issue has mentioned like offhandedly as a joke - she was like I cannot wait for when we get to prom season.  .  Like when you two are running for prom king and queen how that is going to turn out.  Oh my goodness. So there may be more drama ahead before the year is done?  Yeah. Probably.   So these two young women Cecilia and Story - they have been dealing with this fallout. Some students support them. Others do not like the outcome. The votes actually are not done yet. That is going to happen next week. But this story really made me think. Like Austin Texas is a pretty progressive city not just for Texas but for the country. And so you have this school administration that is trying to in some way be an ally to these young women. But even they cannot figure out what the right language is what the right term should be. I think we are in this period where defining and letting gender roles be more fluid can be confusing for some people.  I just celebrated my 41st birthday. And one of the things that I have learned is like that means that I am getting older and I am not going to necessarily understand how a younger group of people is looking at things. And I mean we could have been having this same conversation 20 years ago and somebody saying like they are trying to be supportive. Why are not they OK with just being known as friends? Why do we need to talk about the fact that they are a gay couple and that they are together? Like that is like talking about their sex lives. There has - have always been these issues about how we use language and what it means. And the fact is that older people have often been confused about how younger people want to use that language.  And what is satisfactory to them and what is offensive to them. It is...  Yeah.  ...Hard to - yeah. It is hard to know that if you are not in that circle.  Speaking of offensive how offensive or inoffensive was your homecoming dress Alina as an exchange student?  I am trying to remember what I wore. I do remember the prom and I wore a fedora. And I regret that.   I very much regret that. I do not remember what I wore for homecoming. I do remember the homecoming game because it was my first ever American football game. And it was...  Whoa. How was that?  ...So confusing. None of it made sense.   But I wore the colors. And I - so I do remember my red T-shirt. And red and black were our colors. I went to Lincoln High...  OK. Did you enjoy it?  ...Lincoln Neb.  Oh wow.  I want to see pictures of the fedora Alina.  No pictures exist.  .  OK. All right...  She burned them all.   Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Listeners we would love to call you for our Long Distance segment. If you got a story that you want to talk about with us shoot me an email at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. All right. Time for break. When we come back my favorite game - Who Said That. This week it involves fire. BRB.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Alina Selyukh business correspondent for NPR and Chris Geidner legal editor at BuzzFeed News. It is time for my favorite game Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  So Alina...  Yes?  ...You are an old pro at this game. Basically I will share three quotes from the week. You can guess who said it or what story I am talking about or a keyword. I am not a stickler. And the winner of this game gets absolutely nothing.  Oh good.  It is going to be great. It is going to be great. Ready for the first one?  OK.  No.   Well here we go. Here we go. We will try it. First quote. I cannot deny that women made a great achievement over the past century. There is significant progress recorded by people who study women status throughout history.  Is it something Nobel Prize-related?   No not at all . Did either of you see any headlines about a really weird article in an in-flight magazine?  Oh my god. Yes.  What?  This was the Drew Barrymore article.   Yes.  Yes.  There you go. You got it.  .  You got it. So in Egypt Air's in-flight magazine this month there was an interview with Drew Barrymore.  Oh.  But it turns out the entire interview seems to be fake.  I am sorry what? Like she never spoke to them and they just made it up?  She never - so when reached for comment Drew Barrymore's PR team said that she never did the interview. Egypt Air is not backing down from this interview. They say it was conducted by the former president of the Hollywood Press Association. But the thing is when you read the interview the English is very bad. And it just does not at all seem like a kind of conversation that Drew Barrymore would give.  So I have two questions about this.  .  Question one is did they just interview someone else that they confused with Drew Barrymore? And if they actually made up the whole thing then why did they make up an interview with Drew Barrymore?  There were pictures and everything.  Yeah there were pictures. It was weird. So like they talk about Drew Barrymore before they get into the quotes from her or the fake quotes from her. And the article opens up this way. Literally quote despite the several unsuccessful marriages and despite the busy life of stardom that dominated her life for several years the beautiful American Hollywood actress Drew Barrymore has recently decided to temporary take an unlimited vacation to play her most crucial role as mother.  Wow.  It is really weird.  Like did they just look up some other Drew Barrymore...   ...And convince themselves that this was the...  This was legit.  So there is a version of this article that also appeared in another Arabic publication which raises the possibility that those quotes had been translated from English to Arabic then back to English.  And back.  But that just makes it even crazier. This is the craziest story I have seen in the last few months.  It is like make your own adventure. Make your own interview.  Yeah. So Chris you are up 1-zip - who would have thought? - first-timer.  Amazing - so proud of you.  .  Second quote is - just tell me what it is about what the story keywords are. The quote is sometimes your child's gender identity is actually fire. And like Scar in The Lion King honey you would better be prepared.  I am sorry. What?  What story this week involved fire and babies and child's gender identity?  Oh oh it is the guy who said - was doing a gender reveal party and set the whole forest on fire.   Oh.  Good job Alina.  That is all I have about that story.  That is exactly what it is.  He was a Border Patrol agent is that what it is?  He is a Border Patrol agent. He was off-duty. And his name is Dennis Dickey. He is from Arizona. And he says it was all a mistake. What he wanted to do was shoot at this target that contained Tannerite which is explosive so that when he shot the Tannerite it would explode. And you would see this explosion of blue or this explosion of pink. And that would reveal the child's gender. The explosion was too explosive. It started a fire that got so big - the fire got so big it got a name the Sawmill Fire. Nearly 800 firefighters had to fight this fire. It consumed more than 45000 acres of land.  I mean...  I cannot.  .  I definitely did see see that story. And that was one that I just passed.  I also had no idea that there was a whole quote in the story about the gender...  Yeah.  ...Being fire.  Well so that actually was from a humor writer.  Oh OK.  R. Eric Thomas - he wrote kind of a parody article about this story about this story...  I feel better.  ...For Elle magazine. And he kind of made us all chuckle about how absurd these gender reveal parties can be.  Yeah. I mean it started with cakes. And then it progressed into like balloon releases out of boxes flags flying in the sky and...  There was one where this father had an alligator for the gender reveal party. And he had a watermelon that he put in the alligator's mouth. And the watermelon was filled with either blue dye or pink dye. So when the alligator bit down on the watermelon the pink or blue color would ooze out of the watermelon to reveal the gender.  Ooze is not a word...  It is so unnecessary.  ...I would want to hear about a gender reveal party.  I do not get it at all. And like I want to understand. And I try to understand. I do not understand.  It is a party. You know it is a reason to celebrate. I get it. I get the reason to celebrate.  I do not need an alligator at a party.  .  But the alligator - right - the extremeness of it is - I mean a lot of people go overboard planning parties. So...  Fair point.  There is that. OK. We are tied up. You guys are tied 1-1.  OK.   OK.  This last one is for all the marbles. Are you ready?  OK.  The last quote is every night the queue for doughnuts is unbelievable - lights noises pollution and horns - all streets blocked and all cars honking at once all night every night. What is that about? Who said that? Where is it? What are they talking about?  Doughnuts?  You said doughnuts right?  What kind of doughnuts? I said doughnuts. What kind of doughnuts? Which brand?  Dunkin' Donuts?  Dunkin' Donuts.   Not Dunkin'.  Krispy Kreme.   Yes sir.   Yes sir.  Like are there any other doughnuts? Like...  I mean there is many other doughnuts but those are the two.  I mean there is designer doughnuts. But those are like the only two like chains.  Wait what?  So...  What is this?  ...Krispy Kreme - OK - Krispy Kreme Doughnuts made news across the pond. A town in Ireland called Blanchardstown a suburb of Dublin - they got a new Krispy Kreme with a 24-hour drive-through. And the 24-hour drive-through at that Krispy Kreme was so rowdy they had to shut it down. So that quote was from a resident from this place Blanchardstown talking about how the noise from the drive-through line for these Krispy Kreme doughnuts has been too much.   I feel like...  Hundreds of people were in line.  ...There is more to this story than just doughnuts.  .  No here's the thing. People would be in line for the doughnuts but they would keep honking their horns.   .  .  Oh I think that is tape of the actual horn...  For a little ambiance?  Good call there .  Another resident said since the grand opening they have not had proper sleep at night.  Are we talking about like at bar close? Like Taco Bell but like they were going for Krispy Kreme at like 3 in the morning?  I think so. I mean if I could go get Krispy Kreme doughnuts 24 hours a day I would probably be there at some weird hours too. But I have never in my life honked.  I once met a woman who sat in front of a Krispy Kreme for I think close to three days to be the first one in so she could get...  .  ...A lifetime supply of Krispy Kreme doughnuts for herself and her family.  They are good doughnuts.  They are good doughnuts.  For a lifetime supply I...  See?  ...Can get that.  Yeah.  I can get behind that.  She was retired.  That is not like a random...  She did not have anything else...  ...Friday night needing to honk my horn before I get my Krispy Kreme.   You know what this means you all?  You win.  Chris you won.  I won.  Yes.  My grand prize of nothing not even a Krispy Kreme.   You know what? That might be arranged.  .  That might be arranged. All right. Now it is time to end the show as we do every week. We ask our listeners to share with us the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. Brent hit the tape.  Hey Sam. This is Ayesha  from Charlottesville Va. and the best part of my week was getting to spend a beautiful week in Maui. You can hear the waves now. Thanks Sam. Love the show.  Hi Sam. This is Ellen  calling from St. Paul Minn. where I am about to harvest my very first butternut squash from my backyard garden. And that is the best thing that is happened to me this week.  The best thing that happened to me this week is that I defended my dissertation this morning. And now I am officially a doctor.  The best part of my week was taking my daughter out to the Maker Faire in Milwaukee Wis.  I got to turn in my resignation at a job I have been trying to leave for the last three and a half years.  I lost my voice cheering my girlfriend's football team.  I became an aunt.  I got offered a job I really wanted.  I am currently on my way to the airport to Italy to go to my brother's wedding.  Hey Sam. This is Yuki  from the San Francisco Bay Area. The best thing that happened to me this week was celebrating five years together with my partner camping in the Sierras enjoying each other's company and the outdoors.  Hey Sam. This is Alex  from Willisburg Ky. The best part of my week was finally finishing my master's degree in gastronomy from Boston University. I started this degree in 2013 but had to take a two-year leave of absence when my dad passed away. And now I am finally able to come back and visit with my dad in the cemetery to tell him that I finished and that I did it. And I know that he would be very happy. Thanks Sam.  Thanks.  Thanks.  Thanks for keeping me company on the many long hours of planting and weeding and mulching.  So I hope you have a great week.  Bye.  Bye.  Many thanks to all the voices you heard there. Ayesha Ellen Amanda  Jon  Lisa  John  number two Stacy  Rosa  and Yuki and Alex. Alex I know your dad is so so proud of you. To the other voices in there I need photos of the bu