  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. We are taping this on Monday October 2 a day when we all woke up to the news from Las Vegas. We are thinking of everyone there everyone dealing with this tragedy. And we will process the week's events and those events in Vegas in our Friday episode. But today's Deep Dive - it is really timely. We talk about some big thoughts about life about choosing to find joy in life and about knowing that life could end at any time. But before we start I want you to stop right now and Google three words. The three words are John Carroll Lynch. You know this guy. Even if you think you do not you do. John Carroll Lynch is one of the most recognizable character actors working in Hollywood today. And he just directed his first film. It is called Lucky. It stars one of the great character actors of all time the late Harry Dean Stanton. Film's actually based on Stanton's life. If you do not know Harry Dean he is a very interesting guy. He got into acting in the late '50s after he served in World War II. And he died just this year at the age of 91. And this film was one of the last things he made. That alone is enough for a really good chat. But John Carroll Lynch and I talked about so much more. We talked about his work. We talked about acting as a craft. We talked about being a character actor. We talked about what even that means and how he gets into the mind of the characters he plays. He is got some really amazing stories and he was really really fun to talk to. So let us not waste any more time. Here's my conversation with John Carroll Lynch. John was in LA. I was in D.C. Enjoy.   Hey there. How are you?  I am good. How are you?  I am good. I am Sam. Nice to meet you John.  Nice to meet you Sam. You have a terrific radio voice.  Well it gets you your checks in the mail. Thank you for that .  You are welcome. I will text you my address just so it does not get lost.  Oh yeah. Oh yeah. You know so I have been geeked out about talking to you for a few weeks now. And I have been telling my friends hey I am talking to John Carroll Lynch this actor you know. And they are like John Carroll Lynch? And I am like hold on.  Yes. And then you have got to show a picture.  And I show a picture. And they are like yeah that guy.  That dude. Yeah yeah.  How long have you been that dude?  I mean I have been fortunate enough to start working you know with the Coens. I think it was probably - I would say probably after Zodiac - that is when I started to come to kind of become somebody who is one of those dudes. I mean it is I have no - I have had a great time working with a wide variety of people on a wide variety of material. So when people recognize me they sometimes recognize me or they recognize David Koechner or they recognize other bald men who work.  .  So - you know so that is always nice to get compliments from other people. Like one time I was in an audition. And the guy walked in. And I said did you do an X-Files? He said no. No I did not. Why? I said well I have been getting compliments about an 'X-Files I did not do. And I thought it might be you. And then another guy came in. And I said did you do an X-Files? He said yeah. I said man people love you on X-Files.  . That is so funny.  And so we sat in this audition room like the three monkeys you know with the eyes ears and mouth covered waiting for our audition. And it was literally like - I mean I know there were differences between us. But it might have been a couple of inches here or there give or take you know?  Yeah. You know it is so funny you say that. I got on Twitter - this was probably weeks ago now. Someone was very emphatic on Twitter saying oh my God. Sam thank you so much for recommending that book about XYZ. And I realized I had not read the book.  Sure.  And then I realized oh they are talking about one of my other black male bald colleagues at NPR.   Yes. Yeah.  And then I am just like you know what? I will take the compliment. They read the book. That is good.  I am trying to do that.  Yeah.  Like I was working on this movie that I did called Anything. And I was walking in Santa Monica down to the beach. And it was a scene in which I was going to take my clothes off and jump into the ocean...  Yeah.  ...At sunset. So I am walking down to this scene and people are playing volleyball. The ball bounces. And they look up and they go love you on The Office.  .  And I was like thanks man. Appreciate it. Appreciate it. I have not done The Office but thanks for the compliment. I did not mention that.  Better to be noticed than not noticed huh?  And also like I do not want to...  I do not want to burst their bubble.  Why even go into it? Why even go into it?  Yeah.  You know they are just really happy about somebody's work and - as well they should be for whatever joy they had from that. And if it makes them feel good to tell somebody I am OK with it.  Totally. So I just want to - you know for listeners that are Googling you right now as they hear you talk I want to go over your IMDB which is like a mile long. Just recently you were The Founder opposite Michael Keaton. You played LBJ in Jackie with Natalie Portman. You were in Fargo the original film. On TV you have done some of everything. You were Twisty the Clown in American Horror Story. You were in The Walking Dead Billions The Americans Body Of Proof Big Love The Drew Carey Show. You know when I was going through the list even I was surprised. I was like oh yeah you were in Hot Pursuit a film that I liked a lot.  . Yeah I loved working on that. Anne is a great director to work with. She was a lot of fun. She is a great - how she made me laugh a lot.  Yeah. And I loved that that film knew exactly what it was and was just that.  Yep. Yep. It was 100 percent that.  Yeah.  And I think that Reese Witherspoon is such a talented comedian.  She is phenomenal.  And the two of them...  Yeah.  ...Are such a great Mutt and Jeff pair.  .  It was so much fun. Sofia Vergara's hysterical in that movie I think.  Oh totally. Totally. And I mean - and so youve also worked with a ton of different directors and actors - Clint Eastwood Martin Scorsese David Fincher John Lee Hancock Coen brothers. Of all of that if you had to pick like one film and one director that youve worked with like which were the pinnacle?  The next one.  OK. Good answer .  You know I want to work. So its the next one.  That is right. That is right.  But I will always have a more-than-warm feeling in my heart for Joel and Ethan and Fargo because it started - it created a circumstance in which I was a legitimate film actor.  Yeah.  So all of it flows from that font from the beginning of that font. I would worked in films before that - a couple of little roles that were really helpful to me in terms of the apparatus and everything. But that was my first you know part.  Got you. And you also do theater. Like when do you find time...  Yes.  Like one how easy is it for you or hard is it for you to get your head in such different headspaces for these different roles? And two when do you sleep?  . I mean because of the - it is interesting you ask about sleeping. I have not been sleeping particularly well...  Ditto.  ...As I have been going through this process with the film but also just in our world presently. So it is always - you always wake up with a kind of - please nothing be terribly terribly wrong.  As far as the current events of the world right now?  Well the current events but also - yeah the current events. And also things have changed a lot in talking about this movie because Harry died.  Yeah.  So that also has changed the way in which you know our - the conversations have been. But as far as the work and getting into the work individual roles are always different. So it depends on the amount of time you have to prepare and also the amount of material you have to prepare with. It is funny. You know I was watching an interview with Michelle Williams on My Week With Marilyn. And she said well I have been working on preparing this for a year. And I was like a year.  .  What would a year feel like? Like what would a year be like to be...  I would be over the role before I played it. I would be like it does not work for me.  Well it was - it is funny because I did - and then I did this movie Anything where just before I acted an 18-day film just before I directed Lucky an 18-day film. So - and I am the lead in that movie. And I suddenly realized you know I have been working on that part on and off for about five years because that is how long it took to amass the money to make it so.  Yeah.  So I did have a sense of what I do - what I would do with a year .  Was it hard?  No. It was delightful to be so - to feel the - kind of the bedrock of the material...  Yeah.  ...In such a strong way - and then to have the whirlwind of a rollercoaster 18-day shoot to do it. So that was always a challenge and emotionally very - it was emotionally very satisfying.  Yeah. So let us talk about your newest film Lucky.  Yeah.  You directed it - first time directing. And you directed a friend of yours the legendary actor recently deceased Harry Dean Stanton. I am guessing this experience was just wonderful.  Well it was a...  I can feel the wonder when I see the movie.  Well I am glad. I mean it certainly was a wonderful experience for me. My relationship with Harry - it is interesting. I had met Harry a few times before we came together in kind of this arranged marriage around Lucky. But he was attached to the screenplay as an actor before I was as a director. And this was the basis the foundation of any friendship that we had - was working on this. So I have this really kind of weird emotional relationship when - around his death because there are people I know who worked in the film and who worked on the film that have enduring personal relationships with Harry that last years and decades. And mine is a much shorter association. So sometimes I feel frankly a little awkward about accepting condolences because I know how much people are grieving around me in a personal way. And while I am grieving upon occasion you know it comes on me and I suddenly choke up. Or I suddenly think of something that happened on the set and I cannot speak about it. Those things are based on the intensive work that we did together during the production and pre-production and then also the editing work I did with watching him over and over again in every moment of this performance.  Yeah. You know I mean having to direct such a legend - I was reading somewhere that you said when you first started directing this film you would like forget to yell out the word action .  Yeah. The very first day the very first shot we were shooting it with Ed Begley and Harry. And we blocked it like you do. And we were ready to shoot. And we would set the first shot. And they said sound speed rolling. And then there was nothing. And I am looking at Harry on the monitor. And he is waiting and waiting. And finally I see him go well just say action man. That is the deal. That is why you did this right? I mean...  .  And I was like oh yeah that is me. That is my line.  That is the deal. That is the deal.  That is the only line I had and I blew it.   It is OK. It all came together.  I had two action and cut. That was it. That is all I had to say.  Yeah. Yeah. For those younger listeners here introduce Harry Dean Stanton to them briefly.  Harry Dean Stanton is a face that almost anybody in the last three generations would recognize. He is done tons of work - obviously 200-some credits on his IMDb page. And...  Yeah.  ...The things that he is most known for recently - he was in a great scene in The Avengers with Mark Ruffalo. He did Big Love. He played Roman in Big Love. And most recently for younger audiences he was on Twin Peaks The Return...  Yeah.  ...Playing Carl I believe that was the name of the character. And so he - he is been working in the film and television industry for 60 years. He is been on everything from Paris Texas to Laverne  Shirley.  Yeah.  He is the...  He is the guy.  He is the quintessential character actor.  Well - and just thinking about why he is such a legend I have heard a lot of people say that everything he did always felt extremely authentic and that he would not even call it acting.  Well he tried not to call it acting all the time. I mean he really - that was really kind of his benchmark of his own - look at his own work and I think that you are right. He is always authentic. He is always true. He is always real. And he is never - he is all - he is at a place of being in his work - and that started very early on - that was so transfixing.  Yeah. How do you - I mean how do you think he got to that place of being? Because it is hard.  I do not - I mean man. I wish there were a pill. There probably was at some point knowing Harry.  .  But you know he lived a life you know?  Yeah.  He sucked the marrow out of life and part of that might be that. He also was a searcher both intellectually and kind of in his heart. And so he was always looking for some kind of answer to both the work and the living of it. And I think that in some ways that is part of what made that possible. There was also another thing that I do not know if it is something that is aspirable  which is somehow the way light reflected off his face. It just seems unfair. But he always - he always was so beautiful to look at. Even in his roughest times he always seemed to be vulnerable and present.  Yeah you know - yeah I felt watching this newest movie that you directed the whole film I wanted to care for him.  Yeah.  I wanted to make sure he was OK. I wanted to get him a cup of soup and he was not a nice man.  No he is not.  But I still wanted to do that for him.  No. There is always a sense that you cannot help but feel compassion for him. And that is what I guess in some ways was his enduring kind of tone. His key tone as an actor was that. Even when he is playing horrible people like Roman or like his character in Repo Man who is just awful that you still wanted him to succeed. I remember seeing that movie and at the end going why am I rooting for this terrible man to do something that he should not be doing?  Yes.  Why am I - why does he - how can he put me in that position? And he did it over and over again.  So you have the challenge of directing a legend...  Yeah.  ...In Harry Dean Stanton and also the challenge of directing a movie for the first time. Was it just really really hard and what was that like?  I learned a lot and the pain of it when it was painful was all about the pain of education - right? - all about the things that you realize you do not know and need to learn quickly because there is not a - there is not enough time for you to waste to not learn it.  Yeah.  But it was - it was a challenge and the material was so drawn from Harry's life. So it was a personal story for him and I do not think he is done a story quite so personal in that way. He is spoken about many of the stories in the film before but when you start saying OK we are going to put it down as a piece of art we are going to - we are going to put a frame around it and we are going to create a character named Lucky that is not you that lives in this small Arizona town and we are going to take pieces of your life and encapsulate them inside this material to draw the audience to the thematic things that we want to talk about and to the emotional journey that the character is having for the point of this it suddenly changes the relationship he has with his own autobiographical stories.  Yeah yeah.  And that was the conversation that was so fascinating with someone who is an accomplished - such an accomplished actor master actor at 60 years in the business and at 89 when we worked together. So it was - that was challenging to first of all as a first-time director earn somebody like that is respect and also to recalibrate this very intimate material into a new framework for both him and the audience.  Yeah yeah. I want to give a brief synopsis of the film for those that have not seen it yet but I do not want to give away spoilers so help me out. This is the story of a man who seems to have outlived a lot of others and he is nearing the end of his life. He seems to be some kind of atheist a skeptic of lots of things. And in this end-of-life vignette we see of him he kind of comes to terms with some big themes about life and existence and I think love. I do not know.  Well I think all of those things are true with the exception of...  OK.  ...The end of life which is - one of the things I love about the movie is that we do not know.  Yeah.  He does not know how long he is got. He does not have anything extently  wrong with him throughout the film. There is - he does not have anything that says OK you have cancer or you have this or you know you have gone - you are going to die of whatever it is. His mortality even at his age is a question mark the same way it is a question mark for me.  Yeah.  So I do not know when it is going to happen. I just know that it is going to happen.  Yeah.  And what do I do with that? What do I do with that knowledge as a conscious - as a - whatever relative amount of consciousness I have? What do I do with that truth today right now? How do I digest that and live in a way that is meaningful?  Did your work on this film change the way you answer that question?  It certainly deepened. It certainly deepened it. And it reminded me again and again and again with something that I really think is good for me as a human being which is to remind myself that everything I do is in the valley of the shadow of death. And that does not have to be a bad thing. As a matter of fact it can be a thing that clarifies meaning. You and I are sitting on this you know in this interchange and and we are sharing this moment. And I can make this valueless or valuable based on how I approach it. It does not have to be anything but how important it is to me and you at this moment. If I can bring my life to that kind of essential presence then I think I am actually living the life I am fully born to live. If I waste time by not being here ...  Yeah.  ...Then I am really - I really am wasting a life.  Wasting time.  Yeah.  What I took away from the film which - spoiler alert - made me cry - thanks for that man.  You are welcome. You are welcome.  I you know we see in Harry Dean Stanton's character who tries to be very rational and logical and calm and clinical in spite of all that effort life gets to him. And whether you are religious or spiritual or not life is going to make you feel something bigger than yourself. And I have felt that in this movie. Like the turtle goes where it will. The turtle will outlive you. You will sing at that backyard party and before you know it life opens you up in spite of the best-laid plans. And I just found that beautiful.  Yeah. And the only thing I would add is it is a tortoise .  Oh I need to figure out the difference. The tortoises live longer right?  Well not necessarily.  OK.  Turtles live a long time too but turtles live in the water and tortoises live on land.  The more you know.  That is - that is as clarifying and simple a thing as possible for the difference. But it is what we play on because people - they certainly - to us they look the same.  Yeah. This movie felt very spiritual to me which I found quite interesting because Harry Dean Stanton is an atheist and this film is about his life I think as a skeptic and an atheist. But you from what I have read are Catholic.  That is interesting you say that. I mean I certainly am a - I am a confirmed Catholic. I still go to mass upon occasion mostly with - when I go with my wife because I like going with her...  Yeah.  ...To that. And I will always have to some degree whether or not I decide at some point that Harry deems essential faith in his atheism is absolutely correct and there is nobody out there I will still have a Catholic world view because I cannot shake that. And I love a lot about what it is to be a Catholic as - there was a line in the movie that ended up being cut which is about Christians where Lucky says well they lose me when they get organized. And I think there is some truth to that for all of us even in the church at times.  Yeah. You know as a very unorganized Christian myself I really loved the way that the movie made me think bigger things than the day and the life right in front of me which is what church at its best does for me.  Yeah.  And it felt especially grounding in this current news cycle of heavy hits every five minutes it seems to just have this film make me stop and understand that we are part of not just something bigger but part of something that we have no control over.  Yes that we are - that the world is - the world and the universe are unfolding whether or not we kneel at the national anthem.  Yeah whether or not Donald Trump tweets.  Whatever happens...  Yeah.  ...There is going to be something that is going to drive us forward and draw us forward. And there are things in that circumstance that we control and other things that we do not. It does not mean that we are not responsible. It does not mean that in my opinion it does not also mean that we are not responsible and do not need to be engaged and try to change things on any level that we feel are necessary for change. But what it does do is it creates a context - the world creates a context for me that says yes and you are not in charge of any of it.  Yeah.  You have to collaborate for any change and even any change that we collaborate on is not going to change much in the spiral arm of our galaxy.  Yeah but it also felt like the ultimate message of this film was not entirely nihilistic. I mean you have Harry Dean Stanton...  No.  ...Saying in spite of all of this this bigness this vastness this inability to control you still smile.  Well I love - I loved that from the very beginning of reading the screenplay that what it talks about is the choice of joy the choice.  Yeah. And it is a choice.  The choice of happiness.  That is the thing. It is a choice.  The choice of being present with joy with each other. And that - I do not know how many times I am going to have to hear that to get that message but I am glad I got an opportunity to work on something that hopefully will say it to people and hopefully will say it over and over because I do not know how many times I have to hear it to keep reminding myself that that is the most important thing...  Yeah.  ...To maintain a sense of joy about this ridiculously beneficial gift of life.  Yeah. I am probably prying too much now but besides from making great film and screen work how do you choose joy yourself?  I think it changes. Certainly my work over the course of my life has provided me with great joy. I feel at home at work and in presence with other creative people in a way that feels right to me and right to my soul. And also I am most grateful to be in an enduring relationship with someone and to be chasing intimacy and all of its difficulties and all of its benefits with somebody who is willing to stand toe to toe and go after it. And I am willing - I am also extraordinarily grateful that I am joyous - I have the joyous feeling of being with grandchildren now so that is unbelievably besotting . I cannot tell you. When you get out - when you get out of a refrigerator box 60 times in a row with your grandchild and she laughs fully and gratefully and just wants to do it again and again and again and never loses never loses a sense of how much fun it is my life sponge soaks that up pretty strongly.  That is awesome.  Yeah.  So how did you get into this world? Acting...  You mean acting?  ...Directing et cetera.  Well I started out - I started out in high school. My brother was in a production of Camelot at our - at what was soon to be my high school. I was 13 so I had not gone there yet.  Where was this?  This was in Denver Colo. where I grew up. And my sister Nora who continues to do stand-up now - she had done plays as well. And my brother was playing one of the knights in Camelot and he came out - he has a beautiful singing voice. And this was an excellent production. It was such a good high school production that it was actually transferred to a community theater for a run. That is how good it was.  OK.  Anyway I am watching my brother come out and sing the opening song which establishes the story of Camelot at the top. And I am mystified because I agree fully at 13 years old that he is a knight of King Arthur's Round Table. He comes out and he starts singing about it. And I go oh yeah. He is. And that mystified me. I mean I just agreed. I just agreed even though I knew that he was not that. And that was such an amazing thing. I thought - I mean I can be somebody else just by saying I am and everybody else will agree for some period of time that that is the case. That was what started the chase.  Yeah it is almost like you kind of get away from some of those existential realities that we spoke of earlier.  Yes you have an opportunity to live a different life for some framework and everybody seems to agree to that process. And I could not get enough of it. I did as many plays as I could get in and get my hands on - I - in high school because of a great little community theater run by the Catholic Youth Services. It was called the Original Scene. I did like 19 productions in high school.  Whoa.  And I did ones at my own school. I did ones at other people's schools. I did Denver Public Schools...  You were addicted.  ...Shows. Oh yeah without a doubt. And I was running really fast away from whatever I thought I was. So it was really great to spend any time away from that.  Explain. What do you mean you were running away?  I did not know - I did not know what I was really running away from until much later. But I was - I was running away from a sense of fear of my own being in some way that these were respites. These plays were respites from that end. And it was life and death for me in a way that obviously is not extraordinarily healthy. So that took a while for me to kind of come to terms with. And in the process I also thought I was learning acting which took much much longer...  Yeah.  ...Than I thought it would.  So this is life and death running away from was this just like the general angst of growing up or was it something deeper?  I do not know about - I think it just had to do with upbringing and family drama and the murkiness of you know just the wind which family works. And my family at the time when I was - started high school was not incredibly happy. My parents were not incredibly happy. And it just seemed like a good fit. That is why I never wanted to go home. So I would go from play practice - you know it is - I - when I was not swimming in high school I was at play practice. So - and even when I - there were times when we were doing winter shows where I would finish swimming go to play practice. So it was a way to just be someplace else and to be away from what was a really challenging family life. But you know the beauty of grace is that it unfolded in my family life through the wonders of divorce and other things got a lot better.  OK.  You know my parents chose to separate and divorce and that relieved a lot of pressure on me. And you know people grow up and we eventually - a lot of us got a lot healthier in a lot of different ways.  All right. Time for a quick break. When we come back a lesson about acting from the movie Tropic Thunder - yes. Also John talks about playing bad guys. We will be right back.   So John we were just talking about some of the strife in your childhood. Did some of that strife shape the kind of actor and now director that you are today?  Certainly. It certainly framed a grand level of black humor where when things go wrong I have a tendency to laugh. And those definitely came from circumstances in my family where it just - there was no other choice but to laugh.  Yeah.  You know when you are arguing with your brother and your mom screams at you stop it stop it you are killing me that is a phrase that makes you laugh after a while because you are like is it really about you? Because we are just fighting with each other. Is that - does this...  Also mom's still alive.  Does this - yes exactly. Does this really reflect on you in any way?  Yeah.  But after a - I mean it was great. I mean it was that was a - humor was in - was a - has constantly been a good tool when things go badly.  Yeah. So you end up at Catholic University?  Yeah in Washington D.C. and...  I live not too far from I am Catholic.  Where do you live?  I am...  Do not tell me the exact address.   I am a few blocks north of Union Station.  OK. So you are in northeast.  I am in northeast and sometimes on my morning run I pass by Catholic. It is a beautiful place.  Oh great. Great. It is a beautiful campus. I was just there.  OK.  I did - I did a workshop for the students there. That was interesting and fun. And the university - I went there kind of in an unconscious way because I knew I wanted to do theater. It had a reputation of being a good theater school. My sister was enrolled there as a Bachelor of Fine Arts student. And I just kind of went there because she was there and that - that is the reasoning I did not - I mean I think they take - people take so much more care about their college choices now than people did when I was younger but maybe it is just me.  Too much care in my opinion.  I think so too.  Go to school.  So you know just try it out see how it works for you. But I - that is why I went there and I learned a lot there. And I certainly learned a lot about philosophy religion math history - those kinds of things. I got a - the bachelor finance degree I got was primarily liberal arts.  OK. And then after that you just say I am going to be an actor now or was it more than that?  Yeah that is exactly what happened.  OK.  I just - I started doing you know auditioning everywhere I could but I ended up getting an audition for the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis for their touring company of Frankenstein and ended up being cast as the creature in that production.  The creature.  Yes the creature. It was a thing called playing - Frankenstein Playing With Fire. It was an adaptation of the novel. And so it was really heady and philosophical as well as gothic in nature. And so I toured with that for a little less than six months and it had an in-house run. And Garland Wright the artistic director of the Guthrie at the time asked me to join the company and I wisely decided to. He was committed to company the apparatus was committed to company. We were in rep all the time. So you were doing one part in...  Rep - what is rep?  Repertory theater. So you do one part in one play and one part in another and we - and the stage would change over nightly. And you would do whatever you know in whatever schedule. So you were constantly being asked - a woman I worked with said the company is great because everybody has to deal with being miscast. And so it asks you to stretch. It asks you to consider playing things that you are not necessarily comfortable playing. You have to figure out how to do that and so I really learned how to act there.  Yeah and it seems like that being forced to play all different types of roles totally informed your work on screen later on.  Absolutely. I would fall into kind of a groove of playing some things and I would try to figure out how to get out of it so I could play other things too. And I was able to do a wide variety of things and a part of it was just a simple acceptance of my own capability of human evil which helps anybody who is going to try to be an actor.  You just threw a doozy out there. My own capability for human evil.  Expound on that please.  Well I mean as an actor if you are going to really reflect humanity if you are really going to do that job if you are really going to take Shakespeare seriously and hold the mirror up to nature part of what you have to hold up to nature - the mirror up to nature is the nature of how humans embrace and act evil in their own lives and how they bring it forth in the world. And so when asked to play you know people who are sociopathic or who have evil intent as an actor you have - I think you have to first accept the fact that you are fully capable of anything that would be described as evil. Otherwise you are not really doing it right.  Man.  And the other thing you have to also embrace is human selflessne