 Hey you all. Sam here. I have a favor to ask of all you dear listeners. We on the show here we are like a little over 2 years old and you know when a baby gets to be a toddler things start changing. They start walking exploring talking more using language showing personality et cetera. This show is doing that as well. We are going to begin to make some changes and we want your input as we grow. So there is a survey. We want you to fill it out. Go to npr.orgsamsurvey and answer all the questions. Thank you. Now we can get to the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders It is BEEN A MINUTE. This week on the show - actress Regina King. She has been in the biz since she was 13 - way back in the day. You may remember her role as Brenda Jenkins on the classic NBC sitcom 227.    No place like home.   What is your homework?   I have to write a composition for English class - my most interesting ancestor.  After that Regina King just kept on working - John Singleton movies like Boyz N The Hood and Poetic Justice other movies like Ray consistent TV work voiceovers in shows like The Boondocks. Regina King stayed busy and kept making good stuff. Well decades into her career now the industry is finally giving her the accolades many folks think she should have had all along. Regina King won two Emmys for her work on the ABC drama American Crime in 2015 and 2016. And this year she won an Oscar for her performance in the Barry Jenkins film If Beale Street Could Talk. She is out this month with a new show on HBO called Watchmen. It is inspired by the graphic novel of the same name. The show deals with issues of race and policing - a lot of things that we are dealing with right now in America. But Watchmen on HBO does this thing where it flips traditional notions of race and class and policing on its head to make its point. We talk about that show and why Regina King gravitates towards work that is consistently dealing with racial bias. All right. We start this conversation at NPR West together with Regina King a bit distracted by her phone. You will hear what I mean in a bit. Also listeners there is some foul language that we have bleeped in the first part of this conversation. OK. Here it is. Enjoy.   All right Sam.  All right.  Off this daggone  energy zapper.  You know. What is your phone etiquette like? Because my rule now is I do not do push notifications for anything.  Oh. I have never really done push notifications.  Good good.  Well no no. I take that back. I realized push notifications were - because like when you get your phone I guess it is kind of programmed to automatically do that. Yeah. So my  was dinging all the time and like I really could not...   It is too much.  I mean it is like dinging for things like Pinterest.  Exactly. And you are like what?  I am like what the hell?  Yeah.  So they are all off and they have been all off for years.  Yeah. Yeah. You have to do it that way. I mean it is just like it will suck you in. It feels like one these things have shortened our attention spans.  One hundred percent.  But two there is just so much random stuff on the Internet to get sucked into.  To get sucked in. I am really trying to be better at looking at social media you know looking at your feed and not having a visceral reaction to something.   Teach me your ways.  I have not mastered it yet because they have managed to pop in like tweets or something or Instagram posts from things - people you do not follow.  Oh yeah and things you should not care about.  You should not care about or that I get in my feelings like why is there  National Pancake Day? Like I...   Why are we doing this?  Why are we doing this? Why are we doing this?  Oh yeah. But then you have also Googled National Pancake Day.  Pancake day - yes.  And you are like well what is the most popular pancake? I want to know. Who invented pancakes? Where did they come from?  And then on the flip side I understand National Tequila Day. So what does that say about me?   Exactly yeah. Yes yes. I mean thinking big picture about that this Internet media landscape is it harder as someone who makes TV or movies to get the attention you want these days? Because when you are making 227 back in the day you are one of a handful of networks. They got you in a good time slot. You are watched.  Yes yes.  And now you are not just putting TV on the TV you are putting TV into that Internet world full of distraction. And you are trying to be someone's International Pancake Day .  Exactly. I am trying to be the No. 1 trending thing yes.  Yeah yeah.  Yeah it is difficult.  Yeah.  And it is difficult to be OK in my spirit about that. You know that is the thing that I find myself - you know that is the tug within me. Like I feel like yes I need to understand that we are in a different day and age that this is the time where social media is what you use to promote...  Yeah yeah.  ...A project or a cause or whatever. But the reality is I am not really consistent. And what I do notice is you know you have to be on there...  Feeding that beast.  ...Consistently feeding it so that you can break through National Pancake Day and everything else you know?  Yeah. But also it is like you are an actress first. And I am guessing you want to spend more time on the craft than...  Than - yeah. But I got to tell you I am so impressed with those artists that are able to be on there like all the time and posting every single day several times a day and manage to be really great at their craft.  Yeah.  I do not think I will ever be good at that.  .  And what I will say is I am OK with that.  Yeah.  I have gotten to that place that I am OK with that.  Yeah yeah. But you know what you do have?  Yeah?  An Oscar .  I know. That part right?  That part.  Right.  I mean so like there is also this kind of thing where like it is interesting to see you in this moment making the stuff that you are making because as someone who is been a fan and been watching you for a while it feels like something in the last two three four years you are functioning and your career is functioning like on all cylinders. Does it feel...  It does.  Watching you it feels that way.  No it does feel that way.  OK.  And I feel like there is a lot of experiences have taken place to lead to this moment...  Yeah.  ...As with anyone's life.  Yeah.  But I think I have been very good at learning from my mistakes...  OK.  ...You know not repeating them growing from my mistakes...  Yeah.  ...Or just circumstances that have taken place.  Yeah yeah.  And I do feel like I move with more confidence now you know and especially in the past...  Yeah.  ...You know seven eight years.  Yeah.  I think being a mother had a lot to do with getting me to that space without actually thinking about it without consciously...  Explain. Explain.  Because I have another life that I am responsible for.  .  And that is like the No. 1 priority and the reality of - because I am - my son is an only child.  OK.  So the reality that not only is he an only child I am an only mom you know?  Yeah yeah.  So I am learning it just as he. We are growing together. And growing together and learning through his eyes allowed me to think in a more selfless way or...  And also you know you have less time to get caught up with the petty.  The - with - yeah.  Yeah.  Exactly.  In thinking of like gaining that confidence being a little better just being you in this world and in your craft it almost feels like you would not have been ready for a role like the Watchmen a few years ago.  I would not have been ready for a lot of things.  OK.  You know like a lot of people ask me - first of all I believe that - I love the saying that we make plans and God laughs.  Yeah.  You know that there is - it does not get more true than that.  Oh yeah.  And...  God is a Netflix comedy special .  Wow. I am telling you...   Like just...  ...Yes. And thank God you can look at it.  .  Thank you God. Yeah.  Yeah yeah.  You know I will have people ask me you know do you feel like you were - you should have been recognized here should have been recognized there. And when I think about that I think about would I have - let us just take the Oscar for instance.  Yeah.  Would I have received it the way I received it now? Like now it is - I think if this may have happened years ago I probably would have received it like OK. I have done it all now. You know now what?  Yeah.  Whereas now I know that is so not even kind of close to the tip of the iceberg. While it is a wonderful feather in your cap it is seeing it as OK this is great currency to...  For the next.  For the next yeah. Yeah. And you know for me that was happening while I was shooting Watchmen.  Oh really?  Yeah.  So you were still working in the midst of all of it.  Yeah. So I was prepared at this time of my life to be able to be doing...  Yeah.  ...All of that. And...  At once.  At once.  Yeah.  Yeah which I do not know that if that would have not...  Would have - yeah.  It would not have been the case...  Earlier.  ...Earlier on no.  What gives you that core emotionally?  My...  Is it Jesus? What is it?  Jesus. Praise Jesus.  .  Yes. It is my spiritual base...  OK.  ...My foundation. And that came from my mother.  OK.  You know that is - I mean it is really as simple as that. Just when you are in the womb and you have - just everything surrounding you is spiritually in tune...  OK.  ...You know? And that is...  Yeah.  ...You know my mother my grandmother...  OK.  ...My - it is...  It was just in the DNA almost.  It is in the DNA. Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah because I am guessing you float around an industry full of people that do not have that inner peace and that are just whirling dervishes of nervousness. And I suppose that can be frustrating. I have interviewed a lot of folks where they are not at peace and I can tell.  Yeah.  And I can see it. And I can hear it. And I can feel it.  Right.  And I am just like you are very talented and very engaging. But...  Yeah but bless your heart.  I wish you peace.  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah bless your heart. Bless your heart.  But I feel like I encounter that in life period.  Yeah.  You know what I mean?  Yeah.  Just not in this industry. Like even like as simply - something as simple as - you know you can feel that energy...  Oh yeah.  ...Like when you are in the grocery store.  Oh yeah.  You know somebody in line...  They are like why you picking that basket like that?  Yeah. You are like oh oh. OK.  .  I am happy I am not you.  Yeah. Yeah.   You know?  Yeah. Let me get out this Trader Joe's. Yeah.  Yeah. Let me get out of this TJ's right quick.  Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah. So I think I am cognizant to...  Yeah.  ...That energy when it is around me. And I am also very in tune to when the opposite...  Yeah.  ...Is around me. When that - good vibes around you - you know how like you fall into that conversation with somebody? And...  You are like oh my God. I like you.  Yes. And you never see that person again.  Yeah.  But you walk away from that moment with a smile.  You were blessed. Yes. Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah. I call them gift days...  OK.  ...Gift moments. Yeah.  Yeah. I like that.   When we come back Regina King tells me more about her new HBO show Watchmen and what it means to come to the table for difficult conversations about race. BRB.   So the show Watchmen - give me your elevator pitch in 30 seconds. And then I will come in with mine .  First of all this is an elevator pitch if you are on a local elevator in the Empire State Building. So...   That is a...  .  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah.  OK. OK.  So it is a show that comes from source material...  The comic books.  ...The comic books. It uses the source material as if it is the Bible.  Yeah.  It is the Bible of this alternate universe.  OK.  And in this alternate universe we have picked up - for those who are fans of the book we have picked up 30 years from when that book ended.  OK.  And we are - like that book dealt with the threat of Cold War. In this story our biggest fear is racism and policing.  Sounds like my life .  Yes you know?  Yeah.  And I mean I thought that was so smart for Damon to choose that...  Yeah.  ...As that backdrop...  Yeah.  ...That imminent fear. Also the show is like a gumbo of genres.  OK. Yeah.  So you have sci-fi. You have romance. You have humor.  Uh-Huh.  You have real historical events that will be...  Oh yeah.  ...Happening...  The Open is the Tulsa race riot.  Yes.  So you are giving history too.  Yes and that is one of the things that I thought when I first read the script. I was like oh my God.   Your character in this show I want to describe it accurately. You - and there is layers to the character.  It is.  It is like - so your character is a former police officer.  I think we can say that she is a police officer but she is operating undercover as a police officer because a certain series of events have taken place that has led the police department in Tulsa to police in a way that their identities are hidden.  So all these police officers are wearing masks...  Yes.  ...On patrol...  On patrol.  ...Which is weird to see already.  Already.  Yeah.  And then the detectives - their uniform if you will is individual to - if - not one detectives...  Wears the same thing.  ...Wears the same thing. So Angela Abar is who I play. To me she kind of represents all of us in the way - I say that because in the first episode you get to see three different masks.  Yeah yeah.  Yeah you know and that is kind of how we move in real life.  To the world.  You know who we are at the family reunion is different than who we are at home with the immediate family.  Yeah than who we are at work...  Than who we are at work.  ...With that boss who gets on our nerves you know?  Exactly.  Yeah.  You know so we are always constantly changing masks. And sometimes we get confused on which one we should have on. Through Angela we kind of explore all of that...  Yeah yeah yeah.  ...Through Angela through story.  So this show that is asking us to grapple with big questions about policing but in a way where everything's flipped on its head - the racial hierarchy seems to be flipped. The relationship between cops and civilians seems to be flipped. When you think about using a show like that to get at these big central questions of American life does it work better or differently than a show that is perhaps more what we see every day? You have done other shows about race and policing that seem specifically of this moment and like scenes from our lives. This is a show with questions about policing and crime and race but it is set in a world that feels very much not this one. How do you think about the way that those shows make us ask those questions or answer them when one is set in this world and one is not?  Right. That is a great question because I am just thinking about just myself as an audience member that I do feel like I receive things that are provocative or that makes me want to talk about them later when there is humor involved.  Yeah.  So I guess this is very similar...  Yeah.  ...In that way.  Yeah.  Like for example I saw Slave Play.  OK.  Ooh.  I need - I have had been hearing that.  Oh child.  .  Man but that is a perfect example of what you know I am talking about you know?  Yeah.  And similar to Watchmen in a way that like I do not - no one knows - they are going in not knowing what to expect.  Yes yes.  I do not want people to - I do not want to say I hope that you feel this.  Yeah.  I want you to walk out of there or come off your couch take it in and just be honest about what you feel you know? And...  Yeah.  And that is really...  Yeah.  ...The best we can do as artists...  Yeah.  ...You know having the opportunity to contribute to a conversation...  Yeah yeah.  ...To force the viewer to be honest about what they are feeling.  Yes yeah. A theme in your recent work that I have noticed - you deal with notions of the police state and crime and race and policing. I am guessing you taking roles over time that speak to that is not by accident.  I do not think that they are - I - this is going to sound crazy Sam. I do not feel like I am actively looking for these stories. But I will say that if the story moves me - it moves me and feels like it is rooted in truth even if it is a comedy then I am attracted to it.  Yeah.  I will say because I have been on this Earth for 48 years and so much of that is part of my experience being black in America.  Yeah.  Subconsciously and consciously I cannot help but be attracted to it.  To be drawn to it.  I cannot help it you know? So it is not that I am out there like only send me these projects. It is like you know five or six things will hit my desk and that'ill just be the one that my heart says...  That is it.  Yeah.  Yeah well and it also feels like we are in this moment where the real world cannot figure out race and policing. We cannot figure it out. Politicians cannot figure it out. Protesters  cannot figure it out. And like sometimes it feels like the only way to actively work through this stuff is through the creative arts.  Oh 100. And also I think a big reason why you cannot figure it out is because if you are trying to revise the past if you are actively not trying to learn about the past or differences then we are never going to get to a space where we have enough people that can be solution-based.  Yeah.  And I say that to say that it is not just only white people you know having a reckoning. It is black people understanding that this is the case.  Yeah.  So how do we move in a way that is solution-based...  Solution-based.  ...To help that reckoning come sooner you know?  Yeah well I mean like it is a question between allowing yourself to be angry all the time or allowing yourself to be solution-based.  Right.  And those - sometimes that goes together. But oftentimes it is two different things.  Yeah.  And oftentimes we have a lot to be angry about for good reason.  100.  But how does my anger serve a solution?  And that is the biggest thing right there. It is like when you come to the table with differences the first thing you have to do is understand that we both have anger and pain.  Yes and we both feel righteous in that anger and pain.  In that anger and pain.  Yes.  So how can we converse or - I keep using the word solution-based because we have been talking for a long time so...  Yeah yeah. Exactly.  You know how do we get to a place where we have forward movement and not lateral movement without triggering the anger and the pain and making - and letting that speak for us?  Exactly.  And when I say this I am saying it because I am working at it as well.  Yeah.  You know this is something that I think we are all working through. And I think for so many people it is terrifying to consider coming to that table and being honest about how you feel.  Yeah.  That is terrifying.  Oh yeah.  No matter what you look like it is. And how can we do that with respect?  Yeah.  That is the hardest part. It is hard because it is hard to sometimes want to respect someone that seems to be refusing who you are.  Yes your personhood.  Yeah. Yeah you know?   In studio with actress Regina King - when we come back she tells me why she is always proud to be an American especially right now.   When it comes to your work that deals with race and crime and policing and race relations in America what do you hope folks that have followed your body of work on that subject take from seeing you in those roles over the last several years?  This is going to sound cheesy but I guess overall I am grateful to be American. You know I mean I truly am.  Yeah.  And because I am is the reason why I guess I am gravitating to these stories.  Yeah.  And I hope that through - as difficult as it is that you can still find pride even with all the ugliness...  Yeah.  ...That comes with the history of America. You know that is a - I kind of feel like in a lot of ways - not to pat myself on the back - but that is very brave to say that I am proud to be an American...  Yeah.  ...And especially right now.  Yeah.  You know what I mean?  Yeah.  And part of me being proud is because I do recognize how ugly America can be and has been.  And still is in some ways.  And still - yeah. But I am also a person that finds the beauty in the bruises. I just feel like I cannot love me and not be grateful for all that is brought...  Yeah.  ...Me to be right here. So that sounds like really granola.  I get it. I get it.  But it is - yeah.  Yeah. I mean it is a part of loving America. And people will say this when they are protesting about things that America is doing. Part of loving your country is wanting it to be better.  Yeah yeah. Exactly. Loving your child is loving your child.  Yes.  Loving you parents or - you know...  Yeah loving a child is not never saying to them you did this thing wrong or you can do that better.  Right.  Loving your child is saying I want to help you be the best you can be.  Yeah and that was not...  By what you meant.  Yeah that was not...  Exactly.  Yeah.  And so like you can do the same thing with your country. And it is - I think it is particularly vital to see those conversations happening in work like yours because in so many other spheres of public life that candid work is just not happening. And...  It feels noisy right? It just feels noisy right now.  Yes.  And you know that is - and you know when we were first talking and we were talking about anxiety...  Yeah.  ...That comes up. I think the noise just makes you so anxious.  Yes which is why it is - as weird as it sounds it is refreshing to watch this dystopian show of yours  because it allows me freedom from that. And I can just focus on a story that is going to make me ask some bigger questions.  Bigger questions yeah.  You know?  Yes 100 because going back to talking about trying to ask questions and have a discussion and not lead with pain when - with a show like Watchmen I think it can - it takes some of that rawness out.  Yes. Yeah it is an interesting time to see art about this hard stuff happen because I think like if it is not happening there it is not happening anywhere else unfortunately - anywhere else.  Yeah I agree. I agree.  Anyway you are a director yourself.  Yes.  How - I love that.  I do too.   It is the kind of thing where you have built a career big enough now where you do not have to do that. You could do these movies do these TV shows get them checks and go home to your kid. It seems like asking to direct - and you do it a lot a fair amount. You are asking for more work. What made you want to do it?  Well I have always - saying it out loud - wanted to direct because one I early on in my career had the opportunity to work with amazing directors and continue to now. And I have also worked with directors that realize what not to do. You know like I would say - I will take it all the way back to 227.  OK.  Back then on television shows you would have other directors that would come in but you would have your main director that would direct most of the shows. And we had an amazing director Gerren Keith.  OK.  Look him up. He just directed with such grace but strength. And you know when you are 13 14 years old things are making an impact on you and you a lot of times do not even realize that is happening.  Yeah yeah yeah.  And I did not even reflect on the impact that Gerren had made on me until I started directing...  Really?  ...As you know an adult. And - so I can take it all the way back to there that Gerren Cameron Crowe John Singleton - like all of these people along the way just left a little something with me. And just watching them work and - I love working with people. And when I began to understand just how much the director was doing outside of the time I would be on set with the director....  Yeah.  I really got to learn that when - not until I was - at this point I had made it an open statement that I want to direct...  OK.  ...Which was terrifying in itself....  Really?  ...Because I wanted - my concern was that people would think it was a vanity thing because at that time a lot of actors were starting to do that.  They wanted the title yeah.  And then they would direct one thing and never direct again. But I really wanted to do it. So Christopher Chulack who was a producer and our main director on Southland allowed me to start shadowing him.  Nice.  And so when I saw how galvanizing it was all the people that he works with...  Yeah you are commanding the troops.  Yeah.  Yeah.  It really made me go oh my gosh yes.  Yeah.  This is right up my alley.  Yeah.  And - yeah so that just kind of started opening up there. And then my son is now a young adult...  OK.  So I have more time.  Yeah to do it.  Yeah.  Yeah. One of the things I like about you and your approach to directing and producing - because you have your own...  Production company.  ...As well. Yeah. You have said that you want to make sure that your projects have at least 50 women. That is ambitious.  It is ambitious.  Has it been harder or easier to get to that than you thought it would be?  Hard. Harder.  OK.  Yeah. And I actually - you know I knew that it was going to be hard. I led with it is not going to be easy. I probably should have kept that to myself did not and then said...  Look what I did.  But you know here's the thing. The beautiful thing is more people are working now...  Yeah.  ...Because we have so many different outlets.  Yeah.  But it is harder to - so for - with one particular department you know I am finding myself - we are finding our backs against the wall.  Really?  And...  Yeah.  It is the reality you know?  Well and it is this kind of vicious cycle because you need everyone to have enough experience to do it.  Yeah.  But you know the ones that you want to get from marginalized backgrounds are the most likely to have the least experience because they were shut out systemically...  Right.  ...For so long.  So we are taking - there are a lot of positions that we are bringing people on that do not have the experience but they do have the passion. They do have the background...  Yeah.  ...As far as the education.  Yeah.  You know?  And they will learn.  And they will learn. Yeah.  They will get on the set with you.  Yeah.  You will teach them.  Yeah.  You know?  And then that is what is also been wonderful in this process - is part of when you are meeting department heads and you know we ask - I ask the question well do not know if you saw the Golden Globes but I said something that we need to know as a team that you subscribe to...  Yeah.  ...And that you are going to do everything in your interest as you are building out your department to have it reflect that...  Yeah.  ...That parity is...  Fifty percent or more.  Yeah. And it is - everyone...  They all say yes?  Yeah.  OK. That is good.  And I do not feel like they are just saying yes because they want the job.  OK. They believe in it.  I feel like they genuinely...  OK.  ...Want to see that as well. They want to be - we - everyone involved thus far wants to be part of the narrative that...  Oh yeah.  ...Cut to next year we can say...  Parity.  ...We did it.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Better to be on that side...  That side...  ...Of the conversation than the other.  ...Than the other side. Exactly.  Yeah.  So we hope that we will have the opportunity to say that.  Yeah.  Yeah in a few months.  Yeah. Officially how long have you been in the biz? You started 227 when you were - what? - 13?  Thirteen. I shot the pilot at 13.  Wow.  So as a - you know I was going to acting school and doing plays and things like that prior to that. So I will be 49...  OK.  ...In January.  OK.  And your birthday marks the last day...  ...Of that year.  OK.  So...  So it is been...  ...Yeah 36 years.  ...Thirty-six years.  Yeah.  When did you know that you wanted to do this?  Probably in college you know?  But you were doing it before college.  I was doing it before but I wanted to be a dentist.  Wait. What?  I wanted to be - I know.  So who got you on 227 at 13?  I was always a fan of the arts.  OK.  You know the thing like living in L.A. is while our - one of our biggest...  Exports.  ...Exports...  Yeah.  ...Is Hollywood. It is still not - as far as the - all of the arts. It is not like New York...  Yeah.  ...In that sense that...  Yeah.  ...It is you know just bubbling with you know all different types of art. But my mother being a teacher whenever anything came to LA you know...  We are going.  ...She got - we are going.  OK.  You know when Eartha Kitt came in Timbuktu!...  OK.  ...We were going.  Yeah.  Alvin Ailey...  OK.  ...In town Dance Theater of Harlem in town - we were going.  Yeah.  So you know she started that excitement very early on.  What of your work has she enjoyed the most?  Oh gosh. That would probably be a question that you have to ask her but I think there is a certain amount of pride that probably came along with Beale Street...  Yeah.  ...Because it was James Baldwin's work...  Yeah.  ...And again being a teacher and...  Yeah.  ...Just who James Baldwin is and what he means to us as Americans.  Yeah.  And I say as Americans.  Yeah.  I think it is very important...  Yeah.  ...To say that. I think it holds a special place in her heart.  I love it. I was so looking forward to this conversation and I was not disappointed. This was a delight and joy.  Oh thank you.  What I did not tell you before we talked is my mother's name is Regina.  She is a queen.  She is a queen. Literally...  Wow.  ...It means queen.  It does.  Oh man. I am so grateful for this.  Wow.  Thank you so much.  Thank you.  I appreciate it.  Thank you.   Thanks again to actress Regina King. We are back in your feeds Friday with our weekly wrap of all the news and stuff. Until then thank you for listening. Talk soon.  