 Hey you all. It is your guest host Elise Hu. So I have three girls who are all under the age of 8 and all of them have now started school. The youngest is fierce an agent of chaos when she chooses to be. And we have all been home together non-stop since March.  Hi. I am Eva and I am 7 years old.  What is your name?  My name is Isa and I am 5 years old.  Elise is our mom.  So girls how is Zoom school going so far?  I like it.  What do you like about it?  I like that I am learning to read.  What do you like about it?  I like that...  Wait do you even like it?  I do not know.  What do you mean?  I like it because I have nice teachers that teach me every day.  But what is it like going to school on a screen?  I do not feel that good about that actually.  Who are you? What is your name?  Carinia .  That is not your real name. What is your real name?  I am not helping  you.  You are not going to talk to me.  She is Luna.  How old are you Luna?  No. No. No. No. Do not say it. I want you to put on my skirt.  How old are you?  I am 3 licks  old.  How many?  .  That was 3 years old in Chinese . Can you say 3 years old in English?  No.   OK.  .  OK.  Put on my skirt.  OK. Can you have Yani put that on for you? I have got to finish talking to your sisters.  No you...   starting it over.  We do not need to start it over.  Start it over.  Why do we need to start it over?  Because it is a mess. And I also need to go to...  Here mama. Put this on.  OK I am going to put it on in a minute. Why do not you just give me a...  .  What? OK let us start the show.  OK let us start the show.  Like with more enthusiasm.  Your voice is too shy. You have got to be brave. OK let us start the show.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Elise Hu filling in for Sam Sanders. Today on the show we are talking about child care and how the pandemic has exacerbated caregiving problems that already existed. It is been a lot as you just heard. And that was only two minutes from my house you all. This is my life every day forever. Now more than ever working parents are in desperate need of child care. But the industry's on the verge because of the pandemic. Even before coronavirus there was already a nationwide shortage with mostly women making the painful choice of whether to give up their jobs and careers to do the caregiving. Later on we will talk to an expert about why that is and how we even got to this point. But first I wanted to talk to someone who is dealing with all of this firsthand - a daycare owner.  I think something that now is going to be a little bit more reinforced is with regards to the wearing of the mask...  Yeah.  ...And personal hygiene. Every family every person kind of has their own opinion or belief. But as a teacher...  Well also it is hard to get a 3-year-old to put on a mask and wear it correctly too.  Exactly.  I do not know about you...  Exactly . No it is so hard.  That is Jessica de Jesus Acevedo. Along with her sister she runs the child care center Little Star Of Ours in Cambridge Mass. After closing earlier this summer due to e about to finally reopen their doors for the fall but at a slightly smaller capacity. That does not mean things are business as usual for anyone. Have you heard from families that cannot return now because of lost jobs or can no longer pay?  Yes madam. So we have had - some of our families were on unemployment.  Yeah.  Some of our families both parents were unemployed or one parent was unemployed. But we are trying to do our best at you know if parents are looking for work they are trying to work that - we are working with them to have child care . So just because we are unemployed does not mean that we cannot figure out a schedule or provide child care.  But I do want to talk about the business side of this for you all because as a center you were forced to close for almost six months which is...  Yes madam.  ...Really hard on the parents who need you as a place to help caregive  but also a huge financial strain for child care centers. So what did you do to get by?  So the first month or two we were still like OK well we are set to open. And then once we got closed down for another two months we had to just completely stop payments tuition and stop asking people for money.  Yeah.  So for two months we completely stop our payments. We did not ask for anything just to be mindful of our families and you know of their needs at the time. You know we were not taking care of their kids. We were not able to open. Some of them were able to join our Zoom classes but some of them were not because their parents are working. So we made a decision to reopen in September. Well we knew you know we had some time to figure out our plan  to see what was happening you know just information that as a business owner I really need to hear before I open my doors and put myself my business and the people that work for me in a liable position.  Sure. But does this mean as a business owner that you were going without pay and your teachers were going without pay while you were providing all these Zoom supports whether it is Zoom meetings with parents and consulting with them but also...  Yes.  ...Providing you know Zoom classes for the preschoolers or the you know daycare kids?  So the way that we did it was that you know they were still paying tuition. So this was what we were putting out instead of taking care of your child. So it was like OK you are paying tuition so join the circle time. But again like that did not work for every parent. That did not work for every schedule. And then once we stopped asking for payments we saw kind of people choose different routes. And it was difficult because like you said we were not getting paid. So I had to push everybody including myself to join unemployment which is something as a business owner I never wanted to do. But I had to file for unemployment because I had absolutely no income coming in from anywhere.  Yeah. Well we read this wild survey from the National Association for the Education of Young Children because it found that without support from public dollars - so without government assistance - as many as half of the country's day care centers could close by December which is wild. How close are you all to having to make tough decisions like that?  I think we already had to make those tough decisions in regards to whether or not to reopen.  So that is good news then. The fact that you are reopening soon means that you are able to make ends meet.  Yes madam. But I do not think that is necessarily going to be the same situation for everybody. A lot of what is happening is like such a transition with technology that you know if you are not staying on technology if you are not savvy of like how to find your next customer or how to email people back like it is going to be impossible to run a business like this so you know families that were living and running their business off referrals and lost all their clientele or stuff like that. Also I think about how many women - minority women - are in this business that may not have proficiency in technology and in Zoom and in emails that it really does put them behind because the modern family is finding child care on Google . So if you are not on Google it is really difficult. And I think the information that you found is completely accurate because I applied to a grant for the city and I got denied because my business was in my home.  Wow.  And I think what I have been advocating more for is that there are working families still struggling. There are people working 40 hours plus still struggling and unable to pay their bills. So we can not only focus and fix focus on at-risk families. And you know like all of our families are at-risk right now if we do not support them.   Thanks again to Jessica de Jesus Acevedo. She runs a family child care program in Cambridge Mass.   So this child care thing it affects pretty much every parent including one who studies this very topic. I heard you have two kids at home. How old are they?  I do. My son is 6 and he just started first grade this week. And my daughter is 4 and she is in prekindergarten.  Is the 4-year-old physically going to school and the 6-year-old is on Zoom? How is that all working out?  They are both on Zoom. So I live in the District of Columbia and am fortunate to have public preschool. And so my daughter's actually been in the public school system since she was 3.  Wow. Yeah I remember what that was like.  .  I had so much more money.  Right.  Taryn Morrissey is an associate professor at American University. She studies public policy and how it affects children and families. So on the topic of child care - that is what we are talking about today - so overall how many people in the U.S. actually rely on some form of child care?  Well about 60 of children before the age of kindergarten - so who have not yet entered kindergarten - regularly participate in a non-parental child care each week. So it is more than half. And this is higher when children are between 3 and 4 years old it is nearly three quarters of children are enrolled in some sort of non-parental child care. And it is less for infants and toddlers. But it is become a normative experience before kids enter school.  All right. So now here we are in the back half of 2020. We have been on a tilt-a-whirl. What is the state of child care now in the middle of this pandemic?  It is pretty awful. I mean it was really hard to find and afford high-quality child care before the pandemic and the pandemic has made it just nearly impossible for most families and for a multitude of reasons. It is because many child care providers had to close their doors either permanently or almost nearly all of them had to close them temporarily because of public health concerns. The United States is expected to lose about 4 12 million licensed child care slots permanently because of the pandemic. And there were not enough to meet demand prior to COVID. So after - finding child care after this is all over whenever this is all over is going to be really really hard.  I want to ask you how things got this way. That is why is our child care system our day care system after-school support system - why is it such a patchwork of these ad hoc solutions instead of something that is more sustainable when we do have these major shocks to the system like a pandemic?  I think as a society we have ambivalence towards mothers working especially mothers with young children. I mean it is still just - a 2013 Pew poll found about 51 of those surveyed thought it was good that a mother stay at home...  Wow.  ...to take care of the children. And so - but this is in a reality where the vast majority of mothers work. And our policy has not kept up with that reality.  Yeah it seems like we are still trying to maintain this nuclear family ideal from the 1950s or something when the vast majority of families are two working-parent households - right?  Right or a single parent that has to work. I think it is at age 5 children become this public good that we all invest our tax dollars to educate. Yet we know that the developmental sensitivity of the first three years of life in particular with early childhood generally is so important for later life outcomes whether it is health whether it is economics or educational attainment.  This gets to the next question which is why does society sort of undervalue this? Like why is child care up to individual families to privately pay for or individual parents to sort of solve for rather than something that is everyone's responsibility since our economy depends on it?  I think increasingly people agree it is become - that it is moreso of a societal or public good. I think the economic return so to speak of investing in early childhood has been recognized. People recognize that parents are struggling and that young parents just do not have the political voice that they should because they are so strapped for time particularly now. You know they do not have an AARP-like advocacy group that is organizing around their needs. And the - having young children is a temporary condition - right? It is temporary but it is quite expensive and has lasting impacts.  Let us talk about those impacts. What does it mean for us that child care is set up this way as private responsibilities? What are the implications of it?  Child care in most states costs more. Center-based child care for an infant costs more than public college tuition in most states. And this comes at parents' lowest earning years of their careers generally.  .  They do not have time to save. I mean you would have to start saving as a high school student to pay for your child's childcare.  I just want to sit with that for a second. I mean I realize this because every time I am having to look at you know 27000 a year to sing Wheels On A Bus  I am outraged because I went to a large land-grant public university which was not 27000 a year. OK. So I want to ask about you. You said you have a 6-year-old and a 4-year-old. They are both going to Zoom school. You are a professor and a public policy researcher. How are you managing?  It is not easy. I will say we are in a great circumstance. I have a flexible job that I can do from home. My husband has a flexible job that he can do from home. We are sleeping less. We are working at night and on weekends. And we are making it work in that way. But it is certainly not sustainable.  Yeah I  - I have so many friends who adjusted their working hours to like 3 a.m. It is earlier and earlier depending on when the kids wake up so that you have that little  - that little window of time to think.   It is so hard - when the house is quiet those fleeting hours when  it is quiet.  Well I guess I will sacrifice sleeping.  Right.  Thanks again to Taryn Morrissey. She studies public policy at American University. All right. Time for a break. When we come back the trifecta - mukbang true crime and who said that? You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back. Hey you all can you close the door real quick. I am going to finish this one section. Hey Ava  can you please close the door? I am rolling. Please.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders - going to pivot now to talk about food because my next guest eats copious amounts of it and she records herself eating...   I love it. Usually I hate beans but that is just cheese and rice and sour cream.  ...While she talks about gruesome cases of true crime.   So she left her shoes. She left her purse. There is no signs of forced entry.  That is Stephanie Soo. In that video she is eating the entire Taco Bell menu a hundred dollars' worth.   We have got soft tacos. We have got nacho cheese.  Three types of nachos Taco Bell fries - did you know Taco Bell had fries? - quesadillas...   Potato taco.  ...Different types of burritos and all while intently retelling the story of an actual murder.   We are just going to jump right in.  All her episodes are like this. It might sound crazy but Stephanie Soo is an icon in the mukbang world an online trend that started in South Korea and features people eating tons of messy food in front of a live virtual audience. Stephanie's YouTube show devoted to her mukbang - it now has more than 2 million subscribers. We caught up recently and she told me why she decided to make a show marrying her two loves true crime and food.  So it started with me like talking about my day. And then I was like oh my God. I watched this true crime mystery and like the husband killed his wife for life insurance money. And I was like what do you guys think about that? And then it just evolved into like this thing. And now everyone's like we do not want to see your face unless you are talking about murder.  Oh my God.  So now it is - yeah.  Can you  - can you talk a little bit about like the first episode or first time you feel like it really turned like which murder story or which particular crime story it was that then got a big reaction and it kind of took off for you?  It was probably the Ted Bundy one.   So this is the story of Ted Bundy. OK that one was - it was a very questionable video in an interesting way.   You have been questioned before and yet you were not arrested.  Say more.  Like I ate the last foods that Ted Bundy ate before he was executed . I am laughing because I am uncomfortable not because I think execution's funny. Yeah.  Well it is his last meal right? It was essentially you ate Ted Bundy's last meal as kind of the hook...  Exactly.  ...For why to talk about Ted Bundy.  Yeah. So I was like you know this is a good segue because I cannot just be like hey guys so I am eating Chick-fil-A but like Ted Bundy.  .  So I ate his last meal and then I talked about him.   Just a rage of murders. People knew the murderer's name was Ted. They had a sketch about him. And people just really started responding. And it was just - it was fascinating yeah .  And I just want to like address the segment of the audience that might not be familiar with mukbang and how big a genre it is. But why do mukbang in the first place? Like did you say in your mind I really want to be a YouTuber and have something take off? What was your motivation?  Ok. So I worked retail. So I moved to Los Angeles and then I started working retail which was a - that was a whole trip. Oh my gosh. Retail's insane in LA. And so a lot happened at work. And I was just taking some time off. I was like OK. This is - I am just going to take like a couple weeks off and then I am going to get back into it. And I started watching YouTube mukbang videos. And at first I had probably the initial reaction of everyone that has never seen a mukbang video which is oh my gosh. Like I am on the weird side of YouTube. Like what is this? This kind of disgusting but also so entertaining and I cannot stop watching .  Right.  Yeah and I would text all of my friends and like my mom who - because I am from Georgia so I would text her and I would be like look I am on the weird side of YouTube. And I would just link her videos to other mukbangers. And eventually I was like OK maybe I should - maybe I should try one. Now here's the thing. I had a really good intentions really bad execution because my first mukbang video I was like you know everyone is eating just delicious In-N-Out burgers. They are eating Korean spicy rice cakes. Why do not I...  Lot of jajangmyeon.  Yeah lots of jajangmyeon. Why do not I go get a frozen burrito from Whole Foods like just one burrito? And that was my first mukbang. Like just a literally - a silver platter with like one burrito on there.  Oh I cannot wait to find this archive tape.   Oh my God. And I was like why did I ever think that this was a good idea? And so I did not tell anyone about it after I filmed it and posted it. I was like OK. Like no one is going to watch this. It was just for shirts and giggles . And so I posted. And then I woke up and I had like 42 views. And I was like dang. Wow. I am a star.  Forty two people watched you eat a frozen burrito from Whole Foods.  Yeah and...  But it - was it validating? Did it say to you OK now I feel like I want to get more viewers?  Yeah because like I did not tell 42 people. So I was like wow. I need to give the people what they want. I need to give these 42 people more videos .  Yeah. So it seems like such a dream just to be able to talk about something you are passionate about and then eat delicious foods. But there is that other side of sort of you are feeling like you are responsible to the audience and their preferences. So I want to ask are you dealing with greater pressures now and how because you have become a mukbang celebrity?  I think the sense of I feel like everything I think I have to say out loud is kind of - I feel like almost - I feel like sometimes I do not have the time to like process things by myself and then to share what I have processed.  I feel this way too. I am sure Sam Sanders does as well.  Yeah. And it is just like woah. Like let me think about this real quick and then I will get back to you. But they are like tell me right now about this very complicated thing how you feel. And I am like wait. I need to process this.  OK. I want to talk a little bit about the times that we are in in this global pandemic because it is one of the reasons I cannot - I do not get to join you for...  Yeah.  ...Mukbang anytime soon. How does the fact that we cannot go indoors to eat at restaurants together with our friends had an impact on mukbang broadcasts? That is does our quarantining and our pandemic lifestyle affect your viewership in any way or affect what the audience says in terms of how they relate to you?  Yeah. So I actually did see like a small spike of viewership and views. And also watch time was a lot longer after the pandemic started. So it does seem like people are like OK. I am stuck at home and maybe I will just eat with you.  And that actually ties into the explanations for why mukbang is so popular - right? - because when it was first a thing in Korea a lot of people talked about how maybe it was a response to how society had really fractured and people were really lonely and disconnected from one another. And we are all on screens with each other. And that is even more so now...  Yeah.  ...Right? - during this pandemic. So do you think that is why mukbang is popular?  I think so. I feel like there is something about eating while watching something that is not someone eating if that makes any sense. So I think that is why I was so fascinated with watching mukbang before I even started. There is just a difference of eating food by yourself and then watching - I do not know - let us say a vlog of someone like traveling to Italy. It just - you kind of almost are like oh wow. And I am just like eating mac and cheese and you are just like in Italy right? So I think when you watch someone who is also eating and just having like a normal conversation with you there is something just so intimate about it that I really really enjoy.  Mukbanger Stephanie Soo - so excited we are talking.  No thank you for having me.  Time for a break. When we come back we are going to have some fun and play Who Said That. Stick around. We will be back. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Elise Hu filling in for Sam Sanders. I am talking with Stephanie Soo. She is a YouTube star and her specialty is mukbang and true crime videos. She also hosts a podcast called Rotten Mango. Hey Stephanie.  Hello.  So next up we are going to do something I love doing when I fill-in host. It is a game called Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Oh my gosh. OK I have listened to this segment before. I feel like I am going to get like zero out of however many there are.  Well you win nothing and you lose nothing. So the stakes are nothing.  OK.  The game is simple. Stephanie since you have not played it I will give you the rules really quick. I give you a quote from the week of news and you have just got to guess who said it or what it is about. So if you just know the news story but not the specific voice it is fine.  OK.  OK. First quote - tower American 1997. We just passed a guy in a jetpack. What was it about?  See if I say it I might get to - does it have anything to do with Russia?   No.  Oh OK. OK.  Unless this human was Russian no. You want another guess?  Yes. So I mean I cannot even distinguish between real life and movies anymore. 2020 has been weird. Is it a movie trailer?   OK. It happened near LAX.  Wow. OK so someone was in a jetpack just flying around LAX is what you are telling me.   Boom. You got it.  Are you serious?  .  Why were they flying around in a jet pack all over LAX?  I could not believe it either. An American Airlines pilot was landing a plane at Los Angeles International Airport when he dialed up the control tower to report a human person in the air in a jetpack.   Tower American 1997. We just passed a guy in jetpack.  Tower American 1997. OK. Thank you. Were they off to your left side or right side?  Off the left side at maybe 300 yards or so about our altitude.  But that - I mean it is just so fascinating how calm he is. He is like listen. American Airlines tower jetpack man. Got it?  .  Like who does that? I would be freaking out. I would be shouting into the little device.  Oh there is more.  OK.  There is more Stephanie Soo. A JetBlue pilot reported the same thing and that pilot warned other pilots the same day. As of this taping the FBI is investigating the incident. Your random guess...  Yeah.  ...Was the correct answer. OK next quote. This one is more of a who is it about rather than who said that.  OK.  Here we go. The quote is with her signature flower crown she is dancing her way from Big Cat Rescue all the way to the ballroom. Who are they talking about?  Oh my gosh. I know this one and I have to sing it to you in a TikTok song which is about Carole Baskin...   Boom.  ...Who whacked her husband  - allegedly whacked her husband. But Carole - is not she going to be on Dancing - is she? Is it confirmed that she is going to be on...  Dancing With The Stars - that is what it is about. That is what the quote was about.  Wow.  That was an announcement on Good Morning America about Carole Baskin from the Netflix documentary series Tiger King about Joe Exotic. So Carole was the tiger activist and CEO of Big Cat Rescue in Tampa Fla. You are familiar with all of this. She will be a contestant on Dancing With The Stars Season 29.  Do you think these corporations are like just trying to make 2020 more crazy? They are like let us just add more to this .  Yeah. Just pack it in.  Yeah.  It is so 2020 you all.  Yeah. Do it before the new year.  You have already won I should point out 'ecause you already have 2 out of 3 correct...  Oh OK.  ...Even with that accidental first one correct. But I have one last quote for you Stephanie Soo. Final quote - Arizona is one of the best locations for ballooning. It allows for pretty optimal conditions. Who said that?  Ballooning - what - OK. Do I get a clue what ballooning is? Is that like hot air ballooning?  Or other kinds of balloons.  Balloons balloons - I want to say - did a governor say this?   It is a magician.  A magician. I do not know any magicians by name.  His last name...  Yes.  ...Rhymes with the word sane or cane or lane.  David Blaine.   Boom.  Did he really?  You are killing it today - a hundred percent.  Oh my .  OK. The story behind this one - David Blaine the magician and illusionist took flight over the desert in Arizona holding on to - wait for it - 52 helium-filled balloons - so not hot air balloons. The stunt was livestreamed on YouTube. What if our Who Said That question one and question three are actually the same person?  Exactly. Stay tuned next week to finish this mystery .  There you go. Stephanie Soo host of Rotten Mango - you can catch her show on YouTube and wherever you get your podcasts. Thank you so much.  Thank you .   Hi. I am Eva Elise's daughter. Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of them.  Hi Sam. This is Gabby  from Oakland Calif. The best part of my week was when I had my first hug since before March 13. My friend and I had just finished eating burritos in the park together. And we hugged as we were getting ready to leave. It was literally a breathtaking moment because we held our breath as we hugged even though we would both recently tested negative for COVID.  Hi Sam. This is Andrea  from San Diego. The best part of my week was getting my DD 214 which is the form that means I am officially out of the Navy.  Hi Sam. It is Ashley .  And Daniel .  And the best thing that happened to us this week is we finished the Colorado Trail.  Took us 47 days to walk 500 miles from Denver to Durango.  We are so excited to be done and drinking beers.  Hey Sam. This is Connor  from Bowling Green Ohio. The best part of my week was having a first-semester first-year graduate student tell me that her experience in my course made her feel seen and validated. That is why I do what I do.  Hi Sam. I am sitting alone in my empty classroom right now after finishing the second week of virtual school for my high school seniors. And it is been really hard because I am used to having kids face-to-face with me. But the best part of my week was that I decided to steal your idea. And I have had my seniors for the past two weeks post on Friday the best part of their week. And it was really wonderful to know what sort of joy they are personally experiencing and what is making them happy. That is what is making me happy this week. That is my best thing. Thank you.  We love the show. Thanks. bye.  Huge fan of the show. Thanks Sam.  Thank you for all you do Sam. I love your work.  Thank you to those listeners you heard there. I love these. Carolyn  Connor Ashley and Daniel Andrea and Gabby. You can send your best thing to us anytime during the week. Just record yourself and send a voice memo to samsandersnpr.org. This week the show was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry and Andrea Gutierrez. Our fearless editor - Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss the senior vice president of programming at NPR is Anya Grundmann. All right. Until next time I am Elise Hu. Sam will be back from his Grey's Anatomy binge next week. Talk soon. 