 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NBC News White House correspondent Geoff Bennett and Yahoo News national politics reporter Brittany Shepard. All right let us start the show.   She said Yahoo. How do you say it?  I say Yahoo.  Yahoo?  Or I do a little yodel sometimes too.  Go ahead and do it.  Oh OK.  Yahoo.  Oh yeah yeah yeah.  We are going to edit that for...  Oh that is staying in.  OK right.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is been a week  - It is BEEN A MINUTE.   Happy weekend.  It has been a week.  Thanks to my guests for being here. Brittany Shepherd she covers national politics for Yahoo News and Geoff Bennett White House correspondent for NBC. We are joined by Coldplay in studio today.  I love this song.  I am so upset.  You know who else does?  Who?  I have a story for you.  Who?  Well first this is the fun part.    Oh I want something just like this.  When the beat drops.  When the beat drops.  Oh gosh.  So this song Something Just Like This Coldplay featuring the Chainsmokers - this week in a sweeping New York Times profile Tina Turner name checked it.  Wow.  And she is like I like this song. It is a bop.  Does it slap ?  She did not say it is a bop.  She did not say it is a bop.  She goes this slaps.  Yeah exactly. So she has been like silent and quiet in Europe for years now.  Switzerland right?  Yes. She stopped touring stopped performing. And there is all this coverage of her now because a musical based on her life and music is coming to New York.  Oh right.  And so when they are profiling Tina she said I just got tired of dancing and singing and I just want to like make me happy.  Tina Turner would put on a show.  Yes.  I mean I would never seen one in person but I know people who have gone to her concerts...  It is amazing.  ...And for two hours...  Yeah she was my first concert.  Oh really?  I was 2 years old.  Really?  I saw her and Meatloaf my - in one week.  Whoa whoa whoa.  Yeah I know. But I do not blame her for being - like just taking off and living her truth. You know?  So she is taking this time off. And this journalist at the Times says so what do you listen to now? Who speaks to you right now? And you are expecting this deep and profound answer from Tina Turner one of the best performers of all time. And she yells to her husband - what is that song where they go something just like this?  Tina Turner is someone's auntie yelling...  And he goes Coldplay. And she goes I like it.  I want her for Carpool Karaoke now.  Right? And so then she goes on to say why she likes it. And she said you know what I like about it? He does not have that really good black voice like Motown.  Wow.  She likes that.  All right Tina Turner.  I mean like if Tina Turner likes Coldplay now we all have to love Coldplay.  Do we?  There is no question anymore.  I am as basic as the next girl. Right? But like to me it just did not really - it did not like scratch that itch for me.  Yeah.  I am going to send you a playlist after this.  OK perfect.  The song is fading. They want us to move on.   All right. We have to talk about the news-news now. As we always do we start the show by having my panelists describe their week of news in only three words. Both of you all cover politics so we are going to get deep into politics. Geoff...  Yes.  ...You are up first. I think it is some words tied to Congress.  Indeed. So my three words are inconsistent Instagram and inquiry.  Who is Instagramming in Congress right now?  Any guesses?  AOC?  No it is the whole impeachment debate on Capitol Hill this week.  Oh OK. OK OK OK.  And so the reason I bring up Instagram is because when the House Judiciary Committee on Thursday voted to establish a new framework for how they are going to hold their hearings into their investigation into President Trump the idea is at the end of this they will then determine whether or not to introduce articles of impeachment to the full House.  So this is the investigation to see if they want to actually pursue articles of impeachment.  Exactly.  OK.  And so Congressman Doug Collins - he is the top Republican on this panel - during the hearing he says this whole thing is like an Instagram filter. This is where Instagram comes into it.   What is happened today is great. The Judiciary Committee has became a giant Instagram filter to make you appear that something's happening that is not. It is a really interesting...  And he is saying that Democrats want to give the impression and leave the impression in people's minds that the president is being impeached when in fact that is not what is happening and when in fact Nancy Pelosi has made clear that she is not onboard with that happening in the full House just yet.  Really? Well I mean it kind of speaks to a larger issue with Congress right now period. I mean like for you both does not it seem like Congress just has not done anything for a very long time now? So not just on this but on so many other things right?  There is this disconnect between what - and I am speaking more about Democrats here obviously.  Yeah.  There is this disconnect between what the base wants and expects...  Yes.  ...And the very slow methodical intentional work that has to be done in order to make that happen. So obviously in the news you see reports of the president paying hush money payments to Stormy Daniels reports of the president dangling pardons to people who work for him in case they run afoul of the law as he is urging them to push you know ways to get this border wall built. Waste fraud and abuse - 15 million different ways in this administration. And so Democrats will say you have all the evidence you need. The problem though is even though Democrats in this committee rank-and-file members and Democratic leadership are all on the same page on the substantive question of how to go about doing the investigative work that might lead to an impeachment they are not on the same page when it comes to messaging. And that is why we are in this semantic no man's land. And that is why there is so much confusion...  Yeah.  ...Because they want the base to believe we are moving forward...  We are doing it. We are doing it. We are doing it.  But then they want moderates to believe that we are not.  No it is cool. Yeah yeah yeah.  What I also wonder - when I talk to voters they are always like what is happening on Congress? Why are their priorities not right? So they are wondering OK well what about this gun legislation? What about you know banning bump stocks? Like where are we on that?  Yeah.  So I wonder that - if the Democrats are actually thinking like maybe this is not the correct priorital  shift for myself and my party.  Yeah.  There is an asymmetry here where Democrats feel like we have done a lot of work - we have already passed background check bills we passed three more bills out of committee to keep guns out of the hands of people who have committed hate crimes to ban high-capacity magazines. But because the Republicans on the Senate side have made clear that they are not going to pass anything that President Trump will not sign it always comes back to the Democrats to answer this question of why are not you doing more? And Democrats Nancy Pelosi specifically has said what more can we do?  Yeah. And like seeing Congress come back - 'ecause they came back to session this week right?  Right.  So they are back. If we are going to be Congress watchers for the next few months give us one prediction of what we will see.  Well watch for trade. I mean it is boring to talk about trade.  No it is not.  Is it?  I am obsessed with the trade war.  Oh I am always like - I am always trying to find like new and interesting ways to get people excited about USMCA.  I will talk trade war anytime.  So yeah. So the president wants Congress to give the green light to the t's NAFTA 2.0. And that covers everything. I mean...  Oh. I thought they did that already.  No they have not yet.  Oh Lord.  So that should happen soon.  OK.  And that covers everything to the price you pay when you go to buy a Christmas or Hanukkah gift in a couple of months right? And then guns - best as I can tell that is probably it.  OK. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders in studio with two guests - Jeff Bennett NBC White House correspondent and Brittany Shepard who covers national politics for Yahoo News. Brittany do you have three words?  I do have three words.  Tell me.  And those three words for you guys are big vote energy.   And big vote energy is what many voting blocs are passing on to their younger cohorts.  OK.  Right now I am thinking millennials I am thinking Gen Z.  Yeah.  And right now Gen Z and millennial young voters are activated in ways they had never been before...  Really?  ...Especially on - of course - especially on social media in peer-to-peer canvassing around the Democratic candidates.  Got you.  And what I find really interesting is that when I speak to my peer groups - I am a millennial myself - I say all right guys if you are Democrats would you vote for someone like Joe Biden even if he is a bit more moderate than where you stand? And what I am hearing is a demonstrative no...  Really?  ...Which is different than what older voting blocs have traditionally done.  Yeah 'ecause they say we will just pick anyone that has our stamp of the party to...  Right.  ...Beat the other one right?  Well there is a kind of the sort of Damocles question around Democratic caucus right now and it is will we elect somebody to beat Donald Trump or will we elect somebody who holds our ideals? And if they hold our ideals are those ideals enough to beat Donald Trump...  Yeah.  ...Right? It is a very circular kind of convoluted question.  Yeah. Well but also like these young people must be taken seriously because the data is showing that they are going to vote in strong numbers in 2020. So in 2018 turnout for the youths was already up to like 31 which is - the youths.  The youth - anything used is fair.  But that was a 25-year high 'ecause usually midterm turnout is really really low. But they were up. And so people that look at this stuff say that we should expect youth turnout in 2020 to be really really big. And there was this poll from Harvard and they said that more young people especially Democrats say they plan to vote than said so like four years ago.  Right.  And so if we know that youth voters will be a big deal in 2020 what is a message that works for them? That is for both of you.  Well I think candidates are going to have to meet them where they are. And I am going throw a little bit more numbers at you...  OK.  ...And talk about college voters.  Yeah.  About 20 million Americans are in college. That includes community college and one-year programs.  Yeah.  Sixty million voted in the primary for 2016.  Wow.  That is a third.  Yeah.  So if you are able to isolate 20 million votes you do not have to even think about persuasion. You do not need to think about moderates. You do not need - think about flipping Donald Trump voters. That is a diametric change of how Democratic strategy has been pretty much ever.  Yeah. Yeah.  So it is - do you meet them in their spaces? Do you meet them in their HBCUs and talk about not just gun policy but...  But student loans.  ...But student loans...  Yeah.  ...About climate change not in this amorphous way that climate change is bad but in the Jay Inslee way that this is bad and if we do not do something right now we are all kind of screwed.  This is so interesting to me 'ecause I had a conversation with a Trump adviser - Trump campaign adviser today and the takeaway was that Donald Trump does not need to win 2020 he just needs Democrats to lose in 2020.  And infight enough.  Well but the way he is - the way he wants them to lose is by running on issues that he can then make toxic - so for instance on health care. It is - he wants Democrats to say it is not enough to just make health care better you have to ban private health insurance through...  Right.  ...Medicare for All - right? - or it is not just enough to say we want some commonsense gun control we want to do gun confiscation and buy back all the AR-style weapons. But those...  So he wants the left to go further left.  Exactly.  Right but those are issues that generally speaking younger people younger motivated voters care more about.  They are more about . Yeah.  Yeah.  And so if you have a candidate who is running on those issues does that then in a roundabout way hand the election to Donald Trump? I am talking about this in very simplified ways.  Yeah.  But you get my point right? It is like...  Well I mean yeah. But it feels like the problem that parties always face when they are trying to get back in the White House are really magnified for Dems this time. There is always a moderate center. There is always just like more left base. But it seems as if now they are moving further and further apart and the left base is getting louder and louder and louder. And I do not know yet of this crop of candidates who is doing the best job so far of appealing to both of those sects of the party.  Right.  I do not know who is doing that.  Well I think the challenge is do they go after both or do they just really lean into one?  To one.  Look at Bernie Sanders. You know he is a septuagenarian. That man is old OK? But young voters really like him.  They love him. Yeah.  And something that is really interesting about young voters is that they are increasingly less party-identified. So they will say I do not want to be Democrat I do not want to be Republican. I just really care about gun reform. So if you are a Republican and you want to have gun reform which is very unlikely - but I will ride for you.  Really?  They are more like the ride or die generation.  OK. Yeah.  How do you respond to sort of the - 'ecause I remember like in '92 when MTV did Rock the Vote right?  Oh man.  I mean I am not - you know not to date myself...  I was a thought in God's eye at the time so bring me there.   But that was back when they - when somebody asked Bill Clinton what kind of underwear he wore right?  I remember that.  And even starting back then it was always this sense like this is the election where the young people are going to...  The kids will matter.  ...Come out and make the difference.  Right.  And I think with the exception of maybe 2008...  Yeah.  ...It is always been a lot of hype right?  How are party consultants and candidates when they talk about and think about youth engagement - what does that mean besides a vote?  They are making them influencers themselves.  OK. OK.  So one of my first stories at Yahoo was about how campaigns are kind of turning to the influencer to engage Gen Z. So there is two...  Can that work?  Well - OK there is two theories on this OK?  Yeah.  There is the traditional like hi I am James Charles beauty guru and I think you should vote for Joe Biden. I think that is hack and that is never going to work. But some campaigns are kind of thinking that if they court the Instagram and YouTube stars of the world - that they will affect a larger audience than the people that they are already hitting. There is some sense there but I think that is going to fall on their face.  It also can look inauthentic.  It does.  Right?  Well yeah. And Gen Z kids will chew them out.  Yeah.  Right? And it will happen. But you know people who are old think that is where they should be throwing their money.  Well that is what you do if you are not a naturally transformational candidate. Can you imagine Barack Obama trying to get like Kim K or something to be like - could you please just do me a shout out on an Insta?  Like he just talked.  Like there was never...  Yeah.  Right. No it is...  The thing with Obama is he made himself the influencer.  Well right.  Right.  But not everyone can be Obama. And I would think it is really - no one really can be. That was a flash-in-the-pan thing. So the other strategy that many campaigns are doing - it goes we are going to reach out to Gen Z folks and we are going to train them. So Bernie Sanders had the Summer School. I was the only reporter there. And he trained college and high school seniors how to become influencers for his campaign...  What?  ...How to door knock how to - yeah.  He had a summer school?  It was called Bernie Sanders Summer School. I went. It was a lot of homework. They had a lot of homework and they all did not graduate.  Wait. Stop it.  Wow.  Yes.  Bernie was like you did not pass?  Yeah. So they had homework to do and they had to keep themselves accountable. And if they did not...  How long was it?  It was about two weeks. It was three hours for three nights a week.  In Vermont somewhere?  No no no. It was digital.  Oh. Oh OK.  Wow.  So it is - so if you were you know brown or black you had access to this. Like if you were at any income rate you had access to this. It was complete - it was free-99 as we say...  .  ...For folks to participate. But they had to apply. They had around 3000 applications.  Really? Really?  Only 1500 hundred kids were selected.  That is wild.  Hearing you both talked about your topics I think there is going to be an interesting dovetailing of seeing these youth mobilize at the same time we might enter months of congressional gridlock.  Yeah.  If you have these kids saying we want action on climate action on guns action on whatever and they see Congress in October 2020 having done nothing really on those fronts are they even more energized to vote?  I think so...  I think so too.  ...Because then - because implicit in the argument particularly for Democrats is - if you care about these issues then you need to have a Democratic controlled Senate and a Democrat in the White House.  Yeah. I really think too that they are going to be voting for more and more and more progressive candidates. That is why Justice Democrats the folks who helped AOC flip the House and Ayanna Pressley - like those candidates are going to be popping up more and more and more even on the GOP side. So I would look for these younger millennial candidates running and Gen Z folks voting them in.  Watch the kids.  Watch the kids.  Yeah yeah. All right. Coming up we are going to cook one of the strangest dishes you have ever eaten or seen. I recently made one of those wacky recipes from those ubiquitous quick cooking videos on social media. So I will tell you all about my experience with a deep fried chicken quesadilla pizza. And we will tell you how these cooking videos totally jumped the shark - after the break. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here in studio with two guests - Brittany Shepard she covers national politics for Yahoo News and Jeff Bennett NBC White House correspondent. I am so glad you both are here.  Good to be here man.  Thank you for having me.  Of course. I have a question for you. I want to pivot to one of my favorite topics - food. And I want to ask you both have either of you ever made a recipe that you saw in one of those Internet quick how-to recipe videos?  Made is an interesting word.   Attempted...  I co-sign on Brittany's answer.  ...And failed.  OK yeah. So I bring this up because earlier this week I hung out with my friends and colleagues Sue Davis and Danielle Kurtzleben and we made a recipe that comes from one of the wackiest recipe videos that is ever been made.  Cheese...  Chicken...  Cheese tortilla.  Put a heavy thing on top so it solidified kind of.  And then that chilled.  Chilled overnight.  And then we breaded that.  Breaded it.  Deep-fried it.  Yep.  Put pizza sauce on top of it.  Pizza sauce on it.  Topped it with a little shredded moz  sliced up some pepperoni on top hit it on the low broil to get it warm...  Then put it on the high broil...  ...Hit it with the hot broil to get it brown.  Hit it with the high broil.  ...Put it on the table ranch dipping on the side.  And now we are about to hit that. It was crazy. So it was - you know for years these Internet cooking videos have gotten more and more absurd.  Yeah.  This dish was a super deep dish chicken quesadilla with barbecue chicken. And then it was sliced like pizza breaded and egg-washed deep-fried then coated with pizza sauce cheese and pepperoni and baked in the oven to look like a deep fried pizza.  That is insane.  It is insane.  Miss me on the ranch though.  Yeah.  Well that is the key to these videos is that there is always an extra step. So when I...  You did not need to do that.  ...'ecause I thought it was going to stop at the deep-frying and then it turned into a pizza. And I was like OK.  And then they added the ranch.  And then it turned into...  And you are like what?   But I am curious - like what function do you roll is up with? Like you are not going to church with this right?  Oh yeah. It is just for home - it is just for the 'Gram.  Just for the 'Gram?  Yeah yeah. But anyways I was thinking about these videos. And I was like what do the - what do the crazy food videos say about us? Like big question mark. So I called up Shay Spence. He is a food editor at People Magazine. He is also a former chef. And we talked about all these crazy recipe videos and we both relived our experience of trying to make that weird strange humongous deep-fried chicken quesadilla pizza. So here is Shay getting to the bottom of the Internet-cooking-video industrial complex.  How are you?  I am good. How are you Shay?  I am fantastic.  Hey well thanks for talking...  Of course.  ...With me about this. I am guessing you probably feel talked out about the pizza turducken. So I appreciate you bringing it back for us.  No no no no. I think it should last forever. I never want this national discourse to end.  . I think my first question is how do you think we got here? Like how did we get to the point where these Internet food-creation videos are absurdist? It is not - like the stuff that they are putting out there - you are like they do not mean this for real do they? How did we get to that moment?  Well it is you know everyone's trying to outdo each other. And...  Yeah.  I guess when I started at People a few years ago - it was right when BuzzFeed Tasty was just like taking off. And so everyone was trying to emulate that.  And we will say - and like Tasty was the little BuzzFeed thing where it is like a minute-long video with like a how-to recipe.  Yes. We call them hands and pans videos...  .  Because it is just hands and pans. And it is really quick.  Yes.  And it is just like a product...  Yes.  ...Of everyone's low-attention spans.  Yes.  And so you know when I first started I was like I - you know because I came from a culinary background. And I was like oh I will make my like tarragon chicken salad. It is like nobody wants to watch that. Like everybody wants to watch you like deep fry a quesadilla. So for Thanksgiving I was - I made a pie that was - the bottom layer was a pecan pie. The middle layer was an apple pie. The top layer was a pumpkin pie. Like...  That was a video?  That was a video that I created.  I think I saw that one.  Yeah. And you know what? It tasted good. But at that point I was like this is absurdist. And then I think that interest has waned as people have been desensitized to it.  Yeah. So then we have this moment where BuzzFeed Tasty starts this thing that could be fun and helpful to real-life people. But because the Internet requires constant one-upsmanship we end up with these Dada-esque food videos now that no one even wants to execute. Like do you think people actually make these recipes?  I think sometimes they do. But a lot of the times I am like the process of this is daunting. It is - and a lot of times you are just doing things that - you can get the same flavors in a much more simple way. But they are doing it in a very like weird way because it is more interesting to watch that video.  Exactly.  I do not think that many people are actually making them.  Well there is a few things I noticed about how hard it is to work with a video recipe. One the steps are not written out. The measurements are not written out. So to figure out what to get and how to do it you have to watch the video over and over and over while you are cooking.  Yes.  And two...  It is horrible.  The ratios of these ingredients are off.  Oh completely. Yeah. I am glad you said that. I had so much of that leftover...  Yeah.  ...Chicken mess.  Is this the thing where these people making the videos just are doing it too fast and not thinking it through or they are just bad cooks also making these videos?  Well look. Recipe development is a hard thing. It is not like - you can be a really good cook and be a really bad recipe developer or not even bad. But also if you are cranking out - if you are saying oh we have to crank out so many of these videos a day then no. I do not think anyone's really testing them. They are probably just like I kind of know how this is made. And then they do it. And then they are not really like actually testing for ratios and like measurements.  They are just trying to get the visual.  Yeah.  It is a full-time job I mean 'ecause it took you hours to execute the pizza-dilla.  It did.  Yeah.  I was up until like 2 a.m. that night.  Oh my God. Speaking of pizza-dilla...  Yes.  ...We both had moments where we tried to make this. I did it with two colleagues of mine. And they kind of prepped and pre-did some stuff. And I was in charge of the deep frying. And I want to play you my - our reaction because...  OK.  ...I want to talk about how much this thing actually surprised me.  That may be the wine talking but this is delicious.  Yeah.  .  I also have not eaten in like nine hours so I am real hungry. I am like legit hungry.  Oh my God.  All right. Sam I want - did you...  The ranch...  Did you try the ranch?  I did.  The ranch makes it better.  I am going to say this. I am going to say this. I am going to say this.  All right.  None of it is bad.  Yeah.  Shay.  Yeah.  I liked it.  OK. This is tough for me.   Listen. I was just as surprised man. When I heard the words come out of my mouth I was like are you saying that? And I liked it.  My reaction was visceral.  You gagged.  And I was - I gagged. Something about the sour cream and the pizza sauce and the dill and the barbecue sauce and the pepperoni. It like really really did not agree with me.  I think what made me be able to like it is that throughout the entire process we doctored things and changed things.  Yes.  So like more sauce more cheese less that - and so we like personalized it...  Interesting.  ...Based on what we liked.  Yours looked very pretty. It was - like mine was like a sloppy mess. But yours looked very pretty.  Can I tell you the secret?  Yes.  And this comes from me having a background in frying chicken 'ecause I...  OK.  ...Had a job for two years where I fried the chicken.  Got it.  Double bread.  Double bread.  You got - because you want to keep it together.  Yes.  You have to coat.  Yes.  Heavy coat heavy coat heavy coat London fog.  Yes .  Heavy coat. Anyways we have reached the wacky food video mountaintop.  I think so. I hope so.  I do not think it can get crazier.  I hope so.  So like is there a way that this gets simpler and less insane?  I think - you know first of all food videos really started with like you know Julia Child and Food Network and people...  Oh she is the OG. She is the original Tasty .  ...And you know - yes of course. And you know these were personalities who you trust and who you know. And I do think that with social media we - everyone's attention spans have you know shrunk. And then it went to these videos. And everyone wanted just the quick show-me-how-to-do-it. And I think we are reaching a point where it is going back. So people are wanting more of a personality-driven cooking experience.  Yeah.  And that is why you see success - like my friend Justin at Food And Wine. He does his Mad Genius Tips. The Bon Appetit Test Kitchen - people are obsessed with...  Oh he is great. Who is that? - Chris Morocco.  Yeah. It is Chris Morocco. There is a bunch.  He is delightful.  And you want - at a certain point you want to know like who is giving me this recipe? And why am I doing that?  And can I trust them?  And that is kind of like what I do on Instagram and why like I try to really explain why I am doing something and have you know a conversation with people because I do think you should build that level of trust.  It is better that way.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And it is more fun.  Shay Spence food editor at People. I appreciate it.  Thank you Sam. I appreciate it.   Thanks again to Shay Spence food editor at People Magazine. I am back here in studio with my two panelists - Brittany Shepherd who covers national politics for Yahoo News and Geoff Bennett White House correspondent for NBC. Update on the food video front.  What is that?  Earlier this year Walmart announced that they were going to partner with BuzzFeed's Tasty and make a way for - when you watch the cooking video online you can tap on your screen a few times and have that order for the ingredients fulfilled at a Walmart. Then you go and pick it up.  That stresses me out. That stresses me out.  It makes it easier though.  Yeah well it also enables. It aids and abets bad behavior.   When are you watching those videos? I watch them at 2 a.m. after I file.  Exactly .  I am like I do not need to - you know I do not need to make a turducken right now but now I could if I wanted to.  . Now you could yeah. Got to note before we go on - Walmart is an NPR sponsor. All right. Time for a break. When we come back my favorite game Who Said That. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here in studio in Washington D.C. this week with two guests and friends - Geoff Bennett NBC White House correspondent and Brittany Shepard national politics reporter for Yahoo News. You all it is time for my favorite game.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that? Who said that?  So Geoff you are a veteran on this show.  Yeah.  Explain the game to Brittany.  So Sam's going to read a quote. And you have to guess who said that.  All right.  Yeah. The winner gets...  Real complicated stuff.  ...Really complicated. Hardest game in the world. The winner gets nothing.  But pride.  Wait. Hold on. Tom Dreisbach got a shot glass last week.  He did. A nice listener sent in a little shot glass and said give your panelists gifts when they win Who Said That. Give this to them next time. So he got a shot glass.  And since then no one has sent anything.   Like Geoff and Brittany you deserve nothing.  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  Fair.  So this first quote - it is actually fill in the blank but it will make sense to you. Blank is also the first-ever game where women make more than men.  Ms. Monopoly.  Yes.   Brittany came to win.  Wow.  Sorry.  So that quote comes from Hasbro. They are the toy company that makes Monopoly. And they launched Ms. Monopoly as this feminist twist on the game. And the thing that has people scratching their heads is that in this game Hasbro says specifically the women get paid more than the men. And they have a woman on the cover of the box. But a lot of folks are saying is this the best way to be feminist? I do not know how to feel about it. I am asking the woman in the room.  I do not know. I am in my feelings a little bit about it because I do think - like I have conversations in my own newsroom about parity and how - about how much women should be paid how much black women should be paid. But I think it reduces the conversation with this kind of like - this silly parody of itself. Does not it feel like a Mr. Show sketch to you?  It feels like an Onion article...  Yeah.  ...You know? Yeah.  You know it is like ClickHole. It is like actually...  Give someone more real money you know?  Yeah.  Like I do not - Monopoly money's not going to fix the wage gap. All right. You are doing pretty well to be a newbie. One point.  OK.  Yeah. Ready for the next quote?  Far to fall.   Here it is. Quote This has been a special one because we did not have to play Bobby and Cindy. We could be ourselves. And it is the 50th anniversary of the premiere.  Brady Bunch.  Yes.   That quote came from Brady Bunch actor Mike Lookinland.  Did no