  Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. Let us get started. Make sure you read the board. You need to have your nameplate out in front of you. Get your science notebook and a pencil.   That is Sarah Chirichigno. And that audio you heard she recorded the sound of her class for me recently.   ...Your Google Drive...  Sarah is a teacher in Utah.  I am in South Jordan Utah.  OK. Where - is that near Salt Lake City?  Yeah. It is about 25 minutes southwest of Salt Lake City. We are in Salt Lake...  She teaches at Mountain Creek Middle School.  I teach ninth-grade earth science and AP Environmental Science - so all ninth-graders.  I called up Sarah to see what back-to-school life is looking like for teachers. And well it is looking a lot different than last year. Sarah Chirichigno has had to change just about everything in her classroom to respond to the pandemic even the way her kids come into class.  So when the bell rings and I have a whole class leave I have the door to the hallway shut behind them and then I hustle around the room. I have got this kind of pressurized spray - I think it is hydrogen peroxide - that I am spraying on all the desks.  Wow.  And once I have gotten all the desks I go and I open the door and I stand there with paper towel and I give each student a paper towel as they enter. And they are responsible for wiping down their desk tossing the paper towel in the garbage can.  Sarah told me there is a whole logic behind this.  The incoming students have more skin in the game right? So they are the ones who clean the desks rather than the outgoing students.  Yeah 'ecause if you are leaving you do not care.  Exactly especially when you are you know a high schooler. And they use hand sanitizer as they enter the door as well.  And Sarah says ultimately it works.  And the very first day was really funny. So when the second period - so all the students going to their second period when they got to the door and they were being given paper towels saying go wipe down your desks the kids just like looked at me. They were like what? And I was like go wipe down your desk. And I said welcome to 2020. And a lot of them laughed and they got used to it really quickly.   I am Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. In this episode the teachers.   It is September. We are back in school. And what even is a school year in 2020? We are still figuring that out. So this episode we really wanted to focus on the teachers to see how strange the school year has been so far and may continue to be. We talked to dozens of teachers across the country and what is become clear is that how well or how poorly things are going at a school it really depends on where you are and what district you are in. There is no one version of school in America this fall. There are thousands if not more. We will hear about all of that from Sarah in Utah and also a teacher in Texas. She is having just about the opposite experience. She is not OK going back to school.  I feel like the teacher voices were ignored even though we were screaming saying we do not feel safe. This is not OK.  Stay with us for more on the new normal for this school year.   All right. So that teacher you heard earlier Sarah Chirichigno the science teacher in Utah - in spite of the weird desk-wiping protocol she has to go through she actually has one of the best-case scenarios when it comes to in-person teaching. Her state it has a mask mandate in schools and social distancing is happening in the classroom. Also Sarah's school district is giving her lots of assistance to help make her classroom safer. But despite all the support Sarah still had a hard choice to make when it came time to go back.   I mean of course my personal health is very important to me. I am also pregnant. So of course...  Congratulations.  Thank you - yeah really exciting. So of course it was - I had to really think about whether I wanted to go in in person or not. And if I opted to do the online teaching there is a risk that I would not get my room back at my school next year and that kind of breaks my heart. So I basically weighed it out. And I was like OK I love my school and my students and I really want to stay there.  Is the district or someone paying for your hydrogen peroxide and your paper towels?  Oh yeah. Oh yeah. My district has gone above and beyond. So they provide the paper towels and the hand sanitizer and the hydrogen peroxide and all the stuff we are spraying. But then in addition to that they gave 500 to each teacher saying buy whatever PPE you want to make yourself feel comfortable. And so I bought a huge HEPA air filter that I plugged in in front of my desk.  OK. Wow.  And then I bought a lot of high-quality masks like KN95s and some other more comfortable masks.  Yeah.  Yeah. And then they also gave us 150 to buy any technology needs. So like a microphone helps when you are wearing a mask a tripod to record yourself for virtual students - like those kind of things.  OK.  And where this money is coming from I have no idea. Like I do not know how my district is affording...  Hey do not ask too many questions. Do not ask too many questions.   Exactly. I am just submitting the receipts and being like OK.   Yeah yeah. You know you mentioned that your students are following the rules. But besides just being there and doing what they should do how is their mental and emotional health - you know for the ones that are in your class and also for the 20 who are at home I guess watching you on Zoom?  Yeah that is a really good question. My kids are so grateful to be back at school. For so many of them - I mean I am not saying they all come from unhappy homes because they do not. Plenty come from you know perfectly loving homes. But I mean you and I know we have spent a lot of time at home this year. And these kids...  It is been hard. Yeah.  It is been hard. And so the kids are so thrilled to be back among their peers. And being a teenager I mean the social aspect of high school is huge right? So they are thrilled to be back. And then in terms of the students who elected to learn from home - I have one virtual section of students online and I work really hard to have like discussion boards where they interact with each other. And of course that does not replace being in a classroom talking face-to-face but certainly trying.  Yeah. I mean it seems like all things considered your school and you - you are doing a heck of a job. I mean it is pretty remarkable to hear that the train is still running. What is the plan for your school if in spite of all precautions there is an outbreak? What happens then?  Oh yeah. So the state of Utah provided recommendations and I believe that my school district will follow all of those. And they are - I support them definitely. So we as teachers have been instructed to not change seating charts at all until like a break. Who they sit next to is who they sit next to for the next you know however many weeks.  So can track if you need to.  So you can track it. Right. So if I get a COVID-positive student I will be alerted by the health department and my principal and say hey this student was positive please report any student who sat within 6 feet of that student. Our admins will supervise contact tracing among all seven of their periods - right? - because they are not just in my class. They attend seven classes a day.  Yeah. Wow.  So we will contact trace.  Utah's got it figured out.  Yeah. And then if we have 15 positive cases in my school that is considered an outbreak. And if we have an outbreak then my school will close for a two-week quarantine and we will virtually teach for two weeks.  It is so refreshing to just talk with you because I hear a level of assurance and I hear a level of trust you know between you and your district and your parents and your students. I feel like a lot of other districts parents parts of the country schools - they do not have that fundamental level of trust. And - I do not know. It is not really a question. It is more of a thought. Like...  No I agree with you. I agree with you. And I am - you are getting at the trust thing and that is huge. Like I know without hesitation that if I had a COVID-positive student my principal would tell me. They would not hide it from me. I feel like my community is working together.  Yeah.  I have had a couple absences in every class all day long and my hope is that that means that parents are being really precautious with their kid. And if their kid has the sniffles or a cough or a slight fever...  Keep them home.  ...They are keeping them home right? Because it is a team effort. If you have got parents who just give their kid a you know ibuprofen and send them out the door that is you know...  Yeah. That is not too good.  And I will say Utah has not been a hotspot throughout this entire thing. It is very different than if you were in a major city. I will say if you have got the trust and you have got the resources it is possible to very cautiously and optimistically open a school and hope for the best .   Thanks again to ninth-grade science teacher Sarah Chirichigno. After we taped this interview one of the high schools in Sarah's district reported 17 positive coronavirus cases. The school board voted to close the school for deep cleaning for two days but they did not have all the students and teachers quarantine for 14 days. And that choice is against the recommendations of the county health department. Sarah told us she still has full faith in her own school's administration but she has lost faith in her district's school board. So Sarah is teaching in person right now but there are a lot of teachers all over the country this school year who are teaching remotely often from home. We heard from a few of them.   It is now 45 a.m. and it is time for students to prepare for the first day of school.  Welcome back you guys. Good to see you.   All right. So we are going to give everybody a minute to sign in here and get you guys rolling.   Getting to see my students again getting to have real conversations - this year especially about current events - and I am engaging kids in conversations about truth and reality in a way that I was never able to really get into before in school.  It was so great this week when school started to just be able to hear the kids laughing and see their faces.  I received an email from a parent in my class. It says  thank you thank you thank you thank you. My son is really enjoying your class. Just based on that first day he mentioned how happy he was that you said you are an LGBTQ ally. I see him energized and engaged and I know getting this out of students takes talent and sweat in person even harder online.  There are of course challenges with technology access.  I am also the technology facilitator at my school. And so in being that person I have been trying to help students get logged onto their new computers - you know that we had to provide them with so it is a brand-new thing for them they do not know how to run any of them - and then having to do all that with staff as well.  My heart breaks when I get the letters. I apologize I could not come because they had to help with family had to help out and do X Y and Z - or that they are really trying with the tech but there is issues beyond their control with connectivity the device and such.  All you can do is reach out to those families - call email get your counselors with you get their principal involved - and really just show love to that student. Give grace. Really just push for them to be present - right? - in class.  I am also a parent to a 16-month-old and a 3-year-old both of whom are doing distance learning while I do distance teaching. While I am thankful to have my job having the children at home has been really challenging for me and my family. My husband has sickle cell disease and he is home on disability. We were fortunate to find spots for both our children at a day care through the D.C. Child Care Subsidy Program. This meant that we could afford to send both of them to day care which is a necessity since my husband is often in pain and has frequent hospital visits.  Oh man. What a day. So we had the power go out in the middle of the day so that was fun in the middle of a Zoom meeting. And then we had to go get dinner because we could not cook. Luckily we had chargers for our phones and could survive for a couple hours till the power came back on. But never seems to end right? Always some kind of obstacle. Yeah. So I mean I guess I am lucky that I am employed. I am healthy. My kids are fantastic and amazing and ridiculous and inspiring. And you know maybe it is just me projecting but I think that the kids crave structure. They crave routine. They crave school. They like being together. They like learning ideas. And I am just really lucky that I can be there to be part of that.  Thanks to all those teachers you heard there - Michael Hernandez  Neil Rona  Jacqueline Martinez  and Joya Aguirre  Jennifer Goss Liz Ramos  Magdalena Matta  and Christine Contreras-Slaughter. Coming up we will hear from another teacher whose in-person teaching experience has been pretty rough so far.   This fall a lot of teachers have really struggled returning to the classroom.   Our next teacher works in the Greater Dallas Texas area and her experience has been contentious. Several teachers in this area have spoken out on social media about their fears teaching kids in person. This teacher we talked to she asked remain anonymous because she is worried that she will be fired for speaking out openly.  You know there are a lot of safety protocols in place. But in my opinion they are not necessarily the most important protocols for us to stay healthy. It is more hygiene theater.  This teacher says there is more focus on spraying things down and wiping down surfaces instead of addressing things like air quality and ventilation inside the classrooms. As of this episode's air date this teacher's district has seen 91 positive student and employee cases since school began on August 19. This teacher calls that situation a quote ticking time bomb.   We are short-staffed as a district because so many have been able to resign and take leave. And the only reason I am there is because I need the paycheck. And that sounds horrible because that is not why I went into education. But I am strongly considering resigning after this year - A to find a job I can do from home and B because just the level of disrespect.  Talk more about that. Who is disrespecting?  The district. And I know that is you know the district. But our superintendent has a school board and they made the decision to open schools face-to-face even though in Texas they could have applied for eight weeks' worth of a waiver to delay the opening of schools face-to-face. And when the school board meeting was held to make that decision the only two school board members of color were both vocal in their opposition about opening schools face-to-face. But that was disregarded blatantly. And there were four hours of parent comments by the wealthier demographic of our district about how they were going to go to private school if we did not open and threats and all kinds of stuff like that. So I feel like the teacher voices were ignored even though we were screaming saying we do not feel safe this is not OK.  Wow. You alluded to a perhaps racial divide...  Yes.  ...In all of this. It is interesting to hear you say that because we talked to one of our education reporters and she alluded to the same thing. Basically parents of color seem to have more concerns about their kids in this pandemic and going back than white parents do. Have you noticed that as a teacher?  Absolutely. So I saw the numbers for the district. And you can kind of look at by school and which neighborhood the schools are in and get a feel for the demographics. And at the predominantly white and wealthy campuses the percentages of students returning face-to-face were much higher and the students of color are much more likely to be still at home learning virtually.  Yeah yeah. So then at your school what is the like breakdown of the campus? How much of the campus is back? How much of folks are still at home? And how is the layout of just the classrooms and the campus itself refigured to accommodate this pandemic? Just like lay out the like landscape for me if you can.  OK. So we have about 60 of kids back in person. The desks are when possible all facing the front and as far apart as possible but usually far apart only means about a foot and a half or 2 feet.  Oy.  Some grade levels have like big tables where multiple children have to share a table. The students have plastic shields but that does not help with air quality concerns.  Yeah. Are they wearing masks?  Yes. There is always the issues with it falling down and the little noses hanging out because it is hard to get a good fit on a kid but they are trying.  Yeah.  We have dots in the hallways because they are supposed to be spaced out 6 feet in line. And I say supposed to because during the day when...  Yeah what grade-school kids are going to follow dots?  Yeah. And it is not as bad during the school day whenever it is just one class in the hallway and the teacher can really keep tight control on it. But at the end of the day at dismissal it is like - it is the elementary version of all those high school pictures that went viral on Twitter except in this case they are wearing masks thankfully. But yeah they are shoulder to shoulder all bunched up.  Yeah. How does lunch happen? I have heard that some schools are staggering them more and making the kids sit further apart.  Yeah.  Does that work out?  They are eating in the cafeteria and they are spaced apart a bit more than normal. And they have their partitions or their dividers that they carry with them and put on the table.  Wow. How do you - I mean you are talking about this all very calmly matter of factly. How is your mental health right now?  In the toilet . Thanks for asking. No it is terrible. Yeah. I just made an appointment with a therapist. I have seen a psychiatrist. I am on anxiety meds so that I can go to work every day. It is awful.  Ugh. I hope you are taking some personal days some mental health days. You deserve that.  Yes.  Yeah. What are parents saying?  Well many of the ones who wrote to the school board were basically just you know teachers you need to get back to work. Our tax dollars pay your salary get in there. Like stop being a slacker. From what I have heard from colleagues who have interacted with parents like you would think that they would be super grateful - like wow we love you guys we are so glad you are doing this...  Yeah yeah.  ...Not necessarily no.  Why do you think that is? Like I do not know. Like the work of teaching is like fundamental to the function of a society. And...  Well they loved us in April...  Really?  ...Because they were all realizing how hard our jobs were.  Yeah.  But by August they did not care about us  and they did not care if we lived or died.  Why do you think that is?  I am not sure. And I do not think it is all of them. Right? It is really - you know NotAllParents.  .  But I think that the entitled ones who are you know demographically more likely to have sent their children back to school those are the parents who are being interacted with right now. And so maybe it is skewed for that reason because I definitely - like when I was teaching virtually I got a lot of you know respect and gratitude and had a lot of great one-on-one conversations. But I think that now that we are back I think the parents just desperately want the world to be back to normal. And I think that a lot of people are angry that it is not and sometimes that frustration gets taken out on others whose fault it is not.  Yeah. If your school can avoid a shutdown and continue a school year the way things are now do you feel confident that you could give your kids an actual quality education?  Not at all. One of the reasons I was pushing so hard to remain virtual - other than safety obviously - is because I feel like I was teaching them much more effectively. Like obviously I love masks. Right? Super pro-mask - everybody wear your masks. But they are not learning as much from me when I am in person focused on not dying trying to spray all the surfaces and they cannot see my face versus when we are on Zoom together and I am at my house so I do not have to wear a mask and they can see me clearly and understand what I am saying and I am calm and not panicking right? Because it is very much like the actual education right now is taking a back seat to the safety protocols.  Yeah. And it is hard to be...  Rightfully so .  Yeah yeah yeah. So you know that we are talking to more than just you for this episode.  Yes.  What does it feel like to know that in the same country you are going through what you just told me and this other teacher in Utah is being given money to help prepare for the pandemic?  It feels like the most Texas thing ever.  Explain.  I actually used to live in Utah in a suburb outside of Salt Lake City so that is kind of funny to me.  Stop it. Oh my goodness. OK. .  I substitute taught there for a little while. It definitely feels like Texas does not like its teachers from a lawmaker perspective because one of the things that all of my friends in other states keep saying they are like you guys need to strike. Like what is wrong? Why are not you walking out? Well...  Can you all actually strike in Texas?  No. And that is what people do not understand. If we were to because Texas they can take our teacher retirement in addition to...  Wait. Seriously?  Yes. So not only do you not get to have your teaching certificate anymore which people could maybe live with they take your retirement. So that is what I mean - it is the most Texas thing ever. Like people are terrified to speak out. I know many many teachers having bad experiences right now. And I sent them your guys' email and no one will talk because they are so scared of repercussions.  Does that mean you might leave teaching?  Yes. I am strongly considering taking this year to do some research and find another path and then move forward with that path after this school year is up.   Thanks again to that teacher in the Dallas Texas area. All right. So the teachers you heard in this episode they can really only speak about their particular schools because with all things pandemic it varies from place to place - same goes for education. It varies from place to place. But a few things are abundantly clear. I talked to my colleague Anya Kamenetz - she covers education for NPR - and she said for the most part most schools just do not have enough money to be fully prepared for teaching right now even with federal help.  Congress passed one package. Right? That was a while ago - one coronavirus relief package. It had about 13 billion for schools. Schools then said you know that is sweet but we are going to need like more than 200 billion to actually do this...  Wow.  ...To retrofit buildings to do HVAC - like there was a study...  And a lot of these schools they cannot rely on state or local governments for too much help either because the recession caused by the pandemic means those governments are bringing in less tax revenue.  Revenues crashed at the state level. That is what funds our schools. States cannot borrow money. A lot of states have balanced budget amendments. So just at the time when they would think that they would be needing to - I do not know - hire janitors hire school nurses hire counselors hire...  Cannot do it yeah.  ...Remote learning specialists not only can they not do it they are actually cutting jobs in places.  Anya says a lot of educators across the country are being asked to do twice the work with half the money. And there is something else - when we talked Anya cited this study from Chalkbeat. And it confirms a thing you have already heard this episode a thing a lot of experts already agree on. There was one big factor that really affects how the pandemic will shape someone's school experience this year.  It really breaks down by race. So like white kids are much more likely to be going back in for full time in person. African American Hispanic children who are more likely to be in blue states in cities you know and also in underresourced districts they are more likely to be full time online.  And Anya says there is a likely reason for this.  I think it has a lot to do with different communities' experience of the virus. So it has been seen across the country that you know Black and Hispanic families are more hesitant or more fearful of going back to school in person. And you know that is very - it is like well it is hit those communities harder. Right? They have had higher rates of illness of death. They might be more likely to have essential workers in their families or have elderly folks living in multigenerational...  Or just know someone who died.  Yeah.  If you are Black or brown you probably know someone who died. And you are probably a lot more reluctant...  Yeah.  ...To send your kid to school.  Exactly. Exactly. And you know a similar example - here in New York City where I live I believe it is around half or more than half of Asian families also have opted for all remote.  I am thinking back to earlier this year when people were saying oh the pandemic does not discriminate. Yeah that is not true not for the grown-ups and not for the kids. But Anya also said there was something about kids - no matter where they are no matter their race - they are a lot tougher than you might think.  As strange as it is being back in the classroom seeing your friends and your teacher really outweighs the strangeness of it. And kids can be very adaptable. You know I interviewed - right after Denmark came back in session which was back in April I talked to one of the - someone from the school there. And they said you know the kids have invented new games to play since they cannot touch each other. They play shadow tag and they tag each other's shadows on the playground.  Oh my God. That is both the sweetest and saddest thing ever.  A hundred percent a hundred percent. And you know I think this is something where our kids' behavior has changed you know. And they are figuring out how to communicate despite the masks.   To the kids to the parents to the teachers - thank you and keep doing your best.   This episode was produced by Anjuli Sastry with help from Star McCown. Our editor for this episode was Jordana Hochman. Listeners we are back in your feeds on Friday. Till then I am Sam Sanders. Stay safe. We will talk soon.  