 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show producer of NPR's Embedded Tom Dreisbach and Curbed urbanism editor and LA Podcast co-host Alissa Walker. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend. It feels like the short weekends are always the longest weekends. No?  The short weekends are always the longest?  The short weeks rather. Sorry.  .  I was like what? What day is it?  I am so tired. This holiday week just has thrown me off.  It is always weird. I mean an extra day is 50 more weekend.  Yeah. Yeah.  Like that is a lot of extra weekend. And then it is a short week. I do not know.  Then you got to come in and make everything fit into one small work week.  Yeah that is right.  This is my birthday weekend so I got - you know it was good.  Happy birthday.  Happy birthday.  Thank you thank you.  We should say again welcome to my guests one of who just had a birthday. Here with Alissa Walker urbanism editor at Curbed and Tom Dreisbach reporter and producer for the NPR podcast Embedded. Glad you both are here. What exactly does urbanism mean?  It just means looking at cities as an entity something to study. So whether it is transportation policy housing policy looking at people living together in close areas and if that is good or bad. Or it can be both.  It can be both. We are joined here in studio by Lizzo who is having a very very good week.    I put the sing in single. As not worried bout a ring on my finger. So you can tell your friend...  She has a song that everyone's heard called Truth Hurts. It just hit No. 1 this week. And I am playing it because it has like a weird backstory. So this song just hit No. 1 in September of 2019. It was first released in September of 2017.  Wait. Really?  Yes.  I had no idea.  Oh yeah it is been out for two years. The song kind of just lingered in the ether for a long time. But a few months ago it was in a Netflix rom-com called Someone Great.  I had never even heard of the Netflix movie.  And after it was in this Netflix rom-com - so this is a great week for Lizzo but it is also a weird week for Lizzo because she is being sued over one of the lyrics in this song. For me the best line in the song is when she talks about taking a DNA test.    I just took a DNA test. Turns out I am 100 that  even when I am crying crazy.  Fun happy lyric. Someone is suing her saying I had the meme first. I had that line first. This singer named Mina Lioness this British singer says that she first tweeted that phrase in 2017 and that Lizzo did not give her credit. Lizzo says I did not steal it. But this other singer is mad because now Lizzo is trying to trademark the phrase. Yeah.  I am mad at both of them.   I could never be mad at Lizzo.  Oh that is true. OK.  Could you be mad at Lizzo?  No absolutely not.  It is impossible.  No.  Anyways either way congratulations Lizzo. I am 100 into Lizzo.   That is terrible Sam.    Truth hurts needed something more exciting. Bom-bom-bi-dom-bi-dum-dum-bay . You tried to break my heart? Oh that breaks my heart that you thought you ever had it...  We are going to start the show as we always do asking my panelists to describe their week of news in only three words. Alissa because this is your first time here on the show we are going to let you go first.  I have three words.  What are they?  Lightbulbs cheeseburgers and straws.  That is the most mad libs three words I have heard on the show yeah.  .  And I love it and I want you to explain it all to me.  All right so I am assuming you all watched the seven-hour climate town hall this week.  .  Why you laughing? Why you laughing?  I...  It was long. I was - it was very long.  I think climate change advanced in the span of those seven hours it was so long.   You had to watch it right?  I had to watch it. We have been reporting on it at Curbed. And this was the biggest-tweeted moment I think of the entire seven-hour marathon.  And this seven-hour thing took place on CNN. Was it Wednesday?  This was on CNN yeah. And they gave 10 candidates who are the top qualifying candidates about 30 minutes to answer audience questions. And then the moderators who were different CNN anchors kind of peppered it with their own questions. So Chris Cuomo asks Elizabeth Warren this question about if she would like force every American to switch over to these energy efficient lightbulbs because the Trump administration has just announced this rollback of a policy that would basically require everyone to start using LEDs and compact fluorescent bulbs which are a big deal. It turns out it actually could you know save a lot of energy and...  Yeah.  ...Prevent a lot of carbon pollution. And she just smacks him down.  Really?   There are a lot of ways that we try to change our energy consumption and our pollution. And God bless all of those ways. Some of it is with lightbulbs. Some of it is on straws. Some of it - dang - is on cheeseburgers right? But understand this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry hopes we are all talking about.   That is what they want us to talk about.  So is the thing that Warren was pointing out was that like the straw debate is a distractionary tactic?  Perhaps a straw man I would say.  Oh.  Oh.  OK.  But yes the straw debate has no place in a climate forum. It has nothing to do with climate change.  So then why is everyone...  They kept talking about - they asked like Kamala Harris to like demonstrate drinking out of like a paper straw.  Really?  Yes it was like...  So is the thing that Warren was pointing out was that like this focus on the individual is actually distracting from what could change things the most which is collective action on a larger wider scale involving these big corporations?  I think her answer was really good. And that is - was really a good point. You know and what we have also learned about the fossil fuel industry just including the fact that they have downplayed the science and actually actively tried to promote these ideas that - plant a tree is going to save everything you know? And when - trees are great and very important...  Love a tree.  ...But it is actually fossil fuel industries that are the problem.  And so I want to talk about your beat. You cover transportation.  Right.  And you were talking with us this week about how in the same way that there are distractions about the real causes of climate change one of the biggest culprits is a thing that no one wants to talk about which is how everyday people transport themselves from point A to point B - cars and planes right?  Car - well not even planes.  Really?  It is really just cars.  OK.  I mean...  Tell me.  ...Planes are small. So if you look at the breakdown of greenhouse gas emissions emitted by the United States 29 is transportation.  Whoa.  A large majority...  Really?  ...Of that is just cars just our passenger private...  Really?  ...Vehicles. And in a state like California...  Oh my God.  ...It is even more because we have cleaned our grid up so much that the cars are making an even bigger impact on our climate emissions.  I mean I guess the question is how much do we individually bear responsibility then for changing that when especially in a place like California or in any kind of rural place in the country...  You have to drive.  ...Like how else are you supposed to get around? I mean I - there are other options in Los Angeles. I should not...  All right so let me blow your mind...  OK tell me.  ...Again.  OK.   One-third of trips taken in this country - so a trip is just every time...  Yeah.  ...You leave your house...  Yeah.  ...Are three miles or less.  Really?  Even in Los Angeles this holds true.  Yeah.  It is - every time you leave the house you are probably going to go a short - a short enough distance that you could maybe walk or bike or take transit. And the time difference is you know a big deal.  Right.  And that is what is going to...  Yeah.  ...Change people's minds about...  Yeah.  ...What they are going to do.  Yeah.  But if your city allowed you to do it if your city helped you...  Had the infrastructure to do it.  ...If your city you know prioritized this...  Well and this is what is interesting particularly in a place like California we have seen the Trump White House fight things like the stricter auto emissions laws while California has said we want them and the car companies have said we want them too. In the midst of this kind of gridlock where can action on this stuff really come from? Does it come from the cities and states? Will it ever come from Congress and the White House? What is the most likely path for change here?  It has to be both and it has to - it is clear that cities cannot do it on their own because a lot them...  Oh locals hate it.  ...Have been - yeah .  Locals...  Yeah.  ...They do not want that...  Well that too.  ...Bus lane. They do not want that bike lane.  Yeah you need to kind of - but you need to - yeah you need the federal funding to say you know we are putting you know a trillion dollars into sidewalks. And then on the other side you do need to have the leaders at the city level that are staying - that are standing up for these changes and saying I want to give people more options. I am not going to prioritize cars.  Yeah. Do we end up with a system that is just patchwork across the country to address these things? You know eventually California's doing one thing Wyoming's doing one thing Alabama's doing something else. And that is what it is.  We did something once that was on a national scale.  What was it?  We built the highway system.  Oh we did.  We built the...  We did.  ...Federal highway - federally funded highway system that cut through our cities and have caused very poor health outcomes for kids who now have asthma in higher rates in those inner city neighborhoods. So if we could honestly reverse that we would solve a lot of problems. And you put in high-speed rail between the cities that - you know you talk about people in rural areas are not able to maybe transition to public transit and - or you know ride a bike. It is far distances. So you can fill in the gaps with things like high-speed rail and regional rail. You undo all those decisions to put freeways through the middle of our cities.  You going to take the 405 away?  Hell yeah.  Please.  Yeah.  .  Please.  Like 10 monorails just going back and forth...  If you - listen...  ...Running...  ...If you could get rid of the 405...  .  ...I would vote for you for president.   I will put that on the top of my list. I - it is not...  .  It is not that strange of an idea when you look at what other cities and other countries are doing who have decided that this is more important. Tommy D you got three words.  I do. I do.  Not everyone listening knows my nickname for you.   Thanks a lot Sam.  Oh yeah.  So from one intractable problem to another one...  .  ...My three words are instead of follow the leader the leader follows.  Which lead?  Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Senate Republican from Kentucky.  Oh yeah.  He last month in early August after the shootings in El Paso and in Dayton Ohio he did something kind of surprising which is he came out - he was on a radio show in Louisville - and he said that he was going to take up gun control legislation.   What we cannot do is fail to pass something you know? But by just locking up and failing to pass that that is unacceptable. What I want to see here is an outcome not a bunch of partisan back and forth shots across the bow.  OK so that is what he said in early August.  Gotcha.  This past week on Tuesday he was on Hugh Hewitt Show and he sounded much different.   If the president took a position on a bill so that we knew we would actually be making a law and not just having serial votes I would be happy to put it on the floor. And the administration is in the process of studying what...  So he basically said I will only put this up if I know Trump will sign it.  Exactly. What happened is that in the meantime - you know in early August President Trump was saying we are going to have smart background checks.  Yes.  We are going to talk about this. We are going to make something happen.  Which was also surprising.  Which was surprising. And then he had a phone call with the head of the NRA Wayne LaPierre and they were against essentially most of the proposals floating around including enhanced background checks. And so President Trump changed his tune. He is now against most of the gun control proposals out there. And Mitch McConnell is in this position where he said we cannot do nothing but the president now is not on board with gun control.  What does this say about Mitch McConnell and what he wants and what his strategy is?  Mitch McConnell is a party guy.  OK.  And he is up for re-election in 2020 in Kentucky. And the thing to know about him is he is a very unpopular senator in his own state. His approval rating is below 40. It is in the mid-30s.  Even as he is the most powerful man in Washington D.C.  He is among the most powerful people in the country...  Yeah.  ...Maybe the world.  Wow.  And he is not popular in his home state. But Donald Trump is incredibly popular in Kentucky. And they are both on the ballot in 2020. And part of Mitch McConnell's strategy for winning re-election is binding himself as closely as possible to the president because he is hoping that though you might not like me you like the president. And I am the guy that is getting the president's agenda passed.  So in that political environment who in the GOP is actually in charge of setting the terms of the gun control debate? The NRA the president or Mitch McConnell?  Well if you ask Mitch McConnell it is the president. And all of the debate will flow through the president. If he endorses something he will follow that. And so if President Trump did want gun control he is actually in a unique position to push it and change that gridlock. If he were to be the president that said we are going to pass universal background checks - we are going to consider an assault weapons ban - he could actually I think - given his popularity with the Republican Party he could actually push that through.  Because his base will never leave him.  His base will never leave him. And I think that is why you saw someone like Mitch McConnell say oh yeah. We will consider this...  Yeah.  ...When before he never would have considered it.  Yeah. And Tom you know a lot about Mitch McConnell and what he wants because your show has been covering him extensively. Talk about that.  Yeah. We have been doing a long deep dive into Mitch McConnell's career and his political rise from his time as a small local official in Louisville Ky. to the Senate majority leader...  Yeah.  ...Which is one of the most powerful positions in Washington.  Oh yeah.  And he has done that while being kind of a boring figure in certain ways .  Yeah. Yeah.  But he ends up - like when you dig into his career he actually is - has had a fascinating arc that kind of tells you a lot about how politics has changed in this country.  Podcast is called Embedded - a lot of episodes all about Mitch. Go check it out. What is the name of the series?  Mitch. It is just called Mitch.   We did not come up with anything better.  On that note it is time for a break. Coming up we are going to talk about another intractable problem...  .  ...Brexit. If you think you are confused trying to follow the latest twists and turns over there imagine actually being in the U.K. right now. After the break we will cross the pond - I should not say cross the pond. It is such a cliche. I am saying it. After the break we are going to cross the pond and talk to a real live U.K. resident and ask her what it is like to live through that political Game Of Thrones.  Real live?  Real live . You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here in studio with two guests - Alissa Walker urbanism editor at Curbed. I love that job title.  Thank you.  And Tom Dreisbach reporter and producer for the NPR podcast Embedded. I have a question for you both. Would you describe yourselves as optimists or pessimists?  I am an optimist.  OK.  I have to be.   Yeah. Yeah.  I have two children.  OK .  Cautious optimist...  OK.  ...I would say.  I am a pessimist wrapped in an optimist sheep's clothing.  Ooh.  Ooh. Why are you deceiving us Sam?  My inner monologue...  .  ...Is very much like a sad Jerry Seinfeld.  You are like a turducken...  Yes.  ...Of...  A turducken of emotion.   What is the deal with this news?   Basically. Anyways I bring this up because there is a new study which finds that if you are an optimist you will live longer. The Washington Post wrote all about it. I am going to - I will quote the Washington Post to you now. They said that these Boston-area scientists found that the most optimistic people live an average of 11 to 15 longer than their more pessimistic peers. Do we believe that?  That is a lot.  That is a lot.  I do not know. Is it self-fulfilling right? Are you a pessimist because your life is terrible and you die younger? I am sorry.  Oh my God .  Or are you optimistic because you have good health...  Oh yeah.  ...And so you are happier in general?  But bright side - if you are not an optimist already there is good news from this study. They said the mindset is about 25 hereditary which means you do have some control over it. So you can walk yourself to a more optimistic future if you want.  Is this like The Secret Sam?  I - basically yes.  .  Wait - it literally said walking?  Well not walk. Sorry. That was me.  I mean I was like...  Emotionally walk.  I think that is...  Emotionally walking.  I think that is actually true.  Well walking is true if it is for...  It helps with dementia.  How did they do this study?  .  Come on.  Next season on Embedded...  Sorry. I am pessimistic about this study.  You are pessimistic about this study. Speaking of other things to be pessimistic about - Brexit .  It should always be said like that.  Brexit.  .  It is such a mess. It is such a mess. So this week lawmakers voted to block the new prime minister Boris Johnson from pulling the U.K. out of the EU without a deal. So now the U.K. is even further away from a clean exit than it was already. It was so dramatic so complicated and so heated. Here's just a bit of tape about what British politics sounded like this week.   Do not gesticulate. Do not rant. Spare us the theatrics. Behave yourself. Be a good boy young man. Be a good boy.   What is in the water over there?   Order.  .   Order.  I love when they stand up and just start yelling.  It makes me so sad that our Congress is not like that.  .  Right?  I get really...  I would enjoy it for five minutes and I would be like stop it you all. Stop it you all.  Yeah please.  So anyways Brexit is getting crazy. It is been crazy. I am not going to try to explain the back and forth to you but what we are going to do right now is talk with someone who can tell us what it feels like to live through this. It is time for our segment Long Distance.   We call someone up in this segment from around the world and ask them how the news is affecting them this week. Today we are joined by Elizabeth Cox . She is a substitute teacher who lives in London. Hi.  Oh hello. How are you?  I am good. How are you?  I am all right. Yeah it is been a....  So I asked Elizabeth to tell me to the best of her ability what in the world is going on over there.  Yeah I - this is a really good question.  .  If anybody could answer it that would really help. I think most people I know have just kind of given up...  Oh.  ...And given up kind of trying to engage. Like pretty much all of August I have just did not bother reading any news.  Wow.  Just avoided it.  So you are a substitute teacher. What grade do you substitute teach?  I do everything from nursery - so like 3 4 - up to like year six here. So it is like 11-year-olds pretty much so like...  That is the sweetest thing.  ...All the primary.  Yeah. What in the world do you tell your students about Brexit when they ask you about Brexit which I assume they do?  It depends on the age and it depends on their like - what I generally try to do is say what do you think? But a lot of the time it comes down to well you know it is nice that we are all together you know that all of the countries are working together. But if you know if that is not what is working best for one person - I try to bring it just to like their level of understanding. Like bring it to football teams or bring it to like class relationships. But I also - they are more aware of Roblox Minecraft and TikTok than they are - like they know who Lil Nas X is. They do not know who you know Jeremy Corbyn is.  It is probably better that way .  Yeah I think so .  So are there - I have this image in my head of like Brits in the cafe in the bar wherever like fighting about this stuff fighting over Brexit. Are there like public arguments and clashes over the Brexit insanity?  No. There are clashes but there is more - in my like line of work there is more just sussing out the room. And there is - there are those moments of tension when someone mentions where they have been on holiday or something like that like kind of trying to figure out how they stand on certain things and whether you can make that joke or not whether you can say oh we will have to get a visa to go there next year or whatever whether you can make that joke or not. And yet like here I am with teaching kids in school and having to make sure they feel calm But also kind of you know buying more chickpeas in my weekly shop so that I have got a Brexit storage and having conversations in staffroom about how there was no fruit and veg in like Tescos and stuff...  Really. So you are a Brexit prepper.  Yeah.  Oh my goodness.  And like minimally like on the low key prepping. Just low key.  Oh my goodness.  I love pasta. I love chickpeas.  Wow. So from what you have been telling me it seems like because of all the insanity in the government right now around Brexit you have had to kind of check out a bit. Do you think it is a good thing for U.K. citizens and residents to say I cannot focus on this anymore? Like should in spite of the insanity you all be still paying attention a lot to it  even though it is hard?  Yeah we should be. Yeah we really should be.  .  But I feel like the thing that is taken on that - the anger and the activism has got - it is more climate change because with climate change I think people see that there is maybe a way of helping or changing things whereas with politics it seems so insurmountable because voting does not seem to really count.  Wait. I hear you telling me that people where you are feel like climate change is an easier problem to solve than Brexit.  Yeah pretty much.  Wow. Are you surprised that it is gotten that bad? Like when the vote happened did you say - you know whether you want it to happen or not did you say to yourself well the votes happened this is what is going to happen? And now - like did you expect to still be mired in this muck and mire years later?   No I did not think it would happen. I did not think that we would still be talking about it.  You think it is still going to happen.  I did not think that. I do not know. I do not even know if we will leave the EU or not...  Wow.  ...Even now.  If you could talk to all of these politicians in your country right now arguing over Brexit what would you tell them?  I would say you need to act like professionals. This is not a joke and it is not a way for you to look better. You look terrible and you are not making anybody's lives easier including yourselves.  When they finally figure out what they are going to do - and who knows when that will be - but like once they have like a final decision and a final plan how long do you think it will take for things to get back to normal?  That is really difficult because I do not think that things can really. I think there is been a break and a change. And I think until Gen Z have started a new Gen A...  Wow.  ...I think that this is just going to sit there in consciousness and it is going to be this thing. It is an open wound and I do not think that it is going to necessarily just get better.  Well hey Elizabeth I really thank you so much for talking with me. As an American following the saga I can only imagine what you all are going through. And now I understand a bit more. So you have my thoughts and my sympathies in this crazy time in the U.K. I hope you have a great weekend Elizabeth.  You too. Thank you so much.  Thanks. Bye.   Thanks again to Elizabeth Cox a substitute teacher in London living through all this Brexit drama in real time. I am back here in studio with my two panelists - not in London but in Los Angeles. What do we make of what she is saying?  It just made me think like what have they been able to get done in the U.K. in the last three years since the Brexit vote? Like this seems like all they have talked about for three-plus years. Like does anything else happen in the government there? Like this just seems like we have a deal we do not have a deal.  We have a prime minister we do not have a prime minister.  The part where she was talking about how you talk - you start talking to somebody and you have to read them really fast to see if they agree with you or not I feel that way about climate change. I feel that way about guns. I feel that way about politics in general in this country. And it has made me really change the way that I make small talk with people...  Really?  ...In the last few years in a way that I have not done before.  Really?  Yeah.  I used to tell folks all the time talk about politics. You need to. And now I am just like everybody shut up. Everybody shut up.  .   Anyways it is time for a break. When we come back we are going to lighten the mood with my favorite game - Who Said That? I am Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined in studio with two guests - Tom Dreisbach reporter and producer for the NPR podcast Embedded and Alissa Walker urbanism editor at Curbed. You have a podcast too huh?  I do.  Tell the folks what it is.  I am on a podcast called LA Podcast.  OK.  It is the most un-Google-able  name.   But it is about LA.  OK then I will listen. I love LA. All right it is time for my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  All right. This game is the most simple game but also the most fun. I have three quotes from the week of news. I will read the quote. You have to guess who said it or what story I am talking about.  OK.  The winner gets absolutely nothing. Although you know what?  I am out.  I am going to...  .  ...I am going to get it for you all after. We had a listener send me some mail this week. I - he or she we had some initials so I do not know - but they said you always say that you have no prizes for Who Said That? Well I sent you one. They sent a shot glass...  Oh.  ...A little Bud Light shot glass. So I will award it to the winner after we finish this game. It is at my desk OK? All right...  I am back in.  Yes. First quote you ready?  I guess.  There are no buzzers. Just yell out the answer when you have it. First quote - gee thanks. Just bought it. Shop our favorite trend ATM shop link in bio.  Ariana Grande.   Hey that shot glass is going to be mine.   So that quote's from the retail chain Forever 21. They were quoting without permission the Ariana Grande song 7 Rings in some of their ads. Ariana had been talking with them about possibly licensing something. She said no...  Oh.  ...You were not offering enough. Forever 21 just did it anyway.  Are not they also like filing for bankruptcy?  There is that.  Yes.  So they may very well file for bankruptcy soon. This is weird though. I feel like the older I get all of the stores that were in the mall when I was a kid they are dying.  Well so is the mall.  Do not tell me that.  Is Hot Topic still a thing?  It is.  No .  I think Hot Topic is doing well actually.  All right. Tommy D you got that first one.  Woo-hoo.  Second one is - here we go. Ready? Quote - the curses and spells used in the books are actual curses and spells which when read by a human being risk conjuring evil spirits into the presence of the person reading the text.  J.K. Rowling?   Close enough.  Harry Potter.  It is the Harry Potter scandal.  There is a scandal?  There is a scandal. There is a Harry Potter scandal. A school in Nashville - St. Edward Catholic School - they announced that now students can no longer check out the Harry Potter book series from their school's library and that quote was from the Reverend Dan Rehill. He is a priest at that school. They are basically saying this stuff is like real witchcraft real hexes so we do not want that out there to which I say those Harry Potter books and movies have been out for a while. The spells have been cast.  It is a little late.  Harry Potter - is the game tied?  It is.  Yes.  The game is tied. This last one for all the marbles - oh this is a fun one. Last quote - ready?  OK.  I have decided to retire and have my family. I know you guys are happy now. To my fans keep repping me. Do it till the death of me. X in the box 'ecause as not nobody checking me. Love you for life.  Jeremy Renner.   I was going to say the same thing.  You should have done that.  The Jeremy Renner app.  As a sidebar - listeners if you want a fun roller coaster ride of a story go read whatever happened to actor Jeremy Renner and his fan app. It was hacked but also shut down. And also I cannot even really tell who Jeremy Renner is. It was weird but it is not that. Sorry.  .  OK.  Someone retired this week.  Someone retired this week.  Someone announced their retirement this week - famous rapper...  A famous rapper...  ...A famous rapper who is a woman.  Oh oh oh - Nicki Minaj.  Yes. Yes.  Oh.  So Nicki Minaj tweeted this week that she wants more time with her family like she is a politician and says she is retiring. Do we believe it?  No.  Me neither.  Not remotely.  She is worked hard though. I mean she is earned it if she wants to.  Yeah. I just feel like she is feeling some heat. There are a lot of up-and-coming women rappers that are challenging her spot on the throne. I hate that we live in a world where rappers who are women are compared to each other but there is been some drama. You know she is had a little spat with Cardi B and some other ones. But you know I like Nicki. Stay in the game. I will miss you if you leave.  She will be back.   No question - she will be back and then we will have the comeback tour.  Which I will go to.  Yeah.  Tom.  Yes.  You won the game.  Oh my God.  Congratulations.  A Bud Light shot glass.  You get the shot glass. To that listener whoever you are who sent that in thank you for it. We only had your initials but know that I got that letter and that mail and that postcard. I thank you. I am sure Tom thanks you as well.  I thank you so much.  Yeah.  This is...  Yeah.  ...The greatest gift.  Think of all the shots of beer you can do this weekend.  Congrats Tommy D. All right. That concludes Who Said That? Listeners now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week we ask you all to share with us the best things that have happened to you all week. We get a lot of submissions. We pick some and play them for you. Let us hear it.  Hi Sam. This is Amy  from Burlington Vt. As of this week I have completed a goal to write down a highlight of my week every week for an entire year. And it is been a pretty good year. Thanks for the inspiration.  Hey Sam. This is Tricia  from Cary N.C. and the best thing that happened to me this week was my husband Steve and I went to Roanoke Va. to celebrate his mom and dad's 94th and 96th birthdays.  The best part of my week is I got to call my first-ever employee and tell her that she got the job.  The best part of my week was leaving my job tonight for the last time.  I defended my doctoral dissertation research and I passed.  Hi Sam. This is Megan . My husband and I are leaving Australia today after two wonderful weeks. He is currently out taking photographs of kangaroos outside of our hotel room. It is been a blast.  Hey Sam. This is Lori  in Chattanooga Tenn. and the best p