 Hey you all. Thanks so much for listening to the show. Before we start quick plug for another show - Up First. It is NPR's morning news podcast. Up First is about 12 minutes long. And it is produced and posted at 6 a.m. every weekday morning. The show makes you real smart real fast and I listen every day. You can hear Up First on the NPR One app or wherever you get your podcasts.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show New York Times reporter Katie Rogers and NPR film critic Bob Mondello. All right let us start the show.   She is so good at that.  She is good. Also a side note when Betty said hey you all Bob said hey.  I know.   Hey you all Sam Sanders here. It is BEEN A MINUTE. No theme music - each week we begin with a different song. I will explain this one in a second. But first my friend Katie Rogers. You know her from our first episode. She is back. Good to have you back.  Hey guys. Hey Sam.  And one of my faves of all time Bob Mondello film critic of note.  Are not you kind? .  Thank you Bob. You were out for a few weeks. But you are back in town and you are on our show. And we are very grateful.  I am - it is good to be back. Boy is it good to be back.  So we are here to talk about what happened this week. Obviously Harvey is the big story these past few days. So we are going to switch up the format of the show a bit to accommodate that. But first I will tell you about this song.    ...I ever wrote or said. Wake up with it every day and it take it with me to bed.  You guys know it?  No but I like it.  Yeah.  Yeah me too.  So this song is by Houston's favorite rapper. His name is Bun B. There is actually a Bun B Day in Houston. Like he is a big deal - been around for a long time. Half of the great rap super-group UGK. Anyway this song is from Bun B's solo album Trill which came out in 2005 when I was in college. And I played this thing...  Oh.  .  ...To death. So this takes me way back.  Baby Sam...  Yeah baby Sam.  ...Grew up with Bun B.  And I am playing Bun B because he is actually organizing a telethon for mid-September...  Oh wow.  Wow.  ...To help out with victims of Harvey in Houston. But wrinkle he told TMZ that if Donald Trump wants to come to this telethon there are conditions.  Such as?  Do not come alone.  He said...  Whoa.  ...You can only come if other presidents come with you. He told TMZ quote after what he did in Charlottesville he is not a symbol of unity and it would rub people the wrong way.  I wonder if he would even consider it.  I do not think he will be there.  To be determined.  Yeah I do not either but that is interesting. That is interesting.  Yeah. Right? I also...  This is going to be a very strange way of...  Recovery.  Yeah. Well not even just that. The whole arts interaction with the presidency has become very strange.  Oh yeah.  Oh yeah. Well there is a Kennedy Center Honors...  Right.  ...This annual tradition in D.C.  Yeah.  He did not go - or he is not going.  He is not going.  He is not going.  Yeah.  And several artists said that they will not go if he goes.  Right.  I think his arts council recently disbanded as well right?  Yeah.  They all resigned en masse.  Wow wow. Well we are going to see what happens.    ...File taxes then next thing you know IRS...  So normally in this part of the show we would each describe our week of news and culture and everything in three words. We are going to do three words. And I think that all of ours is going to be about Houston. But we are going to make this kind of a lightning round to get to some calls with folks from Texas. That said who wants to go first? Three words for the week.  I will.  Go. Do it.  Water water everywhere. It is Coleridge but it is also all about what is happening in Houston what is happening in India.  Yeah flooding there.  What is happening - melting the Arctic ice caps. Water water everywhere.  Yeah. Katie you are next.  I mean mine was - mine's along the same vein really. It is help out Houston. I think you know - I do not think any of us know yet quite how bad it will be. But I spent the first part of the week sort of figuring out you know if I were going to donate how would I do that? And where could I do that? And then...  And there are questions about that.  Yeah totally - there are. I mean the sad thing that happens in the age of social media is that every time there is a natural disaster I am always kind of amazed in a bad way that scammers sort of pop up with like the Go Fund Me stuff. Or like...  Oh yeah.  ...There are ways to protect against that. I think the IRS sort of has a service I think. There is a site called Charity Navigator...  Yes.  ...Which has like verified organizations - because nobody - I mean we should not have to feel like in the wake of something like this that the help that people want to give...  Yeah.  ...Will be used for...  Yeah.  You know to not help people.  Yeah it really is.  Yeah send money. But check out where you send the money to first.  Yeah.  You know my three words are thoughts and prayers because I think of those words and the question I ask after disasters like these is what is a correct way to respond?  Right.  You know there is been several mass shootings. There always are in this country. But the last several people have said well thoughts and prayers is not the right thing to say because thoughts and prayers are not enough. We need action on this thing. And that is one big part of like how we as a country respond. What is the right thing to say? What is the wrong thing to say? And in the aftermath of Harvey rightly so people are commending the people of Texas for trying to bounce back as strongly as possible. But there are some larger questions about what it means to build a city like Houston on what is basically a swamp and what it means to keep developing over wetlands that would serve as a natural buffer to these places. And like at what point can you ask those questions? Is it appropriate to do so? I do not know. Increasingly when these type of disasters happen I have more and more questions every time.  Sure.  Yeah.  All right. Instead of doing our Long Distance segment later on we are going to do it now. And we will start with a call to Becky Wright . Becky lives in Refugio Texas. This is a tiny town of about 3000 people. It is not too far out from Corpus Christi. And this is where you will recall the storm first hit land as a Category 4 hurricane. And so we talk with Becky before this call. For about six hours that storm sat over her in her hometown with 130 mile winds.  Oh man.  It is - it was something. Becky you there?  Yes I am here.  How are you?  I am doing OK.  OK all right. Well thank you so much for your time today. I am sure you are going through so much.  Not a problem.  You are on the phone with me Sam and two of my good friends Katie and Bob. Say hi guys.  Hey.  Hey Becky. Glad you are OK.  Hello. Thank you so much.  So you - we know a bit of your story. But I want you to tell it to me again here if that is OK. You are in Refugio which got hit pretty badly by the storm. And the storm kind of just sat over that town for a while when it first hit landfall. From what I understand you and a ton of family just rode it out in your house.  Yes at my house.  So what happened with that? How many folks were there I guess first?  Well I had a total of 19 in my house.  Oh my goodness.  Yes and it ranged in the age from my little nephew 1-year-old to my grandmother which is 85 years old. So...  How big is your house?  My house is a three-bedroom two-bath home.  Oh my goodness. So the storm hit overnight when it came in - about 3 a.m.  Yes.  At that point you guys all just sat there in the house and waited?  Well the worst part of it was like you said about 3 a.m. And we had mattresses on the floor in the living room and in my dining room as well. And we kind of just hung out for a little while and tried to not think about the storm not try to hear the wind roaring outside and...  Were you scared?  I was very terrified. I am one to get very nervous with any kind of storms like this. And for me to stay in town and ride it out was not something I normally would do.  What made you want to stay?  I did not want to leave my family .  Yeah I hear you. I hear you.  My mom did not want to leave. And my grandmother did not want to leave. So I stayed. I did not want to leave them.  What did town officials say to do? Like did the mayor say everyone get out?  It was a mandatory...  OK mandatory.  Yeah mandatory evacuation. And many of us here in Refugio county chose not to evacuate just because in the past there is been mandatory evacuations where we actually did leave. And it ended up turning and did not come our way. And I guess that is kind of what we expected and got the worst.  Yeah you know I mean it is so funny. I am from Texas as well. And when I heard the first reports of Harvey I said oh it will die down in the Gulf. It will be fine it will be fine. And with tons of these storms you really do not know how bad it is going to be until it gets there.  That is right. And it did actually turn into a Category 4 kind of at the last minute before it hit. So you know we had no choice - because I did say in the beginning if it turns into a 4 I am leaving.  Yeah.  I am gone.  Yeah.  At the time it turned into a 4 it was too late.  Wow.  It was too late to run and go anywhere.  So that night when it hits and it is hard and it is you and 19 people what do you guys do as you are waiting hearing these winds knocking around at like 130 miles an hour?  As we are in the living room we just all gathered hands and said some prayers and hoped that we would live to tell our story. We prayed probably three  times through the night and actually got the Bible out and took turns reading scriptures out of the Bible with a flashlight.  You know it is so interesting to hear you talk about praying in the eye of this storm. I pray a lot. But I have never had to pray in the center of a hurricane. What does that kind of prayer sound like? What did you pray?  There was some of James - just different scriptures. I mean we did say some Our Fathers. We said some Hail Marys. We would just ask God to protect us to die down the wind to keep my roof on my house just to make the storm pass quickly and just kept asking him please do not take my roof please do not take my roof.  Wow.  And we did have roof damage. We had a 2-inch hole in one part of my house where water was pouring in. It was very hot.  So your power went out? You had no AC?  No AC.  Oh man.  The power went out probably around 10 p.m.  Oh man.  When did it finally let up?  Not until about 30 in the morning.  That sounds like a long night.  So right when you got daybreak.  Yeah that is a long night.  Yes.  Oh my goodness.  Yes it was very very long.  You know I was looking at coverage of your town in the aftermath of the storm. And I have heard reports that say every building in Refugio every single one was damaged.  Yes correct.  What does it look like and feel like in your town right now?  Well you know I go back and forth from Raymondville where I am staying at a hotel. And driving into town it is devastating to see your hometown this way. But we have a great community helping us to rebuild. We definitely would not be where we are today with the cleanup and the - everything that had - we are trying to rebuild right now if we did not have help from all of the surrounding communities in our area. We have people coming from everywhere.  And it is not just other folks helping you guys. Brent's telling me now that you have been volunteering at a FEMA center in the midst of having to deal with all that you are going through. I mean that is really commendable.  Wow.  Yes. Well I work for the Refugio County Chamber of Commerce. I am the office manager for them. And we are offering a mobile hot spot with computers for anyone needing to come and apply for FEMA assistance or even just to check their status on their FEMA. Anything that they need to apply for whether it be unemployment  solution we are here to offer that for them.  Did any of this - Harvey the aftermath - make you reconsider staying?  Definitely definitely. I have already been looking into Irma. I have never been one to track a hurricane. But when I see that Irma is out there in the Atlantic already it makes me worried. And I track it now to try to make sure that I am definitely not here...  Yeah.  ...In that storm.  Do you want to keep living where you are?  I do. I love my town. My town is a great community - not just my town my county is a great community. But Refugio alone we are all about football and...  OK.  .  ...It is really devastating for our boys to not even be able to be on that field tonight.  Yeah.  Let alone be back in school. I mean they are missing out on getting started on their school year. So I definitely do not want to move from here. My home is not livable right now. But it will be repaired. And I plan to stay here.  All right. Well we are sending you good vibes...  Yeah.  ...As you and your town recover and..  All the best.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  All right take care.  Thank you.  Texans man they are tough.  This is the thing. And the thing is it is like we hear a lot about Houston as we should. But there are towns like Refugio all up and down the coast that we are not talking about that are going through just as much you know.  The small little guys.  Yeah. Now is a good time to mention if you listeners want to help out in the relief effort NPR has actually assembled a list of organizations that you can support. We have a link to that in our episode data of this episode. Also want to thank really quickly my good friend Daneisha Deaces . She was able to connect me with Becky. Thank you Daneisha. I really appreciate it. Hope you are staying dry out there as well.  Where is Daneisha live?  She is from Refugio but...  Oh OK.  ...I believe she is in Corpus Christi now. She is...  ...She is OK .  She is safe. She is safe...  Yeah.  ...And we are glad she is safe.  Good. Thanks Daneisha.  Thank you Daneisha. So let us talk about Houston specifically for a bit.  OK.  The numbers are changing continuously. But as of taping at least 37 people have died in Houston due to Harvey. About 32000 people are in shelters across the state. Governor of Texas Greg Abbott said his state will need relief money in excess - far in excess of 125 billion. The White House is preparing a bill - a relief bill for about 6 billion with more to come. Some 100000 homes are estimated to be damaged or destroyed. And what is really really sad is that fewer than 20 percent of homeowners in Houston actually have flood insurance.  Have insurance yeah.  Yeah.  It is just a grim grim picture. So I wanted us to call someone up who could give us the lay of the land in Houston. And we reached out to Laura Isensee. She is on the line from Houston Public Media. She is a reporter there. Laura thanks for being here. You are talking to me Bob Mondello and Katie Rogers. How are you?  Hey Laura.  I am doing OK. Hi.  You must be exhausted.  I am a little tired but you know we still got some news to cover here.  Yeah well I mean like you have been covering Harvey but you also live in Houston. Like are you OK? Is your house OK?  Yeah thanks for asking. I feel like I am one of the very lucky ones. My house is OK. My family - I have extensive family in Houston. And everyone's pretty much OK. Some had to evacuate a little bit but they are OK and staying with family.  Good good. As far as the scene in the city you know the sun came out yesterday from what I am hearing. What is it like today Friday morning in Houston?  I think it depends where you are. You know if you are in the central part of this city that had flood water on the street and you could not drive around for a few days things feel kind of normal in this weird way. Yeah the sun is shining. There is cars on the road. I went to my local taco shop this morning. It is open. But you know just like a few miles away there is still standing water. There is thousands of people in shelters. And so I feel like how things are just depends like where you live when the - when Harvey came.  Is it all anyone's talking about? I am sure you have not talked about anything else in a week right?  No not really.  Like what are you - are your taco shop people talking to you? Like what kind of conversations do you have over your morning taco today?  Yeah it is pretty much all Harvey. It is like you know talking about like who got flooded how are people doing you know how are people feeling who is like helping you know other people clean up. You know it is basically like if you did not flood people are asking like how can I help people who did flood?  Yeah. How have Houstonians - I know Houston fairly well. My family actually lived there for a year when I was growing up - got a lot of family and friends there now. I am there a lot just because it is the biggest city in Texas and I am in Texas a lot. And one of the things I found out this week is like the specific location of certain flood dams in that city. Like I am sure a lot of Houstonians found that out this week as well. How much is this storm going to have Houstonians coming back to their city thinking about you know whether they are on high enough ground? I mean is there going to be a before-Harvey and after-Harvey effect for Houstonians?  I think so. I mean this storm has been so devastating for so many people. I feel like either you are going to start asking some of those questions of like am I on high enough land do I need to move you know where are these dams that nobody talked about before and so many people did not realize existed... But I think kind of on the opposite end I think we are going to have people sort of like kind of saying well we are just going to build like bigger and stronger and you know kind of like digging your heels...  Houston strong.  ...A little bit. But yeah I mean like taking a closer look at flood maps and where you are to the bayous - and yeah I mean I think a lot of people in Houston did not realize until this week that there is these two major reservoirs that are holding back so much water and protecting the city from even worse flooding.  Yeah. Yeah.  I can honestly say I have never thought about where my house sits in regard to - I do not know...  Water .  Water or forest that might burn or - I have just never thought about it.  So Laura your regular beat is education.  Yes.  This was supposed to be back-to-school time for children across the country. What is up with the school kids of Houston? Are they going to be going to school soon?  So the Houston Independent School District they were supposed to start school this past Monday. And then just yesterday they announced that they are going to have to delay it until September 11. But I - it is - it is still kind of a big question up in the air of like what school is going to look like because just like homes were flooded some schools were flooded. And a lot of districts in the area - not just Houston which is the largest but other ones like Fort Bend - it is out in the west side - they are still trying to go to their schools and see like can kids even study here? And if not where are they going to study?  Yeah.  And - you know and then there is a lot of children who are in shelters right now teachers who have been displaced. So it is kind of like how do we put back all these pieces together?  Yeah and it is more than just sending children back to schools that may have gotten wet. These are children that have experienced major trauma in some cases and you know need to have their hearts and their minds settled again before they can learn. So it is going to be a process. Anyway what are you going to do fun for yourself this weekend to take your mind off the storm?  Actually some friends are getting married. So I am going to go to a wedding.  Good.  Celebrate life.  Yeah you have to. I hope you dance the heck out of yourself at that reception. You have earned it.  Thank you.  Yeah.  Thanks.  Well thank you for your work in the midst of this storm. Thank you for all your colleagues for telling the story that needs to be told right now.  All right. Thank you all.  Thank you. Good luck.  Thanks Laura. Take care.  Take care.  Take care.  All right  Bye.  That was Laura Isensee from Houston Public Media. Shout out to all the folks there in that newsroom doing the Lord's work right now. All right we will take a break. And we will be right back to swap some fun-ish  stories from the week that was.   All right we are back here this week with two of my faves Katie Rogers reporter at The New York Times and Bob Mondello film critic. I cannot tell you how many times I just wander by Bob's desk. And I am like should I watch this movie? Should I watch this?   This is true. I have a drawer full of Oscar-winners from last year.  Oh.  And he does. He steals them all the time.  Bob let me borrow his copy of Sausage Party.  .  Not a great movie. But I have yet to give it back to you. I need to bring it back.  No please keep it.  Keep it.   That one's yours.  OK thank you. Now it is time for the meat of this story - the sausage you might say.  I get it. I get it.   I saw what you did there.  Yeah our story swap - we each talk about some stories from the week that was. But we are going to keep them kind of light this week. And I want to start with Bob because you are going to give us kind of a state of the box office state of the film industry so far this year huh?  Well it would be catastrophic.  Why is that?  The summer - this summer was a disaster.  Yeah.  It is down almost a billion dollars from last year...  Why?  ...Down over a billion from two years ago. Well Wonder Woman clicked. And...  As did the new Guardians Of The Galaxy right?  New Guardians and Spider-Man. And everything else tanked.  What about Get Out? That was this year.  That was before the summer.  Oh.  That was this year?  Get Out was this year.  Yeah it is earlier this year.  Goodness.  But the problem is that summer is where Hollywood makes most of its money. It makes over 4 billion every year until this year for the last decade. And if they do not do it when kids are out of school when people are on vacation then they are not going to - you know once the TV season starts again and that kind of thing it is going to be...  Oh because you are staying home to watch TV.  Right it is much harder for them to turn these enormous box office numbers. So they did not this summer. And that is a real problem for them. I mean a lot of picture - I - you know you can see why they did not. I mean who wants to see the fifth Transformer movie or the fifth Pirates of...  Everything is like space or like robots or like...  Or like there was a new Pirates Of The Caribbean.  Like there is no...  Who asked for that?  No but there...  There is nothing new.  Yeah but there are robots that you want - well they are not robots. Do not get in touch with me on this.  Transformers are not robots?  Well Transformers are. But replicants are not.  What is that?  And we are all looking forward to Blade Runner 2049 right?  Are we? Are we?  Are we not? How could you not? Of course we are.  I did not watch the first one. Do not  me Twitter. Do not  me.  I do not know. I do not know what that is - I mean...  I am not talking to you - oh my goodness.  I know sorry.   So besides the caliber of the movies this summer are there other structural reasons for this big box-office decline? I mean I can think initially - well are folks just streaming more period?  People are probably streaming more. But I do not think that is actually affecting box office yet. Hollywood has lots of reasons that it can look at for not having done a lot of business. But the real answer is that when the public does not want to come no one can stop them right?  .  This is - that is an old Sam Goldwyn-ism. But they did not want to come and see these pictures. I - you know the folks at movie studios are convinced that the reason audiences are not coming to some movies is because the Rotten Tomatoes score is too low.  I totally believe it.  Yeah.  And part of why I went to see Girls Trip is because the Rotten Tomatoes score was so high.  OK. But...  And the word-of-mouth was so high about it.  But Rotten Tomatoes is a tricky algorithm because...  Why?  Well what the rating says is that - let us say you have a 97 percent rating. That means that everybody basically likes the picture. But they do not have to like it 97 percent of the time. They only have to like it like 62 percent. And that - do you get what I mean?  So like if they gave a strong like or low like a like is a like.  If they gave it a positive score but a moderately positive score and everybody agrees with that moderately positive score it ends up being 97.  OK.  Interesting.  And that is tricky.  Whereas like a very polarizing film where if you do love it you really love it that could have a lower score because it is so polarizing.  That is right.  You know usually I end up checking Rotten Tomatoes after I watch a movie. And it says something about my taste. It will be like 23 percent.   I do not care.  I am not above a bad movie.  Yeah.  I was reading somewhere though like in spite of the bad box office there were some pretty good movies out this year. I am thinking of films like Baby Driver. I am thinking of Girls Trip.  Yeah.  Yeah.  It was not bad for a film critic was it?  No it was not at all.  Can I have a guess? Here's my guess.  Pardon?  About what?  I am just going to interrupt this conversation.  Go for it.  What are you guessing?  I guess that there - movies are not collective experiences anymore.  There is no more monoculture?  I feel like movies used to be sort of like akin to an eclipse where everybody goes and sees...  And watches the same thing.  And now there...  We are all going to see Jaws together.  Now there are so few blockbuster types that have broad appeal because - I do not know - not - Wonder Woman is maybe like the - almost feels like an exception now you know?  It was a big one.  And that was not even for everybody. Lots of folks were like I am not going to see that because it is a woman.  Dunkirk was a surprise hit.  Yeah.  It made 179 million or something like that basically on people talking about how much they liked seeing it...  Word-of-mouth - old-fashioned.  ...And seeing it in a group because that picture would not be the same...  Yeah.  ...If you saw it on a small screen.  Yeah.  Really quickly two last questions. One what can these big film studios do to turn things around?  Well what they are going to do - I do not - I am not sure what they can do. But what they are going to do is give you more of the same. I mean...  But it is not working.  I know.  .  But we have got the Star Wars movie coming out later this season. There are relatively few. There is Thor. There is Justice League which is basically The Avengers sideways.  .  These things are...  I am so tired of all the same stuff that is repurposed.  Yeah. And you are going to get more of it.  Second question - three movies to look forward to as we head into the fall.  All right. You have got to understand you are talking to a movie critic.  I know.  I am interested in the things that are not like everything else.  OK.  Yes.  Wonderstruck...  What is that about?  ...Which is by Todd Haynes. It is about two children. One of them - one of the stories is told in black and white because it happened 50 years ago. The other one is told in color because it is happening now. And he is weaving it together. Todd Haynes is the guy who made Far From Heaven. He made a whole bunch of other movies he is an extraordinary filmmaker - period filmmaker guy. Suburbicon which was scripted by the Coen brothers and directed by George Clooney.  Who is in that one?  Matt Damon is in it. It looks really strange.  OK.  You are not into Matt Damon?  Seriously strange. Why are we not into Matt Damon? That is new.  I like that he married a bartender.  Good on him.   I think that is - I mean I do not watch any of his movies.  He is just not my jam. I feel like - and this is unfortunate - I am becoming more known on this show for what I hate as opposed to what I love.  Really?  But...  He is a hater. He is a hater. What are you going to do?  It is been a tough year.  I do not hate Matt Damon but I am neutral on the guy.  .  I am not like rooting to see him do stuff in theaters.  Yeah same.  I did like the Bourne trilogy - whatever. That was fine.  How do you feel about Ben Affleck?  Do not even get me started.  Yeah let us not go there.   Is not he - he is Batman right?  He is Batman.  The worst Batman.  Let us go there.  .  I have a list of worst Batmans.  Did you give us three movies yet?  I gave you two.  Give us the third.  Let me see. A third one - I am still writing my piece for Monday. Let us see - a third one I am looking forward to is - oh geez.  What I am most excited about this fall is It.  Oh.  That is fair. That is fair.  I really want to see that. The trailer's awesome.  Do you remember back in the day It was two videos two different cassettes?  Oh yeah .  I had to watch It on two different VHS tapes.  'ecause it was a little mini-series.  Yeah.  .  Anyway movies movies everywhere. Follow Bob Mondello on Twitter for the latest on film.  Oh that would be wonderful. I am trying to get my numbers up.  Are you BobMondello?  I am BobMondello.  OK.  OK.  I will follow you.  Who is got Bob Mondello all one...  I do not know. How dare they.  Find that guy.  .  You need to find him and unseat him.  Yes. Yes. Thanks Bob. Movies are great.  My pleasure.  Katie you are next. You had this amazing story on the front page of The Times over the weekend?  Oh yeah on like last Saturday.  Yeah. I want you to talk about it with us today. It was all about how you basically embedded in the Washington D.C. Trump Hotel for - what? - a few weeks.  No it was only a week.  OK. Well it felt like a few weeks.  It felt like a few weeks.  .  It felt like eternity.  So this is the Trump Hotel which is just down Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House. And it is a gathering ground a meeting place of all those kind of up in Trump's circle. What'd you see?  So I was - started going - it was right at the end of the Scaramucci era. Meet the...  Who is that? .  Who is that? I mean it is actually...  Former...  His era only lasted about a week did not it?  Actually that is sort of true because who is that? That was a month ago and it is so...  Yes Anthony Scaramucci was supposed to be White House comms director.  The former White House comms director...  And he was actually fired before his official first day .  Before or on his first - who knows? He lasted I think 10 days. That sort of kicked off this week of visiting because over the weeks before - before that we had heard you know Corey Lewandowski and Anthony Scaramucci and Rudy Giuliani and all of these characters are hanging out in the lobby just taking photos and posing for selfies and hanging out late night. And it was just sort of like - the premise was this is all so out in the open. We know we should do something so let us just go and see what happens. So...  And there is this whole sheen of is this or is not this ethical? Like are people spending money at Trump Hotel to curry favor with the president?  Yeah I mean it is a - the Trump Organization's a subject of a lawsuit by a group of lawyers called CREW. Their issue is that the hotel and other properties are accepting payments from foreign governments.  That is the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.  So anyway there are all of these ethical questions about the Trump International Hotel. And I think the sort of - lobbyists hang out there. Journalists hang out there. Trump campaign aides hang out there. Eric Trump was there for a couple evenings that week. He was back and forth. He went to a rally in West Virginia came back hung out sat with journalists. And he was sitting with spokespeople for people who work in Congress. You can just sort of see all of these connections play out right in front of you.  What is the mood like?  Devil's advocate - is this really different from what used to happen at the Willard when...  Yeah so that is a point that - you know I talked to Richard Painter who was an ethics counsel during the Bush administration. He works for CREW now. You know he says it is the same old cesspool that has always existed in Washington except now the president's company is getting a cut.  And 