 All right. Listeners before we start just a warning. There are a few bleeped words and sensitive language in this conversation so beware. But also like it is fun bleeped words and fun sensitive language so it is cool. My guest today is a man of many talents. He is a creator a writer an actor. And you are a magician.  Absolutely. Yes I am. In fact...  How is...  ...I have a deck of cards in my hand now. I always have a deck of cards in my hand.   No.  Or I will play - look look...   Hear that?   .  That is a deck of cards.   Wow.  Been doing magic since I was a kid. It is been a lifelong hobby. But I am a member of the Magic Castle. I have performed there before.  Stop it.   It is just one of my things that I love but I you know do not do for a living. But it is just a nice - it is a fun hobby. It is a great escape just from everything else you know? You could just go off and practice some moves. Or you know I do a Sunday Zoom with a couple of my magic buddies where we hang out.  Stop it.  And it is just fun.  I love it .  No no. It is in - I embrace this nerd lane completely.  .  I have no reservations. You cannot - no one can shame or humiliate me. I will say OK motherf. Watch this trick. And they go oh f. You are right. This is awesome you know ?   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. My guest today is comedian Larry Wilmore creator of The Bernie Mac Show co-creator of Insecure. He wrote for shows like The Office In Living Color The PJs and The Fresh Prince Of Bel Air. He was also a correspondent on The Daily Show. And he had his own late-night show a few years back called The Nightly Show. Now Larry Wilmore is back in the hosting chair with something new on the NBC streaming service Peacock. It is called Wilmore obvi. In this chat we will get into his career including that Office episode he appeared in and why it probably would not air today. We will also discuss his thoughts on the recent protests and that one joke he made to Barack Obama in 2016 at the White House Correspondents Dinner. You will hear that later on. But first let us get back to the magic.   Did you ever think about trying to make money from magic?  Well there is an old joke. It is what is the difference between a pizza and a magician? And the answer is a pizza can feed a family of four you know?   Oh. Oh. Oh.  And it is a - I said - it is an old joke you know? So magic I never really saw myself doing that. I never saw myself as some kind of professional magician to be honest with you. It was just always something that was fun.  Are any of the lessons of magic that you have picked up in your time with magic transferable to comedy and comedic writing?  Oh absolutely. In fact there is something about jokes where you are always kind of hiding something that you delivered to the audience you know?  Oh.  You are kind of hiding where you are going in the setup. And then the punchline delivers that thing that the audience did not know was going on. Kind of the setup is kind of your misdirection or your setup. And then the punchline is you know that rabbit coming out or whatever you want to call it you know? And it happens in different ways and in different combinations. But there - that technicality of jokes is very - it is very important. I will give you an older example. Buster Keaton...  Yeah.  ...Was always one of my favorites you know? And one of my favorite Buster Keaton scenes it is a very famous scene - you have seen it - where his car's stuck on some train tracks. And he and his wife you know they are newly made. They are trying to push it off. And you see the train coming you know? And there is this panic you know? They are trying to push it off trying to push it off. They cannot. It will not move. And then he just gives up. And he puts his fingers in his ears. And the train goes by. And it is on another track you know?  .  And yes. And we laugh and everything. And that feels like that is the joke. But that is actually the setup because as soon as he relaxes and they go whew a train comes from the opposite direction and destroys the car  you know?   Nice. Nice.  And that is the real joke you know? And to me...  Yeah.  ...That is what good comedy is where you are already laughing at something. You are in the moment. Like much of Chappelle's stuff has that kind of construction where he is taking you on this thing. And you think you are laughing at something. But he is setting you up to have you actually share this other thing that he is getting to you know?  Yeah. I want to talk about what you are working on now and what is in the future for you. But I think we have to start by telling our listeners all of the stuff that you have worked on before so they can really get a sense of who you are.  It is going to take up the whole interview I am telling you.  I know.  .  Add to this list as you see fit. You wrote for In Living Color.  I did.  You wrote for The Jamie Foxx Show...  Yep.  ...The Fresh Prince Of Bel Air. You created The PJs...  Yep. Yep.  ...And The Bernie Mac Show...  Yep.  ...Co-created Insecure. On top of that you were on The Daily Show for years. Then you had your own....  Yep.  ...Late night show on Comedy Central following The Daily Show.  Wrote on The Office. The Office was for show...  And you were on The Office.  Wrote produced that.  What else? Keep going. Keep going.  Sister Sister's come back to life on Netflix. People see the...  Oh my goodness.  I was a writer on that and producer. And...  Yeah. Which one was your favorite?  Oh God. Back in those days or overall?  Overall.  I think the first season of The Bernie Mac Show. Nothing can compare to that. It was just - I was doing something different. I did not know what was going to happen with it you know? It was just kind of magical. The funniest all the time was probably The PJs. We made each other laugh...  Really?  ...So hard on that show. I mean the jokes...  .  ...We got to tell on that show were so much fun. But every show had its fun for a lot of different reasons. But we had a crackhead on The PJs you know? We had those types of characters.  .  I mean how many times do you get to write that kind of stuff you know where he did lines like well got to go - crack do not smoke itself you know? Like that...   And we should just like say the show itself - for those who do not know - it is an American stop-motion animated Black sitcom about...  Yes.  ...An urban public housing project. Just the premise is kind of groundbreaking.  Yeah. But we had lines that were you know hardcore lines. I remember the kids were talking and one of them says Juicy I hope I never get old. And he says well the statistics are in our favor.   And then - I mean that is just a hardcore joke. But how prescient is it about what is going on and that kind of stuff that we were talking about like that type of stuff in the late '90s you know?  Listeners coming up we will talk about Larry Wilmore's new show and deconstructing the year of our Lord 2020.   You are about to launch another late-night show - what? - this month.  Yes.  Tell folks what it is about.  The name of the show is called Wilmore. It is on the new streaming platform called Peacock that is been launched by NBC Universal. And it is me coming back into the late-night fray in a slightly different way. It is - kind of more has the feel of what I am doing on my podcast where I am interviewing guests and I kind of weigh in at the top of it. And we are kind of doing it in this new COVID world. Like the guests are virtual. Of course they are not in the studio. I mean we have really zero budget.  .  I mean so we spent all our money on these two monitors and then I am sitting - I am like in the dungeon of the defense department or something you know?   But we really did a good job just making it look good and everything. But it is very simple - very very simple - just me kind of having that conversation that America said it wanted to have. So that is what we are deciding to have every week...  Yeah.  ...That conversation.  What is that conversation?  Well this summer the biggest one was about race you know? And America...  I have a theory about that conversation. No one actually...  Oh sure...  No one actually really wants to have it. They only want to have a conversation about race so that it confirms what they already believe about race.  I would not say no one I would say a very targeted group of people do not want to have it .  OK. Explain. Explain.  I think there are many people that would like to have it but there are many people that do not want to have it. I would not say no one wants to have it you know?  See? I think though even the folks that think that they want to they want to have a conversation about race that never offends their sensibilities. They want to have a conversation about race that never implicates them. And like that is what I find frustrating you know?  Well I would - the other side never wants to have the conversation period because it implicates them you know?  Yeah.  And so they want to stay away from that talk. So why have an implication about your people and your ancestors when you know it is guilty? I will give you an example of this Sam.  OK.  Like in our literature and in our modern entertainment let us say and all that stuff and the way that things are depicted do you know that you cannot really show the true horrors of slavery to people right now? You really cannot. You know why? Because people cannot take it. They are not going to...  I never watched 12 Years A Slave because I was like nope I am good .  But also Sam that is even just a sliver of it. That really does not tell you you know? But when you start looking at even some of the equipment that was used to shackle human beings and to torture people it is devastating to your soul to think about it. So there is a lot of doors that people want to shut for very good reasons.  So does comedy help have that conversation?  Well we are not having that hardcore conversation.   OK. Yeah.  I am just saying one of the reasons why this is difficult - because this is in our DNA. This happened to us. This is our - part of our story. And there is a lot of not wanting to have to feel all those things because we could say well that was in the past we did that. But people have to understand that the past is linked to the present. It is not...  Mmm hmm. Yeah.  It was not just chopped off at some point you know?  Well and it is pervasive. I think a lot of white people this year are having their eyes opened to the extent to which race has been involved in every part of their lives - where you live where you go to school the TV you watch. Like all of these things are influenced and affected by race. Like people never think about why their neighborhoods are mostly white or mostly Black. And it is like oh there is a reason for that. There is like a reason for that that is like documented. And I think that eye-opening that so many Americans are having this year it is unsettling to them. It is very unsettling. And I see that unsettling in them and I have no patience for it. I am just like OK well deal you know? And I do not know. It is like is there a way that comedy helps with that discomfort the discomfort of enlightenment that so many folks are having this year?  I do not know. I mean for me that is just my approach to things you know?  Yeah.  And this is just a subject that I am interested in.  Yeah.  But I generally see the humor in almost everything. So I am kind of twisted in that way you know? .  OK.  So that is how I shape the world you know?  Yeah.  So I am going to look for the satire in something or the twist in something or find the humor in things at the same time keeping it real when you have to or you know not dishonoring the seriousness of certain situations that they demand but my point of view's going to be deconstructing it in some way where there is humor.  What do you think in the culture right now is in need of deconstruction a thing that has not been tackled enough in that way so far?  Oh everything as far as I am concerned you know?  Yeah.  'ecause I think we talk about things on the surface a lot you know in our discourse. A lot of it is the way that media is consumed the culture of it. And now we are in a social media culture where people are expressing ideas in one line or with memes or that type of stuff. So for me I have always been contrary and I have looked on both sides of things. And I enjoy doing that you know? I do not take party lines on any subject you know? I like to do my own homework you know? And that is part of what deconstruction is is just because somebody says something - and even if they say something in anger - does not mean I have to agree with it you know? It just means that they might be upset you know? But let us just look at this thing. You know like with Black Lives Matter like I have no problem with the slogan. But it does not mean I have to agree with the organization. It is like well when did we have that meeting that I am supposed to agree with their organization?  .  That is a meeting I was not invited to. It is like they are...  Listen all these meetings I am not being invited to...   Yes.  ...Like the same meeting where they decided that we are going to call ourselves B-I-P-O-C now. Did you hear about that like BIPOC?  Exactly. Exactly. Who is...  Who called that meeting? All the Black folks that I know are like what is this?  I have no idea.  And everyone who is defend - so BIPOC stands for Black indigenous people of color.  Right. It makes no sense.  So now instead of saying people of color they want to say BIPOC. And so I am like...  I still do not know what it means.  Yeah. And so I am like why are you all doing that? And then all these people who are not Black are like well we did that out of respect for you all. We are putting Black first. And it is like...  Yeah. No. Well...  What? I do not understand.  It is what the left tends to do as a fault is they just want to make something that was done with good intentions initially they go down this rabbit hole of making it absurd you know?   Yeah.  And you just want to take them by the hand and just slap it and just say stop it.  Stop.  Nobody's asking for that. Just Stop it...  Yes. Yes.  ...You know? They cannot - they can never accept yes for an answer. They always have to push something until it is like OK no  you know? Finally.  And they can never just be...  You have your yes...  Yeah.  ...But you keep pushing me until I - now I have to say no. Are you happy now?  Oh yeah. Yeah.  Yeah .  And it can never just be simple. Like anything that feels simple that is problematic. It needs to be complex and like too much. And it is like I am just - I am tired. And I am just Black. Sorry guys. I am just Black. I do not need the terms and the language and the this and the that. Just chill.  Well it is because they celebrate nuance over clarity you know? They put a premium on nuance where clarity is the thing that is more operative in the real world. That is how you get things done is with clarity. Nuance is how you keep talking about something until you are blue in the face because nobody can ever agree on something.  All right. When we come back we revisit Diversity Day on The Office.   Do you - I mean I hate to tell you about how you like find humor in this stuff. But like I imagine in terms of like topics to skewer topics to you know write jokes about I mean there must be a few things harder than coronavirus. Or is it easy? I do not know.  I do not think we will be talking about the coronavirus because it is...  OK.  ...To me it is - I do not find that as a social topic. That is a thing that is more suited for the news I feel rather than what I am trying to do which is more how we are interacting socially and talking about the election which we are going to cover too. But for me like I could talk about performative protest versus productive because that is a conversation...  OK.  ...Not a lot of people are having you know? Like for me it is like OK. Thank you NBA for being woke and caring about everything. And you got Black Lives Matter on your basketball court. Good for you guys. Oh you got it on your warm-up jerseys too. Fantastic. Well wait. OK. So now on your jerseys what is going on there? So now one person's got education reform - this person hands up do not shoot. Another person has say her name. How about this say your name. What is your  - I want to know who is shooting.  .  I do not need all this on jerseys. I already get it.  .  But say your name. I do not even know who is playing anymore you know? You are so concerned about these type of things you know...  All the jerseys just say BIPOC .  Yes. And to me that - see? Now see Sam you are laughing. This is what I mean about deconstructing and finding...  You did it. You got me. You got me.  ...Finding the humor. So it is not...  Yeah.  If you said how is that funny? I am like well let us deconstruct it. And we will find the humor in it you know?  .  But Sam it is f absurd. It is like I get it. You guys care about this. But how much of this corporate rabbit hole are you going down for Christ's sakes to prove a point? I get it. And everybody's kneeling for the national anthem. So why are we even having the national anthem at this point?  .  If everybody agrees that we should be protesting I do not even know - it is a waste of time even playing. If the only guy standing is the guy selling peanuts in the stand why are we even having it?  .  And he is standing because he does not want to sit with that peanut thing on him you know?  .  It just does not even make sense.  Or just like play another song that we all can agree on. Let us start out every game with like Beyonce's Love On Top.  Thank you.  Everyone likes that song. That would be great.  There you go. Who is going to sit to that?  Nobody.  .  We are going to dance to that. We are going to do the Electric Slide to that.  Right.  We are going to do the wave to that.  So what happens is something that starts as a protest to me - because this is how human nature goes - it turns into something else. It is got - guys if we all agree on it and everybody's doing it sorry that is not a protest. That is an agreement.   Yeah. Yeah.  And by the way...  You right.  ...I do think it is powerful that sports teams want to do - you know they want to do some act to show that they are in solidarity. I got no problem with that. I am not crapping on that at all. It is just when it leads to this ad absurdum type of behavior that really has just no real meaning outside of us seeing it you know?  Yeah. Well and then that gets more coverage than the actual real thing that the NBA did over the last few weeks.  Exactly.  A lot of these teams across the country have promised to make their basketball stadiums voting sites. That is a big deal.  Right.  That is humongous.  That is a big deal. Yeah that is...  You know? And like we are not talking about that we are talking about the jerseys. It is - like there is such a focus on image and not substance right now.  Yeah. And that is what I mean. That is direct action. So that is - those - things like that are pluses because you know now we are dealing with direct action and that does not require sloganeering you know?  Yeah yeah. In all the shows that you have worked on and made and been a part of has there been any topic that you just totally and entirely refused to write a joke about?  Not me. You are asking the wrong person about that.   OK.  But I mean - but I am also an adult. I am not going to be irresponsible and just you know put things that really do not belong in something just 'ecause you want to have it in there you know?  Yeah. I bring this up as a fan of The Office a show that you wrote for a show that you served as consulting producer for. And you have talked before about one of my favorite episodes of The Office Diversity Day.  Oh yeah. That was fun.  This is the episode where you play a trainer leading the office in a seminar on racial diversity. It is this hilarious horror show of offensiveness. It is brilliant.    How come Chris Rock can do a routine and everybody finds it hilarious and groundbreaking? And then I go and do the exact same routine same comedic timing and people file a complaint to corporate? Is it because I am white and Chris is Black?  But you said a while back - recently actually - at the Television Critics Association you said that there was no way that the show could be produced today and you - and I have also heard that you said that there were outtakes that could not even make the air back then.  I do not think you could do that episode on network television. People would have so many objections to it and that type of stuff. You know when you were mentioning earlier about how people say they want to talk but they do not want to hear it I think that falls under that category where...  Yeah.  ...It just feels like we are not in the same culture. But yeah I have to find that. I had some DVDs of the outtakes from that episode because when producing it...  Do you remember any of them?  No not - it was just outrageous you know? Just doing this Chris...  Come on. Give us a little bit. Give us a little bit.  I do not have anything to tell you...   ...Because I would be misquoting anything you know?  OK. OK.  But I just remember that episode - well that whole Chris Rock routine thing you know with Steve saying the N-word on television you know you just cannot...   You cannot do that anymore.  You cannot do that today. Even though he is quoting the Chris Rock episode you know you still could not do it which is crazy.   Could not do it.  And that was kind of his point the character's point that it is his routine you know? He is just doing it.  Yeah. It is funny to hear you talk about this because I interviewed Rainn Wilson a while back.  Yeah.  And he said that like half The Office could not be made today.  Yeah he is probably right. Yeah.  Is that a good thing or a bad thing?  Oh God. I do not know. I mean you are talking to the guy who at the correspondents' dinner called the president my nigga. You know what I mean? That is who you are talking to . So...  You cannot see it but I am pumping my fist in the air right now. I forgot about that Larry.   I mean so remember...  Oh my God.  ...That is who you are - you are asking me if I would not do it. I am like remember who you are talking to.   Yes. I had forgotten about that.  I did something that 99 of the population would not do. That is who you are talking to.   Now think about that. A Black man was thought by his mere color not good enough to lead a football team. And now to live in your time Mr. President when a Black man can lead the entire free world.   Words alone do me no justice. So Mr. President I am going to keep it a hundred - yo Barry you did it my nigga. You did it.   There was a rallying cry from people who said yes Larry Wilmore thank you. That was the Blackest thing I have ever seen in my life you know?   ...Of people who really got it and got what I was talking about you know...  And I...  ...Which to me was so satisfying you know?  And I am guessing Obama got it too.  He did - which you know was so awesome that he would. In fact he was giving a speech at Howard like the next week and he said and as Larry Wilmore said - and I was like oh my God is he going say my nigga in front of Howard you know?  .  But he quoted the quarterback part of the thing that I I was talking about that a Black man could not even lead a football team...  Yeah.  ...Which is the point I was making you know?  Yeah.  But he was very very gracious about it very cool. He never once made it feel like all right nigga we gave you a platform I do not know what you are talking about there you know?   Like that type of thing. He was very cool about it. So that was nice.  Yeah. Yeah. I am going to let you go after this but last question for you - when you write your last show which I hope never happens 'ecause you keep writing them...  Damn.  ...And I want to keep watching them but like when it is all said and done what do you want the Larry Wilmore legacy or through line to be?  How about he kept it a hundred? .  There you go. All right my fellow you so much. I really appreciated this conversation.   OK.  It was super fun.  I still do not know what means. But thanks.  Me neither .  Thanks for having me on. I really - great talking to you. Thank you so much.   Thanks again to Larry Wilmore. His new show is called Wilmore. It is on the NBC streaming platform Peacock. All right listeners do not forget. This Friday per every Friday we are back in your feeds with a new episode. And for that episode you should be involved. We want to hear from you sharing the best part of your week. Just record yourself on your phone tell me the best part of your week and send the voice file to me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. All right listeners till Friday - thanks for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Stay safe. We will talk soon.  