 Contemplate this temperature for a moment. The Des Moines River 97 degrees. Similar temperatures have been measured in other bodies of water across the Midwest this summer and that is spelled trouble for many fish. The combination of extreme heat and drought has led to worse than usual fish kills a widespread die-off of fish. Tens of thousands of fish including sturgeon bass catfish and carp have been reported dead. To help us understand what is happening we have called on Aaron Woldt. He is the Fisheries Program supervisor for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Midwestern Region. Welcome to the program Aaron.  Thank you.  So to start we should be clear that fish kills actually do happen every summer but this year we are reading that they are unusually bad. Can you explain what normally causes a fish kill?  Sure. And you are absolutely correct. You know fish kills are common in the summertime. They are also common in the wintertime. It is part of the natural cycle but things like extreme heat and drought conditions can cause fish kills to be more frequent or in some cases worse. And you know the main thing behind a fish kill is you know simply lack of oxygen in the water and that can be made worse by extreme heat because water when it gets hot simply just physically cannot hold as much oxygen as it does when it is colder. So if the water heats up it holds less oxygen and you know fish will start to die from lack of oxygen.  How much worse are things this year?  It is hard to say with any certainty. Certainly we at the Fish and Wildlife Service as well as our state partners are getting more frequent calls this year about fish die-offs and when you get calls about fish die-offs it is hard to say what exactly caused it because there is other factors other than you know heat that can cause fish die-offs but it seems like they are more widespread this year and more frequently occurring.  What kinds of fish are most vulnerable?  It really varies from case to case. You know certainly with fish kills cool and cold water fish are most vulnerable so you know when you are thinking cool water fish those are you know - a good example of that is Northern pike and for cold water fish you know those are usually your trout and salmon species. But it is even hitting some of the warm water fish and you know warm water fish in general are more tolerant of warm temperatures than low oxygen. But we are seeing things like common carp show up in die-offs this year. When common carp are dying off that tends to tell you that it is a pretty significant year for summer die-offs. I would not say it is the - you know the worse one on record that we have had but you know when you see warm water fish starting to succumb to summer kills that is a sign that things are a little bit you know on the worse end of the spectrum.  Aaron give us a picture of what happens when some body of water a lake or a pond hits you know what we are hearing 97 degrees. What is going on there?  Well what happens is - and when a body of water gets that warm - and it is somewhat case-specific but the real thing that starts happening is the water in that body of water can not - it is simply not capable physically of carrying a high amount of oxygen so the oxygen levels in the water starts to go down and it starts to stress the fish. Now it can happen very very quickly where you know large numbers of fish will suddenly succumb to low levels of oxygen and just start to float and that is usually what draws you know people's attention. When they look at body of water and they suddenly see a bunch of fish floating it can happen quickly simply just from lack of oxygen.  Do we have any idea on what kind of effect that these fish kills have on the ecology of the water? I mean once you have all these dead fish around what does that mean for that ecosystem?  Well fortunately when we have fish kills they are usually not a total fish kill. I mean it looks like a lot of fish. It always does. There is always lots of fish on the surface but very rarely is it a complete fish kill of every fish in the body of water. Usually the biggest fish - because they have a higher oxygen demand those bigger fish will die first and then usually some of the smaller ones survive because they have less of a biological oxygen demand. So the smaller fish that do survive will repopulate that body of water. In the cases where there is a total fish kill though those fish species will disappear from that lake and it might require some management action to bring them back.  Aaron Woldt is Fisheries Program supervisor for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Midwestern Region. Aaron thank you. 