 For half a decade General Electric has been paying for a massive dredging operation to remove toxic PCBs from the upper Hudson River in New York. The billion-dollar cleanup sparked fierce controversy when it was proposed. But as the project enters its final summer it is been so successful that even some of the cleanup's most vocal critics want it expanded. North County Public Radio's Brian Mann reports.  Just offshore in Mechanicville three hours north of New York City barges shuttle back and forth across the Champlain Canal a waterway linked to the Hudson River. Gary Klawinski with the EPA points to a backhoe that is digging up great gobs of PCB-contaminated muck.  The good news is we are finishing the dredging and then we anticipate over a decade or decades that the fish advisories will begin to be reduced.  PCBs were once a key ingredient in GE's manufacturing of electrical components but the substance has been linked to cancer in animals and studies have shown severe impacts on wildlife. PCBs were banned in the 1970s but not before GE poured tons of it here in these waterways. As a result people are warned against swimming and eating the fish. The Hudson became a symbol for sick and polluted rivers nationwide. Still when the cleanup was first proposed it was surprisingly controversial. With ads like this one GE convinced a lot of locals in places like Mechanicville that dredging would do more harm than good.   These wonderful moments on one of the richest rivers on earth could be interrupted for the next 20 years if the EPA orders the Hudson dredged.  Those ads scared a lot of people. Ernest Martin then-mayor of the nearby town of Stillwater N.Y. captured the mood when he spoke at a public hearing in 2001.   I am definitely against dredging in the Hudson River.   It will take too many years to clean it under the dredging proposal by EPA. Our future for tourism employment new business will be lost forever.  But the EPA pushed forward requiring that GE remove roughly two-thirds of the PCBs. It was described as the largest most complex Superfund site in U.S. history. With active dredging now in its sixth year even the project's early critics say it is been a huge success. Mark Behan is a spokesman for GE.  We did have reservations about this project as did many others because at the time that it was conceived no project of this size or complexity had ever been attempted before.  Behan says the company's now proud of its work here developing new techniques to remove toxic silt from a vast river that changes season-by-season.  We assembled a world-class team of dredging environmental and engineering experts. We adopted technology to the task and we have produced a project that EPA now calls a national model.   So now towns along New York's upper Hudson have begun revitalizing these old industrial waterfronts thinking about a future where kids can swim and play along the shore without fear of contamination. Mark Sever works for the city of Mechanicville.  I remember when this all started. The predictions were it was going to have a major impact on all the communities. So I guess we are pleasantly surprised.  The dredging has gone so well in fact that a lot of local leaders here have pivoted completely with more than 50 towns and counties now calling on GE to keep working until all the PCBs are scooped up.   Happening right now in Green Island a call on GE to extend dredging operations in the Hudson River.   EPA officials have not endorsed that idea. They say they are satisfied that enough PCBs have been removed that the Hudson can begin healing and GE spokesman Mark Behan says the company has done enough.  For years there have been voices who have said they wanted a different project a larger project a smaller project. But EPA is the decision-maker. EPA ordered the dredging project and GE executed that project and I think did so exceptionally well.  But a separate coalition of state and federal agencies not including the EPA has been studying the impact of PCBs on Hudson River wildlife. They have signaled that they may push GE to dredge contaminated sites not included on the EPA's list. For NPR News I am Brian Mann in upstate New York. 