 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. After the Dust Bowl of the 1930s federal foresters planted a giant windbreak across the Great Plains 100 million trees from Texas to Canada. But Joe Wertz of StateImpact reports that those trees are now dying from drought and that has some worried about another Dust Bowl.  Western Oklahoma is full of contradictions. Water is scarce but rains often cause flooding. The ground is baked by searing heat and raked by blizzards and ice storms.  My name is Jimmy Piercey. My wife and I we have lived here all our lives and we farm and ranch.  This environment has always been tough for farmers like Piercey who have struggled to make the soil submit and stay near the ground. Wind howls across these plains.   In the 1930s it destroyed the environment and the economy. Here's a film reel from the U.S. Resettlement Administration.   Farmland in parts of Texas Kansas Nebraska and the Dakotas simply disappeared. Piercey says there was nothing standing in the way.  Many years ago there were not any trees hardly in this country.  So President Franklin D. Roosevelt's administration decided to plant a thousand-mile line of trees and the national Shelterbelt Program was born.  There it is...   That is state forester Tom Murray. He is in his white pickup in southwest Oklahoma. The wheat and cotton fields have been cooked brown. He stops and points to a tree.  First one in March of 1935. Okay there is a red cedar in here still Siberian elm honey locust. The center row was cottonwood which has mainly died out.  The idea was simple. A giant windbreak would shield crops and prevent erosion. Landowners filled out an application gave up a few acres of land and agreed to maintain the trees. The federal government did the rest. Forester Murray says it was a great experiment that worked.  This used to be a cotton field if I remember right looking back at the history. And it just blew it was just sand and it blew. And by putting this here it stopped that south wind from blowing across this field.  Oklahoma is in a third year of drought and many of the trees that helped save the state decades ago are now dying. The evidence is everywhere. Husks of trunks line the side of the highway. Farmer Jimmy Piercey takes me on a driving tour of the shelterbelt trees that flank his farmhouse.  You see the tops of those trees? You see how they are dying? See how it is just almost deteriorated to nothing.  You know we really hate to see those disappear. They are a loss when they are gone.  That is Tom Lucas of the USDA's Natural Resources Conservation Service. He says government budgets are as tight as farm budgets so a modern version of the New Deal era program is unlikely. The national focus has shifted. But Lucas says the attitudes of Great Plains farmers have changed too.  They look at that and say well there is several acres out here because of the windbreak and I need to put those into production. So they may do away with the windbreak try to get more return out of the land.  Many of the farmers who saw the benefits of those shelterbelts are gone. Piercey says the trees used to be essential but they were also burdensome. He also says agriculture has improved and modern soil conservation is much better now. Still if cycles of drought continue in the Great Plains state forester Tom Murray worries about what the loss of those trees will mean.  Sure we got some new farming practice out there but this ground will still move.  Just last October a 30-vehicle accident forced the Oklahoma Highway Patrol to shut down a major interstate. The reason a massive dust storm. For NPR News I am Joe Wertz in Oklahoma City. 