 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. American photographer Peter McBride has traveled to Mount Everest the Amazon and Antarctica. But a few years ago  the Colorado River. Mr.  It is not the longest or largest river in the U.S. It is the seventh but it is definitely the most loved and litigated.  For McBride that fascination began when he was just a kid. He grew up on a ranch in Colorado. And as he describes it one day he was driving a tractor tending a field and he got to wondering about the water that kept the crops alive. That trickle of an idea led to a project. McBride partnered with writer Jonathan Waterman and they traveled along every inch of the river - sometimes on a raft sometimes in the air sometimes by foot. He chronicles that journey through spectacular photos in the book  Flowing Through Conflict. Peter McBride took us back to the beginning of his travels. Mr.  So while the river begins in the Rocky Mountain National Park technically the Colorado River Basin starts everywhere. So there is an image in the beginning of the book. It is a pretty picture of a high 14000-foot peak at dawn taken with my father from a small Piper Cub airplane. My old man is a bush pilot so we teamed up in his single-engine plane. And the snow is covered in brown. It snows dust or dirt and they say that is because of increased growth in the desert to the west of us. And what is happening is that is actually speeding up the evaporation of the river and making it run off faster.  It is interesting as you look at this book Peter because the terrain changes so much. You leave these you know incredible vistas in the Rockies. And then you head pretty quickly down through some very arid territory. And when you get down to an area around Las Vegas where you have these big engineering projects these massive dams in part to help foster growth in an area where it would have been very hard for man to live if not for that. Mr.  Absolutely. Las Vegas is actually one of the most progressive water users on the river. In fact when they made the Law of the River it is called the Colorado Compact back in 1922. Nobody expected to see such a population boom in Nevada. So they did not allocate that much water. Because they get very little water they are forced to use it wisely. They actually pay people about 2 a square foot to tear out their very water-consumptive Kentucky bluegrass and replace it with more desert-friendly plants.  You show a picture of that a home that is transformed with this new landscape. Mr.  I went to this home early in the morning with the Las Vegas Water Authority and was amazed myself to see a very standard suburban home with your typical green grass and trees. 00 in the morning. 00 that same day. And there is no green grass and there is some Mesquite trees and some desert shrubs. And the homeowner was thrilled. He got a paycheck. And he also felt like he was doing the right thing for not only his neighborhood but for the river.  By the way if you are listening and you want to see some of these photos go to npr.org. We have many of them online there. Peter when you tell the river - when you tell the story of the river in terms of numbers you are almost astonished by how much of that river water is used to help bring food to our tables for irrigation. Mr.  It is remarkable. It is really the lifeblood. They call it the American Nile and it supplies water for 30 million people in the Southwest. Further down the river down New Mexico it produces all the lettuce crop for the United States in the months of November and December and all the carrots in January and February. So whether you love the river and fish it and float it or you have never been to it and you live on the East Coast you actually eat Colorado River water.  I know you had a few mishaps along the way. Which moment stick out for you? Mr.  Probably the most memorable was crossing the delta which I did with John Waterman and he paddled the entire length of the river on a remarkable trip. And I met him at the end and we made it about 2 miles into Mexico before we ended up in this kind of frothy Frappucino pit full of plastic bottles and who knows what. And that was the end of the river and there is a picture of that.  I am looking at it right now. It is just jarring after these wonderful pictures of this magnificent body of water and there he is on that yellow raft stuck in the mud.  Mr.  But what is so interesting Michele is that this estuary used to be one of the largest desert estuaries in North America. It ran to the sea for 6 million years and it - the river basically stopped in the late '90s. And having walked it with John it is nothing but a cracked parched arid landscape. And it used to be great for fisheries. The smallest dolphin in the world spawned there called the vaquita. That is all changed drastically and in my opinion sadly. While all the engineering that we did on this river is quite remarkable and could be considered a triumph of engineering we have also asked too much of the river.  It disappears.  Peter it has been a pleasure. Thanks so much for being with us. Mr.  Thank you so much Michele a pleasure.  Peter McBride he is the photographer for a new book called  Flowing Through Conflict. And you can see a gallery of his photos from that book at npr.org. 