 The Smithsonian's National Zoo here in Washington has a lot of female reptiles and that means a lot of unfertilized eggs that do not hatch. Their policy was basically to toss them. But a few years back they thought why not try incubating some of the eggs?  Because it does not take any time we were like oh let us just try this with the eggs we get and see what happens.  That is Kyle Miller he is a zookeeper who works with the zoo's reptiles. Almost all the eggs went bad after a few days but the eggs of the Asian water dragon did not. So Miller and his co-workers held up a flashlight to the tiny eggs looking for signs of life specifically veins.  Say you were to take like a marble that was completely white and draw little tiny red lines on it. And that was enough for us to tell that the eggs were fertile.  This was huge. The female Asian water dragon had not been near any males in years. And you may remember from biology class males are an important part of reproduction for most animals.  We did not believe it at first. We were like wait a minute are we seeing things here - because it was so unexpected.  What they were seeing - or thought they were seeing - is facultative parthenogenesis where females produce offspring without a contribution from a male. Eventually one of the Asian water dragon's eggs hatched Miller's colleagues ran a DNA analysis that confirmed their hunch.  Now as impressive as this sounds there are a number of other species that can do this - Komodo dragons for example.  Still her keepers are really excited and her achievement has earned her an honor that is usually reserved for such charismatic reptiles as tortoises and crocodiles.  Typically a lot of reptiles and amphibians do not have names in zoo collections. But since this was such a cool study we named the mother dragon Saphira.  Saphira's daughter is still just an anonymous Asian water dragon. But if she can match her mom's reproductive prowess she might get a name too.    All the single ladies now put your hands up - whoa oh oh oh oh oh. Whoa oh oh oh oh oh oh. If you like it then you should have put a ring on it. If you like it then you should have put a ring on it. Do not be mad once you see that he want it. 