 Southern California is not only a land of celebrities it is a land of celebrity dog trainers. And now a new trainer is making his mark in that crowded field. He calls himself the Russian Dog Wizard. And as NPR's Karen Grigsby Bates reports he speaks a special language that dogs seem to understand.  Meet Vladae Roytapel trainer of dogs and their people. Mr.  Every leash has two ends. If you do not pick one end somebody will pick another end. Today it is your dog. Tomorrow it is your husband or kid whosoever.  Some people think of Vladae as a sort of canine Dr. Phil. Mr.  My methods works with one stipulation if the people works. The difficult part of my business is to put the owners on my side.  And more and more owners are on his side pulled by the use of what Vladae calls Doglish.  Mr.  That is how a canine mom is praising a child.  Vladae was born in Azerbaijan and grew up working with his grandfather a biologist who specialized in animal behavior. That led to work with the Soviet government as a dog trainer. American dogs he says are treated vastly differently from the ones he knew in Europe. Mr.  I do believe dogs must be treated and can be treated as the humans but before you must treat them as the dogs. And even if you want to treat them as the humans we humans pee and poop in one place. Why your dogs should pee and poop all over the world?  Good question. I wanted to see how this self-proclaimed Russian Dog Wizard gets a pooch to straighten up. So I followed him down to Orange County where he did a follow-up visit to Ginger and Joel Oviatt and their Brittany Spaniel Rova. Mr.  When the first time I came in this house that dog was barking like a Russian AK-47 downtown Beirut. Now there is no barking.  Mr.  Hello.   Well maybe just a little barking. Vladae gives Ginger a refresher. Mr.  Okay. So your dog is barking. So you need to approach the dog and snap the crate . Go ahead. Snap the crate.  After a little thump on Rova's crate she gets it and settles right down. Then she is led out to greet the visitors. Ginger says she is noted a definite change in Rova since Vladae's visit. Ms.  The day after he left the first lesson it was a day-and-night difference.  No wild barking  a calmer dog. Ginger says Vladae showed her how to verbally correct Rova using tone. Ms.  Ah.  What was that? Ms.  Ah ah ah.  That sharp sound does bring you up short. And tone Vladae says is what dogs understand. It is the basis of Doglish. To illustrate Vladae guides Ginger and her daughter Nancy in praising Rova in Doglish. Mr.  Now say to her good girl. Ms.  Good girl. Mr.  Happy like a doggie mama. Good girl. So you say good girl in English in Doglish the dog is hearing  Mr.  That is how a canine mama's praising her child.  Maybe Vladae is the Russian Dog Wizard. It works. Rova is all ears and waggedy tail. Mr.  When I came to your home what did I tell you? Ms.  That you were going to make sure that she was changed and we were changed.  The Oviatts did their homework and Rova is a changed canine. So Russian Dog Wizard is on to next problem dog. And on the way out a little confession. Mr.  In general if you want to know Vladae's opinion people are crazy. Dogs are okay.  Or as we would say in Doglish   Karen Grigsby Bates NPR News.  And you can see a video of the Russian Dog Wizard training his pups at the new npr.org. 