 From one pole to the other we are going to take a moment now to focus on the a Adelie penguins of the Antarctic. According to a new study the population of that breed could drop dramatically by the turn-of-the-century. Megan Cimino headed the study for the University of Delaware. She is now with the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego and she joins me from KPBS in San Diego. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  What is happening to create a decline in the population of Adelie penguins?  Well over the last few decades there is been climate change happening in Antarctica. There are specific regions that are warming. And in the one area that is warming we are seeing widespread Adelie penguin population declines.  How many are we losing? Is this something that is happening very rapidly?  So there is a little bit over 200 penguin colonies around Antarctica. And within those colonies are millions of penguins something like 4 million. And so we looked at how specific habitats will change over time and in the past and into the future. And we used our projections on changes in habitat quality to estimate how much their populations could change in the future. And given these changes in the habitat it is possible that up to 60 percent of current Adelie penguin colonies could experience population declines by the end of this century.  If you have seen the movie March Of The Penguins which is certainly a big favorite there is this terrifying challenge of raising young and breeding in a really hostile place. At first glance you think oh it is getting a little warmer. That cannot be bad. What is actually pressing on the penguins about a warmer environment?  So I should first say that March Of The Penguins is about Emperors which are a different species. And they have a very different life cycle so they would be affected in different ways than the Adelies. But there are two main reasons that we think the Adelies are being affected by warming. And one of those is through changes in food resources. And they mainly eat fish and krill. So if it is harder to find food or their food becomes less available that is a problem. And the other way is through changes in weather. So the Adelie - they breed on rock. And they make their nests out of small pebbles. So if there is more snow or even more rain that could be bad news for chicks or eggs that are sitting on the ground. And an egg cannot survive if it is sitting in a puddle of water. And if you are a chick without waterproof feathers it is possible that you could die from hypothermia or even have increased thermoregulative costs. And that could cause the chick to become skinnier and less likely to survive.  Why does not it push colonies to relocate inside the same landmass?  The Adelie penguins have really high nest-site fidelity and they will usually return to the place that they were born to nest. So it is possible that they could move to different locations but in general they are returning to those same colonies year after year.  Is it just one of those things where we just say well that is sad? The world is changing in a way that this animal could no longer live. You are watching them. Are you rooting for them personally along with your scientific detachment trying to figure out what is going on with them?  So I can tell you that from our work we do find a glimmer of hope in that it does not look like this species is going to die out. There are areas in Antarctica that look like - will be a refuge where they can still flourish they can still live.  I was curious as to whether - when you watch these things in the ebb and flow whether you get personally involved. If you saw an increase in nesting pairs from space one year would you just sort of give a little cheer quietly in the lab because you really are glad that there are more of them?  Sure of course. You want your study species to live on. And it is sad to watch a colony die off. So yes we are definitely cheering for them.  That is Megan Cimino. She is with the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego. Megan thanks a lot.  Thank you. 