 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  John Wilson joins us phone from Manteo on Roanoke Island to tell us about the vine's progress. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  And tell me first what the Mother Vine looks like when she is healthy.  She covers about a quarter of an acre now and she is very large in circumference. If you and I stood around her and stretched out our arms we would have trouble touching one another.  Wow huge thing and then centuries old and what kind of grapes?  Scuppernong white grapes. It is a kind of muscadine.  And so everybody down there would know about the Mother Vine?  Absolutely for generations. Everybody - almost everyone in North Carolina knows about the Mother Vine.  Well what happened with this herbicide?  And the Mother Vine had one little tendril no bigger around than a pencil growing up a power pole and they sprayed it. And I guess the wind was blowing because it killed part of my dad's hedge it killed a number of very old limbs in a pecan tree and it started to kill the front corner of the vineyard.  The front corner of the Mother Vine you are talking about.  Yes.  And what did that look like? How could you tell?  The herbicide is systemic and it was sending the poison from the ends of the vine back toward the root. So each day he would cut and the next day it would be dead a little farther back.  Well that is got to feel terrible.  It was very distressing to my father. He has been honored to be the steward of the Mother Vine for the last 50 years and he certainly did not want anything to happen to her on his watch. So he called N.C. State's Department of Agriculture and the university stopped what they were doing and sent representatives - as did the North Carolina Department of Agriculture. And they all examined her and offered opinions and found us North Carolina's finest viticulture arborist who has been here several times and is back today working on the vine.  And what are they saying to do?  Today they are here thinning to let some sunlight in. They have shocked her with nitrogen and salt and fertilizers and my dad has been watering every two and three days. So she is getting a lot of attention and we think she is going to be okay.  You do?  We hope so. The first month it was very concerning but right now we are all optimistic.  Maybe she is stronger than we all would have thought.  You know if she is made it 400 years I think she is going to make it through this too.  Well Mr. Wilson we will all keep a good thought for the Mother Vine. Thanks for telling us about it.  Thank you so much.  That is John Wilson talking with us from Roanoke Island in North Carolina. His family has been tending to the Mother Vine since it was sprayed with a weed killer in May. 