 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand.  And I am Robert Siegel. Now a new venture in biofuels. Exxon Mobil has committed 600 million to a plant to make biofuel from algae. The firm they have hooked up with is Synthetic Genomics. It was founded by Dr. J. Craig Venter whose prior company Celera Genomics raced the government to map the human genome. And Dr. Venter joins us from La Jolla California. Welcome to the program. Dr. J.  Thank you very much.  And first to clarify is it fair or roughly accurate to say that you are going to try to do with photosynthetic algae what people have been doing with corn to make ethanol in recent years? Dr.  Well the goal is not to make ethanol. Ethanol is not a very good fuel and using cropland and a food substance to make a fuel has not proven to be very smart on any front. So algae is something that can grow in non-arable land including desert land. We can use brackish water or seawater and that uses sunlight as its energy source and consumes a lot of CO2 in making these hydrocarbons that can be converted into fuel.  But we have heard futurists who find ethanol lacking talking about switchgrass and that sort of thing. What is better about algae than using switchgrass? Dr.  Well we need lots of different solutions so we are not anti-switchgrass at all. But algae is one of the things due to exponential growth that is far more scalable. Even the low-yield algaes have about 10 times as many gallons of fuel per year per acre as you can get from corn. And the scale is the big challenge  Yeah. Dr.  For a scientist such as myself going from a test tube to a beaker is usually considered a scale-up reaction. If we cannot produce billions of gallons eventually all this is really just hot air.  Now just to clarify here you are thinking in terms not just of harvesting algae from the sea you are talking about farming algae. Dr.  Well in fact people have thought about farming algae for decades growing it up then harvesting it then extracting the fatty material - or the hydrocarbons - to make fuels. We have engineered the algae to just continuously pump these important precursors to fuel molecules out in a pure form. So it changes it from farming to bioreactors which have the potential for continuous production and a much greater scalability factor.  What are your concerns sir? That is if you were to create tracks of brackish waters filled with algae that is being grown for fuel might there be an impact on the environment that we are not thinking about at first? Dr.  Well part of what we are doing and the initial phases here in La Jolla we are building a totally new greenhouse facility to in fact test whether open ponds open tracks as you described them or closed bioreactors are going to be the most efficient way for scaling up to the scale that needs to be done. Obviously it is important with any engineered organism to make sure that it cannot escape into the environment. I think we need to give some careful thought to that to make sure we are not introducing species into environments where they are not already there.  Well from your time at Synthetic Genomics you are a veteran of a major scientific race. Given reasonably good fortune and success but assuming some setbacks how much of a time frame do you think is realistic - to think of going from where we are now to having fuel out there in the market that is been generated from algae? Dr.  It is a very important question. This is not going to happen in the next two years. One of the things that was very important in our agreement with Exxon Mobil is we both had the same kind of timelines in mind of what it would take to really get to the scale needed to make a dent on even transportation fuels. And we think that is somewhere in the five- to 10-year time course before there is really substantial amounts of fuel out there in the market that could come from these algae sources.  Dr. Venter thank you very much for talking with us. Dr.  Nice to talk with you.  That is J. Craig Venter speaking to us from La Jolla California. His company Synthetic Genomics has hooked up with Exxon Mobil to try to develop biofuels from algae. 