 People north of Houston woke up today to reports of explosions and a fire at a chemical plant that was flooded by Harvey. The plant is owned by the company Arkema. Company officials are warning of more fires. With us now to talk about this is NPR science editor Geoff Brumfiel. Hello there.  Hi there.  So what happened at the Arkema plant?  Well the chemicals that burned are called organic peroxides. They are used to make plastic. And they are very reactive. They have to be kept cool. So after the flooding the cooling systems failed and the temperature rose. A tractor trailer containing some of these chemicals basically went up in smoke. Now there are more trailers on the site and the company says that means there is going to be more fires to come.  There seems to be some confusion about how dangerous the smoke from these fires is. Let us listen to a press conference earlier today. First Bob Royall of the Harris County Fire Marshal's Office made it sound like this was just regular smoke.   You do not want to stand in smoke do you? The sheriff says it is like a camp fire.  Like a camp fire - but then at that same press conference Arkema executive Rich Rennard seemed a little less sure.   I mean this - the smoke is noxious. I do not - its toxicity is - yeah it is a relative thing.  Toxicity is a relative thing Geoff. What did you make of that?  Well we have been doing some checking on the science desk. And I mean I think what we can say at this point is organic peroxides are not the most dangerous things in the world.  OK.  They are used in some household products like acne cream and toothpaste. In the pure form the biggest danger is fire. And you know that is what we have seen. And obviously fires make smoke and so they are right to say the smoke can cause irritation. But nobody's quite sure what else might be you know coming out of these fires. I mean it is worth saying that this is not a controlled chemical reaction. There could be byproducts from the quantities of chemicals involved. There could be byproducts from the chemicals reacting with other things in the trailers. The EPA is actually sending down an airborne chemical sensing system so that they can have a look at what comes out of these fires. And an evacuation order remains in effect. Nobody should go within 1.5 miles of the plant. No residents should return home.  Wow. I mean considering what this plant is should not the company have been prepared for a disaster like this and considering where it is?  Well they should have and they thought they were. I mean you know they have backup generators backup systems. But they just were not prepared for this amount of water. I mean as a last resort the workers had to load these chemicals into these trailers and drive them off to a corner of the facility where they thought they would be safe. And then the workers themselves had to be evacuated by boat. That is how bad things got. From that point on these chemicals were basically just a ticking time bomb. Rich Rennard that Arkema executive we heard from earlier was clearly frustrated by what is happened here.   Well we had generators. We had backup generators. We bought backup backup generators. So I am not sure what much more we could have done.  I guarantee you though once these fires go out there will be plenty of people looking into what more they could have done and what more Arkema should have done.  Let us talk about you know the whole area. I mean the Gulf Coast has tons of petrochemical plants and refineries. Has Harvey caused other problems?  Well Arkema is definitely the most dramatic case we have seen so far but there have been facilities shut down all along the coast. In that previous report we heard about Port Arthur. The world's largest refinery is up there and it shut down. And there are old sites too. I mean Houston is home to 16 Superfund sites that have toxic materials in the soil and on the site. So I think that you know it is likely as the floodwaters recede there may be problems. And environmental groups are going to be looking for spills and leaks and other problems as well.  NPR's Geoff Brumfiel thank you.  Thank you. 