 When we talk about wildfires it is usually because they are big and destructive and they are threatening people or homes. Our next story is about a fire that is not doing any of those things. It is about a fire burning deep in the California wilderness away from people and property. And it is the type of fire that forest ecologists say should be left to burn. But as NPR's Nathan Rott found there are a lot of challenges standing in the way.  The Lions Fire started the way a wildfire should - when lightning struck a tree-lined ridge in the Sierra Nevada Mountains south of Yosemite National Park. Already that made this fire a rarity. Four out of five wildfires here in the U.S. are started by people so the Lions Fire presented in the mind of fire ecologists like Malcom North an opportunity. That is why we are hiking into it. It does not feel that smoky and then you look over there and...  Yeah you know you are in the middle of it but you do not really feel it.  What we are feeling is the elevation so excuse the strained breathing. Just be known as a wheezing  scientist. North works with the U.S. Forest Service and the University of California Davis where he is a leading advocate for the idea that we as a country need to change our relationship with wildfire.  At this point there is still a lot of emphasis on you know suppression and containment of fire because fires are always destroying the forest and that is just not true.  Fires like the Lions Fire can be good. That perception we all have of a healthy forest one that is lush and green from ground to treetop mountain to mountain North says that is wrong. A healthy forest has areas that have burnt areas that have not areas where trees are thick and dense and areas where they are sparse.  It is that kind of patchwork that used to exist out there before the arrival of Europeans.  Before we started putting nearly every fire out.  When you put the fire out you just postpone that fire burning. And not only do you postpone it but you just increase the actual fuel load that is out there so that when it does happen you get these really mega fire events.  That are not good for the forests or the ever-increasing number of people who live near them. Now this is not a revolutionary thought. The Forest Service and the fire science community have known this for decades. That is why forest managers like Denise Tolmie a district ranger on the Sierra National Forest and others first looked at the Lions Fire and decided not to smother it.  Initially we basically said OK yep this fire is in a good place. It is in the wilderness.  There were no people threatened no property. Tolmie says it seemed like the type of good fire they could use to benefit the landscape so they decided to let it do its thing as long as it stayed in a specific area. This decision is incredibly rare.  Trust me when I say it is a nail-biter.  The Forest Service stopped telling how many fires it manages this way a decade ago. But from the years 1998 to 2008 the last with data less than half of 1 percent of all fire starts in the U.S. were allowed to burn. Anecdotally forest managers will tell you it is probably about the same today. Now that is partly because there are so many people living on the landscape. rnia's largest firefighting force puts out every fire it can. There is just too much property at risk. Most other states they do the same thing. But another reason fires are not allowed to burn - the public.  Nature has to do its thing but there comes a point where it gets too close to comfort.  Cruz Jonathan Valleflores works at a rental car agency in Mammoth Lakes a resort town about seven miles from where the Lions Fire is burning. For weeks this summer Mammoth Lakes was inundated with smoke. Valleflores says tourists were ending their trip early or canceling them altogether.  Tourism is a huge part of this community. So if tourism does not come through that means there is no money there is no jobs.  Many in the community shared this concern.  We are all angry about the smoke. Do not think that we are not. Everybody's angry about the smoke.  John Wentworth is on Mammoth Lakes' city council.  But personally I do not - I know that there is no future in denial. There is no future in saying just put out every single fire that you see because that is just putting money in the bank for the big one that is going to come up here and burn us to the ground.  In the end the Lions Fire would be contained and slowed too. Forest managers say conditions changed on the fire so they had to shift their approach to full suppression. Helicopters started dumping water. The fire crews were sent in. On the fire's eastern edge though near where it started there are no firefighters to be seen. A stump is burning in a swirl of flame under a shaded canopy of tall trees. Smoke slowly rises from downed logs and stump holes.  Yeah it almost seems peaceful.  Yeah.  It is kind of nice.  Fire ecologist Malcolm North looks at the forest this fire is leaving behind. Some trees are torched others are untouched. The forest floor is cleared in places of downed logs and needles reduced to ash.  Which is going to make this forest much more fireproof in the future for high-severity catastrophic fires. It is going to be much harder for it to happen up here.  North sees that as a win even if it is only a small patch of a much larger forest. Nathan Rott NPR News. 