 California could be in for a whole lot of rain this year. El Nino is strengthening in the Pacific. That is the prolonged warming of that ocean around the equator. And to talk about what that means I am joined by Mike Halpert. He is with the Climate Prediction Center of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or NOAA. Mike welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  And how does El Nino of 2015 look?  At this point the ocean is roughly one to two and along the East Coast three degrees Celsius - above average - so it is doing quite well.  Doing quite well. Well we are talking about a huge amount of heat energy in the Pacific right? What are the impacts of that? How is that felt?  Right. Typically we would see tropical rainfall in the western part of the basin so over Indonesia and northern Australia that part of the world. When we see El Nino in the ocean in the central and eastern part of the Pacific warms that rainfall moves into the central part and even the eastern part of the Pacific Ocean and areas like Indonesia become drier than average. The rain is now over - largely over the Pacific Ocean. But we have disrupted and changed the pattern of heating into the atmosphere across the Pacific.  And we are seeing the effects of that already?  Well the biggest impacts that we see in the northern hemisphere will happen in the late fall through the winter and then into the spring. What we have seen in more episodic type things is that the disruption or the changes in the hurricane seasons in both the Atlantic and the Pacific. El Nino is known to suppress the Atlantic hurricane season and enhance it in the Pacific. And while it is still early in the season we have certainly seen some pretty impressive hurricanes in the eastern part of the basin you know with one just recently delivering its moisture up into California and the southwestern part of the country.  When you look at the measurements that you are seeing and think about what might be in store especially for Southern California into the fall and the winter what does that look like? How strong will El Nino be do you think?  At this time the official Climate Prediction Center outlook does favor a strong event so departures at least a degree and half Celsius above average. In particular folks commonly think of '82 '83 and '97 '98 as those very strong events. And in both of those cases all of California really good parts of the United States in general saw very wet winters. But you know it is a sample size of two. Now I do not think we really know enough to draw that distinction.  What about effects on the drought in the West?  Well obviously California at this point I think is hoping for a wet winter and if El Nino makes that likely then that is a good thing. Of course there is always the concern that too much rain in a short period of time can have negative impacts. We saw that just recently with very heavy rains in Southern California that resulted in roads being washed out and landslides. Drought can help to make these things worse in that the dry ground just does not really absorb the water and it all ends up running off. And maybe intuitively it is like well wait a minute we have a drought. But that is something that we could be looking at.  OK. Well Mike Halpert thanks for talking with us.  All right. You are quite welcome.  Mike Halpert is deputy director of NOAA's Climate Prediction Center. 