 This summer we have been exploring some Latino heritage sites around the nation that are seeking federal protection. Today we are heading to New Mexico for a dip into the Gila River a place that Ray Trejo of the Nuestra Tierra Conservation Project calls his own personal Disneyland.  I caught my first Gila trout when I was 8 years old I think. Most families at the time were headed to California to visit Disneyland. My parents were blue-collar folks. So when we had the opportunity to go anywhere it was to go camping. And the Gila River was the spot.  That is where he says he learned to fish and hunt and to think about conservation.  I was taught by one of my uncles how to look for bait under the rocks. They were called hellgramites. I remember my uncle telling me OK so if you pull over one of those rocks to look for a hellgramite might make sure you place that rock exactly where it was because there is other bugs that are hatching and so forth. So that was really one of the biggest introductions to conservation. It was not just like flip rocks and leave them.  What Trejo did not know at the time was that this bug paradise was also the first protected wilderness in the country. Aldo Leopold a forester and author of Sand County Almanac is often credited with saving this land. But Trejo's colleague Angel Penya wants us to know that Leopold was not acting alone.  Born and raised here on the frontera I can tell you anything worth doing has been rooted in community. Strong to say that it was not only Aldo Leopold but absolutely the Comanche the Chiricahua the Mescalero Apache the Hispano traditions and communities that really elevate and amplified their voice to push forward in the right direction. And that is where the Gila Wilderness was born.  And now those communities are stepping up again to close a huge loophole because while the Gila Wilderness is protected the river that nurtures that ecosystem is not meaning unless the federal government officially labels it a wild and scenic river it could still be diverted or dammed. Pena worries that altering the river would also change the flow of time for local residents.  The communities that call that place home are overwhelmingly Hispano Latino Indio-Hispano Indigenous communities and largely disproportionately lack access to not only decent and appropriate health care but recreational opportunities or the ability to continue to fish the river as their grandparents and grandparents did before them. And that interaction that time travel almost when you are stepping through the river and just knowing that someone else hundreds years ago was probably stepping through the same part of the river to do what? To go hunt to go provide for their family ensuring that we have that ability to carry that tradition on. And that is what a Gila wild and scenic river means.  Norma Hartell agrees. She is the co-author of a recent Latino Heritage Scholars study calling for federal protection for the Gila River.  We learn about our values and our collective history through these places so that in itself is important. And it is you know a place - a natural place where the community gathers where a lot of people who do not have the resources that a lot of people do go to hike or fish.  Despite not being protected the Gila is still flowing free though. You can still jump in and let the river transport you.  I can tell you that my daughter she is 13. And she is first to jump in the river. I am still a little warm-blooded so it takes me time. And I always just envision my daughter on the other side of the river telling me let us go. The turkeys are going to get away or if it is the deer or if it is the - you know. So I think that is what the river is all about for me is family and good memories.  That was Angel Pena with the Nuestra Tierra Conservation Project. He is one of many calling for the federal government to officially protect the Gila River in New Mexico. 