 The crystal blue waters and coral reefs of the Caribbean attract visitors from around the world. One troublesome visitor has become well-established on those reefs and its population is exploding. It is the lionfish a small but voracious predator. So people in Florida are getting creative in trying to control this invasive species. As NPR's Greg Allen reports from Miami if you cannot beat them eat them.  At the Coconuts Restaurant in Key Largo  fillet of lionfish.  I am putting flour. Next you put it in the fryer for like two minutes.  What fish does not taste good breaded and deep-fried? But Lad Akins says there are many other ways to cook lionfish. Akins is with the Reef Environmental Educational Foundation based in the Florida Keys. He is on a mission to let people know throughout the Caribbean that this is one tasty fish.  Lionfish is very light mild delicately flavored fish. It is not heavy. It is light and flaky. So you can season it many different ways. Some people have compared it to halibut. Everyone has their different take on it but it is certainly very good eating.  Akins has co-authored a lionfish cookbook with 45  to encourage divers and fishermen to catch and eat a fish that is become a problem. Lionfish are not native to the Caribbean. They were first imported from their native waters in the Pacific and Indian oceans for saltwater aquariums. They have been spotted in Florida waters since at least 1985. But in recent years the population has begun to explode. Akins says as newcomers often do in Florida lionfish have prospered.  Lionfish are very well adaptive as a top predator. They are well-defended with venomous spines. They are gluttonous feeder. They have high reproductive output. And other issues surrounding most invasive species like lack of parasites et cetera have enabled them to gain a great foothold here.  I think we will be good to work .  Yeah.  What team are you guys with?  Ahab.  Ahab?  Yes.  Like Captain Ahab?  Yup.  Great. OK. All right.   In Key Largo REEF and the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary teamed up recently to hold a lionfish derby. Nineteen teams competed to see who would bring in the largest the smallest and the most lionfish. The top prize of 1000 went to a team that brought in 289 fish caught with spears and hand nets.  373 nice fish.  What is that in inches?  I do not know.   That is 14 and two-thirds inches. As it turns out the largest fish of the day. Standing nearby with apron glove and a sharp filleting knife at the ready is John Halas a manager with the Keys Marine Sanctuary. How do you fillet a lionfish here?  Well carefully.   That would be a good way to start with. I have got a puncture-proof glove that I am using.  Fish are filleted breaded and fried. Others go to a dissection table where marine researchers are gathering data on the growing lionfish population. Diver Kara Wall was pretty happy. Her scuba team took second place in the derby with 95 lionfish. You have to watch out for their venomous spines. Getting stuck is about like a bad bee sting. But otherwise she says catching lionfish is easy.  They are pretty stupid. They think that if they fluff out real big they will be like I am poisonous go away. And so they do not really try and get away until it is a little bit too late.  Lionfish derbies are catching on in the Keys and elsewhere in the Caribbean. Marine scientists say because the invasive species is now firmly established it is probably not possible to remove it completely. But by encouraging people to catch and eat them they hope to control the lionfish population and protect the most vulnerable coral reef areas. Greg Allen NPR News Miami.  This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 