 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  Dorien Schroeder joins me now by phone from Mossel Bay South Africa to tell me what happened. And Dorien what in the world did happen? Can you take us back to that moment when you are on the deck and all of a sudden you have got another passenger?  Luckily she stepped aside and I could pull her away from the shark right before it actually landed in the boat.  My goodness - thwack just landed right there on the deck?  And of course they were in shock as well saying oh my God what just happened? So I asked them to be quiet so the shark would not be too stressed out by all the noise.  Now you are talking about how stressed out the shark is. I imagine you are pretty stressed out in this moment too.   Actually of course the moment that I saw is right before it actually landed in the boat I had a moment where I thought oh my God what am I going to do now? But right after that my instincts took over and when all my interns were safe and the shark calmed down I thought okay now I just need to get a live shark out of the boat.  Ms. Shroeder do us a favor. How big is your boat? And how much space did that shark take up in the boat? Because in looking at the pictures - and I really invite our listeners to go online and see this because you really should see what this looks like - it does not look like you had a lot of space yourself to maneuver around on the deck.  No we did not. Our boat is about eight meters in length although the part where the shark actually ended up in is about two meters by one-and-a-half meters. And she was herself a three-meter shark. So in the end she kind of managed to curl herself up in the back part of the boat.  And this shark was between nine and 10 feet. You say it eventually calmed down. It is curious that it did not go into some sort of attack mode.  And I think because we were pouring water over the gills for the whole time it was out of the water that is the reason it survived this.  Is a viewing of the film Jaws in your future?   Well it was not really like Jaws. I mean clearly this was just a mistake of the shark. I think he got scared maybe by another shark swimming underneath her but the thing is she just happened to jump onto a boat full of people that love white sharks with all their heart and we just - as soon as she landed we knew we had to do whatever we could to get her off alive. And I am so happy that we managed to do that.  Dorien Schroeder thanks so much for your time all the best to you and we hope that you are able to keep track of that great white that goaded your boat.   Thank you very much.  That is Dorien Schroeder. She is a team leader with Oceans Research. She was studying great white sharks off the coast of South Africa when a half-ton shark jumped out of the water and straight onto her boat. 