 The United Nations says there will be 2 and a half billion more people on the planet by 2050. Each will likely create more carbon emissions and scientists say those emissions could reach a dangerous tipping point by mid-century. To avoid a disaster one man is proposing a radical idea. As NPR's Jennifer Ludden reports he aims to convince people to have fewer children.  Travis Rieder is not a climate scientist. He is a philosopher with the Berman Institute of Bioethics at Johns Hopkins and his arguments are moral. When we meet he is in a tweedy jacket and sneakers speaking to several dozen students at James Madison University.  How old are you going to be in 2036? Are you thinking about having kids? How old are your kids going to be in 2036?  Dangerous climate change will be happening by then he says and the world's poorest nations will suffer most even though rich countries like the U.S. create far more carbon emissions per capita. T.  So here's what is happening when I have a kid. I am creating a being who is doing the much greater proportion of the contribution to the harm. And she is not going to suffer for it. The other kid is. And that seems unfair.  What about that big climate deal in Paris. Rieder tell students it does not cut emissions nearly enough to avoid a catastrophic tipping point. But this might. He cites a study that finds reducing global fertility by just half a child per woman could have a huge impact if it happens soon. T.  Thank you all for your attention.   It was kind of terrifying.  Student Garrett Wilson says before this he never would have connected climate and kids. Valerie Smith has thought about that. She is even argued with her mom over it.  We always have people asking well why would not you have kids? And I think it is a great point that he makes saying well no like you do not have to explain yourself. The people who are choosing to have children - like maybe they are the ones that need to explain their reasons.  The people choosing to have children...  And the itsy bitsy spider...  Went up the spout again.  Again. S.  Yay.  That is right. It includes Rieder. At home in Maryland his 2-year-old daughter Sinem stands at the knee of his wife Sadiya. S.  I have been one of those women who actually craved to have a baby...  No. S.  ...To go through a pregnancy and everything. That mattered to me a lot.  In fact Sadiya wanted a big family so Rieder caved sort of. He decided you cannot deny someone the hard-wired human fulfillment of creating a child but he also convinced Sadiya that the moral bar for a second one is higher. They are one and done. T.  When I write online I get some nasty comments and a lot of the things that people say is well he obviously does not have any children the way he talks about it. So look I think it is important that I exactly know the value. She is the most amazing thing we have ever done with our lives.  So how do you convince millions of people around the world to forgo that? Rieder has a plan. Along with colleagues at Georgetown University Colin Hickey and Jake Earl for poor nations they propose paying women to refill their birth control and something with proven success...   .  ...Soap operas like this Indian one with plotlines on family planning. For richer nations Rieder says the U.S. and others should do away with tax credits for new parents and actually impose penalties like a carbon tax on kids. And he knows that sounds crazy. T.  But children in a cold way of looking at it are an externality. We as parents we as family members we get the good and the world the community pays the cost.  What that will actually translate into is it becoming much easier for wealthy people to have children than for other people to have children.  Rebecca Kukla is a bioethicist at Georgetown University. She also worries that poor and minority women who have more children would be stigmatized. Of course Travis Rieder does not expect the U.S. or other countries to embrace his ideas. He would be happy to simply change people's assumptions about having kids. But still compared to so many ideas for addressing climate change he says this would be easy. T.  It is not a feat of geoengineering or econo-engineering. We know exactly how to make fewer babies.  And he says it is something people can start doing today. Jennifer Ludden NPR News. 