 In Alaska summer brings tourists and one of the most popular things to see in Juneau is the Mendenhall Glacier maintained by the U.S. Forest Service. After the visitors ooh and ah the Forest Service wants them to notice something - that the glacier is not quite so impressive as it used to be. Elizabeth Jenkins from member station KTOO in Juneau reports.  The Mendenhall Glacier is visible from the visitor center parking lot but it is still pretty far. And if you traveled all this way you probably want to get up close to the blue-tinted ice. Touching the face of the glacier can be tricky. You are separated by cold silty water. A hike over the ridge could take hours. Visitor center staff know that and inside they use it to prove a point.  Hi there. How are you?  Hello.  Have you had a chance to shake hands with the Mendenhall Glacier yet?  Tod Kahn a Forest Service employee lures a crowd over to touch a slick hunk of glacial ice.  Would you like to see some photos of the glacier in the past?  She pulls out a stack of photos. They start in the 1950s and show the progression of how much the glacier has changed.  You cannot replace it right?  No we cannot.  So how do we stop it?  Bingo. That is the kind of reaction the Forest Service wants. How do we stop it? Wilmar Balatbat a tourist says it got him thinking.  We did not know it is deteriorating that fast. We believe that it is for everybody to see for generations and generations.  It became our central topic really just in the last few years.  John Neary is the director of the glacier's visitor center and he is on a mission. He wants the more than 500000 people who visit the Mendenhall Glacier each year to know that it is rapidly retreating due to climate change. And the 18 staffers who work for him are prepared to talk about it. He says initially not everyone was game.  There was resistance and I think it is because people view it as a negative thing. And oh you know people on vacation - they do not want to hear about negative things. They want to think about positive you know really exciting - and watch the whales see the eagles that sort of thing. I get that. That is understandable.  But he says it is all connected. For instance nutrients from the glacier feed plankton in the ocean. Those plankton feed the whales. Over the past 30 years Neary's noticed an extreme visible change in the glacier. But Forest Service staff say at least once a day they get someone who disagrees with the climate change spiel like Joe and Sarah DeRosier a Minnesota couple in their 20s.  Spectacular. The last time we were in Alaska we were high school sweethearts. We were 16 years old. So it is nice to come back almost 10 years later and see how the landscape has changed.  Which is a lot. The glacier has retreated over a hundred feet since then. Still they say they are not worried about what is causing it.  I think everything is just pure speculation. We do not truly know. I mean obviously it is receding and it is changing. But it is just one of those natural cycles you know? Some years they will recede. Some years they will grow.  Actually most of the world's glaciers are losing ice and most of the tourists are engaged in that conversation. Anna Laing is one of them. She traveled all the way from Scotland to be here and had no idea she would learn so much about climate change.  It is just a statement that is out there normally and it does not really mean much to you until you see the physical evidence of it especially things we are able to touch - the glacier there - and know what we are losing.  The University of Fairbanks Geophysical Institute says the Mendenhall Glacier will not be visible from the visitor center by the end of this century. For NPR News I am Elizabeth Jenkins in Juneau.  And that report came to us from Alaska's Energy Desk a public media collaboration focused on energy and environment. 