 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. This weekend as people in Columbus Ohio count down one last week until the start of the Ohio State football season  the largest ferret show in the U.S. the Ferret Buckeye Bash. It is we are told even bigger than next month's Inland Northwest Championship Ferret Show in Coeur d'Alene Idaho and even bigger than the Fall Ferret Fandango in Gilbertsville Pennsylvania. Scarlett Gray-Saling is the coordinator of the Ferret Buckeye Bash and she joins us now from member station WCBE. Welcome. Ms.  Thank you. I am enjoying being here.  And you have some company there with you in the studio. Ms.  I do one of my ferrets. Her name is Jeremiah's Frog Grog Ale. That is her show name. I just call her Froggie though.  Okay. What happens at a ferret bash? Ms.  Well it is a championship ferret show. The ferrets are actually judged much like any dog or cat show. They are judged for conformation maintenance disposition. You bite the judge you get disqualified. And there is fun events were the tube racing the best dressed vendors galore. It keeps people busy all day.  But when you say you judge them on conformation that is conformation to standards. At a dog show a - you know a Golden Retriever should be between so many inches tall at the withers and - if it is a male and so much for a female and you penalize them if they are not. Are there such standards for ferrets? Ms.  There are set standards by the American Ferret Association. They set the standards for what we are judging for. The head needs to be a certain width and depth. There needs to have a certain amount of bone density. Their coat has to be in good condition and then their maintenance and disposition.  One of the competitions at the ferret show in Columbus this weekend is best dressed. Ms.  Yes. We dress them in costumes much to their horror put little outfits on them and parade them up for the judges and they decide which one has got the cutest costume on.  Well what are some of the most creative ones that you have seen? Ms.  I saw one a couple of years ago where they were a hula dancer. They had the little grass skirt a little lei on and a coconut bra that existed of six little coconuts.  How many ferrets do you own or how many have you owned? Ms.  I have currently - since it is breeding season and I am also a breeder - I have a little over 100 ferrets right now.  A little over 100 ferrets. Where do you keep that many ferrets? Ms.  My basement is specifically set up just for the ferrets with cages and playpens and they use litter boxes.  Do they eat you out of house and home? Ms.  They do a pretty good job of that. I think they eat better than my husband and I do.  Now I read something about domestic ferrets which I really found quite extraordinary that it says that ferrets will answer to their names. Ms.  Oh yes they all know their names.  Well we did not even mention her name and she is at it right there. Ms.  Yes she is got an itch. She will go right back to sleep in a minute.  I am at a disadvantage here because you are in Columbus Ohio but what is she doing exactly to make that noise right now? Ms.  She is in her litter box scratching. She is got an itch.   Seems to have calmed down right now. Ms.  Yeah she is gone back to sleep.  Oh good. Well I am glad we did not disturb her too much by doing the interview. And thank you very much for coming in to member station WCBE. Ms.  Well thank you for having me.  That is Scarlett Gray-Saling who is coordinator of the Ferret Buckeye Bash what we are told is the biggest ferret show in the country. It starts tomorrow in Columbus Ohio. 