 Storms this year have caused massive blackouts showing just how challenging and dangerous life can get when people lose electricity. It is not just big storms driving outages. Hotter temperatures are also damaging trees making them more likely to fall on power lines. Julia Simon reports.  I have my hat because the sun is bright.  On a hill in Oakland Calif. horticulture adviser Igor Lacan looks out from under his Stetson hat at the neighborhood below - a bunch of trees amidst a web of power lines.  Maples to birches to plums to liquid amber. And you have got a monkey puzzle up here. And look it is growing cones. Look...  These trees are flourishing but not some nearby acacias. Lacan points out an eye-shaped hole in one trunk.  It is sort of a wound that does not heal. That is a good indication that there is something going on.  Lacan says a fungus is killing these trees. California's climate-change-fueled drought left them vulnerable. Lacan works at University of California Cooperative Extension. He says dying trees like this can topple onto power lines and cause fires or outages. He works with utilities to spot sick trees before that happens. He points up at a branch.  The bark coming off - if you can see the wood underneath which in this case you can that is typically a sign that that part of the tree is dead which is why we did not stand under that branch.  More than a dozen of the country's largest utilities told NPR that falling trees are a leading cause of outages. A patchwork of national and state regulations require utilities to trim around their power lines. But as more trees suffer from climate-related stresses...  There are more than we can manage in a timely manner.  Sean Redding is vegetation manager for Eversource Utility in Connecticut. More than a million people lost power in a heat wave there after last summer's Tropical Storm Isaias. He says researchers found areas with drought-weakened trees experienced more outages.  Because of the cumulative effect of climate change the damage was worse. More trees came down resulting in more outages and more broken poles.  David MacFarlane at Michigan State University sees another climate threat - increased rainfall intensity. In a summer deluge the softened soil plus branches full of wet leaves make trees more susceptible to falling over especially in wind.  The combination of both water and wind working together against the trees - and those are direct climate effects.  Jamie Kryscynski is tree trim manager for Michigan's largest utility DTE Energy. When he ventured out near Detroit after a severe July storm he was in awe of the storm's power. Some of the largest trees were all over the power lines.  Trees like oaks - oaks they are very strong trees. Like they are one of the strongest trees out there. And we had oaks that just snapped.  It is not just fungi drought and storms. Shorter and warmer winters lead to all kinds of insects and diseases. California utility PGE has cut down more than half a million trees suffering from bark beetle infestation and drought. The cost of that plus the risk that downed trees will cause fires has changed the calculus. This summer PGE said it will spend 15 billion to bury 10000 miles of new power lines. Daniel Tait of the Energy and Policy Institute says it is important to remember the wider context. Sixty percent of U.S. electricity still comes from fossil fuels whose emissions heat up the planet.  Utilities are culpable in fueling climate change. And now we are looking at it. And utilities are having to adapt the very way that they do business down to vegetation management because of climate change.  Even though more trees are dying from climate stresses Igor Lacan in Oakland says the solution is not fewer trees. It is different ones.  Planting a tree they say is a 50-year decision. And that is true.  So he says we need to plant more trees that can thrive in hotter temperatures. For NPR News I am Julia Simon in Oakland.  