 We are now joined by former President Jimmy Carter who as we just heard has been a driving force behind the eradication of Guinea worm. President Carter Welcome to the program once again.  It is a pleasure to be on NPR. Thank you.  This must be a gratifying moment for you I assume.  Well it is very pleasing to me. We have come from 3.5 million cases down to just two cases so far this year you know is all we have had confirmed. And so we are making good progress.  Can you tell us about how you first became aware of this disease and what it was that moved you to spend so many years supporting efforts to eradicate it?  My former drug czar Dr. Peter Bourne - after he left the White House became assistant secretary general of the United Nations. And they put him in charge of a decade of water. It came down to the  to give us a report on diseases caused by impure water. And he talked about Guinea worm and I decided that at time since no one else was addressing the disease that the Carter Center should take this on. So we began to consult with the Centers for Disease Control. Dr. Don Hopkins was there. And eventually he came over to the Carter Center to take charge of the program and later became in charge of all of our health programs.  Eradicating Guinea worm as we heard from our reporter Jason Beaubien involved getting people to change their habits especially people who were in extreme pain to change what they did. Do you think that is a taller order than getting a population say inoculated or medicated for something?  Well it is much more difficult because there is no medicine to treat Guinea worm. And if they would filter all that water that they drink out of that filthy pond and then will not go into the water when they have a Guinea worm emerging then in a year's time if everybody in the village does that then the Guinea worm is gone for that particular village. We had 23600 villages that we had to contact and teach each one of them how to do this. And that is what is taken 30 years.  As you said you learned about this disease via a project about water. And Guinea worm would be one of many diseases that remind us how problematic humanity's relationship to water can be. That is the big problem it seems.  That is true. It is getting more serious every year because the population is increasing. And quite often from irrigation purposes and otherwise the streams have  to provide drinking for people and for other purposes - and now shrinking up so with smaller streams and more people the competition for water is going to get increasingly more intense in years to come.  And when we speak of say eradication of Guinea worm the worm is not extinct. Is it possible that there could be a recurrence of this disease?  No unless a particular waterhole which has to be stagnant water has guinea worm gone then the only way it can be revived in that particular area is for someone with Guinea worm coming out of their body to just wade out into the water and let more eggs be planted. So we have never had a case when we completely eradicated from a village of Guinea worm recurring unless some stranger comes from a distant place and wades out into the water with Guinea worm. But the villagers know to keep people out of the water. And once they do that the Guinea worm is gone forever.  I have read that river blindness - which is also caused by a parasitic worm and transmitted by flies - that is next on your hit list. Where does that effort stand?  Well we have now taken the leadership in the world in doing away with river blindness in particular countries. We have been quite successful in Latin America. We have now moved our effort to Africa. In the past what the total world effort was with river blindness was just to eliminate for one year at a time. And the river blindness eggs stayed in the body. But now we have taken on the task of eliminating river blindness in individual countries or entire sections of the world. And so we have shifted from just controlling the disease every year to eliminating it completely. And we are making very good progress on that.  President Carter thanks for talking with us. And by the way speaking of health you are doing well feel OK?  I feel just fine. Yes I am doing quite well. We are checking very carefully to see if the brain cancer comes back. But so far there is been no sign of it. I just want to get rid of the last case of Guinea worm during my lifetime. That is what I am trying to do.  Well it is - at the number of cases this year it is looking pretty good.  It is looking good so far.  President Jimmy Carter thanks for talking with us.  Thank you very much. 