 There is a small island between California and Hawaii but it is hardly an island you would want to visit. It is being called the Great Pacific garbage patch. It is made up of an estimated 1.8 trillion pieces of trash including an estimated 87000 tons of plastic. Back in February 2016 I spoke with a young inventor and entrepreneur who is trying to come up with a way to get that garbage especially the plastic out of the ocean. Boyan Slat had the idea to use floating booms to corral the trash and then bring it to shore where it could presumably be recycled. Here's what he told me then.   What we are trying to achieve has never been done before. It will be the largest structure ever deployed in the oceans. It will be deeper than any structure ever deployed and it will be further away from land times 10 than the world's most remote oil rig. Really there is only one way to show that it is possible and that is by actually doing it.  Well Boyan's company Ocean Cleanup finally deployed the structure last weekend so we called him up again for an update and he is with us now via Skype. Boyan Slat welcome back to the program. Thank you so much for joining us and congratulations.  Thank you so much.  Is it exciting? I mean just tell - I mean what are you feeling right now - that you are at this critical phase of this - something you have been dreaming about and thinking about for seven years now?  Yeah. Well it is exciting and nerve-wracking at the same time for sure. Of course last Saturday when we took it out here from the San Francisco Bay through the Golden Gate there was just this huge celebration. It is something that we have been working towards for five years. But now of course you know that was just the beginning and now the real test starts. And we are now - you know the next days few - and weeks will really decide whether we can prove the technology because that is really what is required to scale up and rid the oceans of plastic.  In our last conversation you described the structure as sort of a curtain floating through the ocean but it is not actually a net. So could you just give us a little bit more detail about how this will actually work?  Yeah sure. So the idea is to deploy a fleet of artificial coastlines where there are no coastlines. Because the idea is that coastlines are very effective ways of catching plastic. You go to a beach you see a lot of plastic. It is out of the ocean it stays out of the ocean so that is good. But the thing is that in this Great Pacific garbage patch this area twice the size of Texas there is simply no coastlines to collect plastic. So the idea is to have these very long floating barriers. The first one is 2000 feet in length that gets pushed around by the wind and by the waves making it go faster than the plastic - so almost like a giant Pac-Man this U-shaped barrier is able to concentrate the plastic before we take it out.  And I am sure you have answered this question a million times but just once again - what about the sea life? I think every time - when you try to impose a barrier in the ocean no matter what it is it somehow winds up trapping the sea life. How is that going to be avoided?  Sure. Yeah. So the structure is designed to be inherently safe for marine life. We use a curtain so we do not use a net so there is nothing sea life can get entangled with. And also the system moves very slowly. It moves around 4 inches per second on average. So really the chances of sea life being harmed by this are very minimal.  You came up with this idea when you were 17 as I recall from our prior conversation. And so...  Right.  You are only 24 now. I mean obviously you are being taken seriously because your idea is coming to fruition. But I am just wondering how things have changed over the years? Has - do you still have to kind of confront that hurdle of doubt of disbelief of - what is it like for you now? Do people believe that this will work?  Well of course we still have to do it. So I think you know some reservation or some skepticism I think is quite justified. Really the next few weeks and months you know we will have to show that it can be done. But yeah I think in general it is been tremendous the amount of support that we have received over the past few years that allowed us to get to this point. And you know that really made me confident that you know if we show that it works then I am 100 percent sure that it is going to happen.  That is Boyan Slat CEO of Ocean Cleanup joining us via Skype. Boyan thanks so much for talking with us once again.  Yeah a pleasure. Thank you. 