 The Statue of Liberty shrouded in haze a red sun - smoke from Western wildfires has spread across the country. Roughly 80 fires are currently burning in the U.S. dozens more in Canada. And conditions across much of the heat-baked West are primed for major wildfire. Let us bring in Nathan Rott of NPR's climate team. Hey Nate.  Hey Mary Louise.  So here on the East Coast several states have had to issue air alerts. There is so much smoke drifting across the country to us. I will pose the question on behalf of the East Coast to the West Coast - what is going on out there?  Well we call it summer. And I do not mean to be overly flip but you know a lot of what we are seeing this year is kind of what you would expect to see you know during the summer in the West.  Although this season - this wildfire season seems to have gotten underway earlier than we might have typically found it to.  Absolutely. Yeah. I mean it was a much earlier fire season in the Mountain West than we typically see. You know there is been heat wave after heat wave after heat wave. Missoula Mont. where I am right now has had more than - has had more 90-degree days to this point in the year than it is had since 1904. You know you have the megadrought that much of the West is suffering. So none of that is what we would call normal. But they are becoming more regular as we release greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere and the climate warms.  You said you are in Missoula. Just tell us what does it feel like? What does it look like there?  Yeah I mean it is dry you know? The forests are dry. Some of the rivers are running at half the flow they normally do at this time of the year because of the drought. Yesterday afternoon actually we had thunderstorms come through the area which I recorded some of their sound. We can play a little of that.   And yeah we got a little bit of rain with that but not enough to put anything resembling a dent in the drought here. And I know people were just kind of holding their breath hoping that none of those lightning strikes hit a tree and started a fire. Because with the conditions what they are we basically know if we get an ignition a fire is going to burn. And it just kind of feels like we are a big wind event away from one of those fires really getting up and going like they are seeing in Oregon right now.  You mean the Bootleg Fire in Oregon right now.  Yeah. Yeah. So that is the biggest fire in the country right now. It is you know showing some pretty extreme fire behavior - more than 300000 acres. And you know when a fire gets to that size and it got that to size really quickly they start to create their own weather. They make their own thunderstorms their own wind patterns. That is what is been happening on the Bootleg Fire and it is what we have been seeing increasingly often every fire season - fires getting to an intensity and size that not only is you know bad for the people living near them but for the forest that they are actually burning in. You know a growing body of research is showing that some forests are not growing back the way we would expect in a world where climate change was not also applying pressure to them. One thing I think it is important to remember here though that no matter how many headlines they grab fires like the Bootleg Fire are not the norm. Most fires are small. And frankly they are even beneficial.  Beneficial how? What do you mean?  So many of the forests in the U.S. - East West - they are meant to burn. I was talking to a paleoclimatologist Valerie Trouet at the University of Arizona about this earlier today.  These kind of low intensity fires as we call them or good fires - they are the fires that we want to regularly clean out the forest of too much fuel.  So they can create breaks in vegetation slowing the advance of flames. So really some of these fires are what is supposed to happen and they are kind of good.  NPR's Nathan Rott. Thank you Nate.  Yeah thank you.  