 Fires continue to rage across Northern California this week burning tens of thousands of acres. The Glass Fire in Sonoma and Napa counties has pushed people out of their homes causing traffic jams in Santa Rosa Sonoma County's most populous city. Police Chief Ray Navarro pleaded with people to keep the roads as clear as possible and only use them to leave.   It is against the law to be in these evacuated areas so do not go in there. We need to make sure it is safe for public safety to get to the fires.  This is becoming a tragic routine for the area and Santa Rosa Mayor Tom Schwedhelm said during a news conference this is not our first rodeo. He joins us to talk about it now. Hello Mayor and welcome.  Thank you for having me.  Let us remind listeners what you were talking about when you said this is not the first time Santa Rosa has dealt with dangerous fires there. There was the Tubbs Fire back in 2017 and you all learned a lot from those fires.  Well actually yes we experienced fires in both 2017 with the Tubbs Fire - took out about 5 of our residential stock in Santa Rosa. And then in 2019 we had the Kincade Fire. About 60000 of our residents were evacuated. We are actually getting better in our response to this. Traffic jams - we have bumper-to-bumper traffic as people were evacuating through the Glass Fire. But the good news is everyone got out safely where unfortunately that was not the case back in the Tubbs Fire in 2017.  Yes. It is good to know that this time around people have been able to get out safely. Can you tell us about the current evacuation orders in place now and the status of the fires right now?  So right now we have approximately 8200 folks who have been evacuated. There is about another 20000 that are under evacuation warning. Because of the wind direction - it is been kind of laying low - most of the fires in San Rosa are out. But in our Trione-Annadel State Park it is still burning so it is still an active fire. It is still not 100 contained because as I drove through the burn area yesterday with our fire chief you will still see plenty of fire crews mopping up. You are seeing burning embers. And that is our greatest fear. If the wind picks up again and casts some of those burning embers it could reignite.  Help us understand containment what that means for overall firefighting efforts.  Yeah. That was a learning experience for me also. Prior to getting on the city council I worked for the Santa Rosa Police Department for 31 years. So I remember in 2019 went up in a helicopter to check the progress of the Kincade Fire which at that time was 0 contained. I was expecting to see flames still there but that was not what I saw. What we did see was smoke coming and that is the biggest concern of firefighters. Until there is no smoke if the wind picks up it is going to take those burning embers and throw them you know dependent upon the wind speed. In fact this fire started as a spot fire from the Glass Fire in Napa. The wind carried it into Sonoma County and then once it hit the brush it started burning and quickly moving. It is not 100 contained until the fire professionals tell us yes the embers are out and it is 100 contained.  There are many communities now dealing with wildfires up and down the West Coast. And environmental experts say that this may get much worse due to climate change. What advice do you have for other areas where the fires might be reaching them for the first time?  Well as far as climate change you know I would just say people need to take an active role in that. Do not pretend it is happening somewhere else and not here. City of Santa Rosa has that as one of our priorities and we have taken several significant steps to try to lower our carbon footprint if you will. But for those communities that have not experienced this - be prepared. We have done a lot of community education about having your go-bag ready. So if you do get the call that you have to evacuate do not wait for someone else to take the responsibility for your safety. In Santa Rosa we have - since 2017 we send out maps. We have even sent postcards to all of our residents so that they know their evacuation routes. Write them down. Know how to escape your neighborhood. When I had to evacuate my home in 2017 the fire was a couple blocks behind me. When we had to evacuate in 2019 we were much better prepared because we were warned you know an hour or two before it potentially could have come in our area. So be prepared.  That is Santa Rosa Mayor Tom Schwedhelm. Thank you so much for joining ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you for having me. 