 This summer many parents are spending long days at home with their children. NPR's Geoff Brumfiel is one of those parents and he has found a new hobby to try and kill the time.  My house Blursday  2020.  What can we do? What can we do?  What can we do? What can we do?  We are all driving each other a little nuts. Fortunately even though we live in Washington D.C. we have lots of parks and woods near our home.   And so we have taken to going out and looking for bugs. It really started with my 3-year-old daughter.  Daddy look. Look.  She just kept seeing little creatures I would never noticed and some that I have. What is that?  Skater. It is kind of like a skater. And it is a skater.  Like water skaters skaters or striders or scooters whatever you want to call them. They are an insect we have all seen but entomologist Kamal Gandhi says there is a lot going on there.  So we all know they walk on water . A part of the reason how - why they can do that is because their legs are long so that their body weight is somewhat equally distributed on the surface area.  It means the skater can sit atop a pond or pool without breaking the water's delicate surface tension. It is such an effective way of getting around that water skaters are everywhere. Hundreds of different species live in almost every ecosystem on earth even in the oceans.  They are probably one of those few rare insects that can be found in the marine habitats.  Most are small...  But there are some gigantic ones as well in Southeast Asia.  The biggest-known species can grow to be more than a foot across. I never realized this but most water skaters are predators. They eat other little bugs living in the waters they patrol.  And they can actually - they are cannibalistic. They can feed on each other.  Who knew? I mean it sounds kind of dark. They seemed like such peaceful little creatures.   Yeah they absolutely are peaceful little creatures. But there is a lot going on just underneath the surface so to speak.  Gandhi who is at the University of Georgia says these little skaters are just one example of an entire ecosystem right beneath our feet. So on these long summer days...  I say go out. Go out and spend time with all the little things that run the world.  Geoff Brumfiel NPR News. 