 It is been more than a week since 3 million gallons of wastewater poured from an old gold mine into Colorado's Animas River. The EPA says it takes full responsibility for that leak which turned the river a nasty mustard color with a plume of waste that included lead and mercury. The waste flowed down stream through Utah New Mexico and the Navajo Nation. In Colorado the river officially reopened to recreation on Friday but with warnings about the water. Earlier I spoke with John Flick who owns the Duranglers - a fly-fishing shop in Durango Colo. and I asked him how he first heard about the spill.  We have a fishing tournament every year and it happened to be that weekend. And so some of the fishermen were up in Silverton the day before we were supposed to start and said hey there is a big orange ball of water coming your way. And I am like yeah sure thanks for the joke. And they said I wish it was a joke. And so that is how I found out about it.  So somebody saw it and alerted you before the EPA even said anything.  Oh yeah for sure.  Lots of us have seen pictures and video of this yellow river. But can you describe what you saw for us? What was that like?  Well yeah it was the color of neon orange for about a day you know as it passed through town. But I mean that did not last very long. And it is not - I have lived here 33 years and I have seen that probably four or five times before.  You have? So this is not the first time.  Absolutely not.  What is it done to business so far?  We are down the last six days about 15 percent.  So how is it comparing say customer-wise to a typical day in August?  Yeah like I say I mean there is just nobody in - the last four five days it is just hardly anybody in the shop compared to what it should be for August.  We are several days out from the spill. What does the river look like now?  It is very clean. It is green - went out and fished once they opened it caught a couple of fish.  You did?  Yep.  And you are not at all reluctant to eat it?  We do nothing but catch and release. So I have not killed a fish out of the Animas ever.  So is - so it sounds like there is really no concern there in terms of what this has done to the wildlife. And again you have seen it before?  There is always - there is always concern. I cannot look into the future.  Yeah.  All I can tell you is that is what I have seen in the past. And I have seen this before - not to this extreme - but I have seen it before. That being said because of the way it happens in the middle of the summer - heavy rafting people got pulled off the river because of that. They closed the river and it went cyber immediately - that something's going to get done. It is going to get fixed which is a great thing. That leaching has been going on for a long time - longer than I have been here. This just happened to be you know - some of these abutments or these small dikes or dams they have built inside these mines to retain the water broke and then you have got a bunch of it all at once instead of just a little at a time.  So you are hoping that this will essentially prompt some change that you have been looking for for a while.  Absolutely absolute.  Any concerns of long-term impact on the area?  I think the biggest concern I would say is downstream and by that I mean clear down into New Mexico northern New Mexico because here in Durango and above us we have a big gradient in the river so it is running fast. And we get a lot more moisture. We get a lot of snow and rain. We will have rain this fall and it will flush that out. But once you get down below Farmington the river's gradient goes to almost nothing and it is very flat. And through the Navajo Nations through there - so I see more of a you know - a long-term effect down lower than I do here.  So you will be out on the river this weekend?  Absolutely.  John Flick is the owner of Duranglers - that is a bait shop in Durango Colo. Love the name there Jon. Thank you so much.  You are very welcome. 