 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. It is been a great season for blue whale sightings off the coast of Northern California. Dozens of blue whales the world's largest animal have been spotted unusually close to shore. Lured by an abundance of food the tiny crustaceans called krill their appearance has delighted whale watchers and marine biologists. Dorris Welch is one of them. She is co-owner of Sanctuary Cruises and she joins me from her boat in Monterey Bay California. Dorris what are you seeing out there?  Wow. We have a blue whale right now and this is spouting. I see a 20-foot tall spout and then I see this large blue-gray back that is surfacing and it seems to go on forever when I saw the blue whale. They are over 70 feet long. There is another blow.  How much would that whale weigh?  Oh well over 100 tons.  How close is that whale to your boat?  Right now we are about 150 yards from this whale.  And what is it doing what can you tell?  It is going down for short periods lunging through the krill taking mouthfuls and then coming up for a quick breath going back down again. It is not moving very fast and that is wonderful for us. A blue whale can go over 20 knots and it could get away from us but it is not doing that. It is right - you know hanging around this area circling around enjoying the abundant food that we have here.  How much of the whale can you see?  There she blows again.  Oh yeah?  Oh yeah. Blue whales are nice because sometimes you can see about three-quarters of the length of their back when they surface. They just go on forever. They do not tend to arch their backs so they come up. You see their foreheads their blow but it is blowing right now and I see this long back and it is just going going going going. I see the dorsal fin and - oh there is the tail. Wow.  Oh.  The tail - it is just gorgeous. It is got the big wide tail fluke and it puts it up way high in the air and goes down. It is just a sight to behold. I have got a boatload of passengers. Most of them have never seen a whale before.  Wow.  Got a lot of kids aboard and they are really getting the sight of a lifetime here.  Oh it must be amazing. How rare is this? How unusual is it to have blue whales that close to shore?  For the past several years we have been seeing blue whales coming into Monterey Bay feeding consistently. We do not always see them so close to shore though. So this year it is been a very good one and they have come in close to shore. We will see them as close as a mile from shore.  And what is causing this abundance of krill that we mentioned?  It is a phenomenon that happens in Monterey Bay seasonally. It is called upwelling and we have the cold nutrient-rich waters. They rise up to the surface meet the sunshine and then we have the phytoplankton blooms followed by the krill blooms and the blue whales are feeding on that krill. It is an extremely short food chain and we have got a lot of food right now in the form of krill on the bay.  Now Dorris blue whales are endangered. Their numbers have been way down. Is there a danger do you think of too much attention too many boats trying to go out to see them this year?  Well we are all in the whale watching charter fleet we are all trying our best to be very cautious always giving them their space and there is enough whales that we are spreading it out so at any given time there might only be one boat or maybe two boats watching a particular animal so that is very good. If we had more whale-watching boats come out it could be a problem. But right now with our existing fleet I think everybody's been very conscious to be careful of the whales and considerate of the whales.  And Dorris do you still see that whale out there?  Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. We are still with this whale.  Well you are making us all wish we were out there with you.  Well I wish you were out here with us too.  Well Dorris Welch it is great to talk to you. Thank you so much.  All right. Well thanks for the call.  Dorris Welch is a marine biologist and co-owner of Sanctuary Cruises. She is out on her boat watching blue whales in Monterey Bay California. 