 If you have ever had a bad case of food poisoning after eating out there is a good chance you have not returned to dine at the potential culprit. Well that idea's behind a new strategy to save an endangered bird in California. As Lauren Sommer reports from remember station KQED scientists are trying to discourage predators by giving them a stomach ache.  Portia Halbert is hiking through a quiet redwood forest when she spots a blue egg on the ground. Generally a very bad sign.  It was knocked off the tree likely by a bird.  Blue eggs are laid by marbled murrelets. It is small black endangered bird that eats at sea but nests in the forest here at Butano State Park an hour south of San Francisco. That is where Halbert is the park scientist. But this egg is a bait and switch - a trick egg that Halbert made.  They are just chicken eggs. They are a small size chicken egg. We paint them to look like marbled murrelet eggs.  The real trick is inside a egg and it is a rude surprise.  We inject about .24 cc's of the chemical Carbocal - it make you feel ill or want to throw up.  That is what Halbert is counting on. Marbled murrelets only lay one egg a year and those eggs are a favorite snack for another bird - Steller's jays. Once jays toss their cookies eating a decoy egg...  They will never want to eat it again.  Food poisoning is not a normal approach to conservation it is something of a last resort. Marbled murrelet populations have plummeted and the birds are notoriously hard to find. You only see them in the forest as they fly in around dawn. Their habitat is largely gone because most of California's old-growth redwood forests have been logged. At the same time predators - Stellar's jays - have boomed in the area. So far Halbert says the decoy eggs look like a promising solution. In a controlled study at Humboldt State University the jays seem to learn.  Seventy five percent of the birds that had been exposed to the eggs refused to eat them again. That is a real success story.  But the danger of outwitting a jay is that the bird can outwit you back.  Ravens crows jays - they are really really smart.  At a nearby campsite researcher Elena West of the University of Wisconsin Madison has caught a blue and black Steller's jay. It is getting a small leg band as part of a study.  Alright buddy.  Being the Einsteins of the bird world is a double-edged sword West says. Sure the Jays are fast learners. They may actually remember that murelet eggs taste bad. But real murelet nests are hundreds of feet up a redwood tree -- higher than the decoys eggs are being place. So Jay's may figure out they only need to avoid the eggs down low. To really help murelets the behavior change may have to come from people. West has found the Jays are booming because they are eating a lot of human food.  It sort of increases as the summer goes on which makes sense when you think about how these parks get used more throughout the summer.  The jays hangout near the busiest campsites. Shaye Wolf of the advocacy group the Center for Biological Diversity says when campers show up the birds fly down hoping to get a handout.  Of course you would not know that that was a problem. You would think maybe I am helping this bird.  Wolf says California State Parks was not doing enough to protect marbled murelets.  The camping in those parks is concentrated in the heart of the best nesting habitat for murrelets  Wolf's group sued to get the campgrounds closed down but then settled. The parks agreed to set up a new trash program including new sealed trash cans and public education. California State Parks is hoping that along with the stomach-turning decoy eggs will be enough to bring back the endangered marbled murelet. For NPR News I am Lauren Sommer. 