 If you are an animal lover zoos are mixed bag. It is amazing to be in shouting distance of magnificent wild animals but it is hard not to get the feeling that the great apes big cats and other creatures do not exactly love being behind bars and walls. Now a Danish architectural firm is working with a zoo safari in Denmark to break down those walls and create what they are calling Zootopia. Architect Bjarke Ingels runs the architecture firm The Bjarke Ingels Group or B.I.G. He is designing the zoo. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  So you are known already for big ideas at B.I.G. Before we talk about the zoo could you tell us about your other innovative designs for buildings?  Right now we are building a power plant in Denmark that turns waste into electricity and district heating. But it is also made in such a way that you can actually hike on its roof. It is a giant public park. And in the winter you can ski on it.  Nice. So why did you decide to take on the zoo?  For the zoo it is almost a question of trying to find ways of actually creating a successful cohabitation between humans and different species of animals. We have done a lot of homes for humans. To get to work for new species would be a great challenge.  So this is in the concept stage right now. But can you describe what it is going to be like to walk into Zootopia?  First of all to understand Zootopia you have to understand that in Zootopia there is only going to be social animals. You will not have a lonely tiger walking around inside a cage. You will have gorillas you will have wolves - all kinds of animals that like to be together in larger groups. So we can actually create entire habitats. And then secondly we have organized it in such a way that you start by arriving in something that almost looks like a giant tilted crater. You can walk along the rim of the crater and get amazing views out over the entire landscape of Zootopia. And then from this crater there'ill be three giant gates that you can move through that will bring you in to either America Asia or Africa. We have organized Asia so that you can visit it with water bicycles. You can bicycle through the area that is Africa and then you can actually take a cable car through the area that is America. So essentially the idea is interfacing with the animals in completely new ways.  How close though can you interface with an animal like a lion when there are not you know traditional walls and bars? I mean how do you work that out with - talk about some different animals like the lion for instance?  You will still be able to drive through the Lion Park with your car in the traditional car-safari way. What we are basically looking at is to find different ways of hiding the barriers between the people and the animals and in this case what we have tried to do is to eliminate all traces of human architecture so there are no buildings. You will see rolling hills growing over the areas where the lions have to retreat when the winter gets cold in Denmark. And in a similar way using combinations of level changes changes trenches with water where the water depth prevents certain animals from crossing - in the case of the bears your cable car might actually come really close to the bears above them but it will not bring you within range. So you can say both a human experience and the animal experience is going to be much more exciting. I really do think that if you can make great zoos where so many different species can live in close proximity in harmony you can also make great cities.  Look forward to seeing this.  Yeah. Come over in five years.  Great. Architect Bjarke Ingels runs the architectural firm B.I.G. Thanks for your time today.  It was a pleasure. 