 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. A new highway is almost completed a highway that will cross South America. It opens up access to hard-to-reach places and with that access come threats. On the Interoceanic Highway you can travel to pristine old-growth rainforest. Environmentalists are concerned that the road will endanger the rainforest and its unique plants and animals. In the final story on our series on the highway NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro got a close-up look in the Peruvian Amazon and what environmentalists are trying to conserve.   So what sound is that? Ms.  This is long-crested pygmy tyrant very difficult to see.  Ramiro Raval is one of the foremost birders in Peru. In a clearing in the forest he plays a recording of the call of the long-crested pygmy tyrant hoping it will attract one so he can get a glimpse. He goes on in Spanish. Mr.   In this area alone there are 1500 species of birds. On the planet there are about 9000 species of birds. So almost 15 percent of all the birds globally you can see here.   Peru's Amazon Basin is considered one of the most biodiverse places in the world and Los Amigos Research Station - the scientific outpost that supports study of the Amazon - is perhaps one of the best places to see the amazing wealth of plants insects and animals this region is home to. We have come here after a grueling trip down the Interoceanic Highway and the warm wet foliage of the rainforest envelops us. As we are walking we see a group of monkeys high up in the canopy. Enrique Ortiz is a biologist and one of the co-founders of the Amazon Conservation Association which runs Los Amigos. He imitates the monkey's call. Mr.  Tocon-tocon-tocon-tocon-tocon-tocon-toncon-con. So locally they are called Tocon.  They are not very aggressive? Mr.  No they are actually very tame and quiet. But sometimes they can be vicious. They pee on you and they start showing their genitals. That is when they want you to go away.  Mr.  They are funny.   As we continue through the forest he tells us there are a remarkable 13 types of monkey here and 120 species of bats. Suddenly though the going gets tough. So before I came out into the forest I had to put on these big huge bright yellow rubber boots. And I can tell you I needed them. Right now we are tramping through almost knee-high mud and every step I take...   ...my foot keeps on getting stuck in the mud. I have to wrench it out and keep on going. It is a bit of a slog. Finally we arrive at an ox-bow lake home sometimes to the endangered giant otter. The otter family that hunts in these waters is not here today. But researcher Shawn Denny says he is seen the rare creatures. Mr.  I saw them once here and they were kind of either curious or upset that was here. So when they do come out they are pretty noisy and conspicuous. And...  What do they look like? Mr.  ...and they make a lot of noise. Well they are interesting looking. They kind of have bulging eyes which is kind of weird. They have this white mottled neck. And otherwise they are sort of this chocolaty brown.  All this is located in one of the world's first-ever conservation concessions Los Amigos. Dr.  Los Amigos is about 140000 hectares. So it is bigger than most national parks in the world. As protected areas go it is a good chunk of land.  Adrian Forsyth is the president of the Amazon Conservation Association which runs the Los Amigos Concession. Normally governments grant oil concessions and mining concessions. A conservation concession functions in the same way. The stewards of the area are in a long-term contractual partnership with the national government. But the purpose instead of the extraction of natural resources is ecosystem and biodiversity conservation. Forsyth helped found Los Amigos in 2001. Since then other groups have adopted his model and conservation concessions have multiplied. Dr.  To a biologist this has to count as one of the most important places on the planet because we have this tremendous concentration of biodiversity where the Andes runs up against the Amazon. And it is where if you think in a few hundred years from now we will have been smart enough to stabilize population and consumption so that we can live in health on the planet. We are still going to go through this tremendous bottleneck of loss of habitat and species before we reach that point. So where are the safe havens where we might carry through the largest number of species that will eventually need to rebuild the planet's health? And it is places like this.  Forsyth sees this place as a conservationist's Noah's Ark. Dr.  If you were a Martian looking down at planet Earth you would remark on the fact that this is largely a lifeless ball of molten rock floating in a lifeless vacuum in deep space except for this thin little skin of life with an atmosphere around it. And that thin little skin has become patchy and frayed and gray and brown and there are few of these beautiful green healthy intact ecosystems.  Areas that have to be preserved he says. It remains to be seen what effect the Interoceanic Highway will have. But unless there is some sort of plan of how to mitigate the impact Forsyth fears the worst. Dr.  Well I think the road can be a destructive force or it can be a positive force. I do not think there is any doubt that every country needs a certain amount of road networks. And I think the road does not have to be a disaster. It only has to be a disaster if it is simply treated as a way to have a free for all exploitation of the landscape and simply allow people to come and do whatever they want to maximize their profit.  The Interoceanic Highway that goes through this part of Peru is a fait accompli it is in its final stages. Forsyth and his group are continuing to try to protect what they can. With funding from American philanthropists Forsyth and his team founded last year the area's first conservation concession managed by an indigenous group. The Haramba Queros Wachiperi Conservation Concession protects 17000 acres of rainforest. The philosophy here though is not only to protect the forest but also to allow researchers to come and study what threatens it.   The dining room at Los Amigos serves as busy general meeting place for the many researchers who use the facilities including Peggy Shrum. Ms.  I am a Ph.D. student at Clemson University here researching raptors for mercury toxicity.  Her research has shown that Amazonian birds of prey are showing high levels of mercury poisoning because of the gold mining activity in the area. Mercury is used in the gold extraction process in this region. But she says its effects are being felt far and wide. Ms.  I found the highest levels in forest interior birds which are nowhere near the river nowhere near the mining which really surprised me. And I also found levels in a clean area an area six hours up river from here where there is no mining a protected area. Those levels were equal to my levels here in the contaminated area which was also surprising.  It is work that will help scientists understand the affects of alluvial mining on the fauna here. It is starting to get dark outside and everyone suddenly leaves the dining room and walks to the edge of a cliff which overlooks an endless expanse of unbroken forest. This daily ritual those who stay here say reminds them of nature's magnificence but also of its fragility.   It'15 in the evening and there is one event that no one at the research station misses and that is the setting of they sun. They say every evening it is different but every evening it is spectacular. And I can attest to that. In front of me the sun is slowly going down. The clouds are a vivid orange and red. Below that is the green canopy of the jungle and then the river slowly winding its way past. This Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News in the Los Amigos Research Station Peru.  You can hear all of Lourdes' stories from along the Interoceanic Highway and see some incredible photos from her trip as well as a map of the Interoceanic Highway. All of the at npr.org You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 