 And finally this hour more science about some astonishing things animals can do. Some creatures can regenerate lost body parts. If a predator grabs a lizard by the tail it can abandon its tail and run and later grow a new one. Some salamanders can replace entire legs and fish entire fins. Mammals including humans cannot grow new limbs of course but scientists recently discovered a mouse with an unusual ability to repair itself. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce explains.  Ashley Seifert first heard about this mouse when he was at a get-together with some other scientists. He mentioned to an ecologist that he was interested in how animals regrow lost body parts. And the guy immediately said hey you should study these rodents we see at our research site in Kenya.  He told me there were these animals that when captured by mammalogists would shed their skin and go taking off into the wild. And you know when I heard that I thought he was sort of joking and that it could not have been a behavior like that.  A mouse that can shed its skin like a lizard sheds its tail? It seemed unlikely. Seifert is a researcher at the University of Florida who studies regeneration. He says mammals can do some routine maintenance work like making new blood cells but when it comes to replacing injured tissue...  Mammals are really bad at that in general at least the mammals that have been studied.  Then a few months later someone who worked at the Kenya research site sent him a picture of a mouse he had caught in a trap.  He was holding it in one hand and there was the piece of skin which had just sort of come off its back sitting on his leg and he took a picture of that too. And it was at that point I realized this is definitely worth trekking over to Kenya to at least investigate.  He flew to Kenya put traps on some rocky outcroppings and waited. Eventually he caught some of these brownish-gray mice called African spiny mice.  Probably one of the first one or two that I handled he did not like being held and sort of moved his body backwards pushed off with one of his limbs and that caused a huge tear in his back. And you know I am like OK this is really happening these animals have incredibly weak skin.  It is probably weak on purpose so they can escape the clutches of a predator. And unlike other mammals these mice do not get big scars. Instead they generate a near-perfect replacement of the original skin complete with new hair. That is really unusual. In the journal Nature Seifert and his colleagues say the cellular processes seen in these mice are similar to what is seen in body repair experts like salamanders.  You know my goal really is to build on this research and begin to look at some of the underlying mechanisms which are permitting this to occur. And at some level the sort of long term goal right would be to be able to extrapolate these and sort of give us an insight into developing new human therapies to allow humans to regenerate where normally they are incapable of doing so.  The new discovery has impressed other scientists who study regeneration like Voot Yin at the Mount Desert Island Biological Lab in Maine. He says it should make scientists rethink what adult mammals are capable of.  And obviously this work showing that you can lose up to 50 60 percent of your skin and yet heal properly and regenerate all of the missing structures is a remarkable observation.  He says by studying these mice and other animals scientists could potentially find new ways to heal wounds without scarring. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 