 Bats give a lot of people the creeps even though most bats are harmless. And they do important work like eating mosquitoes and pollinating flowers. But there is one species that does cause problems - the vampire bat. And yes it has earned its name because it drinks blood. NPR's Adam Cole is just back from Panama where some ranchers want to wipe these animals out. Adam got to know vampire bats better - the good the bad and I would say Adam that the ugly includes all of them as far as I am concerned. I imagine that some of this will get a little disgusting.  That is right. It will get a little bloody at least.  You got to spend some time with these vampire bats. And I saw some of the video that you made. I want you to describe what the vampire bats look like and what their unique features are.  Well they are ugly little animals. They are a lot like other bats but they have all these superpowers that help them find and drink blood. They have got these wrinkly noses that have infrared heat sensors so they can detect warm blood flowing beneath the skin. They have got ears that can pick up the sound of low frequencies. That is the sound of big animals breathing. And they have super sharp teeth. So when you are bitten by one of these bats you do not even feel it.  They are rodents are not they? Are they flying rodents? Or...  They are actually not. They are...  They are marsupials or - what are they?  They are actually - the closest relative to them is the camel. So we are much more closely related to mice than bats are as it turns out. But they do look kind of like flying hamsters or something.  Flying mice is what they always...  Yeah. That is right.  ...Got the bad rap of being just flying mice.  That is right. And that is one of the many misconceptions.  They also have amazing skills when it comes to mobility. They can fly but they can also run with their wings.  That is right. They push off with their folded-up wings kind of like a - it looks like a gorilla running or something like that.  How and when do vampire bats cross paths with humans? Are they in the U.S. for example?  No. They are mostly found in Latin America. That is why we had to go down to Panama to see them. And they mainly interact with humans who are raising livestock. So they will drink the blood of cows and pigs and chickens. I visited this little town where I met a lot of cowboys who are struggling to get by. And they showed me their newborn cows with bites from vampire bats chicken coops that were covered in drips of blood. And one rancher actually told us about how his grandchildren would regularly wake up with vampire bat bites on their feet.  The bats - you are saying they come in and they bite people at night.  That is right. And that might give you the heebie-jeebies but actually the bites are not that big of a health problem. The main problem is that very rarely these bats are sick with rabies. And they can spread this fatal disease to cattle and people.  So the ranchers you met in Panama want their government to get rid of the vampire bats. Is there an argument for keeping the vampire bats around?  Well I did talk to someone who made a case for the vampire bats Gerry Carter. He is a scientist at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama. And he keeps a colony of the vampire bats in this big shed. Gerry does these experiments where he keeps one of the bats away from food for a night. And that is something that actually happens in the wild all the time. The bat will go out and it cannot find prey. And if that happens two nights in a row the bat could actually starve to death. But what happens is another bat will come in and they will rescue that hungry bat. They will burp up a little blood to feed it. And this behavior is seen between mothers and their children and between siblings. But surprisingly it is also seen between bats that are not related at all. Here's a piece of tape from Gerry Carter.  They have something that is like human friendship. They are interested in each other. They sort of you know are snuggling and sniffing and grooming each other all the time. I think if people knew all the things that I know about vampire bats you would look at them differently as beautiful intelligent animals.  And the thing is as humans keep pushing into the wilderness we are just going to keep running into this same kind of dilemma.  And would you admit to being have won over to their camp in this brush you had with vampire bats?  Well I still have a little trouble looking at them but I can see their value.  It is the ugly thing again.  Yeah it really is hard to get past.  That NPR's science reporter Adam Cole. Thanks for spending time with the vampire bats so that we did not have to.  It is my pleasure.  You can get to know vampire bats better perhaps come to love them as well. You can head over to NPR's science YouTube channel Skunk Bear to watch Adam's latest video. 