 I am Robert Siegel in Washington where President Trump announced that he is withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement.   As of today the United States will cease all implementation of the non-binding Paris accord and the draconian financial and economic burdens the agreement imposes on our country.  This begins a lengthy process that could take more than three years. It fulfills a promise Trump made during his campaign when he often mocked the accord at his rallies. The withdrawal puts the U.S. president at odds with his counterparts all over the world. Nearly 200 countries are signed on to this accord. NPR science correspondent Christopher Joyce covers climate change and joins me now. And Chris explain more about the process that President Trump has begun here.  It is written into the agreement that a country can withdraw. It takes three years. They have to wait three years. And then once they submit that requests for a withdrawal it takes another year. So actually it turns out if you do the numbers November 4 2020 is when the U.S. could formally be out which is right after the election.  The president said that he wants to negotiate a better deal. Let us listen to this clip from the speech.   So we are getting out but we will start to negotiate and we will see if we can make a deal that is fair. And if we can that is great. And if we cannot that is fine.   Chris what is the likelihood of being able to negotiate a new deal?  I would not bet a dime on it Robert. In fact within two hours of the speech the governments of France Germany and Italy said no way we are going to renegotiate this. It took 10 years to get the rest of the world - all of the world in one tent on this Paris climate deal. And it is just very unlikely that they will try to do it again.  Chris I want to talk with you a bit about the tone of the speech of the president's speech today. This was the essence of his America First politics. It was a very nationalist speech saying this agreement costs us jobs it costs us money and we should not be doing anything to benefit people in other countries.  I would use the word bellicose myself. I mean he hit on many of the themes that he hit on during his campaign. And but he even went further. I mean he said that the world is laughing at us which one might say is sort of a Trumpian concern. He said that the world wants us to redistribute our wealth. He was particularly angry about the global climate fund which is part of the Paris deal. It is a hundred billion dollars a year by 2020 to be distributed from the developed world to the developing world. He did not mention the fact that a lot of that is coming from private banks and not from governments.  We should be helping people in Youngstown Ohio in Detroit and in Michigan not in Paris he said.  Yeah he said I was elected to represent Pittsburgh not Paris. Well obviously that is true.  The president said that if there is no Paris Agreement or if the U.S. does not take part the danger to the environment the harm to the climate would not be that great. Is that true?  There is so many scenarios. There is so many - it is so difficult to predict what is going to happen 15 to 20 30 years from now. In the short term with the U.S. basically not meeting its Paris goals - probably not a huge difference if you are the atmosphere. This is - we are the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases. But over the next 10 or 20 years it is going to be China and India and the developing world. After 2020 when many of Obama's restrictions on greenhouse gases were supposed to take effect it will kick in. It will make a significant difference. But more important will it leave other countries and make them quit themselves?  NPR's Chris Joyce thanks.  Glad to be here. 