 Here's a sound you would rather not hear out on a hike.   That is a Prairie Rattlesnake from western South Dakota. Well there is only one thing worse than a rattlesnake giving you that famous warning one that gives you no warning at all. That is what is been happening with some rattlesnakes in South Dakota's Black Hills. They have apparently lost their ability to rattle. As South Dakota Public Broadcasting's Gary Ellenbolt reports that may be good for those snakes but bad for people.  On a nice day during her senior year of high school Bonny Fleming decided to take a walk in South Dakota's Black Hills.  There was a rock outcropping and I went to sit on that rock but I just hopped kind of over it. And there was a rattlesnake right under my legs.  It was Fleming's first encounter with a rattlesnake which left her alone once it made its famous noise. The sound made by Crotalus Viridis or the Prairie Rattlesnake is one of the most chilling sounds heard in nature. There' To keep larger animals and humans away. But Terry Phillip a naturalist at Reptile Gardens in Rapid City says the rattle often leads to the snake's demise.  And the snakes that are discovered are the ones that have a really strong muscle next to their rattles so that they actually function the way they are supposed to. So people will be out walking or gardening or whatever and the rattlesnake starts rattling well it gets the end of the shovel or the .22 pistol or whatever.  Over the past couple of years Phillip has noticed an increasing number of rattlesnakes with what he calls curly-Q tails. Imagine the tail on a pig and you will get the idea. Phillip says the tail muscles on these snakes have apparently atrophied so they cannot shake their rattle. And rattlesnakes that can camouflage themselves well are less likely to be killed.  And so the snakes that have that genetic defect those are the ones that are surviving to then reproduce and they are passing on that genetic defect to their offspring.  A genetic defect is just one of a few theories that might explain this change. Phillip says rattlesnakes that cannot rattle tend to be more aggressive since they are missing a key protective element. Bonny Fleming the hiker who encountered a prairie rattlesnake in high school says that is not good.  I think that is terrifying. Every encounter I have had I have been able to avoid them because of that warning. So it is really helpful.   Black Hills State University professor Brian Smith has made a career out of researching rattlesnakes. He has about 20 Prairie Rattlers near his office on the Spearfish South Dakota campus. Smith says it may not always be a genetic defect that keeps rattlers from rattling.  Snakes do get abnormalities. Snakes do get their - tails can be broken during failed predation attempts.  You should not think a rattlesnake has to rattle before biting. It does not always do that. So you should always keep your eyes and ears open for rattlesnakes. And if you think you will be safe from a snakebite during of the cold South Dakota winter Smith says that is not necessarily true.  We have recorded them in temperatures close to 40 degrees. I have collected them every month of the year except February and March. So we have collected them in January basking at a den entrance.  So to review if you are hiking in South Dakota and hear this sound...   ...take it as a polite invitation to stay away. But it is a good idea to keep your eyes on the trail just in case there is a rattlesnake that will not or cannot rattle if you startle it. For NPR News I am Gary Ellenbolt in Vermillion South Dakota. 