 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. This week a NASA satellite spotted a new iceberg broken from an ice sheet in Greenland known as the Petermann Glacier. The iceberg is twice the size of Manhattan 46 square miles and it is the second time in the last few years that an island-sized chunk of ice has calved from the glacier. To find out more about this event we turn to Dr. Jay Zwally. He is a glaciologist with NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. Dr. Zwally welcome. DR. H.  Good afternoon.  So how common is it for chunks of ice this large to break from glaciers?  Well they break periodically at the front. But what is happening in Petermann Glacier is that large chunks are breaking off so the front is actually moving backward. And if this continues the floating part of the glacier will eventually disappear.  And this is not the first time though that an iceberg has split from this particular glacier. So what is significant about the break?  Well it is a sign that the tongue is actually breaking up and going to disappear. We believe it is due to warmer water coming into the seas around Greenland.  Now people can go to our website to see some of the images of this. But can you describe to me what does the Petermann Glacier really look like?  Well I am looking at a picture right now and it is actually a long extension. It looks like a tongue. It has a lot of cracks on the surface. It is a very rough surface because as the glacier flows from the land there is a lot of crevassing. And at the end of it you have icebergs which are forming and going into the ocean. There is some sea ice there right now - in the pictures.  Now researchers seem to keep a pretty close eye on the Petermann Glacier generally. I mean there is data going back - right? - more than 100 years. Why does this glacier garner so much attention?  Well because this had been happening to a lot of other glaciers farther south - like the Jakobshavn Isbrae glacier starting in 1996. That is on the west side of Greenland about halfway up. The floating part of that disappeared within a few years. And after that disappeared the ice floe behind it flowing into the ocean sped up.  So where does this huge iceberg go now? I mean does it just float off into the Atlantic?  Well it is going to float down along the west coast of Greenland. It will be melting as it goes and it will probably flow into the Atlantic south of Greenland maybe go down along Newfoundland or maybe turn eastward and go into the Atlantic Ocean.  Any concerns about it crossing shipping lanes or any of us interacting with it?  Well yes. It is a danger to shipping. It was an iceberg that came off of Greenland and sank the Titanic. But the Coast Guard keeps track of these and it is very unlikely that a ship will run into it.  Give us some context. Do scientists believe that these big pieces of the Petermann Glacier are breaking off because of climate change?  Well I think it is. And the reason is that the warmer water has been coming up along the west coast of Greenland. And this warmer water is the result of the warming of the ocean and the Atlantic. And we believe that that is definitely climate change interacting with the glaciers.  Well Jay Zwally thank you for explaining it to us.  You are quite welcome.  Dr. Jay Zwally studies glaciers with NASA. He was speaking with us about the latest iceberg to break from the Petermann Glacier in Greenland. 