 Sharks are often portrayed as Hollywood monsters - lone wolves in search of prey.  But a new study provides more evidence that some sharks can be social and stick together in large groups.  They form these sort of spatially structured social groups where they hang out with the same individuals over multiple years.  Yannis Papastamatiou runs the Predator Ecology and Conservation Lab at Florida International University. His team studied grey reef sharks at an atoll in the central Pacific.  They tagged 41 of the animals with location transmitters and outfitted several sharks with little video cameras on their fins.  So we are really getting a shark-eye view of what they are doing. What we were seeing was group sizes of about 20 individuals.  And what they found - some of the social groups persisted the entire length of the study up to four years. That is longer than previous studies have observed.  David Shiffman studies shark ecology and conservation at Arizona State University and he says he was pretty surprised by the news.  The groupings stayed pretty stable. The same individuals hang out together not only day after day but year after year. I mean I do not have a lot of friends that I do that with.  Now as for why the sharks form these cliques Papastamatiou says social groups might boost the hunting success of everybody involved.  If we hang out together and I see something then you can come and try and take advantage of that. And alternatively if you see something then I can try and take advantage of that.  He says these tips from friends could be one factor that helped shark society evolve. And it is a more complex community than we thought more akin to that of birds or even mammals. The details are in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B.  And just as these sharks might learn where dinner is by congregating with their peers Shiffman says the social abilities of sharks do not stop there.  An individual shark can be taught to solve a simple puzzle and another shark can solve that puzzle just by watching the first shark do it.  He says maybe it is time to lose our prejudices about sharks.  It turns out they are a lot smarter than most people think. And they have more complex social behaviors and more complex abilities to process their environment and learn and change.  As for what to call a group of sharks well the name still evokes fear. It is known as a shiver of sharks.  