 In Florida wildlife managers and environmental groups have been stunned this year by the number of manatee deaths. Manatees are large marine mammals native to Florida which spend their time grazing on seagrass in shallow coastal areas. NPR's Greg Allen reports that many of the deaths are in Florida's Indian River Lagoon where a large die-off of seagrass has left manatees without enough to eat.   It is a beautiful day on Indian River Lagoon. Biologist Ryan Brushwood starts the engine on his small flatboat to check on seagrass he is planted in the estuary. The water has a slight greenish tint but is clearer than it was in January when Brushwood says there were algae blooms.  When those blooms were really bad I mean you could not see your hand below the surface. There was not a lot of light getting down to the plants.  Indian River Lagoon is not actually a river. It is a large estuary bounded by barrier islands on Florida's Atlantic coast. It extends more than 150 miles from Cape Canaveral to Stuart. For years there have been concerns about declining water quality in the lagoon caused by a number of factors including development septic systems stormwater runoff and warming temperatures from climate change. In 2011 an algae superbloom covered more than 130000 acres of the lagoon's water blocking the sunlight and causing a massive die-off of seagrass.  In hindsight it probably was the tipping point and there was  many factors that occurred before that.  Manatees love Indian River Lagoon and for years it provided them with lush seagrass. That is not the case now. Scientists say there is been a decrease of about 46000 acres. Indian River Lagoon is a special and fragile place. It is one of the most biodiverse estuaries in the Northern Hemisphere home to 35 species that are endangered or threatened. Nearly a third of Florida's manatees spend some time in the lagoon each year. But the large die-off of seagrass has left them without enough to eat. Jon Peterson heads rescue operations at SeaWorld. Since December his crews have been busy responding to the large numbers of sick and dying manatees.  It is really eye-awakening when you watch what is going on. You have animals that are out there floating high to what you would - in a normal year you would think it is a punctured lung you know an issue from a boat strike. And what it is turning out to be is it is a starvation event.  More than 750 manatees have died this year the most deaths ever in a five-month period. More than half of them were in Indian River Lagoon. The high number of deaths has the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service concerned and it is opened an investigation. Peterson says the entire population of manatees in Florida is estimated at no more than 6800.  When you are talking a population like that and you have a loss of 700 in your first quarter of the year it is a very scary look right now.   All right guys careful.  Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission crews this spring responded to more than 90 reports of manatees in distress including orphaned calves. This one was rescued in May and taken to SeaWorld in Orlando. SeaWorld is one of four facilities in Florida that rehabilitate sick and injured manatees. Peterson says his staff is caring for 28 of them. Ten are so weak they are getting nutrition through feeding tubes. Because the manatees have lost so much weight he says rehabilitation takes longer than usual.  You are talking an animal that is down let us say 400 500 pounds. It will take us three to five months to put that weight back up there to get them to a point where we can release them.  Manatees do not do well in cold water which is why they congregate during the winter months in Indian River Lagoon and other Florida coastal areas. Now that it is warming up scientists say manatees are beginning to disperse to other areas along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts where they may find ample seagrass. But by late fall they will return again in large numbers to familiar waters including the lagoon. Michael Walsh an associate professor at the University of Florida who specializes in aquatic animal health is worried this mortality event may be far from over.  We have a compromised system that the animals have to utilize and stay in but the food is just not there at the same amount that it used to be.  The key to helping manatees Walsh and other scientists say is to get the Indian River Lagoon healthy. That will take years maybe decades. But there are signs of progress. Florida just allocated a half-billion dollars to phase out septic systems a key contributor to the region's nutrient pollution. And in the lagoon the company Ryan Brushwood works for Sea  Shoreline is having success restoring seagrass.  You can see there is nine shoots growing off of one single rhizome. It looks pretty healthy. That is kind of the density that we are seeing right now.  Working on a grant from the National Estuary Program Sea  Shoreline planted two acres of a resilient species of seagrass last June. A year later it is thriving. Similar replanting efforts helped bring back healthy seagrass beds in Crystal River another manatee habitat in Florida. Brushwood believes that with enough time and funding a large-scale effort could bring seagrass back here and tip things back in favor of the manatees. Greg Allen NPR News Cocoa Beach Fla.  