 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. A key Democrat in Congress says the U.S. is in danger of becoming too dependent on foreign oil. Okay so there is nothing surprising about that statement until you hear which foreign oil supply he is talking about. Representative Henry Waxman chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce is worried about dependence on oil from Canada. He wants to block plans for a new oil pipeline from our friendly neighbor to the north and he is not alone. As NPR's Martin Kaste reports it is not that opponents do not trust Canada they just do not like the kind of oil Canada is selling.  Ben Gotschall grew up in Nebraska's Sand Hills. His family has been ranching there for four generations and the landscape is close to his heart. Mr.  The whole Sand Hills region is a wetland. And so you have bird migrations obviously the Sand Hill crane. We have the whooping crane.  It is bird paradise a paradise Gotschall believes may soon be menaced by oil spills. That is because a Canadian company is planning a 1600-mile pipeline from Alberta down to the American oil refineries on the Gulf of Mexico. The pipeline called the Keystone XL will go right by the Gotschall family ranch. Because it is a wetland he is worried that any leaked oil would go straight into the local water supply and he is worried about a rerun of the BP disaster in the Gulf. Mr.  I see a lot of parallels even though yes it is not an oil well it is a pipeline. But it is still oil traveling through an ocean of water. It is freshwater instead of saltwater but in my mind oil and water do not mix no matter where it is.  TransCanada the company planning the pipeline says not to worry. If there is ever a leak it says the flow of oil will be quickly shut off. And really for most environmentalists the threat of a spill is secondary. The bigger concern is the kind of oil that' oil from the Canadian tar sands.  Tar sands are basically a very heavy tar-like oil bound up with the sand.  That is Congressman Henry Waxman Democrat from Los Angeles. He is referring to the fact that the oil from Alberta is mixed up with sand and is hard to extract. Some of it is mined. Some of it is steamed out of the ground. That takes a lot of energy. The Canadians are actually burning huge amounts of natural gas just to get to this oil. And that means overall this kind of oil produces more greenhouse gases. Rep.  So we are adding to the carbon pollution for the globe and we are making a multi-billion dollar investment to expand our reliance on the dirtiest source of transportation fuel currently available. And I think that is a step in the wrong direction.  If the U.S. is serious about cutting greenhouse gases Waxman says this pipeline makes no sense. And he is asking the State Department which has jurisdiction over this international project to stop it. Terry Cunha is spokesman for the pipeline company TransCanada. Despite Waxman's efforts he thinks the project is still on course for final approval this fall. Mr.  We respect his views though we disagree with him. We feel that you know the Department of State has been very diligent and transparent in its review of our project. And we believe you know this is a beneficial project.  TransCanada does not actually produce tar sands oil it just wants to move it to the U.S. And customers for that service are lining up. Cunha says oil companies have already pre-booked most of the pipeline's capacity. The fact of the matter is Cunha says there is demand for this oil. Mr.  Quite honestly the reality is the U.S. has a large need for crude oil.  The proven oil reserves in the Canadian tar sands are huge second only to Saudi Arabia and that is the strategic argument for America's use of tar sands oil. Supporters say building another half-million-barrel-a-day pipeline from Canada will make the U.S. a half-million barrels a day less dependent on places like Venezuela or the Middle East. Terry Cunha says it is just better for America to get more of its oil from what he calls a reliable neighbor. But that does not win over Nebraskan Ben Gotschall. Mr.  Where I am sitting having an oil pipeline in my backyard in my drinking water that is not a very friendly neighbor. That is not what neighbors do at least where I was raised.  Americans' misgivings have not gone unnoticed in Canada. One newspaper there asked whether Canada was becoming too dependent on the U.S. as a customer. Industry analysts say this shows the need for some new oil pipelines to Canada's west coast. That way if the U.S. turns up its nose at tar sands oil Canada can still has the option of selling it to China. Martin Kaste NPR News. 