 Most of us do not really give it a thought. We turn on the tap pour a glass of water and drink it down. But writer Charles Fishman says by taking our water supply for granted we ignore big problems. He is author of the book The Big Thirst. And he joins me now. Charles welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  And it is been a busy time. We have seen that toxic algae bloom on Lake Erie. Last week there was a massive water main break in Los Angeles - 20 million gallons of water were spilled and then earlier this year we saw the chemical spill into West Virginia's Elk River that fouled the drinking water supply - three really different water problems completely different causes. But to you are they linked?  I think it is really important to see them as part of one pattern. And I would add the California drought and Lake Mead the largest reservoir in the U.S. is now lower than it has been any time since it was filled. Here's what connects all those things - our water system was designed a 100 years ago. It was a remarkable engineering achievement. It is really brilliant. The reason we do not think about it is because of its brilliance. The water is unfailingly safe. It is really the best water system in the world. And it is totally reliable. What links what is been happening just this year - just in the last seven months - is that the water system's being overtaken. The out of date nature of the water system is popping up all over. The regulations are out of date and the pipes are out of date. And our attitude is out of date.  Well let us talk about the pipes. There are not a lot of people who I know who have a favorite water main but I gather that you do.  I do have a favorite water main. It happens to be right here in Washington D.C. under K Street - where all the flossy lobbying firms are headquartered. It is actually the same size as the water main that broke in LA. It is a 30 inch water main - so very large. It was installed in Washington D.C. in 1860 before Abraham Lincoln moved into the White House. And it is in use everyday. It has been in use everyday for the last 154 years. And that is just kind of amazing.  But Charles could not you look at that and say hey that water main is doing great. It is been there for 154 years. That is a testimony to how robust our system is?  It is exactly that. But there is a larger point. The water main that broke in LA was 93 years old. Los Angeles water will tell you they are on a 300 year water main replacement cycle. Washington used to be on a 300 year water main replacement cycle. Now we are on a 200 year water main replacement cycle. We are not actually planning to replace most of the water mains anytime in our lifetime or the lifetime of our kids or their kids. And the reason is not because they probably do not need to be replaced. The reason is because we do not pay attention to the water system and we do not pay enough for the water we use to cover modernizing the system.  You are saying we should be paying more for our water? You are saying we are getting a pretty good deal?  We get a great deal. The average water bill is 34 a month for an American family. Basically all the water you need costs a dollar a day. The truth is that if everybody paid 10 bucks month more on their water bill we could step up the improvement of the water system. But there are things that do not cost any money. It is not just the pipes that are out of date. The regulations are out of date. And we need to step up and modernize how we manage our water as well as the pipes themselves.  What kinds of regulations? What new management practices would you want to see?  I think there are two really important things. For me the most important thing is most communities do not have a secondary water supply. The problem in Charleston and the problem in Toledo was both those cities relied on one place for their water. Most big cities should have a second source of water. And the easiest additional source of water would be a water recycling plant. The technology exists. It is totally bulletproof to take the water that a community already uses clean it and use it again. And the second thing is we have not looked at what is in drinking water supplies in 30 or 40 years really hard. A perfect example is what happened in Toledo. The toxin that the Toledo water utility found in the water they were not actually required to look for. And there were no standards for what level it should be what level is safe. There were not even standards over the weekend for how to measure what was in the water. There are lots of things going into our wastewater which ends up in our water supply that did not even exist 40 and 50 years ago. Think about all the medicines that people take now every day. So we need to take a step back and say what is the right way to grab hold of our water supply? We are seeing this sort of popcorn popping of problems everywhere. The nice thing about water is all water problems are solvable - just like the leak in the roof of your house is solvable. They are are not solvable if you close your eyes. They are not solvable if you ignore them.  Charles Fishman is author of the book The Big Thirst. Charles thanks so much.  Thanks for having me. 