 Dan Blumstein is a co-author of that paper and a professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at UCLA. He has studied marmots the world over and he joins us from his field cabin in Colorado where he is stationed for the better part of the last decade. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  And before we get to these latest findings why study marmots?  Marmots are a good species to study if you are interested in looking at behavior or you are interested in following populations. And that is because unlike many other mammals marmots have an address. They live in burrows. So if you know where their burrows are you know where they live.  Why have their numbers increased so much?  So this has led to an increase in survival for breeding age females. And this has led to more breeding age females over the last decade reproducing. And over the past decade the population has increased. It is been averaging around a hundred. In the last it is gone up to about 300.  Both more marmots but also bigger marmots.  Yeah.  How much bigger are they?  They are about a pound bigger on average in August than they were 30 years ago.  Is there some species that feeds off of marmots and is this good news for them? Or have they been missing? What is happened on that score?  Well when - you know animals follow the resources. So when populations of things that are food for other things increase then those things increase. So we have been seeing more coyotes. We have been seeing more foxes. Predation is a major factor driving this population out here.  It seems remarkable that in such a relatively short period of time you could see such a dramatic change in the marmots in their size and also in the size of the marmot population. First of all are you struck by that and second what is the long-term forecast for marmots?  We are struck by really we think hitting a tipping point in this valley. The long-term forecast for marmots though the ground will not be you know knee deep with marmots. Climate models for this region suggest that there is going to be hotter temperatures and more summer droughts. Summer droughts are pretty bad for yellow-bellied marmots.  You have been at this for a number of years watching the marmots is their size sufficiently different that you notice it that the marmot looks different to you in 2010 than it did in I do not know 1985 or whatever?  Yes in some cases. This year it is remarkable. We have had for the first time marmots at basically hibernation size and they do not hibernate till September October. They are already at hibernation body masses in July.  Are you worried about this what it says about marmots and maybe down the road us?  I do not know if I am worried as much as I am intrigued by it and I want to continue following the story. Most ecological studies are two or three years which is how long it takes a student to complete his dissertation research or her dissertation research. Whereas this study has been going on for 49 years. And it is only through these long-term studies that we can gain important insights into what is happening what is happened and ultimately identify mechanisms through which we may be able to predict what might happen in the future.  Professor Blumstein thank you very much for talking with us.  Thank you very much.  Dan Blumstein is a professor at UCLA. He studies marmots at the Rocky Mountain Biological Laboratory in Colorado. 