 Flowers bugs and bees - Stephen Buchmann has wanted to study them all since he was a kid.  I never grew out of my bug-and-dinosaur phase. So you know since about the third grade I decided I wanted to chase insects especially bees started keeping bees in high school.  Now Buchmann is a pollination ecologist particularly interested in how flowers attract insects. That might sound like a niche but Buchmann says flowers and pollination make life as we know it possible. He explains in his fascinating book The Reason For Flowers.  The reason for flowers is actually one word - sex. So flowers are literally living scented billboards that are advertising for sexual favors whether those are from bees flies beetles butterflies or us because quite frankly most of the flowers in the world have gotten us to do their bidding. But that is only the first stage because - right? - flowers if they are lucky turn into fruits. And those fruits and seeds feed the world.  It is extraordinary in this book the diversity here because it is not just birds and bees. There are beetles flies lizards and the beetles seem like they really like to party.  They do. One of my favorite memories is in the - roaming the Napa foothills as a UC Davis grad student. And I would go to the wineries of course and then in between I would go find western spice bush which is this marvelous flower that kind of smells like a blend between a Cabernet and rotten fruit. And when you find those flowers and open them up you discover literally dozens of beetles in there mating defecating pollinating have a grand - having a grand time.  Let us talk about the flower supply chain now because you get into that and it is vast and pretty amazing. So say I am in Manhattan you know in the flower district around 28th Street.  Right.  All those amazing flowers - where are they coming from?  Wow. They are coming from around the world. Domestically in the U.S. we probably raise only about 30 percent of our flowers and those are coming from California and Florida. But you know globally there are about 15 billion stems per year. And in the U.S. we buy about 4 billion cut stems a year maybe 10 million flowers per day. But the vast majority of the flowers that we find in our big-box stores or farmers markets are pretty much coming from Columbia and Ecuador followed by Costa Rica. And virtually all of those are coming into the Miami International Airport. So you may not realize it when you are flying in but below your feet in the cargo hold there is some perishable flowers as cargo. And they are also coming in in airplanes jumbo jets that are totally stripped - no seats and just crammed with boxed flowers. They have a huge carbon footprint. Millions and millions of them are inspected bought and sold and then get back on a plane to go somewhere else in the world.  I kept thinking about how it is wild how you know we are attracted to some of the same things that other animals are like our sense of maybe what is sweet or what is pretty. Obviously that must be kind of the same because we like these things too.  Exactly. Floral beauty has beguiled us along with the birds and the bees. Flowers come in a myriad of shapes colors scents and sizes. But they seem to have almost universal appeal. And every culture that I researched has a love for flowers. And I mean we use them for - obviously in the decorative and fine arts and prose and poetry. I mean we do not really have petroglyphs about flowers. Those are usually big fierce game animals. But you know going back to 13000 years ago with the Natufian culture in Israel there we find Mount Carmel in Israel the first seemingly genuine burials where flowers were used extensively when they buried their dead.  Stephen Buchmann is the author of the new book The Reason For Flowers and we have barely scratched the surface of the amazing things that flowers are capable of that you get to in this book. Stephen thank you so much.  You are quite welcome. I have enjoyed our time together. 