 The heavy rains record floods and extreme weather in the Central U.S. this spring are the kinds of events expected to become more common with climate change. On a reporting trip in Oklahoma and Arkansas last week NPR's Nathan Rott decided to ask whether the people living through these disasters link them to climate change.  First day in Oklahoma first interview a guy named Matt Breiner is on a bridge near downtown Tulsa watching a bloated Arkansas River surge underneath. Asked if he was worried about the flooding he says no he is not not for himself - maybe others down river but he is fine. And then without prompting he says this.  It just tells us that if we are - we got to come to a conclusion about - not to get crazy - but global warming. If this is going to be an ongoing thing...  Now as someone who covers a lot of natural disasters in the U.S. I can tell you that climate change does not often come up when I am out talking to people on the ground not like this. And it made me wonder if other people experiencing or seeing the flooding were thinking about climate change too. So I started to ask. At other windy bridges like this one in Fort Smith Ark... Climate change - is that a thing that you guys worry about? Is that a thing that...  Yes.  ...You think...  Somebody in my office...  I think we made somebody mad and they were like we are going to get back at Arkansas and Oklahoma .  Somebody in my office today...  That is what I think.  We all owe Al Gore an apology.  That was Breigh Hardman Savanna Bowling and Hunter Moon. I asked at riverside parks in the central part of the state where people like Lucero Silva were watching other folks fish the muddy waters for catfish.  Yes actually we were just talking about that earlier with my family that had came over and I think it is affecting the world right now. And we should probably start doing something.  I asked at donation centers where people like Benita Teague who had to flee her house from the flooding were picking up supplies.  Sure it is. I mean I do not want to say it but I think it is got to do with the end of time you know? I mean he said it is going to all happen so...  And I asked local officials like Joe Hurst the mayor of Van Buren Ark.  Well I am not a scientist but all I know is it seems like we used to get snow all the time.  Now this was not a scientific survey. I too am not a scientist. Elizabeth Albright though is.  Most studies do suggest that experiencing an extreme event does affect one's beliefs about climate change.  Albright is with the Nicholas School of the Environment at Duke University and she is part of a study looking at the beliefs of people who lived through flooding in Colorado's Front Range in 2013.  And what our broader research question is - how communities rebuild after a climate-related disaster.  What actions do they take? This she says is the more important question. Marty Matlock the executive director of the University of Arkansas' Resiliency Center agrees.  People are not questioning that things are changing. The challenge is how do we motivate people give people a sense that there is an actual opportunity for influencing that change in a positive way?  Getting people to reduce their impact on the environment by conserving energy for example or not wasting food. But also Matlock says the challenge is getting communities to better prepare for what a warmer climate holds.  For us for our generation and probably the next generation we have to adapt.  Matlock is hopeful that flooding like the kind that is happening now in his state will inspire communities to do just that. And he may be right. Again the mayor of Van Buren Ark. Joe Hurst...  There seems to be indications of some changes in the climate and I do not know what causes it. But all I know is that we are dealing with an historic flood. And now in my mind I am going to be prepared for this unprecedented event to happen you know a lot more often.  And he will do everything he can he says to prepare his town for that future as well. Nathan Rott NPR News.  