 This time of year the beaches of Cape Cod are crowded with tourists. But another visitor the great white shark also patrols these waters. Sharks come to prey on seals whose numbers have skyrocketed in recent years. So up and down the cape's Atlantic shoreline efforts are under way to deal with the potential threat these predators pose. Brian Morris from member station WCAI reports.  Russell Cook from Fitchburg Massachusetts sits at a picnic table with his family at Nauset Beach in Orleans. Cook says he does not mind sharing his vacation with a few sharks.   because there is too many seals. The seals are protected. All they do is eat all the fish and eat all the lobsters and the sharks are doing us all a big favor thinning the herd. They got people looking. And if you need to get out of the water get out of the water. I am not going to let it deter my vacation.  About six feet from Cook is a large new sign that greets visitors at all Cape Cod ocean beaches. It warns that great white sharks live in these waters. As if to hammer the point home an illustration of a fierce-looking great white dominates the sign. Some people stop to read but most continue down to the beach. Alex Quigley from Kingston New York says he is not worried.  You know if you do not get yourself out too deep I think you will be fine. I mean honestly you know it is not very often that people even get fatally wounded or anything.  Over the past winter town officials created a unified plan for dealing with shark sightings.  We close the beach pretty quickly once we can verify it and then ask questions later. Always good to err on the side of safety.  That is Vince Gulotta a beach supervisor at Chatham's Lighthouse Beach. He says he also would notify lifeguards at other beaches within minutes alerting them to the closing. So far he has not had to activate the plan this summer. But there have been shark sightings at two other cape beaches prompting one-hour closings.  It is a new reality. We got some new neighbors. And we got to coexist with them the best we can.  Beachgoers are advised not to swim close to seals. But that is often a guessing game because seals tend to pop up anywhere including just a few yards off crowded public beaches and there is no way to tell if a shark is close behind.  Normally it is very hard to see from the beach because the great whites swim so deep that it very rarely shows its dorsal fin unless it is going in for a seal attack.  Originally it was thought that sharks cruising local waters would drive away tourists. But if anything shark fascination has been a boon for local business. Sharks have become quaint. In Chatham a shark-themed cottage industry has sprung up along Main Street. Many stores now carry shark T-shirts and hats inflatable sharks shark jaw picture frames and other shark-related novelty items.  We have like very few shark T-shirts left. On the left-hand side right up here I have a couple of them.  Despite the shark's newfound commercial appeal there is always the lurking possibility however small of a serious shark attack. Patricia Salvina from Athens New York is vacationing on the cape with friends. There are 13 kids in their group. That is reason enough for her to veto swimming in the waters off Chatham.  Yeah. We are not going in. Just not willing to take a chance with all these kids. Too many kids to keep an eye on. You know they understand we do not want them to be shark meat.   Beach supervisor Vince Gulotta says much of people's fear can be traced back to that famous movie of 38 years ago.  I think that ever since Jaws came out there is a primordial fear in human beings of things they cannot see that might be in the water beneath them that awful feeling of vulnerability.  Most agree that the great white sharks are not here to stalk humans only seals. But a great white sometimes cannot tell the difference and no one wants to be the next victim of that kind of mistaken identity. For NPR News I am Brian Morris on Cape Cod.   This is NPR News. 