 For the past year billionaire oilman T. Boone Pickens has spent 60 million advertising his plan to combat America's addiction to foreign oil. He launched the campaign last year with this ad.  Mr. T.  I am T. Boone Pickens. I have been an oilman my whole life but this is one emergency we cannot run away out of. And I have a plan  As part of that plan Pickens invested 2 billion in wind turbines to create the world's largest wind farm in Texas. Well yesterday he postponed that project and today he is on Capitol Hill talking about energy independence. You spent a lot of money trying to convince the country that we need wind energy. Why the postponement? What went wrong? Mr.  Well one we are - you know and I do too we are in a tough credit market right now. So financing that is not easy. But I do not start receiving turbines till the first quarter of 2011. So I will have the financing to go ahead and bill the project out by 2011. Second we do not get transmission in there. We thought we could do it ourselves we cannot. And so we will not have transmission available to this until 2013. So it will all fit together we will just be a couple of years behind schedule.  When you say a new transmission somebody has to build a couple of billion dollars worth of transmission lines to a wind farm to make the energy transmissible into the grid. Mr.  That is right. And that'ill be done by ERCOT CREZ in Texas. That is all been money appropriated for that.  So you are confident that you are on the hook for lots of wind turbines. They are not going to Texas now but they are all going to be put to use? Mr.  No question. I have to put them to use.  To what extent do you think the inability to come up with that transmission money right away to what extent does it reflect the fact that petroleum is cheaper now than it was a year ago and the sense of urgency is gone? Mr.  No it has not gone because you are still importing as much oil this year as you did last year. It is about 70 percent of your oil is foreign oil. So that has not changed. The price is cheaper. So the pain is less but the security issue is still number one. Can you imagine importing almost 70 percent of your oil from foreign countries and over half of that oil is coming from countries that really are not friendly to us? They hate us. And so we have got to get it fixed. And so - and that is what I am working on. Now the way to fix it is to go to the one and only resource we have in America that will replace foreign oil which is natural gas. And we have an abundance of natural gas. It is cheaper. It is cleaner by 50 percent than oil and it is available to us. And that is what we are going to do. And we will have a plan I think by the end of the August recess we will have a plan that will go a long way to solving the dependency issue for foreign oil.  I want to come back to natural gas in a second but first just on wind. The facts of our dependence on foreign oil have not changed but you do not sense any less concern about this by the public now that the price at the pump has come down by so much. Mr.  Well do you want to have foreign oil? Of course you do not.  No no no no. I mean nobody wants it but nobody seems to care as much when . Mr.  Oh they do care they do care. You are still dependent on the same amount of oil today from unfriendly countries as you were last year and it will get worst as you go forward. So yeah the American people I am in good contact with them they want the dependency issue fixed. And I think this Congress knows that very well. And I think the president of United States is on that course.  Do you think that that advertising money paid off the money that you have spent on ads urging wind energy? Mr.  I think I got my money's worth.  But we do not have the wind farm yet. Mr.  Oh we are going to get it do not worry because the people America want renewable - and that was all in the climate bill that passed last week in the House. It still has to be worked out with the Senate. But that bill it has the renewables in there the wind the solar and the 21st century grid for the United States. All those have to be done.  Well Boone Pickens thank you very much for talking with us. Mr.  You bet Robert thank you.  So oilman T. Boone Pickens speaking to us from Capitol Hill. 