 Now to a tiger shark living in the relative comfort of an aquarium in Long Beach California. And when you think of sharks you probably think of them as hardcore carnivores - they' fish seals the occasional surfer. But as we read this morning in the Los Angeles Times this particular tiger shark is exhibiting some unusual behavior. She is a picky eater. We are joined now by Steve Blair. He is assistant curator at the Aquarium of the Pacific in Long Beach. And I understand you are feeding the shark now. Mr.  We are feeding our tiger shark right now as she is swimming comfortably in Shark Lagoon. She is about 5 feet long and about 35 pounds. And we acquired this tiger shark from a fisherman actually from a fisherman through a collector in Taiwan. And she was rescued. She was going to be unfortunately eaten as food had she not been saved. So she is doing pretty well. Currently one of our aquarist here at Shark Lagoon Jessica is trying to feed her. And we do have on the menu a restaurant quality very high quality diverse array of food including ahi tuna skipjack tuna mahi mahi fillets and fillets of hoki - it is a type of fish like pollock.  Hmm. That sounds delicious and something that I would love eat if I could afford it. And yet she seems to be turning up her snout at it from time to time? Mr.  Well she just ate a piece of skipjack. So that is the current news of the day for you.  So Steve what are your hypotheses for why she is become a picky eater? Mr.  Well there is a couple of reasons why she might be picky. Foremost is that we are - they are very hard to keep and we do not know a lot about them. In the wild they are known to be picky but remember this is a baby. So she is only 11 months old right now. So she is pretty much afraid of everything. Large sharks and even large tiger sharks will prey on other small sharks. So she is very nervous because of her age and size. But the mystery of the tiger shark is unfolding before us. We do not know a lot about these animals. And as we push the boundaries of husbandry out we are learning more and more about how to keep her healthy and comfortable. And I think actually she just ate another piece of skipjack and she is getting close to her - you are lucky she is getting close to her 500 grams right now. So that is a good sign.  So at the outset I said she was a picky eater but all through our conversation she is been you know feasting gulping down her fish. Mr.  Yeah yeah. It is a good day. She is eating her skipjack. We have provided some hoki. She did not like that. So yeah that is good. We like days where she looks comfortable in the exhibit and she eats well and eats easily and that is a good day. We get a lot of days like that but we also have the picky days where you know we have to go through 10 or 12 different food items in the day to find kind of the one that she triggers on for whatever reason.  I have to say though as a mom if I am making a meal and my kids say I do not want that I am not eating it then I say well I am sorry that is all we are having. I am not going to make you another meal and they eventually eat it when they get hungry.  Mr.  We try to keep our shark in the best care here. We give restaurant-quality food and we give her as much as she will eat on any given day. And that is our goal here is to get her to grow as big and healthy and happy as we can.  So maybe I should send my kids to you. They will get a better meal.  Mr.  Well I will not be feeding any strained peas but if your kids like mahi mahi fillets then maybe.   Okay thanks a lot. Mr.  Thanks a lot.  That is Steve Blair. He is the assistant curator at the Aquarium of the Pacific in Long Beach California and we have been talking about their young tiger shark who is sometimes a picky eater. 