 For 50 years the National Weather Service has taken atmospheric readings twice a day from an outpost on Cape Cod. But the very storms it helps to predict have eroded the bluff where the facility sits and this week crews started to tear it down. Eve Zuckoff from member station WCAI reports.  On a sunny day at the Monomoy National Wildlife Refuge meteorologist Andy Nash marvels and worries about what he sees.  There is a really nice view of the ocean right now. It is pretty. You can see sandbars off in the distance. Six eight months ago you could not see that water because there was another 50 to 80 feet of bluff and trees. And that is all gone now and hence the need to not be here anymore.   Nash who is in charge of the National Weather Service in Boston watches as workers begin dismantling the squat gray-shingled building. Before it was decommissioned this spring it was one of just 92 sites across the country where government meteorologists launch weather balloons to collect data about the climate and atmosphere. But since November the bluff has eroded at an average rate of a foot and a half every week. It is a cruel irony. In this place where scientists study Mother Nature she is telling them to leave.  It is just an amazing thing to see and to have it happen so fast.  That is Eileen McGourty a biologist with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service who is stationed at the refuge.  You could see like a tree on the bank edge and you are like OK that tree is not going to be there for very long. And then you come after a storm or something and all the dirt come down with it and you can just smell the dirt and the air. And the tree actually slides down the bluff kind of like surfs its way down.  Scientists traced the crisis back to 2017 when an April Fool's Day storm cut a channel through one of the sandbars that acts as a barrier beach.  Unfortunately that flow that is going through there is just ripping that sand away from the area.  Mark Borrelli a coastal geologist at the Center for Coastal Studies on Cape Cod says the problem will most likely be exacerbated by climate change. More intense storms and rising sea levels will make the ocean slam higher harder and longer into the soft bluffs.  In the 20th century we have had about a foot of sea level rise. Well that is going to be what we are going to see per decade if the worst-case scenario happens. It is not going to be linear right? You are not going to see a foot every decade but it is going to go up. It is going to have that exponential curve. So when it starts to happen - and it is already starting a little bit - it is going to get faster.  With that threat looming the weather station is not the only endangered structure at the refuge. Soon McGourty says a boatyard shed and dormitory for seasonal fish and wildlife workers will be in harm's way too.  And I will be actually in the next few months laying a line of flags - basically a line in the sand literally - that says once bluff erosion reaches this point that triggers that this building will have to be removed.  Beyond the weather station and the refuge the impacts of rapid erosion are causing fears for the wider community where dozens of homes sit above the same shifting sands. The National Weather Service is already looking for a new location to launch its balloons ideally somewhere that will not be at risk of falling into the ocean anytime soon. For NPR News I am Eve Zuckoff in Chatham Mass.  