 The intense summer heat is an excuse to stop and have something cold a treat. Well that goes for humans as well as animals as NPR's Lee Hale found at the National Zoo here in Washington.  It is hot at the zoo. Really hot.  It feels like a million degrees. I looked at my iPhone. It says it is 100 but with the heat index probably like 105 107. It is sweltering out here.  That rounds to about a million right?   Yeah exactly.  Parents and kids crowd under what looked like giant showerheads. Cold mist sprays them from head to toe.  One more time OK?  Families camp out in the shade many with ice cream in their hands. And Craig Saffoe says this works for the lions and tigers too.  We would eat an ice cream cone to try to cool our body temperature down. We give these guys a big cat version of an ice cream cone. It is literally a block of blood frozen and they will munch that down.  Saffoe is the curator of the big cats. He shows me the huge restaurant-size freezer where they keep those blocks of blood. At the zoo they are known as bloodsicles as in blood popsicles.  This is our freezer of goodies.  On the shelf there is what looks like an oversized hockey puck made of blood.  This is the blood and remaining juice from the normal beef diet that these guys get.  On a hot day like this he will pop a bloodsicle right out of its plastic container and toss it to the lions and tigers. They love it he says. But bloodsicles alone are not enough to keep the big cats cool.  We want them to get into the water so that they can cool down a bit.  Inside the tigers' enclosure Saffoe drops an oversized ball into the pool.   A male tiger Bandar makes his way out from his air-conditioned cage to investigate. And all the kids watching start roaring instinctively.   Bandar puts on a show for them. He is playful as he splashes in the water. For a moment he almost looks like a house cat but he is not. He is a wild animal. And it can seem a little odd that these tigers have pool toys and access to AC. Here's Saffoe again.  We come by and we watch an animal like a tiger or a lion and we say oh they are used to the heat. They are from Africa or they are from Sumatra. And well these individual cats have never been to Africa have never been to Sumatra.  These animals were raised here in D.C. at the National Zoo. And although something like a bloodsicle might seem unnatural and honestly a little disgusting to these cats it is just another summertime treat on one of the hottest days of the year. Lee Hale NPR News Washington. 