 What we are dumping into the ocean can be gauged by what washes up on shore. The vast majority of marine debris about 75 percent of it is plastic - plastic rope plastic bottles packaging materials food containers fishing line plastic bags. These may break down into smaller and smaller pieces but they never biodegrade. And those tiny pieces - or micro-plastics - threaten marine life too. Marine biologist Richard Thompson of Plymouth University in England has been studying the effects of those tiny particles as small as a grain of sand.  If we were to have say a coffee mug in front of us full of sand and we worked our way through it we might only be finding 2 3 4 5 - perhaps an exception - 20 pieces of micro-plastic which does not seem a lot out of a coffee mug full of sand.  Yeah.  But when you scale that up to the number of beaches worldwide and you consider that this material's also present at the ocean's surface and at the seabed you realize that there is actually quite a lot of material that is present at this microscopic scale. And it certainly appears now that that is the most numerous type of marine debris - these microscopic fractions. And of course over time what we would like to expect is that the large items that are present in the ocean today will break down progressively into these smaller and smaller pieces. So you know unfortunately even if we were to stop releasing plastic to the oceans tomorrow we would still likely see an increase in these very very small particles. And that is why it is important that we understand the potential consequences.  Well what are the consequences? Why are these tiny particles such a big problem?  They are of concern because they could result in different problems to the larger debris. And we do not fully understand at the moment the nature of those problems. We know that large items of debris can threaten a whole range of species through entanglement and ingestion. And of course the smaller the piece of debris the more accessible it is - the wider the range of creatures that could potentially eat it including some quite small marine invertebrates. Things you know less than an inch in length - some small selfish small marine worms have the potential to ingest these microscopic fragments of plastic. One recent study looking at a commercial species of crustacean - a kind of small lobster - the Dublin Bay prawn - showed that over 80 percent of some populations had small but had quantities of plastic in their guts - not very many particles but 80 percent of the individuals. Similarly if we look at some seabirds - if we look at the northern fauna - we find that up to 95 percent of some populations have got plastic in their gut. So there is cause for concern there first to want to understand more about the impacts.  Along with ingesting these microscopic particles there have been studies done - necropsy's done on wildlife show huge amounts of big pieces of plastic inside their systems. What do those studies show?  Well I have seen examples from the guts of a whale which has shown substantial numbers of plastic bags. I have seen examples coming from large seabirds like an albatross which could contain really quite large everyday items like a toothbrush or a cigarette lighter.  Short of banning plastics altogether what would you say is a solution that would reduce - have an impact on the amount of plastic that ends up in our oceans?  The solution certainly is not about banning plastic. Plastics are not the enemy here at all. In fact plastics bring many societal benefits. And I believe that in the long-term plastics will help to reduce our environmental footprint on the planet. So it is not about banning plastics it is about thinking of the ways that we deal with plastics at the end of their lifetime to make sure that we capture the resource. The plastic bottles can be recycled and turned back into new plastic items. So same for many of the things that we see in the sea. If we could capture them and harness that resource and use again it would be much more efficient.  And what about cleaning up the vast amount of plastic that is already in the ocean? How do you deal with that?  Well cleanup of course is very important because our seas are heavily contaminated with plastic debris. The problem is that at the moment we are putting this debris and so quickly and we do not have absolute numbers on the rates of injury to the ocean but the quantities are so substantial that it is going to be almost most impossible for us to think about cleaning up as fast as it is going in. So the analogy I would use is it is a little bit like trying to mop the floor up in your bathroom. If the bath is overflowing and both taps in the bath and the shower are all running at full speed it is a waste of time trying to just clean up. You will need to clean up eventually but the first thing is to stem the flow. And that has to be the priority.  Professor Thompson thanks for coming in.  Thank you very much.  Richard Thompson is a professor at the School of Marine Science and Engineering at Plymouth University in England.  This is NPR News. 