 Late last year New York Governor Andrew Cuomo band hydrofracking in that state but fracked gas is still present in New York part of the nationwide distribution system. Now a plan to expand underground storage in the Finger Lakes region has run into stiff opposition. David Chanatry has our report.  New York's Seneca Lake is the heart of the Finger Lakes a beautiful countryside of steep glacier-carved hills and long fjord-like slivers of water and deep beds of salt. It is been mined on Seneca's shore for more than a century. The Texas company Crestwood Midstream owns the mine now and stores natural gas in the emptied-out caverns. Crestwood has federal approval to increase the amount and it is seeking New York's OK to store 88 million gallons of propane as well. That is definitely not OK for a growing movement opposed to the plan.    We shall not we shall not be moved. Just like a tree...  Since October nearly 300 people have been arrested for blocking entrances to the storage site. Regi Teasley recently joined the action.  These fossil fuels will not leave us with a viable future and certainly our lake is in immediate jeopardy.  Crestwood executive Bill Gautreaux says the project will relieve the propane shortages that in recent years have hit the Northeast hard.  And every time that happens it just you know dramatically drives the price up for consumers so the demand for this facility is really really high.  Crestwood says those price spikes cost New Yorkers 100 million in 2013.    No LPG. No LPG. No LPG.  Opponents cite problems or accidents at other facilities. They fear gas could escape or the lake be ruined by leaking brine. A tanker truck or train might explode. They question whether the caverns could collapse. But even short of catastrophe the project will industrialize the area says Joseph Campbell.  Because this is not just a hole in the ground they are going to pump - pump gas into. You know there is a whole lot that goes with it.  Things like a six-track rail siding two large brine ponds and a 60-foot flare stack. Campbell and others say these will hurt a growing tourism-based economy. Nearly 130 wineries now dot the region and Wine Enthusiast magazine recently named the Finger Lakes one of the world's top 10 travel destinations.  this one is a chardonnay grape.  Will Ouweleen is getting ready to expand his Eagle Crest Vineyard. He says the Finger Lakes' climate and soil allow fine European grapes to thrive. Ouweleen has joined with other wineries urging New York to reject the plan.  Why mess with an economic engine that continues to grow at double-digit rates creating local sustainable jobs and giving everyone in the region something to be proud of? Why sacrifice all of that and even take the risk?  Natural gas and propane are already stored in the area. Still more than 300 business owners have signed a petition opposing the project but not Jim Franzese. He owns a bed and breakfast and a small motel right next to the site.  They have been storing gas right up the street from me for years and years and years since I was a kid. And we have never had any troubles so I just do not think it is a major deal.  Crestwood admits it underestimated the reaction to the project but Bill Gautreaux says many opponents are misinformed.  It is simple you know from a technical standpoint and you know very low risk on the spectrum of any risk. I mean it would be more dangerous to get in your car and drive to work.  Crestwood says the project will create 10 to 12 jobs and several hundred-thousand dollars in annual tax payments. It believes the fossil fuel industry can coexist with wineries and tourism. But the plan's opponents hope to convince state officials to sign on to a different future. For NPR News I am David Chanatry. 