 Another study this one out of the U.K. tracked the effects of Prozac on shrimp and why would you study that? Well it turns out that because millions of people use the drug the active ingredient ends up getting flushed down the toilet and making its way into the ocean and it is in these coastal areas where it comes into contact with shrimp. Alex Ford a marine biologist at the University of Portsmouth in the U.K. has been looking into this and he is published his findings in the journal Aquatic Toxicology. Alex Ford welcome to the program. Mr.  Hello.  So I am pretty sure that shrimp do not have nervous systems. Is that right? Mr.  They do have a nervous system but it is a lot more simplistic nervous system than you would expect maybe in a human.  Oh so why - how would Prozac affect them at all? Mr.  Prozac and lots of antidepressants target hormones in the brain and the one thing that fluoxetine which is the chemical that we tested and the active ingredient in Prozac modulates a hormone called serotonin and serotonin itself controls lots of different biological mechanisms in wildlife.  So how does it affect shrimp? Mr.  There was a study back in the 1970s that was looking at a parasite that can infect a shrimp and what this parasite did is it made the shrimp swim towards the light because the parasite needed to be in another organism to complete its life cycle. And then towards the '80s and then the '90s people realized that parasite was increasing serotonin levels in the brains of those shrimp. So we...  So these parasites were like naturally occurring Prozac? Mr.  That is one way you could put it. What we wondered whether it was these antidepressants that target serotonin in humans may also affect aquatic life.  So how did you do the experiment? Did you just sort of crack open Prozac tablets and put them in a tank full of shrimp? Mr.  It was not quite as simple as that. What we did we  there are companies where you can buy the active ingredients for drugs and we bought in the chemical fluoxetine which is the active ingredient in Prozac and we looked at the research which indicated what concentrations were these drugs being found in the environment. And we set up an experiment where we had different concentrations of these antidepressant drugs in the water with the shrimp and then we measured whether they were attracted to or attracted away from light.  As you found out fluoxetine tends to encourage shrimp to swim to the light. That is basically a suicide mission is not it? Mr.  I probably would not use the term suicide because it is quite an anthropomorphic term and it suggests that the shrimp are consciously thinking about doing it which is not the case. I know a number of people have used the term suicide but it is probably inappropriate in a sense.  I mean but when they do swim to light they are more prone and vulnerable to being caught or eaten right? Mr.  Most definitely and those studies which looked at the parasites showed that they were 10 to 20 times more likely to be eaten by fish. So you could make inferences if you like that if a drug in the water did make them swim out into the light they could be more likely predated upon.  How concentrated are levels of specifically Prozac or fluoxetine in coastal waters where shrimp tend to live? Mr.  It probably varies quite considerably. In some places our instruments probably would not be able to detect them they are so small but there are - studies which we cited were between about 10 and 500 nanograms per liter.  Which does not sound like a whole lot. Mr.  No I guess it is very difficult for people to sort of perceive but one analogy would be if you take sugar in your tea or coffee then if you were to take one of those grains of sugar and crush it down into several hundred thousand particles and then take one of those tiny little specks and then put it in a liter of water that is the concentrations we have been looking at.  But just to clarify Prozac does not make shrimp happier. Mr.  Certainly not. It would probably be wrong to use that term because again it kind of suggests sort of conscious thought on the shrimp's part.  That is Alex Ford. He is a senior lecturer on marine biology at the University of Portsmouth in the U.K. His research on shrimp and Prozac  or do you guys say prawns and Prozac there? Mr.  No there are a number of terms across the media around the world. The actual organism we studied is an amphipod.  Well that study appears in the upcoming issue of Aquatic Toxicology. Alex Ford thank you so much for joining us. Mr.  You are welcome. 