 The West is broiling. Excessive heat warnings are in effect again today from Phoenix where today's forecast was 120 degrees to eastern Montana where some farming towns braced for highs close to 110. NPR's Kirk Siegler reports there is little relief in sight for the drought-stricken region.  How hot is it?  It is like opening an oven when you are baking a pie.  Captain Scott Douglas is a paramedic with the Phoenix Fire Department. The city has opened 66 cooling refuges and hydration stations at parks libraries and pools.  It is hot. And people say it is a dry heat and I am like well - you know what? - when it gets to 117 118 degrees it does not matter if it is dry moist cool whatever. It is hot.  Phoenix broke records last year for hitting 100 degrees or higher for more than 144 days. Last year was also a record wildfire year in much of the West. And every day there is a headline screaming this summer could be worse. Arizona lawmakers are holding a special session this week to consider a hundred-million-dollar emergency bill for firefighting and prevention. In Nevada where invasive grasses and drought have fueled record range fires lately firefighters have been dealing with 100-degree temperatures for the past two weeks. Paul Petersen is the fire management officer for the Federal Bureau of Land Management there.  Typically we would not have this heat and winds until you know mid-July. So I am hoping it is not an indication of what we are going to see in the future.  He is hoping that the monsoon rains arrive this summer. They were a no-show last year. Meteorologists are blaming this blistering event on a heat dome a stubborn high-pressure ridge that is blocking cooler systems. Nickolai Reimer is with the National Weather Service in Billings Mont. where the forecast high today June 15 is 106.  We are very close to the hottest temperatures that we have ever recorded here.  Reimer says scientists cannot pinpoint any one heat wave like this on climate change but he says the record drought and extremely low humidity right now is making the heat even worse. Kirk Siegler NPR News.  