 The hotter the temperature gets the more we seem to slow down. We are reminded of this every summer. It is hard to work especially in places where there is no air conditioning. NPR's Nurith Aizenman reports on how one company hit on an unexpected solution. It is part of our summer series on heat.  The story of this discovery begins a few summers ago in the southern Indian city of Bangalore when an economist named Anant Nyshadham was heading to lunch with some executives at a garment factory.  We walked through the factory floor on the way to the canteen. I thought whoa this is really hot.  And he grew up in Georgia. But in India - in fact in a lot of developing countries - factories like this generally do not have air conditioning - too expensive.  I mean I cannot imagine being able to do like work for eight hours a day in this environment.  And lab studies do suggest that once the temperature rises above around 85 degrees - this heat-stress threshold - our bodies start to warm up on the inside and doing pretty much anything becomes more difficult.  But it is a different thing to be able to show this in a real-world working setting versus at a laboratory.  But then Nyshadham who is based at Boston College hit on an unexpected way to do just such a real-world test when one of the executives at the garment factory let drop that...  Oh by the way we have been rolling out this lighting change.  The company - it is called Shahi Exports - has got more than 50 factories employs over 100000 workers and supplies brands that include Gap Uniqlo Zara and HM. Some of these brands had encouraged the company to be more environmentally responsible by switching out the fluorescent tube lights in its factories for LEDs that would consume about one-seventh the amount of energy. Nyshadham's reaction - this lighting switch was probably also going to lower the temperature on the factory floor.  We realized oh we can use this as kind of like a natural experiment.  So over the next several years Nyshadham and some collaborators started crunching the numbers. They compared the day-to-day relationship between the outside temperature and the number of garments produced at 26 different factories before and after their lights were switched to LEDs. Anant Ahuja is one of the managers at Shahi Exports who helped get this data to Nyshadham.  I was thinking that maybe he was wasting his time looking into this.  This is India. We are used to the heat. Then he saw the results.  I think all of us were kind of like wow that is amazing.  Nyshadham found that the mercury spiked above that heat-stress threshold - roughly 85 degrees inside the factory - a quarter of the time. And once it was passed that tipping point - for every extra degree it got hotter productivity went down by 3 percent. And profits went down by 2.2 percent.  On the days it is hot enough to matter it matters a lot.  One person who was not surprised to hear this...  Hi madam. How are you?  That is Manjula a seamstress at one of the factories. She is sitting in a long row of sewing machines.   Yes madam.  What have you just been making?  Zip finishing on the...  Zip finishing she says - adding the zippers to some jeans for HM. Manjula who - like many Indians - goes by one name has been doing this work for over a decade. She says it requires her maximum concentration.  .  The power in this machine she says speaking the local language Kannada...  .  If I am not careful I could break my finger or my hand.  .  And it is a problem when it gets really hot. The sweat starts pouring down her face. She starts feeling tired and sometimes she needs to take a break. Production slows.  .  But ever since the tube lights were swapped for LEDs she says she is noticed it is not as hot. And the production targets...  .  We have been achieving more of them she says. In fact the study found that the LEDs reduced the temperature on the factory floor by over 4 degrees. And the resulting boost to profits covered the cost of swapping in the LEDs in less than eight months. Now Nyshadham says this study has implications well beyond this one company. It points up yet another potential downside of climate change - lost productivity.  With rising temperatures - with the rising incidence of extreme temperature days this is absolutely another avenue by which this has an impact on our lives - on the economic welfare of the world.  But he wants to focus on the other happier takeaway from the study which is that simple fixes like LED lights might have really big benefits. Nurith Aizenman NPR News.  