 You think you know what frogs sound like. And then you go to a nature preserve in the Florida Panhandle and realize you had no idea.   The symphony of frogs fills the muggy night air at Nokuse Plantation.   We have come here to meet a man who is done something extraordinary. He is bought up tens of thousands of acres of land in the Florida sandhills and turned them into a unique private preserve. It is the largest block of privately owned conservation land in the southeastern U.S. He is restoring ecosystems that were destroyed by agriculture and timbering. M.C.  Well my name's M.C. Davis and I am a self-proclaimed devout conservationist. I have been dedicated now for about 20 years.  And what were you before that?  I was somewhere to the right of Attila the Hun.  M.C. Davis is thinking 300 years into the future with his wildlife restoration project even though he knows he does not have much time left. He recently learned that he is terminally ill. But let us go back to the beginning and how Davis made his fortune. First there was gambling.  I was hustling around gambling from about the time I was 16 until I was 30. It was my primary income.  Eventually he got into business buying up land and mineral rights - made hundreds of millions along the way. Now at age 70 M.C. Davis proudly calls himself a tree hugger in love with this land. But growing up poor in the Florida Panhandle he just wanted to get away.  I grew up with five other people in 300 square feet in a wore out trailer on a dirt road. And so man I was trying to get to town make some money. And I spent half my life doing that and I spent the other half getting back in the woods you know?  I ask M.C. Davis to take me to one of his favorite spots on his land so we ride out through the woods in a golf cart to a bog of carnivorous pitcher plants their trumpets glowing a vivid yellow. He loves them.  You can see a fellow trapped right down in there.  A little bug in there.  Yeah.  Davis has bought up 54000 acres of land mostly from timber companies. And he is restoring it to a longleaf pine forest a rich center of biodiversity. Longleaf pines once covered the South - 40 million acres. But that original longleaf forest was all cut by the 1930s lost to timbering and lost to memory.  I never even heard the word longleaf.  So how did this committed capitalist become a sudden conservationist? He says it all started 20 years ago in a traffic jam.  It is drizzling rain and I just sort of frantic with exasperation stuck in traffic. And I look up and I saw on the marquee of the high school Black Bear Presentation.  So M.C. Davis pulled out of traffic and went inside.  I hate to confess to this. I did not know Florida even had black bears at the time.  He heard the passionate pitch and it changed his life. He started reading books by environmentalists and had an epiphany. What if he could dedicate his fortune to nature? Well that is what he is done. Davis has spent some 90 million snapping up land for conservation.  And this was the first tract I bought.  Right here.  Right here.  He is had 8 million longleaf pine seedlings planted to restore the forest to the way it used to be centuries ago. And with it he is creating an ecological hotspot filled with wildlife.  I have seen eagles and bobcats and foxes and coons and armadillos.  The most recent arrivals come not by paw or wing but in Rubbermaid tubs stacked in the back of a white Chevy Suburban.   Someone is making some noise in here.  Yeah we just got some tortoises in from St. Johns County over near Saint Augustine.  We have met up with the director of Nokuse Plantation biologist Matt Aresco in his field office. He is showing us 11 newcomers - gopher tortoises. They are great diggers burrowing deep underground. Their top shells are patterned with gorgeous amber hexagons. Now this one - oh - he is . He saw my hand and he is trying to get away   Gopher tortoises are listed as a threatened species in Florida. Many were killed for their meat. Others have suffered from habitat loss. This batch was rescued from a subdivision that is going up hundreds of miles away. These tortoises would have been buried and died.  Yeah so this is an adult female. This one weighs probably six pounds. You are probably only the third person she is ever seen in her entire life.  .  And she is probably been around for about 40 years at least.   We head out to the center of the preserve with the new tortoises in tow.  And this - all the trees you see are longleaf pines that were planted in 2005.  Those longleaf pines started as 10-inch seedlings. Now they are about 20 feet tall with long bright green needles clustered in pom-poms. They look like Dr. Seuss trees. One by one Matt Aresco sets the tortoises at the entrance to a borough.  Look at that. Look at him digging. He is already throwing sand back.  These newcomers make 4043 gopher tortoises released into the forest at Nokuse Plantation.  Oh he likes that borough.   Over at the pitcher plant bog M.C. Davis looks at out at his land as a heavy rain starts drumming down. He tells me all of this work - tortoise by tortoise seedling by seedling - it is all just the beginning of a 300-year project.  'ecause I cannot make the tree be 300 years old for another 270 years.  And M.C. Davis is all too aware that his own time is limited. Can we talk about your health?  Well we can. I am not a lot different from most folks. I am dying as we all are and it is well-advanced. I mean it is not anything - there is 300-and-something thousand people right now in the United States that have fourth stage lung cancer. So hey it is just nature's way.  Davis was diagnosed with stage four lung cancer this past November. He says he is confident he has a solid team in place to carry on this work when he is gone. I would think it would be a very satisfying thing to look around at this land - all these trees - think about those thousands of tortoises that have been relocated here and think about all of this outliving you.  Well that is the purpose. And you know if there is such a thing as being perpetual this will be here no matter how stupid our species gets and no matter how much it degrades this. It will start over. But I am hoping that we are capable of leaving some huge biological warehouses that if and when our country fails - and all of them do sooner or later - that hopefully the impacts would not be total that nature just would not have to start from scratch.  M.C. Davis unexpected conservationist gambler-turned-tree hugger tells me he is leaving nearly all of his millions to this conservation trust. His money will also go to the environmental education center he created here that thousands of Florida schoolchildren come through every year.  See right there?  Yeah.  It will turn into a dragonfly.  Really? It turns into a dragonfly?  Yeah.  Cool.  I think I found another.  Is this a water...  I cannot change people your age he tells me but give me a fourth grader - and at that idea M.C. Davis smiles. 