 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.   That is a wild boar and I am Melissa Block. We often present what we call cute critter stories on this program. This is not one of them. Rather this is about radioactive wild pigs in Germany. These wild boars eat mushrooms contaminated by the radioactive fallout from the Chernobyl nuclear disaster of a quarter century ago. Charles Hawley editor of Spiegel Online International joins us from Berlin to explain. Charles Hawley how much of a problem are these wild boars? Mr.  Well the wild boar problem has certainly been growing in recent years. The population has been skyrocketing. The number of wild boars is estimated to be around 2.5 million in Germany and the numbers of those shot by hunters has more than doubled in the last two years. So there are certainly a lot of wild boars and as they multiply they come into contact with humans more often.  What kind of contact? Mr.  Well there are stories of them bursting into supermarkets. Occasionally they will break up a church meeting. Quite often they will be causing car accidents that kind of thing.  And they are radioactive to boot. Mr.  Quite a few of them are indeed radioactive mostly in southern Germany. That was sort of the major fallout zone of the Chernobyl disaster and so as a result there is quite a bit of radioactivity still in the ground.  So they are not getting more and more radioactive it is just that there are more and more boars is that it? Mr.  Yeah part of the problem is yes there is more and more boars which accounts for an absolute increase in numbers of radioactive boars but those who live in the forest particularly are eating mushrooms and truffles. And as the radiation sort of sinks into the earth the roots of truffles and mushrooms tend to collect them more. So there is actually a slight increase in the amount of radioactivity in mushrooms and truffles in Germany which accounts for boars in the forest certainly becoming more radioactive.  Aha. Well what is Germany doing about this? Mr.  There is not much you can do about it. Certainly the hunters who have a certain responsibility for keeping the boar population down are being compensated by the government for meat they are not able to sell because it is too radioactive.  How popular is wild boar as something to eat in Germany? Mr.  It is quite popular. Everyone likes a boar sausage every now and then and it certainly appears on menus across the country.  And in German it is called? Mr.  Wildschwein.  Wildschwein I am thinking is wild pig. Mr.  Wild pig.  You know we are talking about the radioactive effects on pigs. I am wondering about what is known about the radioactive effects on the people in this part of Germany themselves. Mr.  Well it is not so much of a huge danger for people. Generally radioactivity builds up over time in people. And if you are eating boar every meal that has never been checked for radioactivity it could be a problem over time. But most people of course are not. And so the limits that the government prescribes for radioactivity in foodstuffs are relatively low.  Well how big of a story is this there in Germany these radioactive boar on the rampage? Mr.  You know boar are always a story in Germany.  Mr.  The periodic trouble that boar get themselves into make good headlines. And the radioactive angle crops up periodically. I noticed that in 2006 there was a brief spate of stories and this year there have been a number of stories as well. But it certainly has not been dominating the news cycle. But people are concerned.  But good employment for you. Mr.  Certainly yeah.   Charles Hawley thanks for telling us about it. Mr.  Thank you very much for your time.  Charles Hawley is editor of Spiegel Online International. That is the English-language website of the German news magazine Der Spiegel. 