 The most endangered mammal in the world is the northern white rhinoceros. Only two of these rhinos are known to be alive and they are both female. Scientists have not given up. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports on a key advance in the fight to save this creature from extinction.  A northern white rhino looks pretty much like a southern white rhino. But they come from different parts of Africa and have a separate genetic heritage. And while there are thousands of southern white rhinos the only northern white rhinos left are a couple of females named Najin and Fatu. That is it despite a long conservation effort.  We have been working on saving northern white rhinos more than 40 years.  Jan Stejskal works at a zoo in the Czech Republic where the last two rhinos were born. He says northern white rhinos do not breed well in captivity even with artificial insemination.  We thought what else could we do to enhance the chances for them to breed?  So the rhinos were sent to a sanctuary in Kenya with the hope that more natural surroundings might encourage them to make babies. No dice. And in March the last remaining male died. Now though there is new hope. In the journal Nature Communications Stejskal and a team of researchers report they have made rhino embryos in the lab. They did it with frozen sperm from northern white rhinos and eggs from southern white rhinos. The hybrid embryos grew well and that makes researchers optimistic that they can use the same techniques to produce embryos that are pure northern white rhino. For that they will need eggs from those last two females. Stejskal says they are seeking permission to collect them.  Before the end of the year for sure. I hope in let us say three or four months we could go to Kenya. But you know it is not granted yet.  Both hybrid and pure embryos could be put into surrogate mothers. This kind of thing is common for livestock but rhinos are a different story. And a rhino pregnancy lasts about a year and a half. Terri Roth is director of the Center for Conservation and Research of Endangered Wildlife at the Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden.  There are many many steps from the petri dish to the live calf on the ground. And so given the advances that this paper has presented I think there is reason to be hopeful. But we have still got a ways to go.  She worries that the public may hear about all this and believe that science is going to save the northern white rhino when to her it seems like a long shot. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News.  