 In Northern California crews are beginning to make some progress toward containing a deadly wildfire that is destroyed hundreds of structures in and around the city of Redding. Thousands of people have been forced to evacuate their homes. And the Carr Fire is one of nearly a hundred large wildfires burning mostly in the western U.S. right now. And because of record heat it is become one of the most destructive wildfires in California's history. Joining us to discuss why we are hearing fire statistics like that more and more these days is NPR's Kirk Siegler. He is at NPR West in California. Hey Kirk.  Hello Ailsa.  So I am staring at a pretty surprising statistic here. It says in California six of the most destructive wildfires in history have occurred just in the past 10 months. And things appear to be only getting worse.  Yes things are getting worse. But a little bit of perspective here is in order. We are actually on pace to get the same number of fires this fire season. But what is really different here is that fires are - many of them are larger. They are lasting longer. They are beginning sooner in the year. They are lasting a lot later. For instance if you consider the largest wildfire in California history that we saw last year the Thomas Fire that burned into December. Now on top of all of that you have got social media. You have got people's individual experiences of these fires being broadcast out in very compelling ways. And so we are kind of at this moment of immediacy as well where almost everything feels so you know in the moment and...  Right.  ...Apocalyptic. And it is very serious. But this is something that fire managers and climate scientists have been warning about for years the kind of fires we are seeing right now.  And why have there been so many devastating wildfires recently? I mean is it climate change?  That is one of the big reasons. So I went over to UCLA and talked to one of the school's most prominent climate scientists Dr. Daniel Swain. And he said that you know the dryness of the fuels especially on the West Coast right now is historic. So when you combine that with historically hot temperatures - for instance Redding Calif. saw multiple days of 110 degrees-plus heat. Let us hear what he has to say here.  What is really interesting is we have seen wide swings in precipitation from very wet seasons to very dry seasons. But temperatures have been going in one direction only and that is up.  So Ailsa what he is saying there really is that it does not really matter anymore if you have had a you know good winter of a lot of rain or snow preceding the fire season. When you get a heat wave like this it just dries everything out. But you know climate is not the only thing going on here.  Well what else is contributing to such large fires?  Well you have to look at how we have managed forests over the years. We have suppressed natural wildfires so you have got all this fuel built up. And then we have also been building out. Frankly we have been suburbanizing the woods and wildlands. And so now you have got all of these houses and in some cases even whole cities surrounded by all this dry fuel and fuel buildup and more people in harm's way.  So are there any preventative measures that can be taken or are we kind of looking at a new normal here?  Well there are some. They are not always politically popular. You are seeing a lot of communities now in the West in particular ramping up their building codes. There is a lot more being done to clear out brush and making firebreaks. But you know when you talk about the new normal the main thing to do according to scientists is to stop emitting so much CO2. That could actually slow down all of these heat waves we are seeing a little bit. But you know the fact is the new normal may be that things are just going to keep getting worse.  That is NPR's Kirk Siegler. Thank you Kirk.  Thank you. 