 Ecologist Dan Nepstad has studied the Amazon for more than 30 years. He explained to me why it is hard to know the true extent of these fires.  In an intact Amazon forest - a virgin forest - if it is a really dry year and the fire gets going it is shin-high. You can step over it and that means it does not register a lot of heat and the satellites do not pick up that as an act of fire. The best way to know if a forest is burning is to see smoke coming out the top. So it is really hard to know how much of the virgin forests of the Amazon are catching fire. If they are open fires or fires burning damaged forests they are much easier to spot and that is most of what we are seeing this year.  Talk more about what we are seeing this year. How is it different from fires in the past?  Well it is a big fire year. It is the biggest one in the last decade. A lot of the fires burning now are persistent and that means that those are felled forests - the giant rainforest trees that have been cut down with chainsaws allowed to dry and now they are being burned in preparation for crops or pasture or whatever. A lot of smoke because there is so much tree biomass a lot of energy meaning that smoke goes really high into the atmosphere - and it can spread across entire regions.  You have written that the biggest threat to the Amazon is the large-scale displacement of scrub vegetation. What is that and what does that mean in terms of the Amazon being exposed to more and more fires?  So what was deep dense shade that kept the litter layer - the fuel layer - moist and difficult to burn is drying out and there is a lot more of it. The next fire is much more intense. It kills more trees and pretty soon grasses and shrubs start to move into what was a pristine forest and that is what I call this scrub vegetation. So that - eventually you really cannot recognize that that is a forest that was - never saw a chainsaw but it is completely altered. That for me is the most worrisome long-term scenario for the Amazon.  What then is the solution? What steps can the Brazilian government take to protect the Amazon?  You know I think there is a huge opportunity to solve this and not just with dumping water or putting out fires. But to really come up with a systemic strategy that is long-term we really need to shift from fire-prone systems like extensive cattle to more intensive forms that are tree-based so that the landholder will be more reluctant to use fire to manage their land and they will invest more in fire prevention.  Before I let you go I have heard over and over the last few days this idea that the Amazon is the lungs of the world. Is that a good way to think of it?  That is a little misleading. There is a lot of big old trees and they respire a lot. Just like people have to breathe in oxygen those tree trunks also have to breathe in oxygen and all of that dead wood as it rots is taking up oxygen- much better to focus on the Amazon as a cooling system for the planet. You know really every time a little droplet of water leaves a leaf and goes into vapor it is absorbing energy and it is cooling things down. And the Amazon is so big that if we lose it it is going to change the way air and energy move around the planet and that means our climate will change. For me that is something that really ties us to the health of the Amazon wherever we are on the planet.  That is Dan Nepstad. He is president and founder of the Earth Innovation Institute. Thank you for explaining this to us.  My pleasure - great talking to you. 