 And now we turn to the Mississippi River. The drought has brought parts of the Mississippi to near record low water levels. Those shallow conditions pose difficulties for barge traffic on the river and we turn now to Mark Mestemacher who is co-owner of Ceres Barge Line. It is based in East St. Louis. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  And how low is the river in East St. Louis?  Well right now they are sitting at a three-foot river stage. Two months ago we were probably around 20-foot river stage so we have lost quite a bit here in the last four weeks.  From 20 feet to three feet? Is that what you are saying?  Yes sir.  And how does that affect your ability to run barges on the river?  Well for probably the first six months of this year we were able to load to a 12-foot draft which basically means that the barge is 12 foot underneath the water. And right now we are restricted to a nine-foot draft so we have lost three foot of draft which equates to about 600 tons of product that we no longer can put on that barge.  Well does that mean that to transport the same amount of cargo you have got to use that many more barges?  Right. We were loading around 2200 tons 2300 tons in a barge and currently we can only load between 1600 or 1700 tons. So we have seen about 600 tons less really a third of the capacity we no longer can load in a barge.  But how does it affect your business? Do you get paid by the ton or by the barge?  Yeah we get paid a dollar per ton so if the market was 12 a ton to move it from St. Louis to New Orleans and we were putting 2200 tons you know that is the revenue we are generating. And right now we are generating a much less revenue because we are only - say the rate's still 12 a ton but we are only putting 1600 tons so we are losing because we cannot load as heavy.  What do you hear about the outlook for the river in the coming week or two?  It is not optimistic. You know we are seeing a lot of shippers St. Louis and south that all of a sudden cannot even get the barges the empty barges into their dock to load because of shallow areas. So we are starting to see more and more shippers that are saying do not even bring us a barge because we cannot get it to our dock and we cannot load the product in the barge. We are also seeing that the towing companies the ones that move the barges from point A to point B they are being restricted. St. Louis and south four weeks ago they were moving 42 barges to a tow or somewhere in that area 42 45 barges to a tow. Now they are down to 30 barge tows and some of them have already cut back to 25 barge tows. So a towing company that you know is getting paid to tow our barges they have lost a minimum of 40 percent of their revenue. And in some cases as much as 50 percent of their revenue they have seen disappear because they cannot tow as many barges.  No rain in the forecast.  No. We have not seen - I mean they continue to say we have got 10 percent or 20 percent spot you know spot showers but in reality we have not had any rain for 30-plus days. And even if we got a two-inch or three-inch rain in this area it is so dry that the ground will absorb that so quick we will not see that have any impact on the river stage here in St. Louis.  Well Mr. Mestemacher good luck to you and thanks for talking with us.  All right.  Thank you.  Mark Mestemacher is co-owner of the Ceres Barge Line. He spoke to us from East St. Louis Illinois. 