 Most people have never heard of the most illegally trafficked animal in the world - the pangolin. They are about the size of a cat armored with a full body of scales and they curl up into a ball when they are scared. Katie Blackley from member station WESA reports on the debate over how best to save their population.  When we open the cage of a white-bellied tree pangolin at the Pittsburgh Zoo the sleek snake-like animal is fast asleep in a crate covered in a pink blanket. She is not thrilled to see us.  Sometimes they will make a hissing sound.   It is bedtime for the nocturnal pangolin but with a little encouragement she emerges and wraps her long tail around a log. She is very curious but very shy.  This is one of the things about pangolins is that there is so little known about them because they are nocturnal and they are secretive.  That is Ken Kaemmerer. He is the curator of mammals at the Pittsburgh Zoo. And he is very excited about the pangolins.  Pangolins are best known for - sometimes called scaly anteaters. But in fact actually they are not related to anteaters. They are more related to carnivores like dogs and cats which is somewhat fascinating.  Kaemmerer really wants to save the pangolins and he thinks having them in zoos is a great way to start. Each year millions of pangolins are killed for their meat and their scales which some cultures believe have medicinal qualities. It is difficult to determine just how many pangolin are left because of the demand. And animal experts cannot agree on how to save them. Jeffrey Flocken with the International Fund for Animal Welfare thinks having pangolins in zoos is the wrong approach.  We are trying our hardest to stop the poaching stop the trafficking and stop the demand. Unfortunately when zoos buy wild-caught pangolins they are adding to the poaching the trafficking and the demand.  Flocken says moving pangolins from their habitats in Asia and Africa can be incredibly stressful for them. He estimates that for every pangolin transported to a North American zoo several die in the process.  The real goal is not to get the individuals used to being in captivity but in fact bringing them back to the health then go right back out in the wild.  Flocken wants zoos to stay out of the pangolin conservation business. He says on the ground pangolins can eat their natural diet of ants and termites. They do not need supplements. They are also living in the wild not a fabricated zoo environment. So far there is no record of any captive-bred births. But Justin Miller founder of Florida-based Pangolin Conservation who provided the Pittsburgh pangolins says the benefits of having the species in zoos outweigh the negatives.  From the start of this project it was pretty much asking what had failed in the past? And what were the reasons? And then are we able to correct them?  Miller says he is created a captive diet that the pangolins enjoy and will slurp up with their super long tongues. And he says he takes time with the pangolins and he conditions them to recognize humans before they are moved. Having pangolins in zoos he says is important because that is where scientists can study their mating gestation and behavioral patterns. Plus millions of people visit zoos each year. Miller says he hopes by spreading the word about pangolins it will create an awareness of the trafficking. Ken Kaemmerer with the Pittsburgh Zoo says their three wild-caught pangolins will live in a naturalistic environment when they go on display. But that will not be for another two or three years. For NPR News I am Katie Blackley. 