 A fight for survival - on one side a huge bird. You might even call it a modern-day dinosaur.  So the California condor's the largest flying bird in North America and it has a wingspan of nine and a half feet.  Michael Mace is the curator of birds at the San Diego Zoo Safari Park.  So in the bird world it is like the 747 compared to a Cessna if you look at it proportionally with other species like eagles and turkey vultures.  But the king of the birds is in a knockdown drag-out fight with a formidable adversary a foe it never saw coming - power lines.  When they are flying there is no reason for them to look forward because they are scanning the earth looking for carrion that they feed on or other items on the - on the surface. And so when they develop they had a reason to look forward and so they would fly into power lines for example on ridgelines of mountains. Or - condors like to roost and when they would go to roost they would land on these power poles and power structures and would become electrocuted because they are such a big bird. It is very easy for them to touch wires.  So how to do you go against 10000 years of evolution that told the birds not to be worried about this kind of thing?  So when we started to realize what was occurring we wanted to look at a way that we could modify their behavior - change their behavior so that we could keep them out of harm's way. So we developed a technique working with our local utility companies to use their power poles that they have and install those within the enclosures here at the Safari Park. And then we wired those poles to deliver a very mild electric charge - nothing harmful but something that a bird would realize that it was not comfortable place to be.  Now will you have to be doing this aversion training with the birds indefinitely or will there be a point at which they figure it out?  That is a really good question. So one of the goals of the condor program is to have a sustainable population in the wild. And so as those birds that we are releasing then are of age to where they are sexually mature and starting to produce their own offspring the fact that those parents are teaching their chicks for a couple years how to survive in the wild - if the parents are no longer visiting the power structures to roost on what we are seeing is the chicks follow the parents' lead and do not do it either.  So when is the group of condors going to be released? When is your next graduating class?  Well we are actually getting ready this next month in September here at the San Diego Zoo Safari Park to send three birds that were raised here to the field site in California and the field site in Arizona to be prepared for release months from now. So the next generation is ready to go out. So when we started this program you know we were challenged with a species that is almost went extinct. The condor in 1982 only had 22 birds left in the world. There are now more than 420 condors in the world of which more than 230 of those are now flying free in California Arizona and Baja Mexico.  Michael Mace is the curator of birds for the San Diego Zoo Safari Park. He works in the condor power line aversion training program at the zoo. Michael it is been great speaking with you. Thank you.  Thank you for the opportunity to talk about the California condor.  THE B-52  There is a big bird flying over my house. Go away. Go away. There is a big bird flying over my house and it looks like it is decided... 