 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. The Environmental Protection Agency's Superfund list is a virtual who is who of some of the most polluted sites in the country. From 1980 to 1995 the cleanup at those sites was funded primarily by a tax on the oil and chemical industries. But that tax was allowed to expire and the EPA has since struggled to complete its work. Scott Gurian reports on efforts to reinstate the tax and what it would mean for the residents of Old Bridge New Jersey.  The Superfund controls contaminated areas where the original polluters have either run out of money or gone out of business. Without the tax on industry its budget comes entirely from taxpayers and environmentalists say the Raritan Bay Slag site is a perfect example of why that alone is not enough. On a peaceful day at the beach people stroll along a path and water laps gently against the shore but you will not find anyone swimming. That is because the sand is fenced off and there are warning signs and security cameras to keep people out. Mr.  See the red? There is one layer of big rocks beyond the sand and then some of them look like bowls that are cut in half.  Robert Spiegel points to what look like roundish rust-colored chunks of rocks. It is slag from the bottom of old blast furnaces that local companies put here in the late '60s and early '70s to build jetties and retaining walls. Though it is been decades testing shows the slag still leaches high levels of lead arsenic and other heavy metals hazardous to both people and wildlife. With officials estimating the cleanup could cost hundreds of millions of dollars Spiegel - who runs an environmental group called the Edison Wetlands Association - says this is like a mini version of the oil spill in the Gulf. Mr.  People in Old Bridge and in Sayreville they are being held hostage here. They are not going to be able to sell their houses. They cannot use this beautiful beachfront that they spent millions of dollars to renovate. And they are being told to wait because the EPA has to clean up the site. Now this could be done on an emergency basis if EPA had the money but Superfund is broke.  Enter Senator Frank Lautenberg the New Jersey Democrat who chairs the Senate Environment and Public Works Subcommittee that oversees the Superfund. Since the tax on the oil and chemical industries expired in 1995 he and his colleagues have introduced legislation every year to reinstate it. But now with the support of President Obama it has a good chance of becoming law. Lautenberg says it is not fair to make taxpayers pick up the tab.  If I did not cause the problem I do not want to pay for the problem. I am willing to pay a share. But I want those companies where the exposure is likely to come from to pay for more of the cleanup than I should as an average citizen. Mr.  The senator has said that what this is is a polluter pays tax. In fact that is wrong.  John McKinney is a New Jersey attorney who is represented companies involved in Superfund litigation. Mr.  I like to paraphrase Pogo the cartoon strip to say that I have met the polluters and it is us.  He argues that many sites are former municipal landfills where everyone from individual households to companies to the military sent polluting waste over the years and he says we all benefited. Mr.  You had industries that could get rid of their waste cheaply. The society did not have to pay the true costs of disposal at the time. Now that we do have to pay the true costs of disposal that should be handled by society.  By which he means taxpayers. Wherever the additional funding comes from environmentalist Robert Spiegel warns that until it arrives sites like Raritan Bay Slag continue to worsen by the day. Mr.  That fence does not stop the chemicals from going that way every single time that the tide comes in and out or it rains. And so you know unfortunately the sign and the fence does not do anything really. It keeps honest people out. You know? But the chemicals do not know any different and the toxic waste that is here certainly does not.  Senator Lautenberg estimates his bill would generate up to 2 billion a year of much-needed revenue for the Superfund trust fund. He is working with the Senate Finance Committee to get it included with a package of energy taxes after Congress returns in mid-September from its summer recess. For NPR News I am Scott Gurian. 