 Much of the western U.S. is experiencing severe drought. The region is being hit with record heat which has led to extremely dry conditions and has depleted already scarce water reserves in some areas. Oregon is one of the states experiencing this historic drought. And with little rain and a fast melting snowpack the state is preparing for what is expected to be a very busy wildfire season. Joining us to discuss how all of this is affecting his community is Phil Chang. He is a county commissioner for Deschutes County. That is in the central part of Oregon and he works on water issues for the county. Welcome to the program.  Thank you Sarah.  This severe drought is affecting much of the western U.S. as we have said. Can you just briefly describe what conditions are like where you are right now and where your water reserves stand?  We have had a couple of dry years. And then we had an OK snowpack this winter but - an OK precipitation. But with the couple of dry years that we have had in the past our groundwater levels are lower the soil moisture is low. And so a lot of the snow which melted off early just kind of disappeared into the ground and did not come back out as spring. So our river levels and our stream levels are very low. And as a result we - our reservoir levels the stored water for agriculture is also very low.  There have been reports of some residents' wells in the West drying up and others about farmers having to limit the amount of crops they plant because of a lack of water availability. What are you hearing from people there in central Oregon?  There are several irrigation districts. And there are many farmers within those irrigation districts who are really suffering from the lack of water availability this year and this drought year. So for example Wickiup Reservoir which is one of the largest water storage reservoirs for irrigation here in the Deschutes Basin - this time of year on a good year or you know on a typical year there might be a 150000 acre feet of water in the reservoir. But this year there are - this year today there is less than 50000 acre feet of water in there. So it is 24 full at the beginning of summer. And that is a really bad situation for our farmers.  So am I getting this right less than a third of the water you would normally have for that purpose at this time of year?  Yes yeah. And so the farmers who are dependent on that water in the North Unit Irrigation District which is actually outside of Deschutes County in the next county north - they are fallowing acres. They are having to you know sacrifice certain crops. They are going to have a very hard year this year.  Yeah which just means - which means less income - right? - at the end of the year.  Absolutely yeah. And kind of in the grand scheme of the upper Deschutes River Basin those are the farmers in North Unit Irrigation District who do the most highly valuable and most commercial crops.  You know that this is not the first time your county has faced difficult conditions when it comes to water shortages. The U.S. Drought Monitor says more than 65 of Deschutes County is in extreme drought. How does this compare to what you have seen in the past?  We have had extreme drought years that - one of the challenges again is that this year is coming after a couple of dry years. So there is a cumulative impact. We went into - you know again we had a decent snowpack and we had decent precipitation this year. But the ground was incredibly dry. Groundwater levels were low. And so as that snow melted off the water disappeared into the ground and did not come back out. I do think that we will - with climate change I do expect that we will see more years like this moving forward where the snow melts off very early and we may not get the full snowpack that we would get in a historic average year. And so we need to be prepared for more droughts like this and maybe more severe droughts moving forward.  Yeah what does that look like? I mean how do you try to make sure this is not the new normal?  Well one of the great things about this river basin the Upper Deschutes River Basin is that there is actually quite a lot of water. We allocated a massive amount of it you know at the - in the late 19th century early 20th century to agriculture. But that means that there are huge opportunities for conservation so we can modernize our irrigation infrastructure so that there is adequate flow for fish and wildlife and for the huge recreational use of our river here in our community.  If that is possible why is not it happening already? What is the missing piece?  We are working within a 19th century water rights - you know water rights system. The laws that allocated water to originally mostly to agriculture in this basin were written a very long time ago. And at that time the goal of the federal government and the state government was to settle the western United States not to think about you know how much water you needed in rivers for fish and wildlife not thinking about you know growing metropolitan areas across the western United States. So there is - the system is built in a - the water rights system is built in a way that it does not necessarily encourage those conservation efforts. And so we need - you know we have needed 21st century kind of pressures to get us to start moving in that direction.  And finally your area is at a high risk of wildfires as well. That is another concern in part because of forests and population density. What is your level of concern? How prepared do you feel you are for the upcoming fire season?  There has been a lot of what is called fuels reduction work and forest restoration work done that helps us - helps our forests be more resilient when the fire comes and helps protect our communities. Now that said even though we have done some of this work there is still a lot more to do. And what people need to understand also is that in a dry fire-adapted ecosystem like this when the winds the temperatures and the humidity are you know severe there is really very little you can do to stop a fire. I mean you know on a super hot super dry super windy day really the best that firefighters can do is sort of herd the fire a little bit. But they really have very little ability to stop a fire in those conditions.  That is Phil Chang county commissioner for Deschutes County in Oregon. Commissioner Chang thank you for your time.  Thank you Sarah. It was nice talking to you today.  