 As NPR's Greg Allen reports the federal preserve will include at least 150000 acres. But there is a twist - most of it will remain under private ownership.  Visitors mostly come to central Florida for its theme parks and beaches but there are other attractions.   Charlie Pelizza with U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service says this area includes dry prairie habitat sand hills and scrub area found nowhere else in the world.  We are also looking at a landscape that is just covered with endangered species and threatened species. I think there is 98 in this habitat in this landscape of the Everglades headwaters.  Pelizza said preserving it will help save another natural area the Everglades 90 miles to the south.  This is where the water starts and ultimately ends up down in the Everglades National Park out into Florida Bay. So it is really important to make sure that the water quality and the distribution of that water from here is healthy so that the restoration activities that are occurring further south have better water quality and better distribution.  Mark Musaus of Fish and Wildlife says two-thirds of the refuge will be protected through those agreements with land owners.  We can get more through easements than we can through fee title in terms of the purchase. It is costly to be able to operate fee title land so that is a factor as well but I think we realize that as we are facing the conservation challenges that are out there today that we can do more in a partnership effort working with those that are already there and also have the same kind of vision that we do.  Musaus is talking about the cattle ranchers who pioneered central Florida and still own large rural sections of the state. One of those ranchers Mike Adams owns a 50000-acre ranch started by his grandfather in the 1930s. He says he will be interested in the conservation plan if it is done correctly.  You know we have aspects to our ranch that we would like to see preserved forever. At the same time we are what we consider kind of a modern cowcalf operation so it has to be flexible enough to allow us to change.  Mike Adams says for ranchers signing over some property rights may make the difference between staying in the cattle business or selling out to developers.  This will help keep our land values down so that we can transfer it to the next generation. It is kind of like my father. He left plenty of work ahead of me and I would like to do the same to my kids. You know give them the tools to continue.  Greg Allen NPR News Miami. 