 Now if you are looking for a chance to help the planet this Fourth of July why not start in your own backyard? Have you ever considered the carbon footprint of your outdoor grill? Eric Johnson runs a scientific research firm in Switzerland and he studied the environmental impact of both gas and charcoal grills. And it turns out that gas grills are not just better for the environment they are much better. Mr.  The carbon footprint of a gas grill is about one-third the footprint of a charcoal grill. I mean...  Wow. Mr.  ...and most of that footprint is from the fuels being burnt.  And that includes the process of manufacturing and other things like the transportation of the fuel. Mr.  That is right transport the whole thing. But what you find is that far and away the major impact comes from the actual production and burning of the fuel itself.  The smoke. Mr.  Yes. Yes. I mean in the case of charcoal briquettes the key to it is the efficiency with which they work. They are a pretty inefficient way to cook things. I mean you know you shake the bag out. You put it all over the grill. You burn up this whole grill and maybe you are cooking a couple of burgers. Whereas gas-fired grills are similar to the stove you use in your kitchen. It is much more attuned to how much you are actually going to cook how much energy you really need to use.  You know some people might be surprised to learn that you know using charcoal is worse for the environment because essentially it is a biofuel. Right? I mean it is a natural product. Mr.  That is right it is a natural product. But generally it is harvested in order to be used. And so you are removing carbon from the biosphere and putting it up in the air.  Well how does that work? Mr.  Basically what happens is that people take cut wood or even wood waste but generally its actually harvested cut wood. And they stick it in a kiln with a limited supply of oxygen so that the wood does not actually burn. And what happens is most of the liquid parts of the wood are flashed off and you are left with almost pure carbon. I mean if you look at gas you know something like 90 percent of the heating value that came out of the ground actually gets used in the grill. I mean in charcoal it is less than one-quarter. It is just much much more efficient.  You actually spend time grilling yourself right?  Mr.  Yes I did. I think there were eight - seven or eight other volunteers. I cannot remember exactly. But we split into one group that did gas grills and one did charcoal grills. And it was kind of an amusing experience for families and friends because they were watching us measure everything out as we did it measure afterwards and all that sort of thing. But I think we ended up with something like 50 or 60 grill sessions at the end which provided us a pretty good statistical basis in order to you know make all these measurements and come up with the footprints.  And presumably provided you with a lot of meat.  Mr.  Well not everybody was cooking meat all the time. But yeah I mean - and we did actually note all the different things that were cooked. So it was kind of a - I mean people were chuckling at us a lot. But it did work.  Mr. Johnson there is a good chance that somebody listening to this interview right now is actually outside grilling. And if they are grilling over you know charcoal briquettes what would you say to them?  Mr.  What I would say is that it is not like we are going to kill the planet in the grilling scenario. But probably the most helpful thing you could do is when you are done if you could shutdown your grill and try to reuse what coals are there. Now some grills are actually relatively easy to shutdown but a lot of them are quite difficult. But still you know pour some water on it and use them again because you are really wasting it when the rest of it just goes up in the air.  That is great advice. Eric Johnson is a chemist and the director of Atlantic Consulting in Zurich Switzerland. His study into the carbon footprints of both charcoal and gas grills can be found on the Web site sciencedirect.com. Mr. Johnson thanks so much. Mr.  Thanks for having me. 