 This summer's Shark Week on the Discovery Channel was the highest rated in the special's 27 year history. But a lot of former fans are saying that Shark Week has jumped the shark that they are pushing entertainment at the cost of science from documentaries that advance dubious theories about monster sharks in Louisiana Rivers to all out fake documentaries about sharks as big as submarines. I asked Chris Palmer about this. He is a seasoned wildlife documentarian who teaches the craft now at American University. He says it is surprisingly easy to slip into misleading portrayals. His favorite example is one of his own misdeeds. It happened in an IMAX documentary called Wolves.  While the audience thought they were watching wild free-roaming wolves in fact we rented them. We rented them from a game farm. And it was on the end credits. But who except for the director's mother ever reads the end credits? So it was kind of surreptitious and clandestine.  Why did you go to the rental wolves? What did you need from them you were not getting from your actual wolves?  We wanted to show a film showing their social life which is very complex. They are wonderful animals - complicated animals. But it is very hard to do that with wild wolves because you cannot get close to them. They run away when they hear the cameras. And so one way to get that close up views of the social interaction in a wolf pack is with a captive pack. If you do not use a captive pack then you have to habituate wild wolves which is not a good thing. I think the mistake we made was not to be honest. It was not so much the using the captive pack as not telling the audience we were using the captive pack.  Ultimately how were you found out about that?  What happened was I went around the country talking - showing this film and talking about it and drumming up support for wolf conservation. And someone put their hand up and asks me oh how did you get that shot of the mother wolf in the den? That was amazing. And of course we made that den. It is an artificial den for that wolf. And I could tell when I told them I could feel the disappointment in the air. And that was one of these things that came to haunt me. And I came to realize that filmmakers like myself and broadcasters had to be much more conscious of the reaction from viewers and what they feel like. And if they knew the facts and would feel betrayed then we need to stop and think about what we are doing.  Do you know of any other examples of this sort of thing like your wolf rental that happens in wildlife documentaries?  Yes. People use computer graphics so that they can put the prey and predator closer together. And then in order to get the shots we want we will often crowd or harass animals that you know the animal's surrounded by 15 cars and we are all trying to get shots of it. So a lot of this - a lot of faking. I think the key question Arun is when does legitimate filmmaking artifice become unacceptable deception?  Sometimes even scientists are unwittingly pulled into that filmmaking artifice and deception. Jonathan Davis is a shark biologist. He was researching bull sharks at the University of New Orleans when a film crew reached out to him saying they were working on a documentary for Shark Week.  The initial contact suggested they wanted to do a documentary on sharks of Louisiana. They said they wanted to focus on my research.  What he did not know at the time was the documentary was called Voodoo Sharks and it would be about the possible existence of a huge mythical shark called the Rookin.  We had a pretty much a three hour interview. For the first two hours and 57 minutes or so they talked you know about science about my research about sharks about this and that. But then as an afterthought the last two minutes or so the guy kind of just asked nonchalantly - like we would finished the interview done with the formal portion and this was like an afterthought informal portion. Like hey well what do you think about this Rookin voodoo shark that is down in South Louisiana that the fishermen talk about? And I said of course that is BS and I have never heard of it. And even if I had heard of it it would be completely false.  Let us hear how they set you up for it in the film in that way. Here's a clip from their documentary.   They believe that if there is a monster shark entering Lake Pontchartrain it would likely be sticking to this area where the salty waters of the Gulf meet the fresh waters just outside of New Orleans.  Sharks are pretty amazing creatures. All of them have been found in weird places. So I am not 100 percent certain that it would happen but it could happen.  What was your reaction when you saw that?  Obviously it set it off on a bad taste in my mouth for sure. Because that was definitely the answer I used to the question not that question but the question after that. So they had asked me that first question I just explained about the Rookin. And I said no that is BS. And then they asked me another question saying well what do you think about large bull sharks - like a big mature bull shark being in the lake? And that is the answer to that question.  You are actually - you come off about as well as I think you could in something like this. They show you actually doing real science there you know tagging the sharks figuring out how you know they use the lake possibly as a nursery.  Well I did not really get much negative out of it besides the fact that it was ridiculous and they did not focus on my positive. But you cannot take me out of my element. And regardless of the fact that they twisted one sentence of a three-hour interview around to make it seem like I believed in something it does not change the fact that I was out there catching bull sharks tagging them taking blood doing real science. And so if they wanted to show sharks that is what they had to show.  Gurney Productions which made the documentary and the Discovery Channel both declined to comment on Jonathan Davis' account. Now if you are a fan of cable documentaries you might be familiar with the new format which is all deception - documentaries that are completely staged with actors playing the roles of scientists and journalists. They have disclaimers but they are pretty easy to miss especially if you tune in midway. Animal Planet had two documentaries about mermaids. And last year the Discovery Channel aired Megalodon which suggested a 50-foot-long prehistoric shark is still patrolling the ocean. Again here's documentary maker Chris Palmer.  I mean Shark Week and Discovery have done a lot of good. Let us just say that to begin with. But this is a time when science literacy is plummeting in this country. People are gullible and so they watch this show coming from this highly esteemed broadcaster Discovery. And they are lead to believe now there is a monster in the ocean. This is nonsense. There is no evidence for it at all. They went extinct 2 million years ago.  The problem Chris Palmer says is that these films are a distraction from real problems in the ocean like shark finning and pollution. But it does not look like the Mermaids Megalodons and Voodoo Sharks are going away anytime soon. Megalodon did so well it spawned a sequel in this summer's Shark Week. And the latest mermaid documentary was the highest-rated show in the history of the Animal Planet. 