  climate change. Tomorrow President Obama will lay out a strategy to address the problem using executive powers. It is an admission that is sweeping climate legislation stands little chance of passing Congress as NPR's Jennifer Ludden reports.  Aides say Mr. Obama's plan includes limiting carbon dioxide emissions from power plants. The reaction from House Speaker John Boehner was blunt.  I think this is absolutely crazy. Why would you want to increase the cost of energy and kill more American jobs at a time when the American people are still asking the question where are the jobs?  Republicans have long derided Obama's green energy efforts as a job killer. This year observers do detect a subtle shift at least in tone. Even GOP whip Kevin McCarthy the third most powerful in the House of Representatives has taken pains to broaden the drill baby drill message. The first two energy bills on the House floor were on renewable power. GOP analyst John Feehery of Quinn Gillespie says there is good reason for this.  I think the message learned from last campaign is you can kind of beat up on Obama all you want but you also have to be less reflexively anti-environment.  Feehery says renewable energy is popular especially with younger voters. What is more...  Most wind energy manufacturers are in Republican districts and most wind energy production comes out of Republican districts. So for Republicans to be against wind energy they are hurting their own constituents.  Still environmentalists are waiting to see if such talk leads to action. And the common ground only goes so far. A number of Democrats say a carbon tax is what is needed to really bring down greenhouse gas emissions. It is come up in talks on overhauling the tax code. But Feehery says anything called tax is a non-starter for the GOP. And fossil fuel interests are already gearing up in opposition.  And I do think that there is a lot of industries that would have a heyday trying to kill this.  Now President Obama rankled environmentalists during last year's campaign when he was nearly silent on climate change. When he did talk about it during the State of the Union he is told donors it did not dial test well with viewers. Still some polls show Americans do want action. And in a big change Obama's advocacy group Organizing for Action aims to make climate an issue in next year's midterms. It is holding local meetings and door-to-door campaigns to engage voters on climate and energy. It is also put out this online ad mocking congressional Republicans who challenge the scientific consensus that global warming is largely man-made like Senator Marco Rubio of Florida.   So Rhode Island Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse has taken it upon himself to give it that scrutiny.  Thank you very much. I am back again to speak again about...  Every week to a mostly empty Senate chamber he reels off stats from climate research warns of the mounting dangers of global warming and taunts Republicans.  Let me respectfully ask my Republican colleagues what are you thinking? How do you imagine this ends?  Unless Republican lawmakers get serious about addressing climate change Whitehouse predicts it will not end well either for their party or the planet. Jennifer Ludden NPR News Washington. 