 This July Fourth weekend we are revisiting the all-American story of Leland Melvin. Earlier this year he told us how he went from the NFL to NASA for our series My Big Break. Leland was signed to the Dallas Cowboys the same year he enrolled at the University of Virginia studying material science and engineering.  And so they videotaped the courses and they mailed them to me in Dallas. So by day I am catching balls for America's team and at night I am watching material science and engineering courses in a master's program. I am like oh my goodness.  But an injury during practice ended Melvin's NFL career.  Then a friend of mine told me - he said Leland NASA's looking for astronauts. And you would be a great astronaut - your football background your material science and engineering. And he handed me an application. I looked at the application. I said OK so I apply at the next selection and I got in. Yeah it was pretty incredible. Went through a series of training sessions. And one of which was in the Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory where we have the International Space Station space shuttle submerged underneath you know 30 feet of water so that you can an actually be floating like you are in space wearing this white suit looking like the Michelin Man. They lower you down in the water. And one of the things that they forgot to put on my helmet was this little pad on your neck ring. So if you are the kind of person that needs to squeeze your nose to clear your ears which I am this little pad would allow you to press your nose against it so you could clear your ears as you go down in the water column. And mine was not in there so I was straining to clear. And I tell the test director who is in the control center - I tell him to turn the volume up in the headset. I could not hear a thing. All I heard was static and white noise. They took me out of the water. There was blood coming out of my ear and they rushed me to the emergency room. They did surgery. They looked around. They could not find anything. And you know being an astronaut you need your hearing. And if something happens and they cannot explain why it happened they will not let you fly in space. My hearing slowly came back but I was medically disqualified still to fly because they did not know why it happened. And then I went to Washington to work in education and at that same time February 1 2003 we lost Space Shuttle Columbia. At that point we had to take care of our families. And I was there to help console the parents of David Brown who lived outside of Washington. And on the night of the accident David's father said to me - this was another - this was kind of a transformational moment in my life because he said to me - he said my son is gone. There is nothing you can do to bring him back but the biggest tragedy would be if we do not continue to fly in space to carry on their legacy. And then as we fly around the country to different memorial services the chief flight surgeon is sitting beside me taking notes. He is watching me clear my ears and go up and down in the airplane. And he calls me in his office and he says Leland I am going to sign a waiver for you to fly in space. That was one of my big breaks.   Advisors initiate O2 flow. One minute and counting...  Space Shuttle Atlantis was our first mission. And we are looking at each other. We are pointing to the books and things and we are pointing to the computers. And we had these huge smiles on our faces you know - just like yeah we are about to go to space.   Activated. T-Minus 10...  The three main engines light - that is when the silent rocket boosters ignite.   Main engine ignition - four three two one zero and liftoff of Space Shuttle Atlantis as Columbus sets sail on a voyage of science to the space station.  It was this incredible surge of force and sound and your head is starting to shake you know?   Roger roll Atlantis.  I had a mirror on my wrist. And I could look out the overhead window and see where the plume connected back to the ground. About three miles from where that plume was was where my family was sitting and it made this connection with me that they were with us.   Atlantis go at .  And eight and a half minutes later we are now in space. And we are floating and the things that you dropped are now floating around you. And seeing this blue marble below us with no borders as we go around the planet every 90 minutes at 17500 miles per hour looking at places where there is unrest and war. And we are working together as one team to help advance our civilization. It is just an incredible incredible moment for me.  Leland Melvin launched into space a second time in 2009 before he was appointed head of NASA Education. He is also the host of Child Genius which airs Tuesdays at 10 p.m. on Lifetime. You do not have to be an astronaut to have a big break. Send us your story - mybigbreaknpr.org. 