 When kids - and adults for that matter - are plugged in one communication tool they have is the emoji. And there is a new batch of emojis. Last week Apple previewed some of its new designs. They included a T. rex and a zombie - no doubt extremely useful in a great many situations. There are also more specific symbols like a woman wearing a hijab and even a woman breastfeeding a baby. These new additions bring the approved emoji lexicon to more than 2600. That is quite an increase from two years ago when there were around 700. Jeremy Burge is here to talk about emojis. He is the founder of Emojipedia an online reference for emoji meanings. Welcome to the program.  Thanks Robert. Nice to be here.  We are up to over 2600 emojis now. Can you imagine a limit? Is there some critical emoji mass out there?  I think we are struggling already to be honest . It is quite hard to find them on your phone right? When you look around there is so many there that until we get better ways to search for them I think we are really at a critical point right now.  And who is ultimately in charge? What is the academy of emojis who is deciding what is so legit?   So it is called the Unicode Consortium. And it is made up of the major tech companies. It is Apple. It is Google. It is Microsoft. And because of the way they are implemented they have to agree on them first. And when they agree on the list then we get them on our phones a bit later on.  I do not send emojis but I inevitably receive them. They have become a staple of online communication. Why do you think that is? What is so compelling about emoji use?  You know at least for me personally I find that there is a temptation to overuse punctuation. When you are dealing with people you do not know you will use exclamation marks to make it clear that you are being friendly. And emojis sort of work like an extended form of punctuation. We can really clarify whether we are trying to be funny or sincere with 2000 symbols.  Part of your job is to catalogue the meanings of emojis. Should not that be self-evident? I mean is not an emoji failing if it does not obviously mean something right away?  I would look at it on the flip side that as long as there is understanding between two parties when an emoji's sent it is done its job. When we look at a meaning of an emoji we are not too concerned only by what it was originally intended to mean. We like to look at how people actually use it as well.  Emojis evolving like language right there is what you are describing. What is an example of an emoji that has changed meanings?  So there is a face called hugging face. And it looks like a little smiling face with two hands held out to the side. You can see them as palms there. But people use it as sort of an excited or jazz hands.  It is not - it does not look like the scream does it? It does not - it does not look like that though.  No it is not like the scream. It looks very excited. It is got a big grin on its face and it is holding two hands out to the side. It does not convey a hug very well at all in my opinion. So if everybody perceives it to be excited and happy to see you then that is how it is going to be used.  Now you know in the pre-digital era of the printed book sometimes dictionaries would have to remove items that had gone out of usage. So far has any emoji been retired for no longer being worth keeping in the lexicon?  There is not actually a way to remove an emoji - would you believe it? They are part of this Unicode Standard. And the key part of that standard is that once it is in it is in forever.  Well Jeremy Burge thanks for talking with us about it.  Great. It is great to be here.  Jeremy Burge is chief emoji officer and founder of Emojipedia.    It does not matter who you are because everybody uses emojis. Everybody uses emojis.   Emojis are for all... 