 Many people are wondering whether climate change has anything to do with Harvey's size and impact. NPR's science correspondent Christopher Joyce covers climate issues and he is with us now. Hi there.  Hi Kelly.  So one of the terms that the National Weather Service keeps using for Harvey is unprecedented. And the question is is that because of climate change?  Can I give you a yes and a no on that?  Sure.  OK.   Start with the yes.  All right - with the yes. I mean as you know there have always been big storms. But climate change is causing some other things to change. And most important here is the ocean. It is warming up. And when you heat up - heat is energy and so if there is more heat there is more energy for storms to feed off of. And so the world's oceans already on average have warmed up for well over a degree over the past century. And in addition the Gulf of Mexico has been crazy the last few weeks. I mean it is been two or three degrees more - warmer than normal. So you add it altogether it is been four degrees warmer than normal in the Gulf. And that is a lot of energy. And the other effect of heat - it causes ocean water to evaporate and rise up. So with every extra degree in ocean temperature you add that produces a heck of a lot of water vapor.  I guess once that moisture goes up in a storm like this it has to come back down. Is that why we are seeing all the rain all over Texas?  Right. In fact you know you can see from the satellite parts of the storm system were observed to be extending out from the main body back kind of like a tentacle - back over the Gulf and reaching back and picking up more heat and more water vapor and then sucking it back onto land.  What about sea level rise? Has that had a role in the storm?  Well warming seas do expand and they rise. And you add melting ice and snow and you get sea level rise. And it has - the world's oceans are about 6 inches 7 inches higher than they were a century ago. And that increases storm surge. That was a big deal with Sandy for example in 2012. But with Harvey so far it is really more a matter of this incredible rain.  OK so climate change appears to have made Harvey worse than it would have been otherwise. But what are some of the other factors? What is the no here?  Well one of the reasons is that it stalled. It is - it really took its time. At one point the storm was moving about as fast as you can walk. So it is dumping area - dumping water in one place instead of moving elsewhere. And so there is no clear link to climate change on that. Also Houston and the whole area's seen an enormous amount of development. There is more impermeable surfaces more shopping malls more highways. And you have probably been to Houston. You know it is flat you know? There is nowhere for the water to go.  Scientists do predict that the climate will continue to warm. So how will that change things in the future with future storms?  Well scientists are pretty low to predict too specifically about what happens. Sea level rise is fairly easy to measure. I mean you can predict pretty well what a storm surge is going to be along the coastline for a given storm if you know sea level rise. As for the storms themselves if the oceans get hotter you know a really big storm that might happen once every hundred years now may happen every 50 or every 20. And that may actually be happening already but you cannot tell where and when. A scientist once told me about climate and weather said it is kind of like playing baseball with a bat with lead in it. You know you are going to go out there and you are going to hit foul balls and you are going to hit grounders and you are going to strike out. But every once in a while you hit that sweet spot where that leaded bat and it is not just going to knock the ball into the stands. It is going to knock it out of the park.  That is NPR science correspondent Chris Joyce who covers climate change issues. Thank you very much...  Glad I could be here.  ...For helping us understand this.  Sure.  