 Last year this time we told you to mark a date on your calendar - July 14 2015.  It is Bastille Day. To celebrate we are storming the gates of Pluto.  Alan Stern is the principal investigator for NASA's New Horizons mission to Pluto. The day he is been waiting for is finally almost here. The New Horizons spacecraft will make its closest encounter with Pluto on Tuesday. We have had a long wait. It is been more than nine years since the spacecraft left the Earth.   Three two one - we have ignition and lift-off of NASA's New Horizons spacecraft.  Since it took off in 2006 it has traveled more than 3 billion miles. To prime us for New Horizon's big moment we turned to Carolyn Porco. She is a planetary science rock star. In the 80s she worked on the legendary Voyager missions that explored the outer planets and she is the head of the imaging team for the Cassini probe that currently orbits Saturn. Porco says she does not consider Pluto a planet but not to get hung up on that because Pluto is well worth the visit.  It is been this reminder at the raggedy edge of the solar system of how big the solar system is and it is a place we really have not been. That is why this encounter is so special.  This will be the first venture into the Kuiper belt a region on the outer limits of our solar system. Porco says it is like a window into the past. On Tuesday New Horizons will zip past Pluto snapping photos and collecting data to transmit back to Earth. Porco expects to see a hazy atmosphere maybe some icy volcanoes similar to what Voyager 2 saw on Neptune's moon Triton. But she would rather be surprised.  I hope that I am entirely wrong and that there is nothing on the surface of Pluto that looks anything like Triton because that would be the most exciting - that would really be the you know the exploratory fix you know that we all - we all want where we could feel like wow this was worthwhile you know? We are seeing something we have never seen before.  New Horizons has already started sending images back teasing scientists with previously unknown features like a dark whale-shaped band on the surface. That was spotted more than 3 million miles away. On Tuesday the New Horizons spacecraft will be only 6000 miles from Pluto.  It is one of those events that is sacred in my business of exploring planets where we have been completely ignorant one moment and then the very next moment we are aware. And it is like you know the doors have been blown off the house the windows have been blown off and we suddenly can see what there is to see. And it is living in one universe one moment and living in another one the next.  So get ready to celebrate this Tuesday but be patient. It takes a little while to get the view from 3 billion miles away. 