 I am Audie Cornish and today in All Tech Considered practical uses for virtual reality.   There is little in the tech world that generates more buzz than VR. Although it is only an emerging technology the prospect of feeling like you have been transported to another place or another world is tantalizing. That is often talked about in the context of gaming. Don a headset and go shoot up animated bad guys in 3-D.  But some companies are exploring other uses like chatting. NPR's Aarti Shahani invited a few couples to meet up in a virtual world. And even in these early days of virtual reality Aarti reports things can get real in a bad way.  Turns out real feelings can get hurt but before I get into how let us do a quick show and tell.  OK I am just - I am just still trying to - got to figure out how to move around.  That is Amy Jones. She and her boyfriend Robert Gordon are in their apartment in Oakland each wearing a big 3-D headset the kind that covers half the face from forehead to nose.  Hi.  Hello.  I am miles away in Redwood City also wearing a headset.  You want to go check out the fantasy world over there?  We meet online in a 3-D room that looks like a cartoon. It is a luxury loft with a fireplace. A startup called AltspaceVR built it. VR stands for virtual reality.  There is an art gallery up here wow.  We check out some paintings then flip channels teleport ourselves over to a desert oasis. There is a straw hut with a huge mirror. Now we can see our whole bodies not just our arms and torsos and we are weird.  We look like a very futuristic butler .  Oh my legs do not do anything.  We are robots but instead of legs we have bottoms shaped like an ice cream cone.  So we should all disco.  In online games you move your character with a controller or keyboard. You do not feel connected to the cursor. Here it is different. You tilt your real chest forward and your robot leans in. There is a camera in front of you tracking and translating your movement. The more I see my robot move when I move the more it feels like it is me.  I do not usually dance like I am trying to slowly push someone away from me but here we go.  Yes you do.  .  The virtual world feels physical. I want to see if it is intimate if we feel close as robots. Over by a virtual ocean the waves gently breaking I ask if I can try a little experiment. So like my fair warning is that it will require being a bit in your face. And by face I mean robot face - no nose or lips. Jones volunteers again in real life we are in different rooms miles away. I lean forward so that my robot is right up against hers.  .  And Jones does not like it.  It feels a little bit weird .  Like when you are in a crowded subway car with other bodies too close for comfort.  It makes me want to back up a little bit just because of that same subway impulse.  To her boyfriend who is standing a few virtual feet away it looks like our robot heads are touching. Gordon admits..  I mean like I do not really want to but I feel a little bit jealous.  Aw.  You know I already have this sensation like this body has Amy in it and here's someone you know right up like you know head snuggling.  Yeah and I do not like that he feels that way so I kind of want to back up .  It might sound strange to be jealous of animated robots head snuggling but turns out it is not. I ran this test - getting physical in the virtual world - with a few couples. In one instance a woman perceived she was being physically assaulted. Her partner wanted to lunge forward to protect her. A junior engineer who was recording these exchanges John Shaughnessy remembers another instance when a man said his wife's eyes were glaring at him.  He was like projecting body language that did not exist. There is no way that she could be glaring at him.  No way because they did not have eyes. They had buttons.  I do not know. When he said that I was like that is amazing. They are like projecting body language.  You can do anything. There is no rules. There is no physics but the brain treats these experiences as real.  Psychologist Jeremy Bailenson heads the Virtual Human Interaction Lab at Stanford University.  It is a very strange social situation.  The startup AltspaceVR is creating a platform where people alone on their couch can quote unquote sit close and watch Netflix or YouTube together. Other Silicon Valley companies are racing to build other tactile virtual space. And Bailenson says only a handful of scientific experiments have studied how the human brain reacts to it when we feel this thing called social presence.  This magic feeling where all of a sudden wow I know that person is an actual living breathing human being on the other end. And it feels real. It is very difficult to quantify when it happens.  Only a few thousand people on Earth have had the experience and the technologists building this thing they have not written the code of conduct. Aarti Shahani NPR News San Francisco. 