 And now for All Tech Considered. In this week's tech segment a report on domestic violence in the mobile age. We are going to hear how stalkers are using people's own mobile phones against them. This is a different twist on privacy issues we have covered before. We have reported a lot on big-brother concerns - data tracking by the government and corporate giants like Google. This is more intimate - husbands and wives lovers and exes who secretly watch their partners. They are cyberstalking using digital tools known as spyware. They are a lot cheaper than hiring a private detective. NPR's Aarti Shahani started looking into how these tools are used. She found that cyberstalking is now a standard part of domestic abuse in the United States.  Before we get into how spyware works I want to bring you into a place that is been transformed by it.  It is important to let you know it is a confidential location. You are not to reveal the address to the shelter to anyone.  We are in a domestic violence shelter - a safe house for mostly women and children. It is run by a group called Next Door and it is somewhere in the heart of Silicon Valley. I cannot tell you exactly where because its location is a secret by law. I had to sign an agreement to be let in. While the kids are playing with dominoes in the living room counselor Rosa Navarro takes the newest arrival a woman who has a little boy into a quiet office for intake.  I do have to tell you that no cell phones nowadays have a tracking system. If your abuser were to...  I have everything off on mine. My GPS is off and my Wi-Fi too. Everything is off.  OK. And how about e-mail? E-mailing - maybe Facebook.  I do not have Facebook.  OK.  I just do texting.  Perfect.  Navarro says most of the people who come here do not already know they are oozing data from their phones their tablets their social media accounts - data that an abuser can access pretty easily. I was surprised the woman was so cautious so I asked her. I am just curious why you knew to shut off all the things on your phone - the Wi-Fi the GPS.  I know because a lot of my family works for the sheriff's department.  Smartphones and GPS have transformed domestic violence shelters across the U.S. NPR surveyed more than 70 shelters and not just in big coastal cities like New York and San Francisco but in smaller towns in the Midwest and the South. And we ended up finding a trend - 85 of the shelters we surveyed say they are working directly with victims whose abuser tracked them using GPS - 75 say they are working with victims whose abusers eavesdropped on their conversations remotely using hidden mobile ads. And nearly half the shelters we surveyed have a policy against using Facebook on premises because they are concerned a stalker can pinpoint location.  The strategy of offenders is to have complete and utter domination and control of their victims.  Cindy Southworth is an advocate with the National Network to End Domestic Violence.  And so it is not enough that they just monitor the victim. They will then taunt them or challenge them and say why were you telling your therapist this or why were you telling your sister that or why did you go to the mall today when I told you you could not leave the house?  We will explain how stalkers do this in a moment. First I wanted to point out how Southworth talks about surveillance. She does not use the word privacy as is the post-NSA norm. For her it is about power. Surveillance has long been part of domestic violence. Back in the day abusive partners would have you followed around or would not let you leave the house. Now from work or from the bar they can just watch you on their laptop.  What we are seeing is that technology is now the new tool to perpetuate that surveillance.   Hello and welcome to MSpy the top cell phone tracking software.  MSpy is spyware - software you can use to track someone else by turning their smartphone or tablet or computer into a spy.  So for one month it would be 70 bucks - up to 12 months and that is the 200 price.  That' Very cheap considering what it can do.  I am getting a crash course from Brian Hill. He is a detective at the Anoka County Sheriff's Office Minnesota. And he is giving me a two-hour lesson. MSpy is easy to install. The stalker just needs a few minutes alone with the smartphone of the person being stalked. That is easy enough. Say when they are in the shower.  Hey honey I need to use your phone.  Tell me the passcode. Then Hill shows me on this smartphone that he is hacked.  It tells you to go to the settings go to security and the screenlock and then it tells you to check the box for unknown sources.  MSpy has a step-by-step guide with screenshots on how to download the app onto an iPhone or Android how to activate it and then how to delete any visible trace of it. It will just hang out in a hidden folder with a nondescript name.  Android.sys - which for someone looking at it - OK it is running an Android system.  Now the stalker can monitor the person being stalked from the website of the spyware company. Detective Hill goes to his laptop and logs into his MSpy account. There is a really nice dashboard to organize all of the information you are grabbing and it is a lot of information like...  Contacts call logs text messages call recordings...  That is full recordings of entire conversations.  ...Photos video files...  There is also a log of every website visited by the person being stalked and a keylogger function to record everything the victim types into their smartphone.  So when you type in the website it will record www.wellsfargo.com.  And once you are there what is the next thing you are going to type?  It is going to be your username and password.  Now the stalker can get into the victim's bank account. And say the victim starts a new relationship. It is going great until suddenly the new person stops calling. Maybe he lost interest or maybe the stalker blocked him.  You figured out who the new boyfriend is or the new girlfriend - whatever it is. You could type in their phone number and then it will restrict that call from ever coming into the phone. It will not allow it.  MSpy also does location tracking. It has a map kind of like Apple's Find My iPhone that shows where the victim'37 p.m. and the exact route it took to get from point A to point B. And MSpy has one more powerful feature - the eavesdropping function. When a person being stalked gets an incoming call that very second the speakerphone gets activated and starts recording. Hill is playing back a recording from yesterday. He would called the hacked smartphone to demonstrate.  And it is ringing and vibrating and that is what you can hear. If I would have actually answered the phone you then would hear the conversation.  But the stalker can listen in even if the victim does not answer the phone and even if the ringer is on silent. The speakerphone picks up whatever conversation is in the room. Say the victim is talking with her sister or her counselor.   There is danger on the Internet.  Ads for spyware companies are all over the Internet and obviously they do not market their apps as tools for obsessed lovers.   You can track your child via GPS and monitor texts for abuse including sexting and bullying.  In online videos like this one they market spyware as a safety product. It is a way to watch your employees or your kids with their full knowledge to make sure no one's out of line.   Phone Sheriff servers store all data ensuring parents always have information that cannot be deleted.  NPR called and e-mailed MSpy which is based in London according to its website Phone Sheriff in Florida Mobistealth in Massachusetts StealthGenie which did not list a location. We wanted to know how many subscribers do you have? Have you ever reported a user to law enforcement for suspicious activity? What steps are you taking to prevent abuse? MSpy responded that every customer signs an agreement acknowledging it is illegal to secretly spy on someone and the company is not liable. None of the others responded to NPR's inquiries. The advocate against domestic violence Cindy Southworth says a lot of victims do not realize that it is so easy to be tracked in so many ways. People just think they are going crazy. Southworth says they are not.  What I frequently tell victims is if you suspect that your ex knows too much it is entirely possible any or all of your devices have been compromised.  She says trust your instincts. Trust your gut. Aarti Shahani NPR News San Francisco. 