 If you have just tuned in it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Tess Vigeland. If you are ready for some football well the NFL season is just a couple of weekends away and with it the new version of Madden. Each year the latest edition of the only official NFL videogame tries to be more and more realistic whether it is the commentary or the gameplay.   Or even the touchdown dances. But the game has never displayed players real-life tattoos until now. NPR's Becky Sullivan explaines.  Samit Sarkar has been playing Madden for more than 20 years. Now he is a reporter for the gaming website Polygon. He says the franchise has made realistic visuals a huge priority.  NFL superstars definitely look like their real-life counterparts would. I mean you would be able to look at their face in game and go oh man that is Eli Manning.  But tattoos have long been an exception. Some old versions had generic tattoos Sarkar says but no player has ever had their real ink appear in the game until now.   And here is quarterback Colin Kaepernick.  In real life Colin Kaepernick the young starting quarterback for the San Francisco 49er's is covered in tattoos - his chest his back his arms. In the newest Madden the computerized Kaepernick sticks out like a sore thumb in the sea of bare arms along the line of scrimmage because he is the only character in the game displaying his real-life tattoos. Tim Bradley is an intellectual property attorney. I asked him why some videogame makers have been so cautious. He explained to me that copyright law is actually very friendly to tattoo artists. All they have to do to get the protection of the law is use a quote modicum of creativity in the design and put it on a quote tangible medium.  So that could be paper or film or what have you. And you automatic own the copyrights to that.  With tattoos the medium is the person they have tattooed. But it is tricky. While the artist definitely owns the copyright to their design.  The recipient certainly owns their body. So they own a copy of your work. And so the thorny question comes in about what happens when the additional copies are made.  Meaning a recreation of the tattoo. Like say a videogame version of it or more famously this bit from the movie The Hangover Part II.   The guys have just woken up from their black out night.    This is a real tattoo.  In a nod to Mike Tyson's role in the first Hangover movie Ed Helms's uptight dentist character wakes up to find his own face now has a copy of Tyson's famous and distinctive facial tattoo. But the tattoo artist was never asked for permission for his work to appear on someone else's face. So he sued. And Warner-Brothers settled. No surprise the NFL Players Association started advising players to acquire the rights to their tattoos especially players like Colin Kaepernick whose real tattoos have become a signature part of his on-field persona.  And especially the one that you know the one that makes the pictures you just go for that bicep and kiss that.  This is Nes Andrion he is the artist who made the tattoos on Kaepernick's bicep. He runs a tattoo shop in Reno called Endless Ink. He says business has been booming since Kaepernick started doing all those bicep kisses on national TV. Andrion's gotten used to seeing his designs everywhere that Kaepernick and his famous body art appear. Newspapers magazine covers. It was no surprise to see the tattoos star in a yahoo fantasy football commercial.   Oh hey Colin Kaepernick here.  In the commercial Kaepernick is shirtless sitting in a tattoo parlor surrounded by three tattoo artists working away with their needles. Nes Andrion's work on Kaepernick's chest and arms is on full display.   Wow this says I am the fancy QB of the future. Let us write that in somewhere.  With lawsuits over tattoo use looming it is no surprise that Kaepernick's agent got Andrion's permission before that commercial aired.  No it is good for him is good for you right. I am like yes and no but he is not understanding my point of view. You know like I am supposed to be in that commercial. You know what I mean? It is my work that they are showing you know.  Nes Andrion told me he had mixed feelings about signing the waiver. And he says he has not received any money in return for signing. But he says working with Kaepernick has been a good thing for him overall. And once Kaepernick and his agents had the rights to the tattoos on his body he was free to extend those to Madden. So if you are planning to pick up a copy of the newest Madden next week try this out. Pick the 49ers as your team send your quarterback in for a rushing touchdown and watch as the computerized Kaepernick gives that signature bicep kiss to the Nes Andrion tattoo faithfully recreated on his digital arm. Becky Sullivan NPR News. 