 Finally in tech we are here to decode your digital dilemmas. Well actually  Baratunde Thurston former digital director at The Onion and author of the book How to be Black and Deanna Zandt. She is the author of Share This! How You Will Change the World with Social Networking. This week we pose the question about posting photos on Facebook  Is there a limit to the number of photos you can post of a new baby or a new pet?  Forty-seven is the...  Yeah.  ...absolute value of the number of...  Although in Canada it is actually 44 I think.  Oh is it like...  There is a new Canadian regulation of 44...  OK.  ...per cycle depending on whether you are using English or metric.   But I think this is - comes down to personal preference. People for example on Facebook they can unsubscribe from you. If you are so enamored with the human that you created that you feel the need to put out incessant amounts of pictures about that little human...  Yeah.  ...go for it. Let other people decide what they are going to do with your information.  Yeah I strongly disagree. I think there is a limit...   ...to how much you should be posting images of your child who has no consciousness or rights yet. There is a digital child abuse thing going on here. And then with the animals you know let us just get new animals. Cats have had their day on the Internet and I think it is time for a new species.  Hamsters.  But hamsters get no love...  Get no love on the Internet.  ...online. There was that one hamster on the piano that was really wonderfully adorable. Squirrels have had a brief moment. I think we could diversify a little bit though. And I am not calling for like affirmative action per se.  And there is actually a service that you can use called unbaby.me where you can replace pictures of babies that your friends have shared with pictures of other things that make you happier.   That is good. That is a good - do you get a cut of unbaby.me?  No. No.  Awesome.  This was actually passed on to me as a knower of someone who does not appreciate too many baby pictures.  There you go. That is a practical and ethical recommendation.   It is.   That is Deanna Zandt and Baratunde Thurston. Have a question for our experts? E-mail it to alltechnpr.org.    I have been looking so long at these pictures of you that I almost believe that they are real.  I have been... 