 NPR's Invisibilia started a new season this summer examining the forces that shape who we are and who we will become. Today Invisibilia co-host Alix Spiegel introduces us to a young man whose vision of his future self started at a dance party.   Picture a big hall with like 300 kids everybody crowded in and sweaty getting funky.   The one very unusual thing about this dance party though? It is in an orphanage in Syria.  Yeah it was awesome. I still remember everybody just dancing.  This is Chris Sitic . He was one of the kids at the party which happened back in 2007. Chris was 10 at the time and he says he would never seen people move this way. He would never heard this kind of music and he was dumbfounded. He says he started rushing around trying to understand who was the source of this magical music?  I was asking people what is happening? Like what is that and what is that?  And then the source of all of this awesomeness became clear.  Boom. There is a DJ.  He could not take his eyes off of her.  Yeah. She had like a bunch of CDs and you know big headphones. And I am like what is happening right there?  Chris was captivated. And was it like the kind of thing where you saw her and all of a sudden you were like that will be me?  Yeah like I want to be the one who is doing that.    Pump up your heart hands in the air. Pump up your heart hands in the air. Pump up your heart hands in the air.  Now lots of 10-year-old boys see a person doing a cool thing and think I want to be that. But for Chris this was way more. Chris was shy a wallflower. He was a kid living in a Syrian orphanage. He had no parents very limited access to the outside world. But in that moment he suddenly saw a future a person that he wanted to be.  Boom. I want to be a DJ.  For the next decade no matter how awful the situation Chris found himself in this future version of himself was like a beacon.  This is like pretty much why I am alive.  When he was in his early teens Chris spent a year and a half homeless in Damascus and then in Beirut.  Just running around trying to find a job trying to find something to eat just trying to survive.  It was horrible.  Two of my friends died. And anxiety and depression started kicking me really hard.  But always in these dark moments this image of the DJ that he would one day become would appear in his mind telling him to keep going.  Just keep pushing forward.  This image of yourself how many times a day would you bring that up in your head?  Every time I listen to music.  Hundreds of times a day?  Yeah.  Eventually Chris found a shelter to live in. He got a job scrubbing plates and started to assemble elements so that he could make this potential self into an actual self. He got headphones started watching YouTube videos...  Watching watching watching.  ...Began teaching himself to make electronic music invented a stage name...  Lodestio .   And then one day when he was 19 this faith that he had in his future self was put to a real test. You see Chris was granted a visa to go to Canada a place where he could pursue this dream. So he packed his bags headed to the airport. But in these final moments right before he got on the plane he found himself hesitating. Chris was leaving everything that he knew for an idea. He had this concept in his head of who he might one day be but that was all it was a concept a beautiful but at this point fictional idea that he would conjured that might never become reality. Was it worth it?  The last five minutes when I was waiting for the airplane I said man what the hell am I doing here? Why I am leaving?  But then he says he heard that voice in his head again his future self.  You were born for this. That is what he says to me all the time. How the hell are you going to stop right now?  How the hell are you not going to become me? So DJ Lodestio walked down the jetway.   Three. Two. One. Here we go.  I am not here to say goodbye. I am here to take the prize. You can see it in my eyes.  That is Alix Spiegel. You can hear the rest of this episode and the latest season of Invisibilia wherever you get your podcasts. 