 So how will New Horizons impact your life? Well the next time the kids ask are we there yet you can tell them about the distance New Horizons traveled to get to the far reaches of outer space. Astrophysicist Adam Frank helps us wrap our brains around it.  This is a good moment to reflect on just how freaking far away those far reaches really are. But you know there is really a problem when it comes to understanding astronomical distances. I mean once you get past a couple hundred thousand of anything who can really tell the difference? How much bigger is 3.5 billion miles from say 75 million miles?  Five times 24...  It is not like we have a day-to-day experience measuring with these kinds of things. So what do we have visceral experience with when it comes to distance? Driving. We all do a lot of driving. And as everyone knows being stuck in a car for 10 minutes - no big deal. But a 10-hour drive - that'ill suck the life out of you. So how long would it take for us to drive to Pluto? Well folks line up your soda cans potato chip bags and Slim Jims. We are in for one long road trip. Now let us do the simplest calculation possible. Assuming a straight line trip from Earth to the dwarf planet ignoring each planet's relative motion and most importantly the need to stop and pee. We will also obey the rules of our roads and keep a steady 65 miles per hour the whole way. So when we put it all together we get a solar system-spanning road trip that lasts how long? Oh just about 6206 years. And what can you expect on a 6206 year-long road trip? Well first off you know how your kids made you listen to the soundtrack from Disney's Frozen a million times last year on your road trip?    The snow glows white on the mountain tonight not a footprint to be seen...  On your way to Pluto a million repeats of Frozen...    Let it go let it go...  ...Only gets you to about Mars which speaking road-tripistically  is kind of like the city next door from where you live. Of course if you really need to keep the kids occupied there is always the entire 116-hour Harry Potter books on tape series.   Harry Potter was a wizard - a wizard fresh from his first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.  But unfortunately you will need to listen to Harry defeat Voldemort - oh I said his name - about 400000 times to keep the kids from killing each other on your way to Pluto.   Harry Potter - Harry Potter - Harry Potter - was a wizard - was a wizard - was a wizard - Harry Potter was a wizard - Harry Potter was a wizard - Harry Potter was a wizard - Harry Potter was a wizard - Harry Potter was a wizard.  So really what is the big deal about something launched from Earth getting to Pluto? The voyage that would have taken us six millennia in an SUV has taken New Horizons a little under a decade. And after Pluto New Horizons will sail on through the unexplored Kuiper Belt an extended ring of planetary construction debris and out eventually towards the endless majesty of the stars. But that is another long long long very long story.  Adam Frank writes for NPR's Cosmos blog. 