 Now for All Tech Considered. All this month we are looking at the growing role of social media influencers in our economy. Brands are expected to spend up to 10 billion on influencer-related marketing by next year. There is though a growing backlash. NPR's Julie McCarthy takes us to the eye of the storm the White Banana bar on an idyllic island in the Philippines.  With its gin-lined shelves beanbags and barefoot surfers the White Banana bar overlooks the Pacific. Italian Gianluca Casaccia owner and manager of this hipster watering-hole-cum-guesthouse made a splash when he denounced proposals he would received like this one.  Hi I am coming with my girlfriend and a friend the 23 to the 27 of July. We will need three rooms food accommodation for three days and I put you in two stories and two posts.  Such entitled-sounding inquiries landing in his email drove Casaccia to Facebook to post no more collaborations with self-proclaimed influencers. It went on.  And we would like to suggest for them to try another way to eat drink or sleep for free - or try to actually work.  That was heat No. 2 of the airborne competition. Coming up next heat No. 3.  Casaccia touched a nerve on the teardrop-shaped island of Siargao fabled for its surfing. Mayan Benedicto leans on the railing of the Cloud Nine viewing pier and soaks up a recent Sunday competition.  Surfers in three two one...   A travel and food blogger with more than 11000 Instagram followers Benedicto says she is in the industry not for a glamorous lifestyle but to share her love of travel.  Because I want to encourage Filipinos to travel I post a lot on Facebook. Both Instagram and Facebook I have people messaging me being inspired by my photos and inspired by my travels. And that is already enough for me.  Unlike the people who emailed Casaccia she says her policy is no freebies.  Because then there is this idea that they have control of what you say or you are pressured to say what they want you to say. And I do not believe in that.   As repairmen hammer a new roof onto a lodging along a cafe and resort-lined strip of Siargao Mark Roa part owner waves us in. A travel blogger and island tour operator Roa says he is not surprised that bar owner Casaccia's Facebook post elicited 14000 likes. He liked it too but says the influencer community was stung by the bar's approach.  They were trying to generalize that influencers are like the cancer of social media. They are like the -  - that is how it sounded. But the influencers and business entities can actually work harmoniously.  Forty-five-year-old Anton Diaz is among the leading social media authorities on food and travel in the Philippines. He rejects the label influencer mostly because of the bad connotations. Diaz pioneered travel blogging here 14 years ago. And his site Our Awesome Planet is comprehensive - chock-a-block with photos and information.  It is now considered as a long-form narrative.  And today international brands come to him. National Geographic commissioned Diaz last year to provide a content campaign for their cruise through the Galapagos. The secret to his success...  The main secret really here is you have to know your audience.  Diaz produces content for four different audiences - the Gen X millennials the youngest Z Generation and active seniors. Gianluca Casaccia says he would consider collaborating with influencers who produce quality content. He is even memorialized the industry at his White Banana bar.  We made a cocktail  we call it Influencer. So now it is one of the best-seller. It is very good actually.  An ounce of bourbon a splash of Cynar a bitter digestif and wild honey a best-seller. Julie McCarthy NPR News Siargao. 