 Now it is time for our regular segment Words You will Hear where we try to understand a new story by digging into a key word or phrase. Our phrase this week - chip party. And no not the kind of chip you eat. Fifty employees at a vending machine company in Wisconsin have volunteered to have microchips implanted into their hands. The chip will allow them to open doors at work to log on to their computers buy snacks in the break room - all with the swipe of a hand. On August 1 this company - Three Square Market - will host a chip party at its headquarters and they will be inserting these chips into their employees' hands using a syringe. So is this the future and should it be? For some insight into the ethics of all this we are joined by Michael Zimmer. He is a professor in the School of Information Studies at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and he directs their Center for Information Policy Research. Michael welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Great. Thanks for having me on the show.  Michael first and foremost we should say this is entirely voluntary.  It is as voluntary as it is when your boss says we are all going to get chips but you do not really have to. So you know part of me is worried already that you know how many people feel comfortable saying no to this? But it is true. It is voluntary. And in fact Wisconsin state law requires that it has to be a voluntary thing. They cannot force everyone to do it.  Michael how does this technology work?  The type of device they are using here is called a passive RFID chip and it only emits a signal when it is scanned by a reader. So this is like if you have had a card to help you access a room in your office and then you press that card against a scanner you get a green light and you can unlock the door. It is that same kind of technology but instead of in a card it is going to be inside your body.  The vice president of the company has said the chip needs to be within 6 inches of the building to work so you literally need to be on the premises. Why then is everyone so concerned that this might be used as a tracking device?  Well there is a couple of reasons. One is we never know how the technology might evolve. We have this problem that we call function creep and this happens a lot with technologies that are developed and launched for one purpose and then suddenly shift and be used for something else. Things like red light cameras where we are trying to help make sure people are running red lights and that is a great safety reason to have cameras on the roads. But certainly those start being used to just track where cars are.  Function creep is a fancy way of saying slippery slope.  Exactly.  I wonder though you know we live in a post-Edward Snowden world right? We know that our data is not really private. We know that we are being tracked and there is an argument that this kind of tracking makes our lives much easier. Right? I Google shoes and my phone knows that I need a new pair of shoes and it points me to a pair that I like that are on sale that are on Amazon. That feels to a lot of people especially a lot of younger people like progress like it is the 21st century. Do you think maybe we are being a little bit hysterical here?  Well we are not being hysterical. We are just trying to be cautious. And I think this tradeoff between convenience and privacy is something we do all the time. Like you said I wear a Fitbit and I track what I do and the kind of activities I have and I see a value in having that data being collected. But again this is more a question about what is the future implications of having some kind of device embedded in my body that could potentially be scanned and tracked?  You are in Wisconsin. Are you going to go to the chip party?  I am not going to go to the chip party. It is a cute idea. And you know some of us are worried that this is just one big PR campaign for this company and the kinds of things that they are doing. But hopefully my employer's not going to have a chip party anytime soon.  All right . That is Michael Zimmer. He is a professor in the School of Information Studies at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. Michael thanks so much for joining us.  Thank you. It was a pleasure. 