 If you have ever used Google Street View to plan a vacation or house-hunt then you know that you can see almost every corner in the U.S. But Africa and other places are almost completely left off the map. NPR's Chloee Weiner has the story of someone who is trying to fill in the map starting with Zimbabwe.  Tawanda Kanhema is driving up Samora Machel Avenue a crowded street in his hometown Harare the capital city of Zimbabwe.  And to my left is the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe which happens to be the tallest building in the city. And you can feel the energy of this commercial center and cultural center of about 2.6 million people that live here.  If he sounds like a tour guide he is a tour guide for the whole world. He has a camera strapped on the roof of his car.  The camera kind of looks like an alien. It is got six eyes and what looks like a mouth.  It is an odd sight Kanhema says. So he gets a lot of questions from people as he passes.  Is that a camera? What are you recording? What are you filming?  It is a 360-degree camera that Kanhema is using to put images of his hometown on the map - Google Street View map that is. Kanhema spend a few thousand dollars of his own money to do it because Google did not pay.  We do pay them back in a lot of other ways.  That Stafford Marquardt a product manager for Street View. He says Google's ultimate goal is to make a Street View map of the whole world. To do that Google relies on volunteers to capture places the company has not prioritized.  Google pays Street View car drivers through our official Google Street View fleet. When contributors decide to map the areas that are important to them we offer a free platform to host gigabytes and terabytes of imagery and publish it to the entire world absolutely for free.  There is not always going to be a business case to tell the story of how people live across the world.  That is Kanhema again. He sees these gaps on Street View as a digital divide.  I found it quite jarring that a lot of the countries in the region were not on the map.  When Kanhema's not working as a product manager in Silicon Valley he is a freelance photographer. He traverses Zimbabwe by foot by car by boat even on a helicopter ride over Victoria Falls.  Imagine being able to lend a ticket to get on a helicopter tour of one of the seven natural wonders of the world and being able to bring at least a million other people with you.  He sees his work as a form of documentary photography and he is hoping these images will bring in potential tourists and boost Zimbabwe's economy.  So there is a sense of responsibility that comes with that. I am not just here to document a place. I am here to document the place and then go on to the next level to think - what can we do to improve the way people live in this place?  We have added businesses to every block of Harare that Tawanda drove and that is important in bringing good maps and good directions and good date night-finding to all the people in Zimbabwe.  That is Google's Stafford Marquardt again. Recently Kanhema took Google's camera to northern Ontario. A local government hired him to capture the ice roads that connect native communities there before they are forever altered by climate change.  You feel this very strong sense of solitude. We have probably only met two cars. There is really not much to see besides the vast endless expanse of ice. It is the coldest place I have been to.  So far Kanhema's mission has added 700000 new images to Street View. Next stop he might head to Greenland or maybe Alaska or Mozambique. And you can see everything he is seen by clicking on Google Maps. Chloee Weiner NPR News. 