 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block.   Dale Uehling is Ottumwa's mayor. He joins us from city hall. Welcome to the program.  Happy to be with you.  And Ottumwa the Video Game Capital of the World according to whom?  So the governor made a proclamation and the mayor that Ottumwa was the kind of the video capital of the world or at least of the United States. And so we have been pursuing the concept of developing a museum and hall of fame to go along with the fact that we are claiming that Ottumwa is the Video Gaming Capital of the World.  And who would dispute you I suppose?  Well we have not had anyone yet.  There is still time.  We are looking at this from the standpoint that Cooperstown you know has become a very prominent tourist attraction.  For the Baseball Hall of Fame.  Right and we are larger than Cooperstown. We are actually a town of 25000 and have a pretty good highway system. We are on a four-lane highway. You know we feel that we are in a good location. We are on Amtrak. And so we are just going to continue to work on this hall of fame. It is going to be several years before we get that constructed but in the meantime we are going to have different events.  So you will be inducting the Video Game Hall of Fame but there is no actual physical hall of fame at this point.  We do not have a hall of fame but we have an event center which will be kind of our headquarters and we will have a whole host of things going on. There is going to be a place set up for bringing your own computers and having competition there which will go on all night if they want to.  How many people are you expecting in Ottumwa for this event this week?  Well we are hoping that there'ill be somewhere in excess of 3000 hopefully up towards 5000. So a lot of activities and we will be actually dedicating what we call Central Park as the Pac-Man Park. The founder and manufacturer of Pac-Man will be here on Friday.  Now Pac-Man Park just for this week or forever?  Well it is at this point temporary. We have a process that we have to go through if we are going to change the name of a park. And right now it will be Central Park with a sign that also says Pac-Man Park.  Mayor Uehling do you think you will be tempted to sit down this week and play some Pac-Man play some Donkey Kong?  Well I may try it. It will depend on how things go and how much time I have. I really have never gotten into video games. I am lucky to I guess be able to use my computer as much as I do and get my emails and that type of thing.  Yeah well good luck.  All right thank you.  That is Mayor Dale Uehling of Ottumwa Iowa talking about Big Bang 2010. That is the city's video game festival. This year they are honoring 28 gamers and game creators along with the classic game Pac-Man being inducted into the new International Video Game Hall of Fame.  