 In Alaska a proposal to build North America's largest open pit mine is being challenged with a local ballot initiative. The ballot measure targets plans for a gigantic copper and gold mine. Opponents say the mine would ruin the ecology of one of the world's most productive wild salmon fisheries in Bristol Bay. Daysha Eaton a reporter with member station KDLG in Dillingham Alaska has been following the fight over the pebble mine and she joins me now. Daysha welcome.  Hi Melissa.  What is the scale of this proposed mine? How big would it be?  Well it is hard to say exactly how big it would be. The mine area it spans over 150 square miles but they do not have a mine plan yet. And so until we see a mine plan we do not really know how big the mine would be.  And the value of the minerals and the metals that are expected from this site it is huge.  It is huge. It is billions. The mine site is said to hold an estimated 80 billion pounds of copper more than a hundred million ounces of gold and about five billion pounds of molybdenum.  And the fight over the proposed mine has to do with the ecology around Bristol Bay. Explain why this area is so valued.  They are still doing environmental studies of the site to find out whether or not salmon are actually spawning nearby the site and we are waiting on that information now.  And the mine has been a source of controversy for quite a long time now. Who is lined up in opposition to it?  Bob Gillam he is considered one of the richest men - if not the richest - businessmen in Alaska. He has been behind this SOS Initiative. And it came out in the Alaska Daily News this morning that he was the sole funder of the group that is behind the SOS Initiative.  SOS standing for?  Save Our Salmon.  And on the other side who is in support?  In support of the mine are people who are pro-development. The Pebble Partnership which is behind the mine of course is for it. And anybody who really wants development and resource development in particular in the sate is behind it.  And where do the native groups line up on this? Would some be saying look there are jobs here we need these jobs?  Yes the Alaska native group that are up closest to the mine development near Lake Iliamna they are on board with the mining operation for the most part because they are benefitting already from jobs and development in the area. But the groups the Alaska native groups that are closer to Bristol Bay the Alaska Native corporations are opposed to the mine and throughout Alaska.  Now let us talk about the local ballot measure against the mine. It is been hotly contested. Ballots I gather are due next week. Does the ballot initiative have teeth and what happens if it were to pass and will there be a whole lot more litigation to follow?  I think you can be sure there'ill be more litigation to follow. The initiative does not have a lot of teeth. The people will be able to say whether or not they want the mine by how they vote on the initiative but the courts can go ahead and say that it is not constitutional if they so choose.  Daysha thanks so much.  Thank you. 