 It is good to have people on call when you need them - a plumber a doctor an astrophysicist. Here at NPR we have blogger Adam Frank and we decided to call him up on behalf of all of you our listeners so that you can ask your big questions and Adam will give us some understandable answers. Hi Adam.  Hey. How is it going?  Good. Thanks to everybody who tweeted their questions. You want to read the one that we have got up next?  OK. The question this time is if there are points in space with only three atoms per square meter what fills in the rest?  Let me start by asking are there points in space with only three atoms per square meter? Is that a thing?  Oh yeah. Actually most of space is pretty empty.  But when I think of emptiness I think of like air. And air is not really emptiness. What do you mean...  Yeah that is...  ...When you say emptiness in the context of space?  OK. So for reference there is about 10 to the 25 molecules in a cubic meter of air. This translates into 10 million million million million bits of matter in the space about the size of a beach ball. So when you take a...  So that is a lot of stuff even if it is invisible weightless stuff.  Right exactly. So when I take a deep breath  really what I am doing is I am filling my lungs with all those little bits of matter all those particles of air.  And when we talk about emptiness in space there is no air. There is maybe three atoms per square meter. And the rest...  Yeah well so this is the amazing thing about space. It is remarkably empty - right? So you know there are some places where there is just one little bit of matter in the same beach-ball-like volume. And there are some places where it is even less than that. You would have to actually search an even larger volume of space before you found a lonely atom. So yes space is pretty damn empty.  OK. So just to answer the listener's question if there are points in space with only three atoms per square meter what fills in the rest? The answer is nothing...  Nothing.  ...Fills in the rest.  Right because essentially for a physicist the absence of matter is nothing. I mean there is still space and time there but you know there - the absence of matter we consider to be a state of you know zero matter zero energy density is a way of putting it.  That is University of Rochester professor and NPR science blogger Adam Frank. Thank you Adam.  It was a pleasure.  And if you have a question about physics astronomy or science in general ask us and we will put it to our astrophysicist. The show is on Facebook and Twitter npratc.  