 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. To some Americans revelations about the National Security Agency and how it monitors phone calls emails and the Internet might not seem relevant to their lives. The idea being if you have done nothing wrong you have got nothing to hide. But agents of the NSA are not the only ones who could potentially get hold of personal information.  This week we are going to examine the digital footprints most of us leave from the time we wake up to the time we go to sleep. Those footprints reveal what we do what we think who we know and where we go. And as NPR's Daniel Zwerdling reports lots of different people could get their hands on that information from local police to divorce attorneys.   It is 7 A.M. You start revealing your intimate habits to the outside world the moment you wake up.   At least if you do what a lot of people do you set an alarm on an app on your smartphone so you wake up to Internet radio.   Maybe you like to wake up to provocative talk shows. This one is Bill Press maybe you prefer Bill Bennett. You can listened to hundreds of talk and music shows from Internet companies like Tune-up or Pandora.  They know which songs you are listening to which radio programs you are listening to.  Kevin Bankston is a lawyer with the Center for Democracy and Technology. It is a nonpartisan research and advocacy group here in Washington D.C. Bankston says whatever you are listening to...  Someone is logging that. Whether you like the right-wing commentator or the left-wing commentator whether it is Internet radio or just reading a news story after you have logged into The New York Times. There is a record that you consume that content. And that is not anything we have ever had before in human history is anything close to a comprehensive look at the media you are consuming.   And now it'05 A.M. You drag yourself out of bed you turn on the shower. And while the water is getting hot you check your emails. Aha there is one from a friend of yours. She writes thought you might want to check this out since we argued about religion the other day. And she sent you a link to a book at BarnesAndNoble.com. You click...   ...and instantly the digital world out there has more information about you. The screen shows the cover of a book called Jihad in the West. The title is in big yellow letters against a photo of a mosque. The book is a scholarly history. But if someone did not know better it might raise eyebrows. I asked a software specialist to analyze.   As the result of clicking on this link Jihad in the West who all receives information about me about me looking at this book?  Ashkan Soltani used to investigate software companies for the Federal Trade Commission. Now he is a consultant on online privacy and he is using special software that reveals something that you normally never see. Companies on the Internet commonly allow other companies to in effect spy on what you are doing on their websites. The companies tracking you are usually hidden on the webpage. But Soltani's software shows the companies as white circles on a black background.  ...7 8 9 10 11 - something like 15 different companies.  Fifteen?  That is right. By looking up this book Jihad in the West on Barnes  Noble 15 other companies know that you have looked this up.  Many companies that track you want to know what interests you so they can target ads specifically to you. Others gather personal information and then sell it to industry research outfits. The software that Soltani's using names the companies that are tracking our computer right now.  We have Google.com we have Coremetrics Cridio Scorecard Research CMCore.com and we would have to look up kind of who these companies are.  So even you have not heard of some of them.  Yeah. You know when I first started doing this research I was aware of say two to three hundred. And now they are in the thousands.   It'15 A.M. and let us say you are going to work and you are creating more digital footprints.   If you take the subway or bus do you use a registered smartcard to pay the fare? The Transportation Department or its contractors keep computer logs that show when and where you travel.   And if you drive your local police might be taking photos of you in your car and storing it in their computers. Police across the country are using automatic license plate scanners now to help solve crimes.  It simplifies the job a lot more.  That is Detective Mohammed Tabibi in Arlington Virginia. His car has two cameras that sit on the hood like searchlights. As we cruise down the street they automatically snap pictures of just about every license plate we pass whether moving or parked. They can take up to 7200 per hour. Every time they get a picture it beeps.   The system stores a picture that shows the license plate the car the GPS coordinates the time and the person getting in or out if he or she happens to be there. The computer automatically sounds the alarm if the license is in the crime database.   I have located numerous stolen vehicles at least 10 with the system.  Police are not just using license plate scanners to catch criminals. They are accumulating millions of records that show where cars and their owners were spotted across America. Until recently Mary Ellen Callahan was a top adviser to the secretary of Homeland Security. She says as cities share this information...  You would have a very detailed snapshot of what my husband and I do in our car where we travel what our day is like.  Good morning. How are you?  Fine.  Good.  Its 9 A.M. you arrive at work. The rest of the morning you surf the Internet for your job. Court cases have established that your employer has the right to see everything you do on your work computer including your personal emails.   Finally it is 1 P.M. You tell your colleagues you are going to lunch. But you are not really going to lunch. You are going to a medical appointment and you do not want people to know it. But your cellphone leaves a digital trail.   The hit TV show Scandal had an episode about it.   And a German politician named Malte Spitz knows what people can learn from your cellphone.  If someone has this information about you this person has a map of your life.  A couple of years ago Spitz sued his phone company in Germany so they would give him the computer logs they keep on his cellphone. A computer specialist turned them into an animated map. And now Spitz and I watch his life together. We are following roughly where he went 24 hours a day over six months. And suddenly I see your circle you zipping along at a pretty fast pace along what looks like a valley past woods. Are you driving?  No. On August 31st I go by high-speed train to Bavaria. Next day I went to Munich.  Spitz and phone engineers will tell you that in general your phone company cannot track exactly where you are the way they show in the movies. Instead your company logs which cellphone tower handles each of your calls and texts. So if you are in a rural area where there are not many towers the logs might show where you were only within a few miles. If you are in a city with lots of towers the log might be able to show which block you were on even which building. And of course if you use smartphone apps that know your location...   They keep track of exactly where you have gone by connecting with GPS satellites.   It is 2 P.M. back to the office. You work till five. But before you go home you pop into the pharmacy.  I am here to pick up that prescription.  OK.  Thank you.  This is Brookville Pharmacy in Chevy Chase Maryland. The owner Hossein Ejtemai says his computer stores seven years worth of details about your life. But he says they are private.  What you are taking what condition you are in what kind of disease you have.  HIV sexually transmitted diseases.  Anything - the list of your medications.  If my wife came to you and said what medications is he taking?  I cannot give no information does not matter who comes in.  Except police and even private lawyers can get your medical records with just a subpoena. We will talk more about that later this week.  All right great thank you so much.  You too.  Now it is just after 6 P.M. You are home. You are ready for dinner. So you go where else to the refrigerator.   Or it could be the smart refrigerator by Whirlpool or Samsung most of the big companies are starting to promote smart appliances this year.   Did you catch that? The refrigerator can scan the barcodes on the food you put into it and then it can order your groceries online when you need more. Now maybe you are shaking your head and thinking who needs a smart refrigerator? Or if you get one do you care if some computer across the Internet keeps track of your food?  Yeah what is the big deal if somebody knows that I have a refrigerator and buy milk and eggs?  Rebecca Harold is a privacy specialist. She is part of an international committee set up by the U.S. Commerce Department to study smart energy systems. She says your milk and eggs might seem trivial but think about it. Every smart appliance from the air conditioner to the thermostat will reveal clues about your family. The smart fridge too.  If you wanted to know before what type of food people were eating and how many people were in a particular location or apartment you would have physically had to put some sort of surveillance. And this type of information can give insights into people's lives that you just have not been able to get before.  Now it is 9 P.M. You have finished dinner and you have loaded your smart dishwasher. You plop in front of the TV to watch Netflix.   But of course companies like Netflix track what you watch and when.   Hi excuse me guys could I ask you something? Here on the streets in Washington D.C. most people I talk to are not concerned. When you think about all the information about you that is out there in the digital world...  It does not bother me. My name is Brent Thorpe Washington D.C. It just does not bother me. I have nothing to hide.  The question is not you know should you be concerned about the government getting access to where you are travelling on the metro or who you are calling.  David Cole is a professor and a lawyer at Georgetown University.  Or what Internet sites you are browsing or how you are using your credit card.  He teaches constitutional law and national security.  The question is should we be concerned when the government has access to all of that information and can put it together to create a picture of your private activities your thoughts and desires your interests and disinterests that is more intimate than almost anybody other than maybe your spouse is likely to be aware of?  And forget about government snooping for the moment tomorrow we will learn more about companies that track the digital footprints of your life. Daniel Zwerdling NPR News.  Our story was co-reported by G.W. Schulz of the Center for Investigative Reporting and researched by Emma Anderson. Now you can learn more about the digital world and privacy at npr.org. 