 The fastest supercomputer in the United States is at the Department of Energy's Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee. Most of the time academic scientists and engineers use it to run mathematical models for studying things like nuclear fusion or the behavior of nanoscale materials. But every once in a while an entrepreneur shows up with an idea that needs a supercomputer to become a reality and that is how NPR's Joe Palca found another candidate for his project Joe's Big Idea. He brings us this story about a California company that is using the computer to make better flood maps for insurance companies.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency produces flood maps that will tell you how prone a particular area is to flooding. But Dag Lohmann says these maps do not tell you everything you might want to know about what might happen in a flood.  You do not know whether the flood is two inches high two feet high or two meters high.  Lohmann is co-founder of KatRisk a catastrophe modeling company in Berkeley Calif.  And when you think about catastrophe modeling the logical progression to think about that would be how often would you get flooded. But you do not only have to know how often you also have to know how severe is the flooding. You need to know how deep would the water be.  In other words in order to properly price a policy an insurance company would want to know if a flood occurred would repairs involve replacing a few carpets or removing tons of mud and debris? Lohmann wants to make flood hazard maps that would provide that kind of information detailed enough to make predictions for individual properties. But to make such detailed maps requires an enormous amount of computing.  Ten years ago this would have been immensely expensive to run those kind of computations.  The Oak Ridge supercomputer changes all that in part because it is a new kind of supercomputer. Instead of just traditional central processing units or CPUs the Oak Ridge computer uses lots of graphical processing units or GPU's the kind of processor computer gamers like for producing lifelike graphics.  For flood modeling the ideal is graphics cards.  Lohmann says that is because they can do calculations in parallel.  You have easily 2000 to 3000 now up to 4000 little processors in each graphics card.  So what you do is divide a map into a grid and each processor calculates the flood risk for a different square on the grid all at the same time. Stitch all the individual squares together and voila you have got a highly detailed map. One especially nice thing for start-up companies like Lohmann's? Computer time is free. As a national lab Congress has told Oakridge to work with all comers interested in using its supercomputer. The only catch is you have to make your results public. In theory that means another company could jump in and do the same thing Lohmann's doing. In practice Lohmann says there would still be technical and scientific hurdles a competitor would have to overcome even with access to his results. Lohmann is not the only entrepreneur to approach Oak Ridge with an idea needing some supercomputing. For example a company from South Carolina called SmartTruck used the Oak Ridge computer to design a system for reducing drag and saving fuel on long-haul trucks. Jack Wells is director of science of the Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility.  People always bring their dreams here. They bring their dreams for what they wanted to do with their life's work. And we help give them a big jump forward by giving them access to our Titan supercomputer.  So if you have got an idea that needs a supercomputer I am sure Jack Wells would like to hear from you. Joe Palca NPR News. 