 Change.org's online petitions draw attention to social issues around the world. But now the company's staff are turning the focus on themselves. Workers there have formed a union over issues like wages and racial inclusion and labor activists working on the tech industry are hailing it as a victory. NPR's Bobby Allyn reports.  Erni Poche started as a temporary contractor at Change.org during the pandemic. Poche is job involved scouring the internet for campaigns that could go viral and providing resources to petition-creators. She was eventually hired full time her salary just under 50000 a year.  I live in New York City. That does not go a long way.  To make ends meet she also works as a part-time interpreter. Poche got to talking to others who had experience as contractors at the company. Everybody wanted better pay and more stability.  I definitely believe that Change.org can contribute to an equitable workplace and that starts with paying folks a living wage.  This push led Poche and about 70 of her colleagues to form a union under a unit of the Communications Workers of America focused on people in media and tech. Sriya Sarkar is a content producer at Change.  We are drawing inspiration from the very people who come to our platform to create change in their communities. We are drawing inspiration from them by speaking up for the change we want to see internally.  Sarkar says it took talking to more junior and lower-paid employees that there was a role for a union at Change.org.  Unions to me honestly were - I had always thought of them as something that like factory workers are involved with and then the Pinkertons are sent in to bust kneecaps. I did not think that unions were a relevant solution for tech companies.  There has been a surge in employee activism in Silicon Valley in recent months. It is been driven by a desire to stand up for contractors in risky positions and employees wanting to speak out publicly about their company's role in society. That is resulted in a small union at Google and a handful of others at smaller tech companies. But this is how unionization at Change.org stands out - it has just around 200 employees but it is now the largest tech company to not fight an employee union. The company instead agreed to voluntarily recognize it. That is according to Bec Wilson a top executive at Change.  It makes sense to me in these times of uncertainty that employees including in tech and including our team would seek the security and protection of unionization.  The union says they will fight for a fair wage especially for the more than 20 of its staff who are contractors. Another top priority for the union something less traditional than pay and benefits - changing how the company handles race and diversity issues. Poche who is a Black Latina says the company has made strides recently in making diverse hires. But then Poche says they were the ones who took on online petitions involving race and the ones who had to educate the company's leadership about race.  We are not diversity equity and inclusion specialists.  Workers say they want to see more people of color in management positions. Though two of Change's six top executives are people of color Sarkar says across management Change has more work to do.  Our leadership is overwhelmingly white. And it is 2021 and it is time to change that.  Union officials and management will begin negotiating their first contract sometime this fall. Bobby Allyn NPR News San Francisco.  