 Parenting in the age of smartphones can be really stressful. Health experts from the World Health Organization on down say we should limit kids' screen time to a quote healthy level. But infants aside that does not mean zero. There is a growing push to encourage parents to be media mentors rather than gatekeepers. NPR's Anya Kamenetz has looked into this for our Life Kit parenting podcast. She is here to talk us through it. Welcome back to the program Anya.  Thanks Audie.  Define media mentoring for us.  So the philosophy behind this is pretty simple right? It is trying to use digital devices together with your children as much as you can and assisting them in understanding what it is that they are doing on those devices. So one proponent of this is Mimi Ito. She is a researcher at the University of California Irvine. And she says we need to face the facts that media especially things like video games are a major source of fun for kids.  Unless parents can find a way to somehow understand and engage with that in a positive way video games can often become a source of tension between parents and kids. And so we see time and time again that parents are not engaged in the kind of mentoring and guidance around video games that they do for other parts of kids' play and growing up and friendship relationships.  So she says you need to get in there and play video games with your kids. And she also says that this is fun.  It is a lot more fun than clocking screen time and you know doing the finger-wagging thing.  I thought it was pediatricians who told us to do the finger-wagging thing.  I am a little bit offended by this.  I know right?  So how does this work out in real life?  So I visited a family in Washington D.C. - Chris Wallace Latoya Peterson and their son Gavin who is 5. This is Gavin.   .  Good to know that game is still popular. I recognize the tune .  Oh my gosh. Nintendo's having this incredible comeback. And that is his favorite stuffed animal ever - that somehow matches up the Mario Bros. game plus Captain Marvel. Anyway almost every night after dinner this family jumps on the couch and plays big complex PlayStation video games.  Oh my gosh. You want to see what happens? Hit X and it will make a sound. See. They are trying to fake. He is a darkness guy.  What are they playing there?  OK so it is a big game called Kingdom Hearts that has all these different Disney characters kind of on one universe. And they play other games together too even some that are not necessarily meant for young kids like one called Persona. Latoya Peterson says it is just certain parts of that game that are age-appropriate. She stresses this.  Normally he is playing with me. Normally we play together.  And I should say you know all of this comes really naturally to Peterson. You know she grew up playing video games even though her dad did not necessarily want her using his system.  I would just wait until dad was not home sneak into the room  and play.  And today she is been really successful in new media. And she is the co-founder of an all-women-of-color-led video game company called Glow Up Games.  Can I ask something Anya here? Essentially are they arguing that you can play video games along with your kids the same way you would read along with your kids and get some kind of benefit from it?  That is exactly right. When you are sharing media time with your kids you are giving them the chance to understand better the messages that are coming across. You can learn social and emotional skills from this just as you would from a story.  How does this square with health recommendations that kids should actually limit screen time especially before bed?  So being a media mentor does not mean that you say yes all the time and you are always handing out candy. The American Academy of Pediatrics says parents should keep your schedule prioritize kids' sleep outdoor play and family meals. And Latoya Peterson and Chris Wallace actually do all of this.  Are there certain things parents should be doing when they are using screens with their kids?  So consistently having conversations about what they are playing or watching is what experts call active mediation. And Latoya Peterson sees video games as an opportunity. She sees them as a way that Gavin can get comfortable with technology to pick up new skills not just tech skills either.  One of the big things we are working on right now is the concept of resiliency and not quitting when something is hard. And games are great with that because the whole idea - like I think we were in some castle. And he is like Mom this castle - 'ecause I died like twice in this castle like immediately. And Gavin's like Mom this castle's too hard. We should stop. And I was like Gavin this is the point. Like sometimes things are hard and you have to go back and try again or you try something different. And I have noticed he does that in his real life.  Sometimes you lose and lose and lose. And in Persona sometimes when a monster kills us and gets our blue heart we die. We lost. And that means our battle game is over.  Gavin sounds amazingly sweet. There are parents though who let us say use screens to occupy their kids so that they can get some stuff done.  I do not know what you are talking about. I have never done that.  I do not know parents like this. I know they are out there. So what if you cannot make time to have this kind of hands-on interaction the way Chris Wallace and Latoya Peterson are doing?  So this is a key point. I am glad you brought it up. Dr. Jenny Radesky - she is the pediatrician who lead-authored that American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines on kids and media. So she is the rule maker. And she says that yes sometimes kids are going to use screens by themselves. And what happens after that is you try to have a dialogue with them and ask them questions about what they are watching what they are playing.  What do you like about this? And what seems annoying or creepy about it too?  And Dr. Radesky says through these conversations we can help our kids develop a bit of self-regulation around screen time also.  Do you think it is OK to sit and watch slime videos for an hour? Like what is good about that? What is not good about that?  This all makes sense when they are very young. As kids get older they can be less interested in hanging out with their parents. Does this media mentoring idea work at older ages?  Absolutely it can according to Mimi Ito. She is the researcher at UC Irvine. Her children now are 18 and 21. But when her son was a teen she saw her role shifting.  To me asking a lot of questions and observing my son's gameplay and being more of a interested observer supporter cheerleader rather than somebody that was actually playing the same games.  So being that cheerleader and supporting her kids' interests - she credits that with kind of leading to both of her children now studying computer science for example.  Finally Anya we have been talking about this in the context of video games. But for many parents it is more likely to involve our smartphones and our tablets. How should we be mentoring our behavior with those?  That is a great point. So the point is here - our kids are watching and learning from us 24 hours a day even when we are not being exemplars. So if you are constantly kind of pulled into your smartphone they are going to absorb that that is an OK way to treat your family members. On the other hand on the positive side you know most of us use technology in the course of our work our personal passions to learn about the world to discover new music to keep in touch with friends and family. And those are all positive things that we can share with our kids by modeling that as well.  That is NPR's Anya Kamenetz. Anya thanks so much.  Thanks Audie.  And Anya hosts NPR's Life Kit parenting podcast. The Life Kit series has practical tips on all sorts of things. You can find it at npr.orglifekit. 