 One big reason Alton Sterling's death became national news was a cell phone video and a warning that even the audio is a bit disturbing. It captured police officers struggling with then shooting Sterling.   He is got a gun. Gun.  .  .   That video was filmed by a Baton Rouge activist group called Stop the Killing Inc. The group's founder is Arthur Reed who goes by Silky Slim and he joins us now. How did your group get involved with the Alton Sterling shooting?  Basically we gather video of violent footage all the time and we listen to scanners every single day to find out where these violent acts are taking place. And when we listen to these scanners when we hear certain codes we will go to that location. We will go to the address that we hear on the scanners. However with this particular video we are not sure if they actually heard the call. We just know that the video was captured and when it was turned over to me I knew the importance of that video.  Tell me why you decided not to release the video immediately after you obtained it.  We wanted to give the police department and the city a chance to be transparent with what was going on. Immediately after the killing the police officers put the owner of the store in the back of a police car confiscated his hard drive took his cell phone and basically placed him under arrest for no charges. We wanted to see if they were going to release the store video. We wanted to see how transparent it was going to be. So they are saying well we have video. We have body cameras. We have everything that we need to do a thorough investigation. Then the next day they come out and say well the body cameras fell off the officers so we do not have that video. And then they did not produce to store surveillance footage so that let us know that we needed to release what we had nationally. And that is why we used social media through several outlets to make sure that we get this thing up and running.  And of course after this incident in Baton Rouge we have seen another killing in Minnesota. What do you make of the scenario there where the incident was live-streamed on Facebook?  I think that was very smart of her to live-stream it. That way if they would have told her to stop recording it would not have been one of those days where they could have just made her shut her phone off. It was already being recorded. I think that is a very very sad incident right there but the focus has been turned to what has taken place there. And this is - Alton is definitely yesterday's news because something new has happened now. And that shows you how fast these incidents are happening. We were praying and hoping that nothing would happen and that this would not happen again in our country but unfortunately less than 24 hours - when we were receiving the attention that we feel that this case should get it is turned somewhere else. And I am afraid to go to sleep tonight 'ecause I am thinking that we are going to hear something tomorrow. I mean this is saddening.  Obviously technology has really become a powerful tool in these scenarios. What kinds of guidance do you offer people around the country about how best to use the technology at their disposal?  Film what you are filming understand what you are filming and do not over talk yourself on what you are filming. If you have to talk while you film make sure that you use clean language so that this can be material that can be used for the media. This is important right now in this time. You have to thank God for iPhones Samsung and all of the many brands that have offered us this type of technology. You have to thank God for social media. These stories are not new stories to the urban community. We have been saying that police are killing people and covering it up. But there is that other side of society that has not ever seen anything like this and will be quick to say oh man no police officer is going to just kill you. These people are crazy. But now that we have footage and we have video we are showing you exactly what is going on and how it has been going on for so long. Right now we just have a way of exposing it. And the sad part about it is that even though we are getting the video and we are getting the actual killings there is still no accountability for what has taken place.  That was Arthur Reed a.k.a. Silky Slim. His Baton Rouge activist group is called Stop the Killing Inc. They film police encounters including the one this week that ended with Alton Sterling's death. 