 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  Laura first why is the U.S. Copyright Office getting into how your iPhone works?  So in the case of the iPhone the Copyright Office was looking at the lock that Apple puts on the iPhone to restrict which applications consumers can install. And it decided that the lock restricts how consumers can use something they own.  That is something they call jailbreaking.  That is right. They call it jailbreaking because it means you can break Apple's lock that essentially prevents you from putting applications that are not approved by Apple onto the phone. You know normally Apple would say if you break the lock you are tampering with our software. And now you can break the lock. It is your phone. You bought it right?  So if you want to break the lock and install something give us an example of what you could now do with your iPhone that you could not do before.  Although I will say Apple can say you know what we are not going to warranty your phone anymore. So some people may not be willing to risk that.  Now the ruling - we have been talking about the iPhone - but the ruling does not just affect iPhones. It does affect other mobile devices too. Is that correct?  Yes it does. And in fact one very important thing is you can now buy a phone - it has to be a used phone - and you can decide which carrier it goes on. Previously if you bought a phone you bought it from you know Sprint. And Sprint said you know well Verizon said this phone has to be used on our network. Well now it does not. You can say all right I bought a Verizon phone and I am going to use it on Sprint.  What else did the Copyright Office rule on yesterday?  So say if you were making a documentary about the Civil Rights Movement and you wanted to go back and take a little bit of footage from you know dogs attacking protesters. Well now you can crack the code. You can take a little bit of that footage and you can put it in your documentary and not have to worry about violating copyright law.  When you talk about cracking the encryption that sounds like something that is incredibly difficult. Is that something that the average Joe could do or do you need a good amount of expertise for this?  You need some expertise. And here's the funny thing. It is not clear whether or not the people who have that expertise and give you the skills to do it they could be breaking the law still. So that is a little unclear.  One last question. If you do say have an iPhone and you want to go shopping and use something that was previously restricted if you have to go back to iPhone update you know get one of those service updates that you need every six months or so at that point does it revert to the old iPhone with the old locks?  That is a good point and indeed it will. They can say if you want to update your phone you know forget about it. You are going to lose your - the way you broke the lock. You are not going to be able to update your phone and put on the new software if you break the lock.  Laura thanks so much.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Laura Sydell. She covers technology and copyright issues. 