 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  I am Melissa Block. And it is time for All Tech Considered. We are talking about our relationships with mobile technology in our tech segment today. And we start with news that many air travelers have been waiting for. The FAA may soon allow smartphones tablets and the like to be used throughout an entire flight including takeoff and landing. A committee recommended that change today as NPR's David Schaper reports from Chicago.  Barbara Reilly is a frequent flier and a busy one at that.  On today's plane I brought a computer an iPad a cellphone. I used them all used them continuously until the very moment I had to turn them off and then the second I could turn them all on they were all back on.  The healthcare consultant from Atlanta passing through Chicago's O'Hare airport says she does not like the FAA rule that requires passengers to turn off all of their personal electronic devices during takeoff and landing.  I would love to see that rule go away. If it is not really helping anything and it is just a rule to have a rule then I would love to see it go away.  Reilly may soon get her wish. An advisory committee made up of pilots mechanics engineers airline executives and other industry experts finds that personal electronic devices do not interfere with airplane communications and navigation systems. And today that panel is recommending that the federal government change its rules to allow many electronics to be used throughout the entire flight. Travel industry analyst Henry Harteveldt says this will be welcome news to passengers deep in a book on their e-reader lost in a guitar solo on their iPod or watching video on their tablet or smartphone.  If you are a parent with a small kid traveling it means that you do not have to deprive your child of that entertainment. If you are in the middle of watching an episode of your favorite TV show or a favorite movie you do not have to put that away.  But Harteveldt says sending and receiving texts and emails or using Wi-Fi during takeoffs and landings would still be prohibited. Also talking on cellphones during flights will still be banned. Some flights attendants are concerned that passengers glued to their devices will not be able to hear important announcements during an emergency. A spokesman for the FAA says the recommendations are under review and if the agency agrees to change the rules it might not be until next year. David Schaper NPR News Chicago. 