 Epic Games the maker of the video game Fortnite and Apple have been locked in a legal battle. Epic sued Apple over some of its App Store policies. You see Apple charges developers like Epic a fee every time someone downloads their apps or buy something within them. A federal judge has ruled on the case and largely said Apple's actions were just fine with one critical exception. NPR's Bobby Allyn joins us now to explain and we should note Apple is among NPR's financial supporters. Hey Bobby.  Hey there Ailsa.  All right so can you just break down exactly what this ruling said?  Yeah. So Apple of course as we all know you know makes a lot of money by selling computers phones and other physical stuff. But as iPhone sales flatline Apple is trying to make a lot more money off things like fees and subscriptions. And on iPhones and iPads that is big business. I mean the mobile gaming market alone is a 100 billion industry. So - OK so every time you use Candy Crush say want to buy a cool outfit for your avatar on Roblox - whatever you are doing on your iPhone you know Apple is taking a 30 cut. It is sort of invisible but it is happening. And the judge here said Apple is making money there but that quote success is not a crime. But the judge did say Apple needs to give people options before they buy that outfit on Roblox. So that could look like do you want to buy it through Apple or do you want to use Roblox's own processor? And it is a subtle thing Ailsa but it is actually a really big deal.  Right. OK. Tell us a little more about that. Like what makes it such a big deal?  Right. So let me just use a personal example. So I am training for a marathon now and every time I go on a run I use the app Strava to record my runs right?  Yeah.  I think I pay like five bucks a month for a fancier version of the app. Baked into that price is Apple's 30 commission. Now the judge in this case Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers basically said before I buy that Strava subscription I should not be forced to complete my payment through Apple. Strava should be giving me more options here. And if I did have an option say to process it through Strava it might be cheaper to me and Strava might make more money off it. And for years you know developers - if they had one complaint about Apple it is that the App Store is just too tightly controlled by Apple. And you know Stanford law professor Mark Lemley told me Apple giving up even a little bit of its gatekeeper role here means there might be more to come.  Big Tech has come under a lot of antitrust scrutiny in the last several years but Apple has so far mostly gotten a pass. And I think this suit even the way it resolves is maybe an indication that that is not going to continue.  Interesting. OK Bobby so what happens next in this case?  You can probably guess - an appeals process. But the battle lines are actually kind of interesting because both sides are appealing. Nobody here is happy. Epic is appealing because Apple was not declared an illegal monopoly as they had hoped and Apple is appealing because they do not want to make the changes to its payment system that the judge is ordering. They are really holding on tight to its 30 arrangement.  OK so any changes will have to wait on those appeals. But if this ruling does stand will iPhone and iPad users notice anything different?  Yeah yeah. So in theory yes if there are more payment options Ailsa for you and I every time we buy something on our iPhone or iPad you know prices could get cheaper. You know analysts say those lower prices could also force Apple to drop its commission just to stay competitive right? That is how markets work. But also developers could just pocket the extra money so we shall see. We do not know yet for sure how it is going to play out for consumers. But you know the most optimistic take is if this does survive the appeals process yes this could mean consumers will save a little bit of money when you are buying things in Apple's App Store.  That is NPR's Bobby Allyn. Thank you Bobby.  Thanks Ailsa.  