 Adam Frank usually has his head in the sky. He is an astrophysicist. It is an occupational hazard. Right now though he is dazzled by the universe of green right here on Earth.  Now that we are well past the start of spring you are probably inured already to all the green - well not me Pal. See this Spring I have been digging in on photosynthesis for some research I am doing. And I got to tell you. It is blowing my mind. Now for those of you who have been out of a bio class for a while let us remember that photosynthesis is the molecular-scale shenanigans plant use to create food from sunlight. See when life first formed on Earth about 4 billion years or so ago the only way single-cell critters could get energy was from chemistry. They had to find high-energy chemicals like methane and convert it into low-energy chemicals like carbon dioxide. What was left over they used for you know being alive. But times were tough. The chemical foodstuffs like methane were pretty limited. So from life's point of view the situation back then was a little like trying to run a marathon on a diet of saltines. But then evolution got creative really creative. The sun sends the earth the energy equivalent of thousands of atomic bombs every second. Eventually life through evolution figured out how to directly tap the energy in all that sunlight. By combining light particles with molecules of carbon dioxide and water photosynthesis opened the energy floodgates and it freed life from its starvation diet. Do not care yet - well take a deep breath. The atmospheric oxygen you are sucking in is only there because of photosynthesis. If it stopped the oxygen in the air would react away pretty quickly. And why is that oxygen so important for the Earth's history? Well for starters brains like ours could never have evolved without the high-powered biochemistry that oxygen allows. So that means you can thank photosynthesis for even thinking about thanking photosynthesis. From ocean plankton to Venus flytraps inside every plant there is an insanely complex little molecular engine that turns sunlight into food and spits out oxygen. So take a moment to thank the next leaf you come across and celebrate the glory that is photosynthesis.  NPR blogger Adam Frank.  