 In Florida the space shuttle has been a jobs creator for decades. Now for thousands of people the shuttle's last mission is not just the end of an era it is also the end of a career. Nearly 8000 men and women who worked on the shuttle program have been laid off. Still NPR's Greg Allen found that some people on the so-called Space Coast remain optimistic about their region's future.  For someone who is just lost his job Kim Cannaday is remarkably upbeat. Mr.  I have really enjoyed it. It is been a great career. And some of the best people in the world out there I will tell you. Too bad it is coming to an end.  We are at a Starbucks on Merritt Island a bedroom community for many who work at Kennedy Space Center. After 23 years working for United Space Alliance - a prime shuttle contractor - Cannaday was laid off in April. Mr.  That is actually a picture of Endeavor - that is my wallpaper - when we rolled out for the last mission.  He is brought along his laptop with pictures from some of the nearly 120 missions he worked on as a shuttle technician. He recalls his first day on the job. It was after the tragic Challenger disaster and an almost three-year long hiatus when the future of the shuttle program was in doubt and many workers were laid off. Cannaday was one of a whole new crew of technicians hired to prepare the launch of the first shuttle sent back into space Discovery. Mr.  Oh it was beautiful. It was really neat. And when you are out there working you are closer than just about anybody. I mean when you are there and feel the launch you feel the vibration and the rumble. The motors come through you you know as you are standing there.  Along Florida's Space Coast from Titusville to Melbourne there are former shuttle workers like Cannaday. And by the end of the month there will be 2000 more - men and women with families mortgages and now the challenge of finding a new career. Cannaday says many of his former co-workers have already found jobs. He is submitted applications with a number of companies even some out of the area so far without success. Mr.  I think part of the trouble I am having right now is I might be overqualified for some of the jobs out here because they are paying so much less. And I think the employers might be looking at it like well we could hire him for this - less wages but someone else comes along and makes him an offer he is going to jump ship.  For old-timers here there is a sense of deja vu. It was nearly 40 years ago when the Apollo program ended and massive layoffs devastated this region's economy. This time even though the overall economy is in much worse shape and Florida is still mired in a housing crisis Lisa Rice says the impact will be far less. Rice is the president of Brevard Workforce a jobs agency that serves the area. She says the area and its econom has grown greatly since those days. Another help is the 40 million the federal government has given the region to prepare for this day. Ms.  We have been in the planning and the training and the preparing stage for four years now essentially. The workers are much better prepared. They have been getting their certifications. They have been getting work. So it is a different day.  Even with shuttle's demise thousands of workers are still employed by dozens of aerospace companies working on defense and civil projects that continue to be launched at Cape Canaveral. More jobs will be added in coming years as private companies developing manned and unmanned vehicles are drawn to the Kennedy Space Center. But those jobs are still years away. In the meantime many workers are hiring on with aviation companies that have been drawn to the area such as Brazilian jet maker Embraer. There are also jobs in nearby Orlando. It is become a center of biotechnology and the computerized field of modeling and simulation an emerging industry with applications from entertainment to manufacturing. In Rockledge another company is taking the Space Coast in a different direction designing and manufacturing a new type of car - the Rivian. Mr. R.J. Motors So here's another more built-up version of the platform...  R.J. Scaringe is the 28-year-old CEO of a start-up car company. At the company's headquarters he shows off what he calls Rivian's launch vehicle a sleek sports car he expects to have on the road by the end of 2013. Mr.  As you can see it is a two-plus-two configuration. So a four-passenger vehicle set up with rear-wheel drive mid-engine. So really truly a performance vehicle. Very aggressive looks in terms of the styling. We have tried to go for a look that really gets you excited looking at it.  Scaringe says it was built not just for style and performance but also with fuel efficiency in mind. This model gets more than 60 miles per gallon and will be priced he says in the mid-20s. Scaringe grew up in this area. His father is an engineer whose company developed refrigeration units used on the space shuttle. He is planning not just to design but also to manufacture his car here on the Space Coast. One reason he says is the available pool of experienced workers. Mr.  There is just a mountain of very talented very capable technicians engineers that we can tap into particularly on the manufacturing side.  Eventually Scaringe says he may have more than 1200 workers on site plus those working for contractors and suppliers. It is the kind of emerging business that gives workers and officials on the Space Coast hope that the end of the shuttle may mark the beginning of a new diversified economy. Greg Allen NPR News. 