 But how do you know when it is time to repair a computer and when it is time to replace it? For more on when to pull the plug or just jiggle the switch we are going to turn to Glenn Derene who is electronics editor at Consumer Reports. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  And to start give us a few examples of warning signs of when you would recommend fixing a computer - obviously doing more than just jiggling a switch.  Well so there is two real ways that your computer could be failing. And one is that the hardware is compromised - either something you did where you either spilled a cup of coffee on it or it fell down a flight of stairs or something where a part has failed. And in that case you really want to consider fixing it in the conventional sense. Either - if it is under warranty send it back to the manufacturer and repair it as a warranty repair. Or you really can do a cost-benefit analysis - try and figure out how much your computer is worth right now versus how much it would cost to get a new one. But if it is a software issue one of the easiest things you can do is actually just reinstall your operating system. And if you have the original media that your operating system came on within you know an hour to two hours' worth of work you will have your computer sort of - it is almost like giving it a new brain all over again. And it is - it will be back like a normal new computer.  Well what about when it is time actually put the machine out to pasture?  . Well so we have some pretty good guidance on that. Based on survey data that we have collected we found that within the first one to two years it is pretty obvious that you should attempt to repair it. Very often it is still under warranty. If you are talking three to five years then it is kind of in a bit of a gray area and you really should - you might want to consider repairing it. But you also should really also take a look at what it would cost to replace it how much you paid initially so on and so forth. After five years it is almost a no-brainer. Just get rid of it and get a new one.  Now working with your five-year figure this could be some kind of corollary to Moore's law. Almost by definition five years after this machine that you bought the market is totally different. And today it is full of tablets and fablets and light-weight laptops. And there is still some desktops out there. So what is the best way to go if you are in the market for something new?  Well most people these days actually go for a laptop. And increasingly laptops are moving towards the ultrabook category - very very thin very light computers that do not necessarily - and people should be aware that when you shop for one of these things you are not necessarily getting anything with an optical drive. If you have a lot of stuff stored on CDs and DVDs you might not be able to easily migrate it to one of these new computers. And ironically they are not easy to repair. They are not easy to fix yourself. You should also note that the hardware is sealed so that you cannot easily get into it. You cannot get at the hard drive or a lot of other components that in the past you could just swap right out.  Mr. Durene how old is your computer right now?  . That is a tricky question. I actually have around five computers. So they range in age from around six years old all the way to only a couple of months.  Six years old and still on the road?  Eh it is my tinkering computer. It is what I like to actually swap the parts out on and replace them and upgrade it. So it is kind of a Frankenstein beast.  OK that is Glenn Durene electronics editor at Consumer Reports. Thanks for talking with us.  Thank you.  And we are also wondering how old your computer is. Who has the oldest working machine out there still in regular use? Tell us about it. Take a photo. We will share some of your responses in the future All Tech segment. And you can tweet those photos and stories to us or send us a message on Facebook. We are in both places at npratc. 