 So many people in Texas have sought help because of Harvey that 911 centers are overwhelmed with calls. That is forced many people to use social media to call for help. Even police and government officials are using Facebook Twitter and other channels to deliver critical messages to the public. KERA's Lauren Silverman has our story for this week's All Tech Considered.  Over the last few days Annie Swinford has become one of many unofficial social media volunteers in the wake of the hurricane.  When you see that somebody has posted that they are on their roof with their 1 3 and 4-year-olds and the water's up to the roofline you have to be willing to make that phone call for them.  From just north of the flooding in Houston Swinford has been making calls to emergency services and blasting requests through her Twitter account to local news organizations. She says during one 911 call she was put on hold for 45 minutes before talking to a live person. Lots of folks could not get through at all because the storm took out over a dozen emergency call centers.  This is a situation where technology and accepted norms of communication are outpacing government's ability to manage.  Rob Dudgeon is an emergency management consultant. He says most jurisdictions have surge plans but there is only so much you can do to keep up with demand.  You can expect to have dropped - you know a lot of dropped calls. You can expect to have delays. It just is what it is. I mean anything you design can only handle so much.  Alternative services from Reddit to Instagram to the social network for neighbors Nextdoor have been flooded with requests for rescues.  We are seeing people use our app if they cannot get through to 911 and in addition to 911 in very emergency life-threatening situations.  Steve Wymer is vice president of communications and policy at Nextdoor.  I am looking at a post here from someone that types their address in the first line and says I have been calling and cannot get through to 911. I have my animals. I am headed to the roof. Can anyone help? And someone writes back immediately unloading my canoe now. I am headed your way. And she writes back thank you so much. And he rescued her off of her roof with her pets.  It is not just stranded residents who are turning to sites like Nextdoor. The Houston Office of Emergency Management and the Harris County Sheriff Department are using the site to post emergency information and communicate directly with residents. But at the same time federal officials have warned people not to rely on social media for help. In a tweet the U.S. Coast Guard asked people to call them instead. Consultant Rob Dudgeon says first responders simply do not have the bandwidth to monitor all the posts.  It is literally trying to drink from a firehose. It is very labor intensive to watch it. And because of the thousand different ways people can hashtag something or keyword something trying to sort out what is relevant and what is not and what is actionable is very very difficult.  Of course tweets and photos can go viral and get attention almost instantaneously. Jeannette Sutton is an assistant professor at the University of Kentucky who studies social media.  For people who need assistance it would be my recommendation to use all channels that you have.  Which means charging your cell phone might be just as important as making sure you have food and water before a storm. Lauren Silverman NPR News. 