 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. Last week the U.S.  Effective immediately only those shoes that accommodate all five toes in one compartment are authorized to wear.  The increasing popularity of toe shoes. Maybe you have seen them. They look like gloves for your feet. Each toe has its own cozy little compartment and they are supposed to allow your feet to move the way they were intended to when you run or walk or do sports. But the Army says they detract from a professional military image. Now image aside we wondered about the alleged benefits of these sneaker socks - perhaps we should call them snocks - so we invited Dr. James Christina to sort through the claims. He is a podiatrist and he is here with us in the studio. Thanks so much for coming in. Dr.  Well thank you Michele.  Now people who wear these toe shoes are almost evangelical about them. They just love them. But I am curious about the potential benefits and - or whether they are actually good for all people when they run walk or do other sports. Dr.  Well that is really the key to any type of shoe or any type of activity that you do. It is not something that is going to be good for everybody. There is going to be certain people that will do very well with the minimalist-type shoe that do not need a lot of support for their foot and will find it very comfortable. There are other people depending on their foot type and the mechanics of their foot how their foot operates when they run or walk they really need either the support of the shoe and then in some cases they actually need extra support such as an insole or a custom-type orthotic device.  You know one of the things that people who support these shoes or wear them and the company that sell them talk about is that it lets the foot feel the nuances of the road and that the feet can naturally adjust to that and that athletic shoes with those thick soles often prevent the runner from actually understanding what the muscles need to do to adjust to the terrain. Dr.  Well you definitely have more what is called proprioception the ability to sense the surface when you are either barefoot or have a minimal surface between your foot and the ground. Whether that is beneficial or not that is what is still out there to be proven through studies but there is no question that you are going to have more proprioception. You think about the surface that you are walking on if you walk around the house barefoot as opposed to walking in your shoe. You definitely sense things more. You feel things more. The other thing is it changes the way some of your muscles work. So a lot of colleges with their runners they will do some training barefoot in an open field but they do it just some training because it helps strengthen some muscles and they feel that that is a benefit to help them compete. The interesting thing is you do not see a lot of competitive runners running either barefoot or in a minimalist shoe.  You know one of the things I am thinking about if you run you are always concerned about heel strike and when you think about a running shoe it is often built up at the back end to protect the runner when that heel hits particularly the pavement or cement or a brick road or something like that. There is no such protection in these kinds of shoes. Dr.  Well there is not but that is - you are hitting on kind of the key point of barefoot running or a minimalist shoe. You cannot heel strike in the shoe and it actually forces you to hit more into the midfoot forefoot portion of your foot which the proponents of barefoot and minimalist running claim is better for you. It causes you to shorten your stride length a little bit. It causes you to really change the mechanics of how you run. For some people that may be beneficial for other people it may be detrimental.  Should people be concerned about letting children wear these shoes? Dr.  I would not be so concerned about children wearing them because actually the children they - particularly the younger children they need some time for the foot to develop and the muscles to develop and they need that sensation so they do not usually need a lot of support.  Thanks so much for coming in. And I should say that you have street shoes on today. Dr.  Yes I do.  OK. Your toes are all together. Dr.  And they are all together.  All right. That is Dr. James Christina. He is a podiatrist and he is also the director of scientific affairs at the American Podiatric Medical Association. 