 After Facebook acquired the mobile photo sharing app Instagram for 1 billion the talk in Silicon Valley turned to a new video sharing app. It is called Socialcam. The app has emerged as an alternative to YouTube and other video apps. And after going viral on Facebook the startup was bought last month by design software company Autodesk. Reporter Nishat Kurwa of TurnstyleNews.com has the story behind Socialcam's rapid rise.  It seems there is no shortage of user-generated video being shared on the Internet right? Those caught-on-camera moments of everyone - cops cats babies - are in healthy circulation on YouTube. But only about 4 percent of those YouTube videos are mobile videos recorded on and posted by a smartphone.   Maybe that is because it has not been easy to make and post great video from your phone as I discovered at this hip-hop jazz show. I wanted to record the band's performance of Smells Like Teen Spirit on my phone but I had to close the phone's camera open my phone's Facebook app then fetch the video to upload to my profile. And it did not even appear on the page until hours later. Where is my instant gratification?   When you are using the Socialcam app there is literally a big silver button. The second that you are inspired you can take your first video.  That is Michael Seibel CEO of Socialcam. The social video app is trying to address the pain points of sharing phone video. This spring Socialcam shot to number one in the iTunes free app store but that is when the app started getting some negative attention from people like my friend Matt Holt who stumbled onto it in his Facebook news feed.  It is just confusing to put it in a nutshell.  Matt was confused because suddenly his feed was full of messages revealing how his friends were using Socialcam. And an awful lot of his Facebook friends had been using Socialcam to watch videos.  Just the most random stuff you could think of - a three-year-old laughing for five minutes straight - none of which I cared about until I saw that one of my friends that I used to skate with a long time ago had watched a skateboarding video of Kerry Getz.  Matt's friend had not shot that video of the professional skateboarder's stunts. Most of these Socialcam videos being watched and shared on Facebook were actually viral videos from the Web. And some users did not understand they were broadcasting this viewing activity which made them feel duped. When I asked Socialcam's Michael Seibel about their complaints he said the sharing function was easy to turn off.  You know in our first version we did try to make it pretty obvious.  Later in an interview with Yahoo Siebel said this auto-sharing problem was a bug that had been fixed. But besides the auto-sharing there are other functions of the app that are not obvious to users like when Matt Holt clicked on that skate video.  I am not ever sure exactly how it all happened but I think in order to watch the video I had to get the application and all of the sudden I was a Socialcam user.  In truly viral fashion the app affixes itself to your Facebook profile when you click on a video that someone else has watched on Facebook using the app. This is how apps like Socialcam leverage Facebook's massive user base.  Essentially on one day in April the user count for Socialcam and for Viddy and for three or four other mobile video apps shot up into like the millions.  Mike Isaac is a senior editor for the tech news site All Things D. He and other tech bloggers were suspicious about Socialcam's sudden visibility. Isaac says it looks like Facebook began promoting social video apps so they would appear more frequently in its newsfeeds.  Facebook does not want to come out and say we are the ones that can make or break your app right? You know they have all the traffic they have all the power of being able to send people to you but they do not want to look like they are playing favorites.  A Facebook spokesperson attributed video apps popularity to programs that adjust what users see depending on whether they like the app's content. Isaac points out the social media giant is still figuring out new revenue streams. Apps like Socialcam could be in the running to be the next Instagram.  And even if they do not know how to monetize it in the beginning you cannot ignore how many people are using it.  Socialcam has lurched ahead of the pack but other social video apps are still also appearing in Facebook's newsfeed. They are all helping Facebook better understand what users want to do on its platform and what will make them spend as much time there as possible. For NPR News I am Nishat Kurwa.   Nishat Kurwa is a reporter for Turnstylenews.com a project of Youth Radio.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 