 The United States Supreme Court has ruled that the EPA made a mistake when it told electric power plants to reduce mercury emissions. The high court said the agency should have first considered how much it would cost power plants to do that. As NPR's Christopher Joyce reports the decision comes too late for most power companies but it could affect future regulations.  When you burn coal or oil you create airborne mercury. It is toxic and can end up in fish we eat. In 1990 Congress advised EPA to use the Clean Air Act to limit mercury. The agency set rules for many industries like cement makers and waste incinerators. Then EPA eventually added power plants and most reduced their mercury emissions. But many also sued along with the coal industry in over 20 states. They said the EPA should not decide to adopt expensive new regulations without first considering what it will cost us. In its decision in Michigan versus EPA the Supreme Court said to industry you are right. Jeff Holmstead is an attorney with Bracewell and Guliani which represents utilities. He says the ruling is narrow but the court clearly rebuked EPA.  Before it decides to regulate something it needs to take into account the cost of those regulations. It cannot just turn a blind eye.  Now this ruling only applies to the Clean Air Act and its mercury standards but Holmstead says it could affect future EPA regulations. Here's why. Usually companies still have to comply with regulations even while they are fighting them in court. In the case of mercury industry spent billions to comply even while they were suing to stop them. And even though the court did not throw the regulations out it said EPA has to start over now. Holmstead says now businesses may insist that EPA wait for the courts before enforcing new rules.  While you are going through that process you need to put the regulation on hold and what happened today certainly makes it much more likely.  But the ruling comes too late for those power plants that have already made plans to install equipment to cut mercury. And Ann Weeks of the Clean Air Task Force says that is not likely to be reversed.  The horse is out of the barn. The protection's already are rolling forward and utilities are making decisions accordingly.  Weeks points out that the EPA eventually did do a cost-benefit analysis years after it decided to regulate mercury. The Supreme Court said that was too late. But she says EPA did set the dollar value of the public health benefits at nine times the cost to industry of complying. She says that clearly justifies regulating the industry and expects EPA will continue to do so.  Obviously we are all going to work to make sure that you know some kind of protection remains in place while EPA does its consideration that it has to do now.  The high court says that consideration must take place at the circuit court for the District of Columbia Weeks says it is possible the EPA will have to do another cost analysis. Christopher Joyce NPR News. 