 Is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Kelly McEvers. In South Florida an invasive fish is freaking some people out. It is called a lionfish. And it is this weird-looking stripy thing with poisonous spines. Ecologists think they could threaten shrimp and small fish in the Atlantic. Until recently ecologists also thought lionfish could only live in the ocean. But then a 12-year-old proved them wrong.  I mean scientists were doing plenty of tests on them. But they just always assumed they were in the ocean. So I was like well hey guys what about the river?  Lauren Arrington's sixth-grade project showed that lionfish can survive in fresh water too. Her dad's a fish ecologist so Lauren knew some stuff about fish.  Sometimes we would even catch them when me and my dad were fishing. So we dissected plenty of them when we caught them.  Lauren is really into lionfish. So as soon as she heard about the science fair she knew what she wanted to do. L.  I wanted to see how far up the river lionfish could survive. So first off I thought of putting lionfish in different cages at different river miles. You know if the further up the river - if they could still live. But it was just a small sixth-grade project and I really did not have all the tools necessary for that. So then my dad was like well you could put them in tanks. So I was like oh OK. So then I decided to put them in tanks in the river center. And then there I could just watch them and make sure none of them died 'ecause when - we heard that the science fair would disqualify you if any of your project died.  So you are working on a - under a pretty strict set of rules there. The subject of your experiment cannot die. L.  Yeah.  OK. So you put some fish in different tanks and then what did you do? L.  So six lionfish six different tanks every night for eight days on the five experimental fish I would lower the salinity five parts per thousand. So parts per thousand is how you measure salt in the water. Zero parts per thousand is freshwater and then 35 parts per thousand is ocean salinity. So we found the lionfish that we captured in about 25 parts per thousand. So when all of the experimental fish were still alive at six parts per thousand I was like - pretty amazing.  And then - I mean it did not stop there right? I mean there was some research published - a research paper published by North Carolina State and they mentioned you. L.  Yeah yeah 'ecause he confirmed my results. And so you know he credited a sixth-grader for coming up with his idea.  That is Dr. Craig Layman of North Carolina State. So it was because of you that he went on and did further research on this. How did that feel? L.  I was like oh. And then friends at school were like hey congrats on being published in the science journal you know. And I was like yeah yeah that is me right there.   Lauren could you put your dad on line for a second? L.  Yes madam - Dad?  Hello this is Albrey.  Yeah hi. So I guess you talk science with your daughter a lot. A.  Yeah that is kind of how we are. We are a science bunch of dorks in our family.   I have to ask. I mean it sounds like Lauren has some pretty good ideas about this experiment. How much of this was you and how much of this was her? A.  I am the dad so participating but I am very proud to say this is her - her ideas. It certainly was her work - sitting measuring salinity you know.  Well you must be very very proud. A.  Very much so very pleased.  That is Albrey Arrington and his daughter Lauren joining us from Jupiter Florida. Thanks so much you guys. A.  Thank you very much. 