 Now to a problem in space. Today a Russian cargo ship carrying oxygen water and spare parts was supposed to dock with the International Space Station. Instead it sailed right by the station leaving engineers on Earth scratching their heads. NPR science correspondent Joe Palca is following the story. He joins me here in the studio. Joe this does not sound good. Is the crew on the space station in danger?  No there is no danger to the crew. This cargo ship sailed by with a margin of about two miles so they were never in any danger at all.  Well what was supposed to happen? What went wrong?  Well what was supposed to happen was this was a cargo ship that was launched from Kazakhstan on Wednesday and this is typical. They carry up supplies as you said water and various things like that. It docks with the space station which means it forms a link and then they make - they carry the stuff back and forth. Well the cargo ship has a data connection to the space station and for some reason  that radio data connection did not happen did not work. And so the cargo ship said well I cannot dock. I do not know what is going on. And it just sailed right on by.  The cargo ship is manned or unmanned?  Unmanned.  Okay. And why did the data link fail do you know?  You said they were scratching their heads. That is why they are scratching their heads. They do not know. If this system is broken if it does not work at all there is a backup system. But they are still trying to figure out what  I heard them discussing you know the engineers on Earth talking to the engineers on the space station. And right now they are you know they are going through the checklist what could have happened. But they do not have an answer right now.  Okay we mentioned oxygen water spare parts on this cargo ship. What else?  Yeah it is experimental hardware. It is propellant to keep the space station in the proper orbit. But the NASA people I talked with today said this was not critical cargo. This was not stuff that the space station is waiting for. They were supplied a few days or weeks ago and this is something they were looking forward to having as spares. So they are not too fussed about it right now.  Meantime though this cargo ship has sailed by. Where is it going?  Well this is the interesting thing. So it is just gone by but it is not going faster or slower. It is just in a slightly different orbit from the space station. So basically they have to wait. They think it will be about 48 hours before what is called the orbital mechanics the two orbits link up again and then they will be close enough to try again presuming they figure out what went wrong.  Okay NPR science correspondent Joe Palca thanks so much.  You are welcome. 