 The beaches of Chatham Massachusetts on Cape Cod remain closed to swimmers. That is because great white sharks have been spotted close to shore. It may be scary for some beachgoers but it is been a great opportunity for biologists. They have managed to tag five sharks with sophisticated electronic devices to track migratory patterns.  Greg Skomal is a marine biologist with the Massachusetts Department of Marine Fisheries. Welcome to our program sir. Dr.  Nice to here thank you for inviting me.  Tell us where you are please and about the vessel you are on. Dr.  We are on the fishing vessel Ezduzit which is a commercial vessel. And we are about a quarter mile off the Coast of Monomoy Island where we have tagged five sharks with the aid of Captain Bill Chaprales and his crew.  Why now? Why are the great whites coming that close to shore do you think this September? Dr.  It is a great question. And I think the most motivating factor is the presence of a fairly sizable grey seal colony that has recently rebounded over the last decade in this area. Sharks are finally catching on that there is a viable and readily available - a food resource for them.  You went out this morning early? Dr.  Yup. Billy left the dock about 7 a.m. 30 and had two more sharks tagged over the course of the next couple of hours. So it is been a very successful day.  Could I speak with Captain Chaprales please? Dr.  Absolutely I will put him on right now.  Thank you.  Hello.  Captain hi it is Noah Adams congratulations. Capt.  Thank you thank you.  Would you describe the process? This is basically it is sort of an old-fashioned harpoon device with a high-tech tag on the end of it right? Capt.  Yes that is correct.  How close do you have to get? Capt.  Oh we have got to get pretty close or at least for the shark to be at least four feet under the surface. This morning the first fish we tagged we were over in six feet of water right on the surf. So we had to watch out not to bottom out. But it was a nice tag and we were able to get out of there before we went aground.  Well congratulations. Let me speak again please to Greg Skomal. Capt.  Yup all right nice talking to you.  Thank you. Mr.  Standby. Dr.  Hello.  Now describe for us please Mr. Skomal these tags - I have read that they are in place and that they will pop off and rise to the surface in January and transmit information to you in your laboratory? Dr.  Yeah that is how the technology works. They archive temperature depth and light level information and stores those data in its little computer chip. And then at a time programmed by us which in this case is January and February and now May those tags will come off the sharks float to the surface and transmit those data to a satellite which then relays them to me telling me what it did after we tagged it.  You know back when you were in college studying biology for the first time I bet if somebody would have told you that you would have something like this to use you would have said no no way. Dr.  Yeah when I was an undergrad we did not have personal computers. So now I am putting computers  Dr.  on white sharks. It is the most amazing thing. And I will tell you if anyone told me I would be doing this not only putting computers on sharks but looking at them and studying them and playing with them like we have I would have said no forget it.  Greg Skomal marine biologist with the Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries. Thank you for your time sir. Dr.  My pleasure thank you very much. 