 More news now from the mobile market. Last week Facebook rolled out a new stand-alone app called Messenger. It allows users to send and receive messages directly from their smartphones while avoiding charges from service providers - in other words a free alternative to texting. To help explain how it works I am joined by Brian Cooley editor-at-large at the online tech magazine CNET. Welcome back to the program Brian.  Thanks Robert.  And I did this. I tried this out this morning I messaged my two daughters. A 50 percent response rate is pretty good in my family.   I want you to explain what just happened. What did I do?  Well you just used a new Facebook app called Facebook Messenger. It is different from the Facebook app which has all the Facebook wall updates and all that sort of thing. They have chosen to go with a separate app for communications that rolls in not just Facebook messages but also you can field email and text messages through there. In other words they are trying to roll all your communications into one app that happens to be a Facebook app.  And this is not unique. There are other things. Google has something like it I gather?  There are a ton of apps out there for different kinds of communication. Many of them take existing platforms generic platforms - email texting things of that nature that exist as utilities - and they roll them up in what we call a new skin. They put them into a new basket. But what is in there is the same core technology. So yes these are apps that have been around for a while. But Facebook has not done one of these until just now.  Is Facebook's advantage here simply the number of people who have Facebook pages? Or is there something about it and its technology that is different from what Apple or Google is trying to do?  Yeah the big advantage here is that Facebook has everybody in the tent already. You could launch a new messenger app today and nobody would use it unless you got really lucky. What Facebook can do is they can get in front of a parade. They do not have to start a parade. So they could put this in front of 750 or 800 million registered users right now and get immediate uptake of some significant degree.  Here's what I do not understand. If Verizon makes money from my texting when I use ordinary messaging how is it that Facebook can deliver the same service without getting any money for it?  Well what Facebook is doing is they are rolling the message through a different network. They are rolling it over the Web through their own platform. They are rolling it through Facebook basically. So they are re-creating a channel that is just like the texting you are using on SMS but it is through a Facebook server. And so they are taking a side road around - not really cutting out the middleman but taking a different route to get the message there.  But I assume then that if I were a mobile carrier manning the tollbooth on the main highway I would be pretty upset about these detours going on.  Yes. As I look at an app like this I see the carriers perhaps having some pushback. They obviously want you to use as much data on your plan as possible. Because if they are lucky you will use more data than you are currently paying for and either get stuck with an overage charge at the end of the month or you will say OK that did not feel good. I am going to raise my plan.  What are some potential downsides though to Facebook?  Well when you install anything from Facebook you get that sort of - that tinge of invasiveness. That is something where Facebook is a let us say a contentious entity. Whereas most of us will look at email and texting and we will see that as yeah those are just generic utilities - I do not feel like there is anybody in there promoting it or bringing it to me in a way where they want something where they have an ulterior motive. When you look at Facebook you say OK what do they want?  They want my information. They want to have their fingers in my communications so they can better tune advertising to me. And a lot of people are uncomfortable with that.  Brian Cooley editor-at-large with the online magazine CNET. Brian thanks a lot.  Thank you Robert. 