 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris. And it is time now for All Tech Considered.   These days technology has become a pain - literally - in the thumb the wrist the neck - you name it. Ergonomics experts blame too much texting and typing on tablets and other mobile devices. So we sent NPR's Joel Rose to find out how college students are coping with the strain of all their high-tech gadgets.  A generation ago ergonomics experts only had to worry about one computer workstation per person usually the one at the office. Now that computer has been joined - if not replaced altogether - by a host of mobile devices. The combinations are endless and potentially problematic.  We are talking about exposure throughout a day.  Carol Stuart-Buttle is an ergonomics consultant in Philadelphia. She says each high-tech gadget presents its own problems. With the iPad it is a touch screen that does not give when you type on it. And the angle can be an issue too.  Your wrist can be really angled trying to tap away at the touch screen. And so you have got an angled wrist. You go to work. And if your workstation is not so great you have more angled wrist. And if we have in the same fixed position all the time we begin to see troubles - tendonitis formations and other effects like that.  Those effects are not just showing up in older members of the workforce. Stuart-Buttle says she is seeing the same thing with young people in college too.  Schools with lots of papers heavy use of computers and their thumbs fingers hands all beginning to wear out a little bit.  I tried to find some of those appendages at the University of Pennsylvania in a student lounge at the Wharton School that could pass for a well-stocked Apple store. Sophomore Evan Rosenbaum says he tries to avoid typing anything longer than a quick email on his iPad.  Your wrist is definitely going to start to hurt being that the keyboard is too small to type with both your thumbs. But it is also - it is not big enough to type fully.  Penn junior Alexandra Enni says she types on her iPad all the time.  I have had it since May 10th which was my birthday. And I type long emails blog posts journal entries and I have never had an issue. I have small fingers though. I do not know if that makes a difference.  I did talk to a few students who suffered from pain and discomfort. And senior Haoda Wi found it was not comfortable to take notes on his iPad because the screen does not bounce back like a normal keyboard would.  If I type for half-hour then my hand would start to kind of - sore yeah. Just uncomfortable. That is why I come buy the wireless keyboard.  Wi shows me the wireless keyboard he bought to use with this iPad. Ergonomics experts like separate keyboards because ideally you want your screen and your typing surface in different places. But Carol Stuart-Buttle says one of the best things you can do to prevent repetitive stress injuries is also one of the easiest. Just take a break.  It really has to be a self-monitoring situation with all of these gadgets. Even with a good workstation you still have to make sure that it is right and that you take breaks. But it is that sustained exposure that leads to trouble.  Stuart-Buttle says our gadgets may be designed to keep us connected 247 but our bodies are not. Joel Rose NPR News Philadelphia. 