 If you have ever waited for a late subway train you most certainly have stared into dark railways maybe wondering what on earth might live in there.  Well more than 900 scientists and volunteers around the world found out. A study published in the journal Cell last month shows their findings - a catalog of microorganisms in the subways of 60 cities.  My favorite really response was actually one of our students was out and she was thanked by just a straphanger who said thank you so much for cleaning the subway.  That is Christopher Mason one of the lead researchers. Now the volunteers were not cleaning exactly but they did put on masks and latex gloves when they scrubbed surfaces for DNA samples. They were told focus on the turnstiles benches floors. Stay away from sources that were not permanent.  Not to say that that never happens - I am sure that they do. I mean who could not resist sampling like a weird puddle or something?  That is David Danko another researcher in the study. He found some trends in the data.  So with microbes I can distinguish if a city is on the coast and I can distinguish whether a city has high population density or low population density.  Danko says each city has a unique signature of microorganisms. But the biggest surprise for the researchers was that all of their cities had a common core of microbes - a set of 31 species found in 97 of samples.  And that is surprising in that cities are geographically diverse. They are culturally diverse. And you would not necessarily expect the same microbial species to be in all of these cities.  Some of these common core microbes come from human skin but the researchers suspect the rest are just microorganisms that have adapted remarkably well to the metal and stone of urban environments.  In total over 11000 new organisms were found including bacteria and viruses. In light of the pandemic that might sound alarming but the researchers say it is quite the opposite.  These data really play into what is been described as the hygiene hypothesis. It is that you know these are the organisms that the immune system needs to learn about as they develop normally.  Christopher Mason and his fellow scientists hope that the study will help change how we view many of our urban spaces.  Most people think of a rainforest as a source of drugs or new biology or new medicines. The same thing is true of every subway bench that you sit down on.  So the subway as the new rainforest - try to remember that the next time the train's delayed.  