 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. Anthropologists believe early humans evolved in Africa then moved out from there in successive migrations. But what got them up and going is a matter of conjecture. One explanation is that changing climate dictated when and where our ancestors went. NPR's Christopher Joyce reports on new research that supports that idea.  Anthropologist Anders Erikkson of Cambridge University in England says the first few hardy humans who left Africa might have gone earlier but could not. Northeastern Africa the only route to Asia and beyond was literally a no-man's land.  The people could not really leave because the climate was too arid and too hot so humans were bottled up.  Eventually they got out of the bottle we know that from the trail of fossil bones and stone tools they left behind. And recently scientists have learned to read genetic mutations in current populations to track where our ancestors went for the past 70000 years or so. To this  climate change. Climate change leaves a trail in sediments buried pollen coral even dust. The scientists compared that record with the record of human migration gleaned from genetics and fossils. Writing in the proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences the Cambridge team says changes in climate coincided with some of the big migrations through Asia and north to Europe and eventually all the way to Australia and North America. One thing climate controlled was food. Here's Andrea Manica from the Cambridge team.  The main thing that really drives a lot of the migrations is actually temperature and precipitation to provide food. How much green matter did you have available in each location?  Manica says populations sometimes stayed because there were barriers like high sea levels or glaciers that kept them from migrating.  And so you had a buildup of a pretty good stable population until eventually that barrier got removed.  The seas dropped or glaciers melted. Manica says that happened in South Asia which was a sort of population hub for thousands of years as dropping sea levels opened up new migration routes same with Siberia thousands of years later. Anthropologists who have reviewed this new analysis say it will give them a much better road map of how humans populated the planet than just following the fossilized bones. Christopher Joyce NPR News. 