 Spend any time around a baby and you are likely to hear some babbling. Now new research shows baby bats can babble too. NPR's Geoff Brumfiel has more.  In Central and South America lives of species of bat known as the greater sac-winged bat.  They are really cute. I really like to look at them. They have friendly faces .  Ahana Fernandez is a postdoc at the Natural History Museum in Berlin Germany. And it is a good thing she likes looking at these bats because she gets a lot of face time. Every morning she is out in the field. She gets up before dawn.  I pack all my equipment and I walk into the dark forest.  She plops herself down under a tree or near an abandoned house where the bats like to hang out and waits for the sun to rise.  All the bats fly in from foraging and then I am sitting in front of the tree or the house until the sun sets again.  Recording the sounds of baby bats babbling.   And they babble for - sometimes for 40 minutes.   This babbling is unique. Other bat species do not do it. Fernandez's boss named Mirjam Knornschild first noticed it years ago. She thought it sounded like human babies. And when Fernandez started working with the bats she heard it too.  This is crazy. This is amazing. It is so conspicuous. It is so loud. It is so long. And yes I was also thinking about infants human infants that babble.  Fernandez and the team set out to systematically study the babbling. The results published today in the journal Science find eight similarities between bats and us people. For example human babies do not just make random noises.  In human infant babbling they produce a syllable-type baa-baa-baa-baa  in a rhythmic way and then switch to a next one daa-daa-daa .   That is my daughter from a few years back. And here's a baby bat.   It is slowed down a little to hear it better. The grown-up bats eventually stitch those individual sounds into songs. D. Kimbrough Oller is a researcher at the University of Memphis who was not directly involved with the study.  I think that one of the remarkable things here is just that the sac-winged bat and the human infant both babble sort of constantly.  And there may be an evolutionary reason for that. Both bats and babies need their parents. And crying well parents know that gets old right? Babbling is another way to say I am here. I am healthy. Do not forget about me.  And once babbling is off the ground it can supply a foundation for the adult of vocal capabilities that can be used for something else.  In the case of these bats babbling leads to singing an important part of their courtship rituals. And in the case of humans babbling eventually leads to public radio. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News.  