 Now in the world of social media there have got to be some rules right? Well  Ms.  If you cannot buy it online feel free to BitTorrent. Do not hesitate to haggle on Craigslist. And whatever you do do not Google-stalk before a first date.  That is Nancy Miller. She is an editor at Wired magazine where the upcoming cover story is titled  New Rules for Highly Evolved Humans A Scientific Approach to 21st-Century Predicaments. And Nancy Miller joins me from member station KQED in San Francisco. Hi Nancy. Ms.  Hi.  We will get to some more of the rules in a minute but first why did you all feel the need to write them in the first place? Ms.  You would think at Wired we would naturally know how to do all this stuff. We...  But of course.  Ms.  And it seemed like we were all a little bit confused about this new world specifically with social media and the etiquette of the new world around us. And what we found was you know there was a lot of subjective opinion on how to behave but we did not have really one solid approach. So we sort of decided that the best way to go about this was the Wired way which is try and find a scientific approach a social science to explain how and why we behave like we do and what makes sense in this new era of technology.  And you guys actually used real live social scientists to compile this list right? Ms.  We did because what we noticed with other etiquette books that we were checking out to inspire us was that a lot of it was just sort of either opinion or sort of this prim intuition about how to behave and what we felt like we needed was you know some real data. And it seemed to make sense that we would go to behaviorists social psychologists and anthropologists for ideas on how humans behave.  Let us go through some of the rules for a moment. There is one which is do not Google-stalk before a first date which means do not sort of search out the person you are about to date on Google. This is almost de rigueur these days. What is wrong with checking up on somebody you are going to go out on a date with? Ms.  You know I love this one because I think this one is a surprise. It is counterintuitive. You would think the more you know the better you are going to be walking in. But it turns out that according to the social psychologists we interviewed is that a key part of what bonds people together is mutual self-disclosure. So it is okay for you to say you know do the basics find out if the person has maybe a criminal past. But to look any further past that you are going in with more information than you probably need and it is going to sort of make an imbalance between you and that person.  Well what if you are straightforward with them and they tell you something on the date and you say oh yeah I knew that. I read about you on Google. Ms.  See now I think that is the dilemma. So the dilemma is if you say oh yeah I knew you did that I saw that on Google then you look creepy. And then if you do not - but if you do not and you did Google them and then you lie and they are telling you things about themselves that you already know then you sort of look insincere.  Or then you are creepy.  Ms.  You are creepy and the key point of when you are going especially with a date on someone you do not want to be creepy. So less is more on this one.  All right. This is another one. It says do not blog or tweet about anything with more than half a million hits. That means I should not tweet about Chocolate Rain or Oolong the pancake rabbit.  Ms.  Yeah and this is one of those things where you know there is a certain moment in time and it is - well someone described it to us as the velocity of adoption. So there is a certain moment where there is a build of a trend let us say the Justin Timberlake video or something that has about a three-day to a weeklong window. I mean it depends on how much time. But the velocity of adoption means that there is a certain moment where it is okay to forward. But we tracked that at half a million views or half a million hits it is done.  Nancy what is your favorite rule? Ms.  I think that the one I really liked was friend your boss but not your boss's boss and follow them both on Twitter. And what I liked about this one is that this is sort of you know we are following cues from the primates here and this sort of sense of hierarchy within the orangutan and primate world. Your immediate boss is your sort of power protector but the boss's boss that is almost too high up for you. So there is a certain moment where that might actually be kind of threatening - or at least threatening to the giant ape that is your boss or your boss's boss.  So you can follow them but do not expect to like friend them. That is just too many levels - too high up in the hierarchy.  Nancy Miller is an editor for Wired magazine. The August cover story is called  New Rules for Highly Evolved Humans and it hits newsstands on Tuesday. We also have a link at npr.org to all of the rules  Never broadcast your relationship status and never BCC - that is blind carbon copy - anyone. Nancy thanks for talking with us. Ms.  Thank you my pleasure.  And I will not tweet about it but you have got to check out Oolong the pancake rabbit.  Ms.  You caught me. I am happy to check that out. Thanks for looping me in.  