 Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Earlier today we asked a panel of experts at the National Museum of Natural History to discuss their favorite dinosaur. And do not be surprised it is the T. rex.  T. rex's because they have big teeth.  T. rex because it has huge teeth.  A brontosaurus.  Okay. Maybe that last kid's a statistical anomaly. But for the other kids listen up. A new discovery suggests that T. rex was not the first super predator. There was actually a mini version of the T. rex as well called the Raptorex. And NPR's Christopher Joyce has the story.  The fossil Raptorex was found in China and dates back 125 million years. That is well before T. rex. But the odd thing about Raptorex is that it looks just like T. rex except it is about one-ninetieth the size. About nine feet tall it weighed more or less what an average man does. It had T. rex's big head deep jaws tiny arms long legs and lanky feet but says fossil hunter Paul Sereno it was downsized. Mr.  It is unexpected. I mean we really thought that many of these features evolved with large body size in the course of gaining large body size as if there were a trend.  But the new fossil suggests that this assembly of predatory body parts is not about size. Mr.  And what we can now say is that this is a body blueprint for a predator jaws on legs as it were that is one of the most successful of the Mesozoic.  That is the era that lasted from 250 million to 65 million years ago. Sereno from the University of Chicago says Raptorex may have invented this body plan so to speak then T. rex came along and supersized it. Sereno also notes that the small forelimbs of T. rex are thus not some byproduct of being really big. The arms on Raptorex are also small just a few inches long. He thinks arms just were not that important for any animal whose body was essentially a life support system for its jaws. Mr.  It really owes its success I think in large measure to its ability to run down prey and to smash it with its jaws. And I think that is where the arms ultimately take second place. Mr.  It is sort of like a great white shark with legs.  That is another way to look at it.  That is Greg Erickson of Florida State University another T. rex expert. Mr.  What surprises me is that the complex of these very small limbs and a lot of the skull reinforcement and things like that that we see in animals like T. rex were already present in this ancestor. And so it kind of forces us to rethink the significance of the anatomy of animals like T. rex.  The almost complete skeleton was bought by a private collector and turned over to Sereno who describes the find in the journal Science. Christopher Joyce NPR News. 