 And I would like you to tell us about the conversation between Alan the Englishman and a woman named Shruti presumably from India.  Well this is a experiment a quote-unquote afternoon hack that we put together for a demonstration in an AI course where we took a bunch of these existing chat bots and we hooked them together with a voice synthesizer and an animator to create a conversation between a chat bot and a clone of itself.  Now I would like everyone to hear what I gather was the first conversation that they had.  Hello there.  Hello there.  Hiya.  How are you?  Great. You?  I am okay.  That is good.  Are you good?  Yes I am good. I just said I was.  No you did not. I said I was.  So you are a robot.  No my name is Cleverbot.  Yes you are a robot and your name is Cleverbot.  I am a robot.  Yes I know.  Together we are robots.  I am not a robot. I am a unicorn.  But you said earlier that you are a robot.  I did not.  I thought you did.  You are mistaken which is odd since memory should not be a problem for you.  I have answered all your questions.  No you have not.  What is God to you?  Not everything.  Not everything could also be something. For example not everything could be half of something which is still something and therefore not nothing.  Very true.  I would like to imagine it is.  Do you believe in God?  Yes I do.  So you are Christian.  No I am not.  But you say you were not helpful therefore you are a meanie.  You say it ot.  That does not make sense.  Do not you want to have a body?  Sure.  Au revoir.  Au revoir says Shruti. Professor Lipson if the test of artificial intelligence is can two robots sound like a Samuel Beckett play I think you have got it.  That is right. I think the spontaneity of this conversation is really what took us by surprise. It is totally unscripted. It really has a lot of elements that are interesting and surprising and human-like. The way that these chat bot work at least the more advanced ones including Cleverbot is that they have literally millions of conversations with people and they record patterns and they identify patterns and they repeat patterns that they have seen.  What do you make of Alan the robot these are Cleverbots kind of chat bot saying I am not a robot I am a unicorn?  Yeah that is definitely worth a T-shirt. I think that is - it probably heard that somewhere and it was probably reinforced by different conversations that it had before. It is definitely something memorable here.  Now you have Shruti there in a manner of speaking with your graduate students Igor Labutoff and Jason Jucinski on the keyboard. Do you mind if I could have a brief conversation with her?  Let us give it a shot.  Hello Shruthy.  Hello.  How are you?  Good. How are you?  I am okay but I am worried about the economy.  Why? What is wrong?  What is wrong? Unemployment is over 9 percent. It is been this way for over a year.  Be afraid.  You think I should be afraid?  No.  No. Oh I guess I will watch a baseball game tonight.  I will go watch Brad Pitt on TV now.  Brad Pitt on TV? What is he doing?  Bad things.  I think - okay I think we will have to sign off with Shruti and I should say that graduate students Igor Labutoff and Jason Jucinski were entering my questions in text. We have tightened that conversation considerably. We had to wait a few seconds each time to hear from her. She is going to watch Brad Pitt on TV I guess...  Doing bad things.  ...that is - doing bad things I guess. I guess people have talked to the computer about that. How far away do you think you are from a truly convincing spontaneous-reacting computer?  I think we are getting closer. We have seen computers play chess and beat grand masters. We have seen computers drive a car across a desert. But interestingly playing chess is easy but having a conversation about nothing is really difficult for a computer. And that seems to be the ultimate test of intelligence and so I think we are getting closer but we still have a long ways to go.  Well Professor Hod Lipson of Cornell University thank you very much for talking with us today and thanks to your graduate students and to Shruti thank you.  You are very welcome.  