 Apple introduced its iPhone 7 today. They say it is slimmer sleeker and that the camera's better. And yes the rumors are true. There is no headphone jack. Users will have to use wireless headphones or Apple's lightning port instead. But the old plug-and-socket combination - the jack - has been around in one form or another for more than a hundred years. Jonathan Sterne of McGill University is here to tell us about it. He wrote the book  Cultural Origins Of Sound Reproduction. Jonathan Sterne welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  I gather the jack - it all started with the telephone specifically switchboard operators in the 1880s. Is that right?  Yeah 1888 is the first switchboard. And the idea basically is you would pick up your phone at home. It would connect you to an operator who was wearing some kind of headset. And then you would tell him who you wanted to call and they would plug a cable with two quarter-inch plugs on - one on each end. They would plug one into a jack for your phone and one for the phone of the person you wanted to be connected to.  Fast forward to the modern jack we all know about which is even smaller than that right? It is not that quarter-inch jack that we may know from like hi-fi sets or guitars or something like that.  No no it is a smaller jack. We do not know exactly when that was invented. The first widespread consumer use was transistor radios. The first one was 1954 I think. But it is likely that shape of the plug was in use in military uses before that and probably also for hearing aids which is where a lot of advances in miniaturization happened.  So what made it ubiquitous? What do you think it is about the technology that is helped it last for so long?  Well I think it is a couple of things. One is with any kind of plugger jack - I mean the same thing with the outlets in your wall - anything you can do to standardize is really useful unless you control the market. So if you want to make a new kind of transistor radio and somebody's already invested in a good earphone although they were not very good you would want yours to work with their earphone. And that is why other formats like USB as well because people want to be able to plug their stuff into the other stuff that they have.  What are the odds that the headphones jack could finally go away? You know whether it is rock musicians or your television there are all kinds of places where this is the default technology.  I think it is highly unlikely in the near term that you are going to see it go away. But it is true that casual users who maybe only wear earbuds to go with their Apple products might eventually move away from them.  Finally Jonathan Sterne why is this such a big deal? I mean I know it is lasted a long time but why do you think people are freaking out?  Well I think it is a couple things. One is that the earbuds that come with originally iPod and the iPhone are still iconic in Apple's advertisement - so those little cables on the black figures that you see in the stores. The whole device has represented independence for people I think - that you can do more on the go that you are freer that you are more flexible that you are more available that you are able to do different kinds of things. But at the same time this freedom comes with a cost. And the cost is you are increasingly locked into the decisions of the company whose platform you use. And so the headphone jack which - let us face it - is just another plug to plug things into become symbolic of Apple's constantly changing products. And I think it is a little disturbing to people because it is a reminder that they are really not in control of their media lives.  That is Jonathan Sterne. He is the author of  Cultural Origins Of Sound Reproduction. Thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you. 