 YouTube is something of a modern-day babysitter and it is under fire for collecting data on young children without asking their parents first. The company may face a big fine by the Federal Trade Commission as NPR's Aarti Shahani reports.  Here's a poorly kept secret. Little kids watch YouTube a lot.   Hey everyone. Today we are unrolling Poopsie toilet rolls.  So many little kids are on it is prompted the quirkiest cultural phenomenon - unboxing toys taking toys out of boxes and bags one after the other.   What do we have here? Unicorn food - such a cute pearly bag.  Here is the issue. Under a federal privacy law passed in the 1990s websites directed at kids under 13 have to get parents' consent before collecting or sharing the kids personal information. YouTube does not do that. The company owned by Google has an official line. You have to be 13 or older to have an account so that kid's privacy law does not apply. The Washington Post has reported the FTC is in the late stages of an investigation into YouTube for possible child privacy violations and may impose a fine on the company. This comes at a time when regulators the Justice Department and Congress are investigating the growing power of big tech. Ashkan Soltani former FTC chief technologist says the regulator may be responding to political pressure.  I know it is not supposed to - right? - in the same way it is not supposed to affect the Supreme Court. But I do know that there is interest in signaling they are reining in big tech.  Google and YouTube have been accused of leaving children vulnerable to pedophiles. Privacy and watchdog groups have for years charged that the companies are illegally gathering data on children and that they are targeting videos at children that would never have passed muster in the TV days. These videos are commercials paid for by toy makers like many of the unboxing videos. Angela Campbell a law professor at Georgetown University who is filed numerous complaints to the FTC about Google and its partners points out they are not the only ones.  This problem has gone on for a long time and it is just sort of been you know ignored. And I think you know it is now just gotten too big to ignore.  Google an NPR sponsor declined to comment on potential FTC action. Campbell says that after years of inaction she is seeing a kind of bipartisan consensus forming with Democrats concerned about privacy violations and Republicans about inappropriate content landing in front of kids' eyeballs though some content is just silly.   And here we actually have unicorn poop .  Aarti Shahani NPR News. 