 NASA hopes to send people to Mars sometime in the 2030s. President Trump would like to see that happen even sooner. And at a remote site in the Utah desert would-be astronauts are already simulating what it would be like to live on the Red Planet. NPR's Rae Ellen Bichell spent some time with one crew.  Victoria LaBarre was in her spacesuit climbing out of a canyon when she started to experience an astronaut's nightmare.  Suddenly I could not breathe.  But LaBarre did not unlatch her helmet to get a breath of fresh desert air because in this simulation she was clambering out of a 5-mile-deep chasm on Mars. And on Mars you do not take off your helmet. So instead she radioed her crewmates who walked her through some breathing exercises.  I think that is one of the best things about Mars is the teamwork.  LaBarre and the rest of Crew 177 known as the Lone Star Highlanders are a few days into their week at the Mars Desert Research Station. Hey.  Welcome.  Hi. I am Rae. It is a two-story metal cylinder in southern Utah. There is a workshop and bathroom on the first level. And Pitchayapa Jingjit the crew biologist climbs a ladder to the sleeping area and kitchen on the second.  Most of us like just hang out here.  The only other people they talk to are the ones at Capsule Communications the simulated command center. The kitchen pantry is stocked with freeze-dried ingredients so dry they rattle in the jars. Joseph Quaas is the team cook.  Here's our eggs. I do not think you have ever seen eggs that look like just a weird powder.  Today the crew has planned an excursion a spacewalk.  You will put your suit on in here.  Their goal is to collect rock samples so they can find out what resources the land might hold and what this place was like millions of years ago.  There we go.  Elijah Espinoza the crew engineer and geologist points out a strange flag on the wall with blocks of red green and blue. It is an unofficial flag of Mars.  I guess when we land on Mars that is what is going to be planted. I am not really sure.  Many people think of Mars as the next frontier for human exploration. Victoria LaBarre is excited about all the technological advances the mission could spur.  Oh man it is going to be amazing.  Others like Elijah Espinoza view Mars as a necessary plan B.  Four or five generations on the road there may be a point in time where Earth is not suitable anymore. You know you have to leave. And they are just - it is either you know the human race can end or the human race can progress on another planet.  A group called the Mars Society built this place in 2001 to promote the human settlement of the Red Planet. The group is not affiliated with NASA. It is a nonprofit funded by grants and private donations. Groups pay the society to stay at the Utah site and work on research projects.  That is the rover we put together. Esteban's working on a generator bike.  Usually the teams that come here are scientists from all over the world. The previous crew came from Poland. But this crew is made up of students from McLennan Community College in Waco Texas. Some are the first in their families to go to college. At least one had not been to a state other than Texas until this Mars mission. Now four of them are squishing into the airlock to leave the building. They count down a minute. It is a pretend depressurization to keep them from getting sucked outside like ants in a vacuum cleaner.  All right guys you ready?  Yep.  Yep.  The astronauts step out...  Radio check. Can you hear me?  ...Board a couple of electric ATVs and navigate their way between hills that come in stripes of maroon white red and yellow. They pull over to collect rock samples.  All right guys these are all ancient sand dunes. So what we are going to do is we are going to take some samples from them and the ground around them. Cool?  In some places the ground is sandy. In others dirt crumbles underfoot like a stale muffin. The whole landscape looks extraterrestrial except for the cow off in the distance.  Alien spotting.  Aliens. They wave to the alien and then hammer off a chunk of sandstone and zip it into a baggie. Later they will test the samples for things like potassium iron and uranium.  That way you know what you have to work with when it comes to starting a civilization and things like that. You all ready to head back?  Yeah.  Yeah we have got one more sample then we are going to head back to the hab. Over.  After I leave the group will watch the sunset from the porthole windows. And in a few days they will step out of the capsule this time without spacesuits on and go back to breathing the outside air. They will go back to Waco Texas to classes and homework and dreams of graduate school. And if all goes as planned by the time the members of this crew are in their late 30s NASA will actually be sending humans to the Red Planet - the real one. Rae Ellen Bichell NPR News. 