 From time to time we report on stories of government officials squandering money on lavish even outlandish parties at the taxpayer expense. This is not one of those stories though it does involve NASA and Vikings. NPR's Geoff Brumfiel has the story.  It all began with an idea. Ved Chirayath is an aeronautics graduate student at Stanford University who loves photography. He was talking over what to shoot one day with a colleague and thought of Vikings.  In the San Francisco Bay there is all these marshes. And so for some reason both of us had in our heads a picture of one of these Viking ships landing in this marsh.  Chirayath had a small grant from Stanford to take science-themed portraits. He is an aspiring astronaut so he also works nearby at NASA's Ames Research Center. NASA and Vikings are sort of related - both are known for exploration. And the Ames center had another connection Pete Worden the center's director likes to dress like one.  I had once seen Dr. Worden give sort of a monthly talk at NASA Ames on sort of the state of all things cool at NASA and he gave that talk in a Viking costume.  Worden and a few other officials agreed to the shoot. And Chirayath rounded up some Viking reenactors off the Internet who were willing to do it for free.  We had all these Vikings come out that were all really enthusiastic about NASA and their mission and they wanted to just help in any way they could.  They all gathered on a December afternoon last year.  Go Odin.  Nice that was one of the best ones.  That is video from the shoot. The photos are a little random. There is some Vikings and some satellites and some fog from a fog machine.  It was not one of my...  ...best pieces I feel like. It was kind of put together last minute.  But it was a lot of fun until last month. A concerned citizen contacted Iowa Republican Chuck Grassley with a lot of questions about the Viking photos. Here's the senator.  Were the people on the clock when they were doing this? Was there any taxpayers' money involved?  Around the same time Chirayath got a call.  It was a long telephone interview.  NPR has learned that that call was actually part of another investigation this one by NASA's independent Office of Inspector General. They wanted to know details like what kind of bottled water did he give people?  And I was like...  OK it is Costco like bottled water.  Chirayath was baffled. The pictures were not taken using NASA equipment or funding. All that information was clearly posted on his website.  In fact in bold letters.  But the investigations by NASA and Grassley continued.  Yeah it was multiple phone calls. I had to give - sort of surrender all the emails that pertained to the shoot communications with the Viking group communications with virtually everyone involved in that process.  The inspector general will not discuss how much all this cost  number of interviews multiplied by work hours multiplied by salaries of those involved.  And I came to a lower-end budget of around 40000.  And an upper end of more than half a million. Chirayath says he spent around 150 on the shoot. Senator Grassley says this is not just a Viking hunt. Do you have something against people dressing up as Vikings?  No. In fact do not you see them on television on the commercials? I kind of enjoy it.   Grassley says asking questions like this are part of his job as a senator.  I have a constitutional responsibility of oversight to make sure that the laws are faithfully executed and that the money is spent according to congressional intent.  NASA declined to go on tape. But a spokesperson told NPR their investigation has just concluded and found no government resources were used. Grassley is mostly satisfied but his office still plans to speak with NASA investigators later this week. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News.   This is NPR. 