 While the iPhone 5 has a number of new features to entice customers NPR's Steve Henn reports a new cord could tie Apple's most devoted fans in knots.  I kind of think of Philz Coffee in Palo Alto as the epicenter of Apple fanatics. It is hip. In fact it is so hip it is too hip for espresso drinks. Only hand-poured specialty blends are sold here. Could I get a decaf Swiss water organic Peru?  Absolutely.  Every day dozens of techie types come here for coffee and then lounge around on the leather sofa sipping away often with Apple products scattered out in front of them. Yeliz Ustabas has an Apple laptop perched next to her and an iPhone balanced on her knee. How many Apple gadgets do you think you own?  You know what I do not know.   A lot.  Normally Yeliz says she is pretty quick to buy the latest thing Apple has to offer. But this morning before Apple unveiled its new phone she said this time she might wait.  For now 4S seems better.   So I am going to wait a little bit I guess so.  The reason is the new phone's new connector. Since its debut more than five years ago all of Apple's iPhones have used the same kind of port for charging and docking. And since then an entire industry of iPhone accessories has grown up around this simple little plug. Scores of different companies sell speakers docking stations adapters for car radios battery packs and other stuff. IPhone accessories are big business.  You could see anywhere from five to 10 billion a year in revenues.  Michael Morgan follows the industry for ABI Research. He says not all iPhone accessories will have to be redesigned because of the new plug and cord. Old headphones are fine so are speakers that use Bluetooth or wireless to connect. But pretty much everything else will need to be tweaked or require an adapter to work. Now Apple is making these adapters but true Apple freaks will need dozens of them.  So we have a music dock that is for our Sonos music system. We have chargers all over the house for the iPhone.  Andrea Seebaum and Steve Deautsch live in San Francisco.  We have two cars both of which have docks.  Right. Mine is built into my car. Steve's is aftermarket.  If you have built your electronic life around an iPhone it could be kind of annoying.  The other problem with the little connectors if you are on the road and you are traveling it is just another thing to get lost.  But Apple did not make this change just to mess with you. Michael Morgan from ABI Research says there are good reasons Apple changed its little plug.  They held out for five years before they did this. You might say it was due.  A smaller plug makes room for a bigger battery. Apple says its easier to use but it is a plug and it creates kind of an odd dynamic for these new phones. The switch is the biggest hassle for those consumers who love Apple gadgets the most. Talk about First World problems. Steve Henn NPR News Silicon Valley. 