 We are going to take a closer look now at a possible relationship between the climate and conflict. NPR's Jon Hamilton reports that scientists have found statistical evidence of a link between climate and political violence.  The researchers studied civil conflicts and the climate pattern known as El Nino. Solomon Hsiang of Princeton University says El Nino starts with unusually warm water in the Pacific Ocean near the equator. But pretty soon he says it affects weather on land thousands of miles away.  It is not just that an individual country has slightly different weather. It is that all countries around the entire tropical belt okay - half the world's population - experiences a completely different climate regime.  Hsiang and his colleagues did a statistical analysis to see whether El Nino or La Nina conditions were associated with civil conflict. They define civil conflict as a new dispute between the government and an organized group that results in at least 25 battle-related deaths. And Hsiang says the analysis produced a striking result.  When the global climate is in its relatively cooler and wetter a La Nina state the rate of conflict is only three percent. So out of 100 countries in any given year only three countries would be expected to begin a new civil war. However when the global climate shifts into its relatively hotter and drier El Nino state the rate of conflict jumps - it actually doubles all the way up to six percent.  But Hsiang says not all countries are affected.  The countries that are most sensitive to El Nino are the poorer countries. Wealthier countries that are in the tropical belt - so for example Brazil or Australia do not exhibit civil conflicts during El Nino events.  Andy Solow a statistician at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts says Hsiang and his team have made the strongest case yet that there is a link between climate and conflict. And Solow can think of some possible reasons that the two are related.  People do not just go to war because the weather changes. The effect of weather on human behavior is presumably operating through resource scarcity or food scarcity or something like that.  And Solow says El Nino is well-known to reduce crop yields in tropical countries.  A lot of these countries are poor and mainly agricultural. And as climate conditions change that can put stress on the agricultural system in those countries also possibly on water resources and other resources like that and that that may lead to conflict.  Solow says researchers still need to figure out if that is really what is going on with El Nino. But Solomon Hsiang says that because the El Nino conditions can be forecast it may already be possible to use his study to help anticipate conflicts. He says that does not mean other countries should necessarily intervene though.  Some conflicts are important. People engage in conflicts because they are things they really care about. So it is not up to us to say that the conflicts per se should be stopped. But there are a lot of very innocent bystanders who often suffer as a result of conflicts. And so it is those people we are really hoping to support and help out.  Jon Hamilton NPR News. 