 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. And it is time now for All Tech Considered. Geeks tech heads and open Internet advocates were on pins and needles all weekend. They were waiting for an announcement between Google and Verizon that rumor had might change the Internet forever. Well that announcement came this afternoon. And as NPR's Neda Ulaby reports it was not quite what anyone expected.   You could almost hear the air of anticipation whooshing out of a telephone conference call with Google CEO Eric Schmidt.   This is not a deal. This is a joint policy announcement.  The deal reporters expected would let Google pay Verizon to get certain content online faster than its competitors. Instead Schmidt and his Verizon counterpart set forth a plan a sort of statement of intent promising to maintain the Internet's openness and integrity.   We enjoy August drama but this is not our dramatic moment I think.   August drama I do not know.  Siva Vaidhyanathan is a professor of media studies and law at the University of Virginia. He was on the conference call too.  It was no Mad Men.   But just like that hit cable drama about ad men in the 1960s there is a backdrop of corporate control and intent that is not always crystal clear despite Schmidt's repeated assurances of transparency. Vaidhyanathan says this is the problem.  All of these companies have short term vested interests in maintaining their power. Verizon always wants to be Verizon. Google will always want to be the biggest company on the Web.  So he is a little suspicious at the deals these companies cut and how they might try to influence policy.  Because fundamentally Google does not work for you or me and Verizon certainly does not work for you or me.  Nevertheless Google's Eric Schmidt today laid out a set of principles including preserving an open Internet.  Our proposal would establish a new and enforceable prohibition against discrimination for wire-line broadband Internet services.  He is talking about what is called Net neutrality making sure all applications and all users are treated equally without the companies that sell us access blocking or slowing down content. But Schmidt specifically said wire- line not wireless which would mean smartphones for example. Unlike your desktop those have restrictions on which applications you can use. That worries Siva Vaidhyanathan.  As we shift more and more of our use to these smaller mobile devices we want to make sure that the next YouTube and the next Skype can arise in this new environment.  A new environment that may not have the kind of Net neutrality that fostered the Internet we are used to. But Adam Thierer takes a different point of view. He is the president of the Progress and Freedom Foundation a think tank that looks at the Internet revolution from a free-market perspective. He wonders why the Internet should be different from any other industry.  From airlines where you have first class versus coach to hotels where you have nice rooms versus smaller ones it just means that it is not as special as the premium offering.  But access to information is different from access to hotels says Professor Siva Vaidhyanathan. And he hopes the Federal Communications Commission takes that into account.  If the FCC uses this agreement between two private companies as a template for public policy we are just going to essentially allow for a whole lot of top-down control in the very areas where use seems to be moving.  Neda Ulaby NPR News. 