 Finally in Tech our latest lesson in social media etiquette. With the assist once again from Baratunde Thurston former digital director at The Onion and author of the book How to Be Black. And Deanna Zandt she is the author of  How You Will Change the World With Social Networking. This week question about how to behave in a digital age comes from a listener in Juno Alaska. What is the best way to reply to Facebook invitation for events such as concerts and showcases if you do not plan on showing up. Should you still click that you will attend to help promotion?  Great question. As a traveling salesman of jokes also known as a comedian I sympathize heavily with this question. Facebook used to have feature called Remove This Event where you basically - you kind of opted out. Like you did not say yes. You did not say no. You made the problem go away.   It was the most passive-aggressive button on Facebook. It was fantastic.  It was like the event never happened.  Yes.  I would say oh it got lost in the mail. I never got your invitation and that is a beautiful cop-out.  Mm-hmm.  They removed that. They are forcing accountability forcing awkwardness. I would say especially as a performer saying you are going to come and then not showing up is the worse sin.  Yes.  Because people are actually trying to estimate you know crowd sizes and demand. And if you just are trying to me qualitatively supportive and then you do not show up you are a liar. And then it actually it stings worse.  It stings worse especially if you are person putting on the event. I know that when I produce events actually and I am looking at Facebook RSVPs I actually assume that only about 25 percent of those people are showing. 'ecause some people are just being nice.  Oh.  And you know it is great that want to be supportive of your friends - we like that. That is how you know the social media stuff is all about karma and being supportive and friendly. But you know be aware that you could also be hurting people's feelings. If you want to do good by your friends share their events to your own timeline. Put it out to their networks. Do not necessarily just use the RSVP function. Use all of the other tools that are available around events.  That is Deanna Zandt and Baratunde Thurston. Have a question for our experts? E-mail to AllTechNPR.org.  