 What the future holds may indeed as President Obama said today depend on what young people think about going to the moon and beyond. Nell Greenfieldboyce went out in Washington D.C. to ask some young people.  Laura Favenflathen is from Philadelphia. She is 20 years old so she was born years after Apollo ended and astronauts stopped walking on the moon. When you think of the moon and people walking on the moon how does that seem to you? Ms.  I am not really fazed by that. It does not seem particularly - it does not surprise. It does not seem like a big ordeal to me.  If they had another moon landing and it was sort of on TV would you be watching it? Ms.  Yeah absolutely I would watch it. Definitely.  Someone her age only knows about moonwalking from movies and books and she is got plenty of company. Mr.  Half the world's population has been born since we stopped going to the moon.  Roger Launius is a curator at the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum. Mr.  In the true sense of the term it is history for them.  NASA has long-term plans to put people back on the moon and go on to Mars. But young adults have grown up with routine space shuttle flights and tragedies like Challenger and Columbia. One survey a few years ago suggested that they are not that enthusiastic about a moon mission. If the younger generation is not as interested that could be a problem for NASA because today's kids will be tomorrow's voting taxpayers. Mr.  I am Tyce Kameyak and I am seven.  And do you have any thoughts about whether or not people should be going to the moon? Mr.  That would be good but I do not really know like if they should or should not because yeah.  Well like for example would you personally be interested if given an opportunity to get off the planet? Mr.  Yeah that would be interesting.  Other kids like Abby Jones and Alena Church are more gung-ho. Ms.  I think it would be really - be really fun to walk on the moon and search everything all the planets and asteroid belts. Ms.  I think that NASA should be returning. My friends well some of them they are interested in space and I know I am but I am not sure about other people around me. Mr.  If I go to a classroom today it is different than when I went when I was an astronaut in 1980.  Charles Bolden is President Obama's pick to be the next head of NASA. Mr.  I could ask how many of you want to be an astronaut and every hand went up in the class.  These days he says he will see maybe three hands. Mr.  We do have to reinvigorate the interest of youth in this country if we are going to do anything.  So NASA is Tweeting and Facebooking and trying to catch the attention of teenagers like August Hagen who is you know kind of open to the idea. Are you interested in moon exploration? Would you - is an astronaut a career that you would ever consider? Mr.  I do not think I would consider it but I think it might be an interesting just thing to study.  Why would not you consider it? Mr.  I sort of have a fear of heights.  Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 