 Now to a review of a mobile app called Placeme created by the company Alohar Mobile. As long as it is running the app keeps an automatic log of the places you have visited. But it is different from some other location-based apps.  You are basically sharing it only with yourself. It is a private memory bank of all the places that you have gone.  That is Alexis Madrigal senior editor at The Atlantic who decided to take the Placeme app for a spin around the block.  The idea is that it is sort of perfect memory. You know if you are like me you do not necessarily remember where you went three Tuesdays ago. And so you can track this kind of data to say like do you I go to the gym more often than I go to the ice cream shop or vice versa right? You are in fact making a location log that would be very easy for someone using your phone to look into. You know just like all privacy things maybe it is no big deal. On the other hand maybe that information ends up somewhere you do not want it to. I - right now I am in my house which is on the border between Oakland and Berkeley. And I was going to head to a coffee shop and see if Placeme would actually pick me up. Here I go. All right I will put on a little bit of the Head and the Heart.   May be a little sun roof too.   Oh hey. How is it going?  OK.  Can I get a large ice coffee to go. Thank you. I was able to take a look at where Placeme automagically deposited my location into a database. And unfortunately it did not deposit the wonderful coffee shop into the database. Instead it placed where I parked my car which just happens to be a random side street. I think as a one-time experiment it kind of shows one the general problems with Placeme which is just that given the current technological limitations it takes human intervention to create a perfect record of what it is that you have done with your life. And maybe it is best seen as an aid to what you might want to remember rather than a replacement for your actual mind.   That is Alexis Madrigal senior editor at The Atlantic. 