 Speaking of rage a wave of comments began trending yesterday on Twitter  Muslim Rage. It was the unintended product of an effort by Newsweek to promote conversation on Twitter about its latest cover story. It is about the protests in the Middle East. The cover featured two bearded men in midchant fists in the air  Muslim Rage. And when Newsweek asked readers to tweet their thoughts the response was a barrage of satire.  Eat pray pray pray pray pray love MuslimRage.  That is Amro Ali of Sydney Australia reading his tweet. And here's one from Fatemeh Fakhraie of Portland Oregon.  Not getting the cute airport security guy to give me a pat-down for my quote-unquote randomly selected search MuslimRage.  Tweets from all over the world with that hashtag spoke not of rage but mundane inconveniences and everyday ironies. We asked Egyptian-American writer Ashraf Khalil what motivated the stream of jokes. He covered the Egyptian revolution and the latest protest in Cairo and sent a few tweets of his own.  I think it was this unspoken communal desire to reclaim the initiative not just from what was regarded as kind of a cynical and inflammatory cover from Newsweek but also just from a terrible terrible week. I mean it had been a really disillusioning week seeing the way that this movie was responded to in Muslim countries in the Middle East. Even if it was only a thousand people here and a thousand people there seeing people take the bait so easily was depressing.  And you have tweeted some of your own Muslim Rage tweets. To quote one here knowing deep down in my heart that bacon pork chops and barbecue ribs probably taste amazing Muslim Rage. Did you have any favorites you saw in that stream?  Oh there were so many. I swear I like - literally I lost like two hours of my life on this hashtag just following it and knowing - one of the beautiful things about Twitter is when you are in on something and it is just surging. Some of my favorites there were some great hijab jokes.  having a great hair day but no one can tell Muslim Rage. And I think my all-time favorite and this one rocketed around forever and ever  lose track of your son Jihad at the airport cannot yell out for him Muslim Rage. And it was just so deadpan because I know people whose name is Jihad. I mean it is a reasonably common name in the Middle East. And that one made me laugh for five minutes the idea that of you know you cannot find your son Jihad and the last thing you can do is yell out for him in the middle of a crowded airport. I loved that one.  Now you are based in Cairo and you have been covering the protests there for Time for over the past week. And you wrote this in one of your observations on September 11th.  The sheer rage on display was somewhat curious since half the protesters seemed to be busy explaining to the other half just what they were all so upset about. So you have described what you have seen as rage. Do you find that this response on Twitter is something that is kind of an internal discussion that people are saying amongst themselves and that is ironic or is it something that is also a message to the broader community to try and upend the stereotype on that Newsweek cover?  I think it was largely a diversion from the larger issue of this rage. I think many of us have seen this rage on display so the rage is real. The question is real. So I do not know that the fun we all had with the Muslim rage hashtag really addressed or forwarded the debate any. It probably was not the point. I think for a lot of people it sort of restored their faith in the community because honestly this should have been the response to this movie from the very start. It should have been mocked and then ignored. You know nobody ever should have gathered for a protest about this. And as I saw like many of the protesters were vastly overestimating its importance and its reach. It was bait. And far too many people in the Muslim world took the bait. And that is a 10 or 20-year project to figure out.  Ashraf Khalil thank you so much for speaking with us.  My pleasure.  Ashraf Khalil is a freelance journalist based in Cairo and he is the author of a book about the revolution in Egypt called Liberation Square. 