 The news overload we all feel can extend to the world of science. Our friend from the world of astrophysics Adam Frank has offered to provide some tools to help make us all savvier consumers of science news. Adam Frank welcome back. It is good to talk to you.  Oh it is great to be here again Ari.  Adam why did you feel like this guidance was especially important right now?  Science is such a part of our lives. It just dominates our lives now with everything from climate change to genetically modified foods to you know the possibility of genetically modified babies that it is really important for us as a democracy as these science issues come to dominate so much for us to have some sense of not only what science says but how science works.  So pull back the curtain for us a little bit. If I see a headline that says something I thought was junk food is actually healthy or something I use every day causes cancer how seriously should I take it? How do I make sense of it?  The way I like to codify it is what I call the three S's of science. The first one is spitballs and then supertankers and then stadiums .  Is this something you just made up or do other scientists use these too?  I think I just made that up.  OK.  But hey we will see if it can - maybe it has legs.  All right. Let us go through this. We will use - first is spitballs. What does spitballs mean?  Right. So when people hear a new study says when they see that headline how are they supposed to respond to it? The important thing is to understand is that the currency for scientists are scientific papers. You know we publish a paper. Then as soon as it gets published it is part of the scientific literature as we say. But each one...  And to get published it has to be reviewed by experts challenged et cetera.  Exactly. But each one of those studies is really just a spitball. It is a spitball in a giant spitball fight in this community of scientists. And so what that means is that when you hear a new scientific study says you have to recognize that is not the last word on anything.  OK. The second S - supertanker.  So we know that it takes seven miles to turn a supertanker. And science is very much like that supertanker where each one of these spitballs each one of these studies it is hitting the prow of the boat. And the question is whether or not they are - all those spitballs are lining up to help you slowly turn the supertanker or are they hitting on both sides so that there is no turning at all? And so with coffee - right? - with those coffee studies that are going back and forth that is telling you you know the state of the science is not decided yet and the state of the supertanker is not going to turn. But with something like tobacco - right? - where you know it took some time but over time all of those studies were coming to the same conclusion. And so the ship of science was turned to the point where scientists could say we know that tobacco is bad for you. And it is the same thing with climate. It took 50 100 years for all of these studies to line up one after the other after the other. And now you are going to have a very hard time finding a study that does not tell you that the climate is changing and it is changing because of us.  Yeah. And that is what we call scientific consensus.  Exactly. And that is where we get to the third S which is the stadium right? So who is...  Oh all right.  The way the ship gets steered is by this process of consensus. We need the community of people to interpret and process and decide on directions.  That stadium full of people.  That stadium full of people. And if we do not understand that process that is how science denial can get its legs and completely lead us astray.  So to bring this back around to evaluate news stories about science it sounds like you are saying read beyond the headline. And if we see a study look at the context of where it fits into the larger scientific debate over the issue.  Ari that is exactly it. You know if there is a scientific study about coffee did they have ten people or 100000 people in it? Did they follow those people for six months or 60 years? Was the group you know a bunch of college students or was it a whole range of different people? Now with scientists we know how to evaluate that but for the general public since most people do not practice science you know it is good for them to understand that there are these differences and be able to step back and say look I need to ask how the science as a whole is going not just that individual study.  Adam Frank thanks as always.  It was a great pleasure Ari.  He is an astrophysicist at the University of Rochester and he has a new book called Light Of The Stars. 