 This fall  the Wii performance class. It does not mean the wee W-E-E performance class. It is W-i-i as in the Nintendo game system. Students will earn one credit hour for playing Wii twice a week for 20 to 30 minutes. The classroom is a converted racquetball court with 10 Wii stations. Charles Layne is chairman of the Department of Health and Human Performance. Mr.  Probably about nine months ago my program director Dr. Randi Weintraub and myself got the idea. You know we saw the Wii Fitness sitcom out and our department is devoted to providing physical activity opportunities for all sorts of students and we thought well why do not we try to capture a larger element of the student body? As you know the University of Houston has a diverse student population and there is a number of people who may be interested in fitness but did not want to take one of these classes or had no experience in one of the traditional classes. So they said well why do not we try to make something for them? Over the years we have added you know in that spirit a number of courses like tai chi judo pilates that again try and attract a larger audience. This was just a natural extension of that.  But if I understand this the students who take the course they are not coming in to just say play tennis with the Wii or play golf with it or something they are using the Wii Fitness program. Mr.  Right. So there is not a focus on the Wii Sports as in the football or the you know shooting basketballs or tennis or bowling. The emphasis is on the Wii Fitness activity. So we have Pilates classes. We have yoga classes. We have essentially what is a circuit training where you do some of the more traditional activities like sit-ups push-ups et cetera. And what we like about the Wii is that we can log in and it records your activities. You know so we have a permanent record of what people have done in terms of their physical activity. And also while you are working with the Wii it is giving you immediate feedback. And if we think about yoga and you are in a you know sun salutation pose it is providing you feedback are you doing this correctly which actually makes it very attractive relative to some of the face-to-face opportunities where you have one instructor for maybe 25 students.  So it really checks out the expense of having the Wii devices? You could have a Pilates class or yoga class without the Wii but the feedback is that much more valuable to you? Mr.  Well yeah. And the goal here is there are people who may have interests in physical activity but maybe they are not confident enough to join a regular yoga class. Like oh you know I could never do that - and what we are hoping through the Wii is that this can serve as sort of a gateway class that if they have a positive experience let us say again with Wii yoga then maybe next semester they will join the face-to-face class.  Do students actually work up a sweat with the Wii or is it more tame than that? Mr.  No no it is absolutely you can work up a sweat with that. You know so it depends on the actual activity. If you go through the right sequence of activities yes you are going to work up a sweat.  But this is a game system and these are college students we are talking about. Even in this course does there come a time when the students you know get a chance to do a little Wii bowling or one of the games in the system? Mr.  Yes so we will work that into it. And you know again the nice part about Wii - so we have 10 systems in our modified racquetball court. So we have an opportunity to actually have tournaments in no matter what sport we would choose. So if we had a tennis tournament or we had the bowling tournament. So yeah we will definitely work in some of those. They will have elements of physical activity in them but most of the class will be devoted to the fitness side of the Wii.  Well thanks for talking with us about it. Mr.  You bet. Thanks very much.  That is Professor Charles Layne who is chairman of the Department of Health and Human Performance at the University of Houston.  