 A giant blob in outer space sounds like something from a classic sci-fi flick. In this case it is not fiction. Astronomers have spent years puzzling over cosmic objects that they actually call blobs. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports that scientists may have just uncovered the secret behind one blob's eerie glow.  Space blobs were first spotted back in the late 1990s. Chuck Steidel is an astronomer at Caltech. He and some colleagues were observing a bunch of galaxies in the distant reaches of the universe.  But we also saw these big blotchy things.  At first he thought they would somehow screwed up the images - but no. They had accidently found strange glowing clouds of gas.  And they were large - that is 20 times the diameter of the Milky Way galaxy big.  Steidel's team named these mysterious objects Lyman-alpha blobs - Lyman-alpha because that is the wavelength of ultraviolet light they emit and blobs because well the word blob is funny.  Like the blob from outer space or something like that.  He says the weird thing was where was the light coming from? Why would a blob glow? Now an international team of astronomers has peered into one of the most famous blobs using a powerful telescope in Chile. Hiding inside it found a pair of large galaxies. These galaxies are producing new stars at a frantic pace.  Each galaxy is forming the equivalent of a hundred new suns every year.  Jim Geach is an astronomer at the University of Hertfordshire in the United Kingdom. He says we could not see these galaxies before because they are so dusty. They were hidden even though all the commotion was lighting up their gaseous surroundings producing the blob.  Just like a streetlight on a foggy night you see a sort of halo around the streetlight because the light from the central streetlight is scattering off water droplets in the fog. And it is kind of analogous to what we are seeing in these Lyman-alpha blobs.  The findings appear in The Astrophysical Journal. Matthew Hayes is an astronomer at Stockholm University. He says now we know what is powering this particular blob and he guesses if you look hard enough you would find something like this in probably all of them.  These things are still rare and they are still kind of strange. But we are putting it together now I think.  He says the mystery of the outer space blobs is not completely solved but they are getting there. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 