 Soghoian is a graduate fellow at the Center for Applied Cybersecurity Research at Indiana University. And he is here with me in the studio. Glad you are back with us again.  Thanks for bringing me back.  Where are people most vulnerable? Is it through their Wi-Fi network service? Is it through the online purchases that they make? Is it through email?  Now they are not going to get your password but they are going to get something similar that will let them log in to your Facebook account to your Yahoo or Hotmail account as you look through your old messages send new messages this kind of thing.  So they are not necessarily in your email but they are grabbing the information as it is en route?  They are not only getting the messages as they go by but they are actually getting access to your account. So two hours after you have left the coffee shop they can log in still as you peruse old messages and send new ones. It is a really big problem.  How do you protect yourself from that?  Likewise Facebook and Twitter have what is called an SSL option that you can enable in your settings. But you have to sort of be a little bit of a geek to even know that it exists in the first place.  And maybe I am a little - I am not a little bit of a geek 'ecause when you said SSL it went right by me. What is that mean?  That is the term for the lock icon that you see in your browser. What it means is that everything that is transmitted between your browser and the remote website is encrypted. If you do not see the lock icon it means that your information is being transmitted in the clear and anyone with the right tool can just pick it out from the air.  If you are trying to protect yourself from spyware or malware or if you have some sort of virus protection system are they all created equally or are some much better than others?  There are many different tools that you can use to protect yourself from spyware and malware. Many are made by the operating system vendors themselves and so you are probably getting something for free. The important thing is that you should be updating on a regular basis. If the software tells you it is out of date let it go and get the update. If you put it off for too long you are going to be vulnerable and exposed to potentially malicious software on the Internet.  If someone is listening to this right now and fairly spooked by this conversation and there are three things that they can do when they go home tonight what would those three things be?  Install all your security updates. Make sure your browser is up- to-date. Install some online backup software and take a deep breath.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  Good to talk to you again Chris. That is Christopher Soghoian. He is a graduate fellow at the Center for Applied Cybersecurity Research at Indiana University. He is based here in Washington D.C. 