 We are going to spend a little time now in a cemetery in the interest of science. Veronique LaCapra of St. Louis Public Radio mustered up her courage and went out to the cemetery at night.  I had visited St. Louis's Bellefontaine Cemetery before but never at night. It is dark. There is just about a half a moon visible in the sky and - wait a minute. What is that over there? I can see eerie lights and strange shadowy figures moving among the grave stones.    Look. There comes one of them now.  Hi my name is Vona Kuczynska and I am a wildlife biologist. And I am a student at the University of Missouri St. Louis.  OK. Those mysterious lights? - headlamps. And the ghosts or zombies? - just researchers. They are part of an effort to try to get an idea of the range of wildlife that is in the cemetery. Scientists have already studied birds here. Tonight some people are looking at moths. Kuczynska is focusing on bats.  When you are holding a bat in your hand you just see how beautiful they are. And they have so much personality.  What do you mean? Wait wait wait wait. So bats have personalities?  Bats absolutely have personalities.  Some species she tells me are really gentle and do not seem to mind being handled.  Whereas other bats - usually bigger bats - are way more aggressive. And they will try to bite you and escape and do all these things.  Kuczynska's in the cemetery trying to find out what kinds of bats are flying around here.   That is a big brown bat complaining about getting snagged in one of the nets Kuczynska and her helpers set up before sunset. They look something like oversized volleyball nets only with much finer mesh. But very few bats actually get caught in them. That is because bats use a kind of biological sonar called echolocation to avoid obstacles and find their insect prey even in the dark. So Kuczynska is also using a special bat detector.   To show me how it works she carries the big brown bat toward a small device that is lying on the ground. It is about the size and shape of a paperback book. It is called an AnaBat.   And so the AnaBat is recording these noises and playing them back to us in a range that we can hear. And it allows us to see if there is activity - bat activity - in the area.  Now it turns out that cemeteries are not just great places for spooky things like bats.  I mean I suspect that most of the species that are found in cities are probably also using cemeteries.  Seth Magle who directs the Urban Wildlife Institute in Chicago says with increasing urbanization it is critical that animals have places in cities where they can live. He says like parks golf courses and other urban green spaces cemeteries can also provide an essential refuge for all sorts of wildlife.  Coyotes red foxes skunks woodchucks opossum whitetail deer beaver...  Along with more common city residents like birds and squirrels. It is easy to see why animals would be drawn to a cemetery like Bellefontaine. It is more of a majestic 19th century park with thousands of big trees spread out over more than 300 acres. But Magle says some animals can forge even in a place that is just gravestones and grass.  Species like coyotes are not terribly selective about that kind of stuff. It seems like mostly what they are looking for in these urban areas are rabbits. And rabbits like grass so the rabbits will come in for the grass and then the coyotes may come in for the rabbits.  The idea of cemeteries as wildlife habitat may seem kind of strange here in America where most cemeteries are kept pretty manicured. But over in England where like in the U.S. urban development and industrial agriculture have reduced wildlife habitat it is common practice to let at least the older parts of cemeteries go back to a more natural state.  Nobody wants to go to an overgrown grave for a loved one. But we can have little nesting places here and there.  Mandy Elford works as an ecologist for the city of Manchester which is actively trying to make it is cemeteries more wildlife friendly. How do you think the dead would feel about having all this wildlife running around their graves?  I do not think they will mind one little bit. .  Personally Elford says she would be very happy about it. For NPR News I am Veronique LaCapra.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 