 If you are planning a trip to Mars now's the time to go. For a month or so Earth and Mars line up in a way that makes it possible to go from one to the other. Miss that window and you have to wait two years for the next opportunity. The United Arab Emirates is scheduled to launch a probe to Mars next week as is China. NASA's six-wheeled rover is scheduled for liftoff at the end of the month. Its main objective is to look for evidence of life that might be preserved in the rocks at the landing site. But before it leaves Earth the space agency wanted to give the mission a catchy new name as NPR's Joe Palca reports.  NASA likes to name its rover missions. So far we have had Pathfinder Spirit Opportunity and Curiosity. Until recently the latest rover was known simply as Mars 2020 - dull. So NASA asked K-12 students to propose names and justify their selection with an essay. The winning essay came from a seventh-grade student in Virginia. His essay read in part we as humans evolved as creatures who could learn to adapt to any situation no matter how harsh. We are a species of explorers and we will meet many setbacks on the way to Mars.   My name is Alexander Mather and that is why I chose Perseverance as the name of NASA's next Mars rover.  So goodbye Mars 2020. Hello Perseverance. Perseverance is headed to Jezero Crater a spot on Mars that scientists think was once a lake where microbes could have lived. Katie Stack Morgan is deputy project scientist. She says other rover missions have seen signals of carbon that could have been left behind by microbial life.  But we have not been able to necessarily link the presence of that carbon to particular textures or patterns that we see in the rock that we think could have been left behind by life.  Now even if Perseverance detects carbon and sees a pattern or texture that could have been left behind by life saying there once was life on Mars would be an extraordinary claim. And extraordinary claims require extraordinary proof.   Very likely we will have to return those samples to Earth to make that definitive conclusion about whether these samples contain life in them.  Happily that is just what Perseverance is designed to do. It will not actually return the samples but it will collect rock samples put them in containers and seal the containers so a future mission can return them to Earth. Matthew Wallace is the rover's deputy project manager.   Our sampling system was particularly challenging in that we also had to keep it very very clean. In fact this is probably the cleanest system that we have ever launched to Mars. And the reason we needed to do that is that the science community is looking for trace signatures from billions of years ago - trace chemical signatures. We do not want to confuse the search for those ancient signs of life with terrestrial contamination that we took with us to Mars and then of course brought back.  If they are brought back. Under the best-case scenario the samples would return to Earth in 2031. And a lot could happen between now and then. Still the prospect of returning a bit of Mars to Earth is exciting. And at a recent NASA news conference Jim Bridenstine said he definitely was excited about that.   But I will tell you the thing that has me the most excited as the NASA administrator is getting ready to watch a helicopter fly on another world.  Yes you heard right. Perseverance is carrying a small camera-equipped helicopter. A helicopter would be useful for exploring the landing site and finding interesting stuff for the rover to visit. It was a late addition to the mission. And while it makes administrators' eyes light up mission managers like Wallace seem to be trying to lower expectations.   We are not looking for an extensive and ambitious return from this technology. We are looking to learn those first few things that we need to learn.  So probably no dynamic tracking shots like in the movies but that is reality for you. Joe Palca NPR News.  