 The night sky is putting on a show this month. A new comet is whizzing by the Earth and it should be easily visible for those of us in the Northern Hemisphere. NPR's Geoff Brumfiel has more on how to see it.  The comet was spotted by a NASA satellite called NEOWISE. Amy Mainzer is the principal investigator in charge. She says the main job of NEOWISE is to hunt for things that might smash into Earth.  It is a mission that is orbiting the Earth but it is looking out into space right now in an effort to characterize asteroids and comets that can come close to the Earth and be potential impactors .  Given the way 2020 has gone so far what do you think the odds are that we are going to get killed by an asteroid or comet? Just lay it - tell it to me straight.   Let us put it this way - the odds in any given year are very very very tiny. That said we are keeping our eyes peeled.  And that is how they found this new comet back in March. It came in from the outer solar system and passed really close to the sun. Now it is passing the Earth on its way back out.  This is a pretty big comet. This thing is 5 kilometers across. And just to put it into context you know a long time ago about 65 million years ago there was an asteroid or a comet that is thought to have caused the extinction of the dinosaurs and that object is thought to have been about 5 to 10 kilometers across.  Again you can cross this one off your worry list.  It is definitely not going to hit the Earth.  What it is doing is putting on quite a show for anyone who cares to see it.  It looks at first like a little fuzzy dot and then you will notice that it has this long streaky tail sticking off of it.  To find it go outside just after dark and look to the northwest. It is below the Big Dipper close to the horizon right now but it will start to appear higher in the sky in coming days. Mainzer says she finds it comforting to look at.  You know in spite of the really difficult times right now it is really a reminder that we are part of a bigger universe and there are some really wonderful and beautiful things in it.  Mainzer says she does not know exactly how long this comet will be visible. So go see it while you can. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News.  