 This month on All Tech Considered we look at the gap between how we portray ourselves online and who we really are.   Let us start with the story of a Twitter thread that recently went viral. BuzzFeed host Tracy Clayton asked people to share photos of themselves that they had uploaded to social media. Specifically she wanted to see photos in which they looked perfectly fine but inside felt anything but all right. NPR's Jasmine Garsd introduces us to one woman who contributed to the thread.  Mankaprr Conteh remembers when this picture was taken. She is in the Caribbean.  And my hair is in my hands and the water is shallow. And I am smiling.  She looks stunning. Had you been browsing Instagram you would not have known that this was one of the worst times of her life.  I was initially diagnosed with depression and then later diagnosed with bipolar two. It is like hating waking up like dreading the morning.  Concerned about her daughter her mother took her on a vacation which is when the picture was taken. If you have spent any time on social media you have seen these pictures of people having a better time than you - hashtag blessed hashtag grateful. Dr. Brian Primack is the director of the Center for Research on Media Tech and Health at the University of Pittsburgh.  People who feel socially isolated may be reaching out on social media to self-medicate.  Primack suspects people who are depressed often post in this way to reach out feel they are part of the fun. He is co-authored several studies about how social media affects mental health. And he found that people who checked social media the most frequently had almost three times the risk of depression compared with people who checked less often. He says part of the problem is on one level we know these are filtered curated photos. But...  You know these are real people so you feel like this is very much real life. You know it is not a Jose Cuervo ad where the people are getting paid to put on smiles. You know these are people that you actually know.  So what comes first? Do you reach out more on social media because you are depressed or do you get more depressed because you spend more time there? Dr. Primack does not know but he suspects it is a cycle.  That reaching out might then only serve to increase the perception of social isolation which then leads to more social media use et cetera.  I asked Conteh why she posted that picture of herself smiling on the beach. And she gives me a different reason.  It was like a celebration of the not-crappiness of that moment. And it is almost like trying to get back into the groove of like normalcy in the midst of depression.  It captured the way she wished things could actually be. But she gets the irony of going on this platform in which...  Everybody seems happy and productive and accomplished and beautiful. And it is like I am none of these things right now.  And back then she did not feel any of those things. Now she says things are different. She talks openly about her depression on and offline.  Hey this is what I am going through. This is how I am trying to work on it and live with it and cope with it. This is how I think it is affecting you. And this is how we are going to try to like move forward with all that in mind.  Breaking a cycle really truly getting back into the groove. Jasmine Garsd NPR News New York. 