 And it is time for All Tech Considered.   Today on All Tech ad blocking and ad block blocking. You can download software to block ads online and as you can well imagine that does not sit well with sites that sell online advertising. Will the freedom to choose not to see ads do in the Web economy and how are publishers fighting back? We are going to hear from the CEO of Adblock Plus and from a new company whose focus is neutralizing ad blocking. First though Lara O'Reilly who covers this stuff. She is an editor at Business Insider and she joins us from London. Welcome to the program. LARA O' Hello.  So I am new to all this. I downloaded Adblock Plus to the Chrome browser on my desktop. And here's what I got when I went to say the Merriam-Webster word game site and clicked on the Daily Jumble. The game began right away.   Otherwise on another browser without this Adblock what I got instead was this...   Six Flags America is bigger better and wetter.  A commercial. On newspaper and magazine sites typically I see ads. With this I do not see them at all. How big is this? O' So according to some estimates 144 million people globally used an ad blocker last year. And that was up 70 percent year on year. So it is definitely on the rise but it is not necessarily a large proportion of the Internet population. It tends to be the more kind of technically advanced user skews towards males gamers and so on.  On mobile devices Apple could soon be making ad blocking easier. What is Apple about to do? Do we know? O' It is not entirely clear what Apple is up to here. All we have seen so far is some developer documentation for its new version of iOS which is its operating system on tablets their iPad and the iPhone and for the browser which is called Safari. So what they are saying is that they will allow developers - people that build apps - to build extensions that block content on Safari. And it does stipulate that that content could include ads and Apple has not confirmed what it means by this yet. What we can assume is you can kind of say I want to block pop-up ads but I do not want to block kind of banner ads or video ads. You will kind of go through like that.  Now when I went to wired.com with Chrome after having plugged-in Adblock Plus I saw where the ads would otherwise be a message - please do us a solid and disable your ad blocker. Add us to your whitelist. How threatening is all this to the publishers? It sounds like wired.com is taking it pretty seriously. O' Well depending on how far you go the doomsayers say this could be the end of the free Internet as we know it if ad blocking becomes mainstream. Every time you go to a free Internet site whether you kind of realize it or not a transaction takes place. You are viewing content for free and in exchange the publisher's served you ads. That is how they make money. That is how journalists like me have roofs over their heads and manage to pay for our dinner each night.  Well Lara O'Reilly of Business Insider thanks for talking with us about it. O' Thanks very much.  Tim Schumacher is the chairman of Adblock Plus the most downloaded ad blocking software the one I mentioned earlier that I downloaded. It is for desktops. And he joins me now from his home in Cologne Germany. Welcome to the program.  Nice to meet you Robert.  What do you say to companies that depend on advertising online who say look there'ill be a lot less content on the Web if there is a lot less ad revenue which means there'ill be a lot more places you have to pay for access to view the content?  I think those companies are right and that is exactly why Adblock Plus has a different way of being an ad blocker. Now first of all of course people love to block annoying ads especially video ads pop-ups. Now at the same time publishers' interests are really important and so we have come up with what we call acceptable ads and those are ads which are non-annoying - small text ads small pictures - and they still help financing the Web. And that is what we believe the Web needs to be.  And do those ads - would pass through the filter on any site or by any advertiser? Nobody has to pay anything to be whitelisted?  Yeah that is correct. So the most important thing is really if ads are meeting the community's set criteria. If they do they get whitelisted. And 90 percent of companies and individual blogs get whitelisted for free. Our model really is just that the big companies they need to pay and they basically need to finance that model for everyone else. And that is about 10 percent of companies.  Do you welcome the ad blocking arms race which will occur when software is developed to block the ad blockers?  Well we are up for the challenge but we do not welcome it because we do not think it is the right thing to stick advertising to users who have actually made a conscious choice of not wanting to have advertising. We actually think it is better to tone down advertising for those users appeal to those users and have a dialogue with those users opposed to just sticking the ads down their throat.  I work in noncommercial broadcasting . Where did you acquire your aversion to commercials?  Well you know ironically my profession before was in online advertising...  Ah-ha.  ...But I saw what has been going wrong. That is why we started Adblock Plus and said let us make this better.  It is the passion of the convert that I am hearing here.  Exactly.  Tim Schumacher chairman of Ad block Plus in Cologne Germany thanks for talking with us today.  Thanks for having me on the show.  Well now to someone who is trying to do something about ad blocking on behalf of advertisers. Ben Barokas has worked in the world of online advertising since 2000 and most recently did that for Google and he is launched a company called Sourcepoint. Welcome to the program.  Thank you Robert.  You are trying to counter the trend toward ad blocking with Sourcepoint. Tells us how you are doing that.  So Sourcepoint is a content compensation platform. We believe that any user has a choice of whether or not they want to consume advertising or that they are able to subscribe. In order to provide subscription services that are valuable enough to the user there has to be multiple sites bundled together. We believe that users would love to surf from site to site device to device without hitting pay walls and consuming unnecessary ads.  What do you make of Tim Schumacher's distinction between ads that are relatively subtle and unobtrusive and ads that are annoying and a filter that permits the former through but not the latter?  Well I would say one person's trash is another's treasure. Some people would rather watch a one-minute video ad once a day others are OK with banners and buttons. But that is something that an individual user can decide and not a company like Adblock Plus.  Is there software that you are working on that apart from offering this choice of pay or look at the advertising would simply just break through and guarantee that the advertising gets through the ad block software?  Certainly. We find it necessary to punch through the add blocker or circumvent it - however you want to say it - in order to provide the revenue to the publisher.  I feel a little bit like this is the Empire Strikes Back interview of the segment that we have...  .  ... Where you are getting those ads back on or getting a way to get those ads through no matter who is out there.  Well the other part of it is that we can watch the most amazing media that has been created and companies like NPR begin to wither away. That is a future that I do not want to think about.  Well Ben Barokas you have thought the unthinkable there for a moment but thanks for talking with us about your company Sourcepoint and ad blocking.  Thanks so much for having me. 