 For a company security can mean a lot of things. Computers are part of it - firewalls to protect data or personal information. But just as dangerous as a computer hacker can be someone on a phone. Here's Zoe Chace of NPR's Planet Money.  To learn how to hack a corporation I figured I had to go to DefCon. DefCon is a conference for computer hackers. It is 150 in cash to get in. Do not use the Wi-Fi and do not use the ATMs because you might get hacked or your card number will be stolen. It is where the weirdos come to be as weird as possible and be rewarded for it like this guy's beard is as purple as the day is long.  I competed in a beard contest and I took second place next to some guy with some really gnarly wolverine chops and my hats are off to him.  This other dude rolls up a short while later wheelchair leg in a cast.  That is why those signs say no diving.  What do you mean?  No diving. They also mean no cannonballs.  The broken leg is new. It is from cannonballing into the pool last night. This conference for the best computer hackers in the free world is held every year in Las Vegas and there are many computer hacking competitions held at this conference most of which would be way over your head but not this one.  We can use his phone number to call someone else and impersonate him to get information.  One of the most popular competitions at DefCon is called social engineering. Social engineering means essentially you seduce an actual person into giving you sensitive information over the phone. Mark is preparing to call Wal-Mart. He did not want me to use his last name in this story because what he is doing is possibly illegal.  Earlier we were actually looking at a Wal-Mart intern and we were just looking at you know everything he is done what college he went to. His parents' blog actually was able to give us a good amount of information.  Mark is getting psyched up to sit in a glass phone booth in front of dozens of people and call Wal-Mart. Their conversation is broadcast over a PA system. Here is Mark's side of the conversation. He is using a fake name.  Hello. This is Matthew Hughes from Corporate IT.  As soon as Wal-Mart picks up I have to shut off my recorder since they do not know they are being recorded. I check in with the contest host Chris Hadnagy about how Mark's doing.  Not getting nervous about things. When he was not messing up and getting nervous when he is on hold.  Each contestant has 25 minutes in the glass phone booth. They have a checklist of stuff they have to get out of the company. What time their packages are delivered what is their antivirus software do they have the latest version of their operating system. And Mark actually gets a few even though it is his very first time. He is baby-faced already being that he is only 18 and right now he is actually flushed with pride.   And then he is not out of the booth for more than two seconds when he gets a job offer.  What do you normally do when you are not  ?  They asked me not to record this conversation but I can tell you a security company offers him a job on the spot. The unsuspecting companies that got hacked get rated on a scale of how vulnerable they are in a report that will come out in a few months. I called Wal-Mart to see what they thought. They declined to comment. It is funny. Even if companies try to upgrade their security systems they are also spending money making their customer service better more friendly and helpful. It is precisely that helpfulness that might get them hacked later. In many of the high profile hacks of late Sony the security company HBGary had a social engineering component. Hackers got what they needed to steal a bunch of data through a phone call. Zoe Chace NPR News.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 