 Google is on notice. Fifty attorneys general are teaming up to investigate the tech giant for anti-competitive practices and harm to consumers. State Attorney General Ken Paxton of Texas launched the investigation from the steps of the Supreme Court this afternoon.   What we have all learned is that while many consumers believe that the Internet is free certainly we know from Google's profits that the Internet is not free.  A closer look on today's All Tech Considered.   All right here to debrief with us is NPR's Aarti Shahani. Hey Aarti.  Hi.  So it seems like every week now the government is opening some new investigation into big tech. It is really been a steady drumbeat. Can you just tell us how this investigation feels different to you?  Yeah no it was definitely a show of force. And as you said 50 attorneys general are launching an investigation. That is 48 states Ailsa as well as the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The two states sitting it out for now are California and Alabama and they could still join in OK? The group has already subpoenaed Google though to be clear this is not a top-to-bottom probe of everything that Google or its parent company Alphabet does. It is a look at Google's search and advertising and how those two services may be intertwined in ways that are overall harmful to consumers. To explain what that means have a listen to one of the AGs who spoke this afternoon Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge.   As a new mom when my daughter is sick and I search online for advice or doctors I want the best advice from the best doctors not the doctor and not the clinic who can spend the most on advertising.  So she and other AGs are worried that Google's so-called free service comes at a cost to consumers as well as to companies who fear they are frozen out of business unless they pay Google. The European Union has made this point too and move to fine Google billions of dollars. The AGs referred to Europe repeatedly today.  OK and we should note that Google is an NPR sponsor. So what has Google been saying in response to this new investigation?  Yeah so Google declined to comment on the latest announcement. But on Friday a top Googler on public policy Kent Walker put out a blog saying things that were science fiction a few years ago are now free for everyone meaning Google's making your life better helping you answer any question you have putting out an incredibly powerful tool to translate just about any language you can think of. So I would point out that this investigation and also the one into Facebook that nine AGs announced last week - they are looking at the same issue. It is digital advertising and the decisions people make based on what they are seeing on the Internet. Digital ads are Google and Facebook's cash cow. Those two companies together control nearly 60 of digital ad sales. And according to eMarketer their control this year is actually dipping a bit because of Amazon's rise. But still it is a lot of control.  All right so as this investigation unfolds what are you going to be looking for?  Whether it expands to questions for example on consumer data and privacy. You know I would also point out there is a change in the mindset right now. The Texas attorney general's office in 2011 investigated Google for its search engine and decided not to pursue a case. But now people understand the Internet is where commerce happens. They are the new railroads and railroads did not regulate themselves.  That is NPR's Aarti Shahani. Thanks Aarti.  Thank you. 