 It is time now for All Tech Considered. Google Facebook Twitter - many of the most popular services on the Internet are free of charge but we do pay for them. We pay with our personal data. These companies gather as much information as they can about us. And they sort it dissect it and study it. And they use their knowledge about us to target us with advertising. In recent weeks on All Tech we have heard differing opinions about this dominant internet business model. Some like Omri Ben Shahar a law professor at the University of Chicago defend it as a bargain.  For many people the bargain is a great bargain. They do not really care that much about hypothetical dignitary effect of having their information stored by someone. And at the same time they like very much that they do not have to pay.  And we have heard an apology from a tech guru had who had a hand in creating this business model - Ethan Zuckerman wrote the code for the original pop-up ad.  If you want to start a new advertising-based web business you have to somehow demonstrate you are going to find out even more about your user than Facebook does.  Zuckerman who is now at MIT has some regrets.  And we need some commendation of new business models and probably a certain amount of regulation to protect our online behavior and identities - to really get us out of what looks like an increasingly complicated trap.  Well we are going to hear now about some new businesses that are trying to do things differently. They are trying to capitalize on privacy as a selling point. Steve Henn of NPR's Planet Money team joins us now. Hi Steve.  Hi.  Steve Henn Ethan Zuckerman says free is hard to compete with but I gather you say there are some alternatives to the pay with your data model out there.  Well we are beginning to see some crop up. One is called Open Whisper Systems. This is a nonprofit company started by a hacker who goes by the name Moxie Marlinspike and its building opened source encryption tools for messaging and phone calls. What is interesting about what Open Whisper Systems is doing is that they are giving the code away to other companies for free and they already have millions of adopters. There are also for-profit businesses that are betting that security and privacy will sell. Silent Circle offers a fee-based text messaging system. There is a company that makes something called the Blackphone which is a secure Android phone and Wicker which offers more secure-base text messaging and the ability to delete and wipe old messages. All of these businesses have been able to raise money from large investors including someone prominent ones.  So there are investors but does investment translate into consumers?  Well you know that is interesting and there has not been a big consumer market for privacy in the past. But that may be beginning to change and what all of the businesses I just mentioned are doing - they are targeting people who handle lots of sensitive information - Wall Street bankers executives. And I think that generally people who have very sensitive information are more receptive to the pitch that privacy and security are worth paying for. But what I think is really fascinating is how this attitude is beginning to trickle into the consumer market. Here's Tim Cook speaking on Charlie Rose a couple of weeks ago. Cook of course is Apple CEO.   We try not to collect data. So we are not reading your e-mail. We are not reading your iMessage. If the government laid a subpoena on us to get your iMessages we cannot provide it. It is encrypted and we do not have the key.  So the challenge to companies out there is to make the consumers value that security that privacy so much that they will be willing to pay for it.  Right and this is actually a pitch to consumers that Apple is making aggressively right now. A week after Tim Cook spoke on Charlie Rose Apple announced that its new operating system for iPhones and iPads would encrypt all the data on your phone or device at rest. So if police or someone else served Apple with a warrant to open a locked phone they would not be able anything off it. Now secure researchers I have spoken to have pointed out that Apple actually does have public keys for Imessages and theoretically at least it could decrypt those messages. Apple denies it does that but others have found ways to get data off blocked iPhones. Still the thing is Apple systems are really getting better and the company is aggressively competing on privacy. And it is forcing other companies to compete as well. Just a few hours after Apple made its announcement about encrypting data on phones Google's Android said it would do the same thing. So Google is apparently worried people will choose other products based on privacy which is interesting. When Google competes on privacy you know something has changed.  Thank you Steve.  Thank you.  That is Steve Henn of NPR's Planet Money team. 