 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Noah Adams.  And I am Robert Siegel. New Yorkers are being asked to take their cell phones into the wilds or at least what pass for the wilds of New York City next week in the hopes of recording this sound.   That is the sound of the common true katydid. It is very different from say the northern fall field cricket.   Once again       Now if you' why would hundreds or possibly thousands of people go out in search of the common true katydid? Well so are we. So we have called upon Louis Sorkin who is an entomologist at the American Museum of Natural History and a co-organizer of the NYC Cricket Crawl which happens next Friday. Why? Why are you doing this? Mr.  We are trying to find out if this particular species of katydid is in fact still in this area. Previously there have been reports that the insect had been extirpated from a large area - it is native geographic area because of very many reasons. Some of those could be deforestation change in the environment.  And those reports go back I gather to 1920. Mr.  That is correct. And then recent research by workers up in the Bronx said they did hear that katydid. So that is what prompted a few of us to look into it and organize a cricket crawl.  A cricket crawl. Now you are asking people to go out with their cell phones and then I guess phone in what they get into some central point. What can you actually determine from that? And how good a recording device is a cell phone? Mr.  Well actually what we did realize is that cell phones are optimized for human voice and that does not include katydids and crickets necessarily.  Mr.  That is right. So they are not one of the better ways to do it but if people do their homework you know go to the cricket-crawl Web site look at pictures of the common katydids and crickets that will be mostly likely found and listen to their vocalizations then they will be prepared to go into the wilds of New York and listen.  And will you be able to locate all of these different recordings as to where they were done? You discover that you can hear this katydid up near Van Cortlandt Park but nowhere in Queens? Can you get that specific? Mr.  Oh sure. Wherever people are going to be if they have done their homework they will know what they have heard. And if they have a better device than the cell phone they may be able to record it and then always you know email that in or even come in to our base camp.  If a family goes out armed with their cell phone or some other recording device perhaps what is the best time for them to go listening for katydids and crickets? Mr.  Well that is later in the day 00 30 even and it will be going until at least midnight.  And you have some real-time online assembly of all this information I gather. Mr.  That is correct and we will have life-time maps and other information about what people are reporting.  So it would be like watching the returns come in from an election that just happened to see where the katydids are popping up around the city. Mr.  That is right. Things will be hopping.  You know when we think of New York City and the sound of katydids or crickets it seems like nowhere is the competition greater to record a sound than in New York where there is going to be traffic and the sound of the subway and air traffic overhead and just the sound of a lot of people being around. Mr.  Well it actually depends on the neighborhood too because eight oclock maybe midnight in certain areas of the city are actually quite quiet and you may even hear a cricket chirp or a pin drop.  Well Louis Sorkin thank you very much for talking with us about the New York City Cricket Crawl set for September 11th. Mr.  Thank you.  That is entomologist Louis Sorkin of the American Museum of Natural History. He spoke to us from our bureau in New York. 