 There is a certain stereotype of Silicon Valley tech offices - that they provide endless snacks and meals around the clock. Well now there is an effort underway to do away with that legendary perk. Menlo Park in California is banning Facebook from offering free food at its newest campus and San Francisco is considering something similar. KQED's Tonya Mosley has more.  The inside of Facebook in Menlo Park Calif. is the stuff of lore. This 430000-square-foot campus offers perks like an onsite cleaners a dentist and free food basically a smorgasbord of anything your heart desires - custom omelets braised beef handmade sushi. You really never have to leave the office. It is what lured Ben Werner here. He traveled all the way from France to get a tour of Facebook from a friend who works there. He wanted to see for himself all of the perks he has read so much about.  I would like to have those things taken care of - probably also would mean that I would spend more time at work. But I guess it is a two-way street then that benefits us both.  But about 8 miles away in Mountain View Calif. the home of Google - free food at least at the new Facebook campus will not be on the menu.  We believe these companies are part of our community. A growing number of their employees live in our community. And we want them to be a part of our community.  Mountain View Mayor Lenny Siegel says for years restaurant owners have complained that employees of Google never come out to eat or shop. So when the city learned that Facebook would be opening a new office here in September the council passed a measure that bars the company from serving free food in its corporate cafeteria. Facebook said no problem. Under the agreement the social media company can subsidize meals from restaurants open to the public. But Mayor Siegel acknowledges there are still a few kinks that need to be smoothed out.  Facebook is a global company and some of their people work in the middle of the night. And if all the restaurants are closed I would be open to considering food service in the middle of the night.  Erika Rasmussen manages an open-air grocery store called the Milk Pail Market next to the new Facebook office. To her the thought of feeding 2000 employees who are hungry around the clock is a bit nerve-wracking.  We do not want Facebook to overwhelm this area but we do want Facebook to support this area because we will need their patronage to survive.  Facebook says it is still working out the details but some other ideas also include turning the ground floor of this new building into a food court with local restaurants open to the public. Deepak Rao a tech employee at a startup in Silicon Valley says perks are not the defining reason he and his colleagues do the work they do. But sometimes he says when you are working long hours perks like free food feel like a necessity.  To go out drive or whatever go eat come - that could take an hour and a half which you might not have.  So for tech companies it is been worth it to keep employees like Rao at work for as long as they can stay by providing food in-house. These new laws will change what is become a given in Silicon Valley work culture. The city of San Francisco is also considering a similar measure that would ban cafeterias in all new office buildings forcing tech employees to venture out and share a bit of the wealth outside of their walls. For NPR News I am Tonya Mosley. 