 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. The code breaking skills of mathematician Alan Turing helped the Allies win World War II. He also devised the Turing Test a measure of artificial intelligence. Last week a computer program pretending to be a 13-year-old boy named Eugene Gustman was the first to pass the test - meaning the age of artificial intelligence has begun - maybe. Gary Marcus is a professor of cognitive science at New York University. I asked him to explain how the test works.  It was devised in the teletype era. So those of you who do not remember what a teletype is can think of it as text messaging back and forth. So you text message to a computer or a person you do not know which. And you try to decide. And that is basically what actually happened is somebody managed to build a computer program that was good enough to fool a third of the judges.  Siri kind of does that right? You ask your phone questions and you can even throw in some abstract ones and it will come up with some creative responses on occasion.  Siri like this program Eugene Gustman interacts with you. You ask questions and it gives answers. But most people are not fooled into thinking that Siri is an actual person.  People who are into science I think especially get really excited when we see this headline computer passes the Turing Test. But you think maybe not such a big deal.  Well it is a small sign of progress. But it is not really progress towards the larger goal of having machines that really understand us. It turns out that you can do a lot of misdirection answer sarcastically and evade the fact that you are a computer. So all it really shows is you can fool humans for a short period of time about five minutes - not all of the humans but maybe more than you might have expected - by having these sort of personality twitches.  Well let us give an example of that. You had an exchange with an earlier version of this program. Well why do not we read that? I will read the part of Eugene Gustman.  I will play the role of myself as best I can.  Do you read the New Yorker?   I read a lot of books. So many I do not even remember which ones.   You remind me of Sarah Palin.   If I am not mistaken Sarah is a robot just as many other quote-unquote people. We must destroy the plans of these talking trash cans.  Now see your first impression if you had that line in isolation would be hey that is clever. It sounds like a 13-year-old boy which is what the program's supposed to sound like. But if you talk to it for a long time you would see that it uses the same laugh lines over and over again. If you asked it questions about common sense you would find out very quickly that it does not really understand the world that it is just a lot of preprogrammed responses and pattern recognition and so forth without any real there there.  You know I have to say from all of the exchanges that I have read with people who are talking with this machine none of them seem very convincing. Thirty percent of people need to be fooled for it to be considered to pass?  Based on a very I think foolish reading of Alan Turing's original essay. People decided that in order to quote pass this test close quote you would have to fool 30 percent of the judges. And this program fooled 33 percent of the judges on this particular occasion. Turing was saying I am guessing that this is how far along we will be by the year 2000. He was not saying and when we get there that means that machines are necessarily intelligent. He was kind of opening the question. But people have taken his offhand suggestion as if it was the definition of intelligence. And I think that part's silly. And we might actually want to think about updating the Turing Test for a modern era.  Yeah 'ecause it seems again looking at these exchanges maybe just 33 percent of people are more gullible I hate to say.  Yeah it is kind of a gullibility test. What I suggested instead is have a machine watch a YouTube video or a TV broadcast and see if you can ask questions about it. So in order for a machine to understand an ongoing television program an episode of Breaking Bad the program would have to build up ideas over time - well this character does this. This is their motivation. This is the conflict. If we could get machines towards that I think that would be real progress in AI. The Turing Test itself not so much.  So if this test does not really serve the purpose of determining whether we have broken through a barrier in artificial intelligence is there anything valuable that can come out of it?  It gets people thinking about what will it be like when we do have intelligent machines that we really can interact with at that level that follow us around? - sort of like in that movie Her. I do not think that is going to happen in the next 20 years. It might take 40 or 50. But we will reach a society where we have more and more of these things around.  Gary Marcus is a professor of cognitive science at New York University. He is the author of Guitar Zero and his forthcoming book is called The Future Of The Brain. Gary thank you.  Thanks a lot. 