 On this week's All Tech Considered the story of a new anonymous social network called Candid that claims to be a space where hate is not welcome.   Sometimes you say things you wish you could take back later. If you say them on the internet they have a way of living forever. That is what happened to the founder of Candid Bindu Reddy. A few years ago she was raising money for another tech startup. An investor offered to contribute simply because she was a woman. That rubbed Reddy the wrong way and she wrote about it then came the backlash. Reddy told me it made her regret posting her thoughts online.  As a person who is in a professional field you have to censor your opinions and if you do not you know you get attacked by trolls and sometimes you get judged negatively by your peers. And that might even affect your career. And what I have seen again and again is a lot of my friends and my peers kind of hold back and not speak openly. And Candid is really you know - has been created to address that issue. It is you know - it is a way to kind of express yourself and express your thoughts and opinions without having the negative consequences of you know speaking out in social media without you know - without facing hate and without being attacked.  You know other sites have tried anonymity before. You have Secret Whisper Yik Yak you know? Users have accused Yik Yak of allowing for harassment rumors bullying threats of violence. I mean this does not always go well.  Right. So what we are trying to do with Candid is basically you know - kind of explore the idea of using artificial intelligence and machine learning to moderate the community. Now all of these other platforms - they were founded a couple of years ago. Over the last two years there is been a lot of advances in natural language processing in machine learning and kind of artificial intelligence that the machine can understand what you are saying. And we are trying to apply some of those techniques on Candid. The algorithm on Candid is a learning algorithm so as we get more data we learn more. But the idea is to kind of like weed out the bad posts as I call them.  And walk us through this artificial intelligence monitoring I guess of comments. How would that work like if I posted something that had threats of violence in it or racist comments in it?  So the way that artificial intelligence works is it basically - it parses your sentence. We use a deep learning NLP algorithm which basically looks at what you are saying and decides A whether it is positive or negative. So it kind of like you know kind of classifies things as having a negative sentiment or a positive sentiment. It then gives it a score of how kind of strong your statement is. Let us say you said something about someone or you threatened someone whether it is self-harm or like bullying or harassment we look for certain phrases and the context of those phrases. And as we like get more data the algorithm feeds upon itself. So it trains based on more and more data which we feed to it and over time it gets better and better at recognizing some of these posts.  You know I guess the claim could be made that that is the kind of censorship or maybe in lesser situations sanitation.  I mean I think that is a fair point. I mean here is the thing between you know what is loud free speech quote unquote right? You know at some level you should be able to say what you want to say but at another level you also want to facilitate like what I would say constructive social discussion. And Candid is meant for people who want to have constructive social discussions but want to have their unfiltered opinions you know out there. There is a kind of a trade-off or a fine line that you need to walk because if you let everything in you know the fear is that social discussion stops and it just becomes a name-calling game.  The app's just come out recently. What has been the reaction to it so far?  The reaction's been you know kind of mixed. Some people are very very very happy with it - is something that I have heard a lot. Some others feel like that we need to be moderating a lot more than we are right now. There have been some controversial opinions - opinions about race about Donald Trump which some people believe need to be taken down. So we will have to get our policies right as to what is allowed and what is not allowed so to speak. But you know it is just definitely been a very interesting first week.  Any surprises?  Yes. The biggest one being that I live in San Francisco and like everybody here is a part of the tech community. And on my Facebook feed is very very pro-Democrat and very very anti-Republican. My Candid feed is 50 percent Democrat and 50 percent Republicans so I am really surprised at the number of people who have come out who are my friends who actually happen to you know happen to be pro-Trump. And I think one of the reasons they are not kind of wising those opinions on social media today is because they are afraid to speak out and say hey I am pro-Trump for these reasons and I am not pro-Democrat for these other reasons. So that is actually been really surprising to me because I do not hear that even in you know - in my dining room conversations.  Bindu Reddy is the founder of the new social network Candid. Thanks so much for your time today.  Thank you. 