 If you have not already heard...   ...Brood X cicadas are still singing across parts of the U.S. including here in Washington D.C.   Most of us look and we see bugs - big red eyes crawly insect legs meandering flight paths. Others see a snack.  A really delightful small meat item.  That is Dr. Cortni Borgerson. She is a professor of anthropology at Montclair State University. She does not study cicadas she just likes eating them pan-fried.  It is very similar to kind of a cross between a light pork flavor and something kind of nutty like sunflower seeds.  Borgerson says this Brood X emergence is the perfect time to take a bite or more of cicada.  Before you pop that first one in your mouth though people with shellfish allergies should refrain.  They are all arthropods. So if you are allergic to other types of crustaceans or shellfish then that is in the same family as other insects. So you should be avoiding insects.  OK let us say you have cleared the allergy hurdle. There are still a couple more things to consider.  Yeah like where have they been? Remember the cicadas have been underground 17 years which means they may have been soaking in not-so-lovely chemicals and pesticides.  I would never select a place to harvest cicadas where I was not comfortable gardening. So you want to think about - is there any potential for heavy metal contamination in the soil? What types of pesticides are being used? And the history of land use as well.  Then once you found a good spot the question is which ones do you want to grab?  My perfect choice for a cicada what I am looking for is a teneral cicada.  That is science speak for freshly molting.  They do a backbend and they unfurl their wings. It is like watching a butterfly emerge from a cocoon. It is incredible. They are really pale. That pale stage is what you really want to harvest.  That is because they are softer which Borgerson says allows them to cook more evenly. Now the nymphal stage - that is when they look like little beans just emerged from the ground - that is her second favorite stage to eat.  Once you have grabbed a stash of cicadas do not leave them out on your counter for too long. If you do not plan to cook them right away Borgerson suggests freezing them to keep them fresh.  If you are like D.C. resident Tucker Jones it also gives you time to get used to the idea. He has foraged for plants to eat before but this was his first time harvesting bugs.  I kept them kind of in my freezer for a week after harvesting because even after all of that I was still a little squeamish.  So what helped him take that first bite?  A woman who I was on a date with was interested in this and so she came over and we together cleaned the cicadas and then oiled them stir-fried them and served them over grits. And I have my leftovers now. They turned out pretty good I think. It has a little bit of a crunch to it but it is not like there is like the sort of feeling of popcorn kernels stuck between your teeth.  Yeah but what we really want to know is how was the date?  Yeah and was there a second one? .  