 A lot of companies are interested in your health data. Doctors and insurance companies are bound by federal privacy laws as we heard from Todd Bookman but the Internet is a whole different world. Tim Libert a doctoral student at the University of Pennsylvania has been researching what happens when you search for health information online. Tim welcome to the program.  Thank you.  And tell me what did your research find?  So what I did is I took about a list of 2000 common disease names - I mean everything from migraines to breast cancer - and I ran those through a search engine. I found about 80000 pages that were related to those terms. And I looked at those pages and I found about 90 percent those when you load the page on your computer it tells hidden parties the address of the page you are looking at.  Hidden parties meaning who?  Most of the times it is advertisers. So these are your kind of marquee names - your Googles and Facebooks. But I also found kind of further down there a fair amount of tracking going on by data brokers. So these are companies like Experian and Acxiom. Their core business model is not advertising per se but selling information about you to whoever wants to buy it.  So if they know what diseases I have been searching for on the web what would they do with that information?  There is a couple of things that can happen. I mean there is been some cases in Canada actually where Google got in trouble because they were marketing medical devices to people based on their search terms. The other thing that can happen is there is actually companies that sell lists of people who have different diseases or symptoms. There is been some kind of chilling cases. There is companies selling lists of people who had been raped or you know people who had AIDS. So it is a very opaque market but basically information comes from a variety of sources. It gets correlated and crunched and then gets sold.  If these were inquiries that I made of my doctor's office or of the HMO that I belong to they could not share that or sell that to third parties. That would be a violation of HIPAA. On the web inquiries is there any regulation at all here?  Yeah. So HIPAA's a pretty good law but it covers stuff that people were thinking about at the time like your doctor's office your insurance claims processors. But anything that is happening on the web today is completely unregulated. And we have also been seeing a lot lately that this is of interest to criminals. So there is additional kind of worry that not only is not protected by ot really protected at all.  But would you agree that there is a qualitative difference between a search which is data that you are curious about - it might even be something that an acquaintance of yours has just been diagnosed with - and a doctor's visit which would affirmatively diagnose and treat a condition?  I think there is certainly a qualitative difference and especially with the relationship one has with their doctor versus the relationship you have you know with a website. The problem is when you are dealing with a website or a doctor you should have a pretty clear idea of who is in the picture. When you go on the web or you use apps on your smartphone there is actually a lot of parties in there who you do not know about so it is impossible for a patient to really make a decision about what they want to share.  That is Tim Libert a doctoral student at the University of Pennsylvania. His study is called Privacy Implications Of Health Information Seeking On The Web. Tim Libert thanks a lot.  Thank you.  By the way among the sites that pass data to third parties are cdc.gov and the commercial site WebMD. The CDC points us to an online privacy policy which says the data they send to Google analytics is anonymized but Tim Libert says that is in his words not nearly sufficient. He says that still does not provide protection that is comparable to HIPAA. 