 All this summer we have been collecting terms of the trade - words from a job or hobby that people on the outside might not understand. We are calling it trade lingo.  A few terms we have learned - frogging grokked Uncle Bob flying pickle. Those are from the worlds of knitting game design photography and whale watching.  And we have heard from a lot of IT people.  Turns out IT folks have coded their own language to shield the rest of us from the truth.  Words like this from Robert Sundwick of Toledo Ohio.  The word is pebcak.  Pebcak. That is an issue the technical manager has all the time.  It is not so much a technical problem.  It stands for problem exists between chair and keyboard.  Does that make sense? Essentially they are saying user error as in you and me Ari we are the problem.  We are the problem. Here's how Robert Sundwick might use it in a sentence.  It is just very easy to say no it was a pebcak issue with Outlook as opposed to saying the user does not know how to forward an e-mail. It sounds like a technical term so no one really investigates it.   Robert Sundwick brought up another IT error we all might want to know about.  The only other one which I think is a little sophomoric but it would be ID-10-T.  ID-10-T?  All right think about it Ari. Like picture it typed out.  I D - id - 10 - id - tent? I D - tent?  We actually legit do not know what it is.  Oh idiots.   Yeah I walked right into that one.  Yeah ultimately this is why Robert Sundwick says he keeps his trade lingo under wraps.  We do not let them be commonly known. It allows us to just have a conversation among our colleagues without making other people feel bad.  That might have been possible until now. IT professionals - be aware we are so onto you.  We checked in with our own IT department. They seem to be aware of these issues. They were surprised we were on to them and they swear they never use the lingo themselves.  Do you have trade lingo you want to share? Send it to us on Facebook or Twitter. We are npratc. 