 If you have heard about a company being hacked or a website taken down it is quite possible a mysterious group called Anonymous has taken credit for it.   Do not mistake who we are for what we are and what we can do. Anonymous will fight. Anonymous will win.  That is a video posted by the group after they attacked the website of the Church of Scientology. Since then the group has taken down the official government websites of Egypt Tunisia and Iran and the sites of credit card companies and police departments. We sent Zoe Chace of NPR's Planet Money to Las Vegas to track down Anonymous and find out how they do it and why.  I went to a conference for computer hackers in Vegas. Turns out people in Anonymous do not wear nametags. I did find some people who seem to know a lot about how they operate. They were at an all-you-can-eat Chinese buffet.  You are going to see me go through like 20 plates because I just do all my food in like one day and I am good for the week. I am like a snake.  This is Mercedes Haefer. She is scrappy got a purple ponytail and a sweet little face. She is 20 and she describes herself as a close observer of Anonymous. But even she could not give me the most basic fact I wanted to know about the group.  No one knows how many Anons there are because it is not like there is a census where everyone puts in their nickname and says I am an Anon and then you know we count them all. People join and people go. And something big will happen and people will join. And then that big thing is over and they leave and they never come back.  Haefer is actually under indictment right now for an Anonymous attack on PayPal so she is not allowed to use a computer. So she could not actually show me to the chatroom where Anonymous meets up on the Internet. But it is easy enough to find it on your own. There can be up to 600 people in one chatroom or channel just talking about the next Anonymous operation.  Someone walks into the channel and says oy mates let us pick targets today. People shout targets. They say oh this happened recently and this happened recently and this happened recently. And it just gets added to the vote.  It is an online poll but instead of asking which band is better which celebrity is hotter or something it is more like which company should we attack? But here's the tricky thing about Anonymous. People are always contradicting each other. I sat down with another observer of Anonymous Rob Field. He is 23 and I asked him about the vote. Is there a vote?  No. No. Seriously there is no vote.  The way Field explains it you do not need a vote. If you have an idea you just go into the chatroom and say who is with me?  And people will be like yeah yeah yeah you know I hate company X. Right? They charged me too much on my phone bill last month whatever.  When do you know that the conversation has landed on like this is what we are going to do and it is not like people speculating anymore or coming up with ideas?  It is about verbiage.  Verbiage meaning the verbs in the conversation actually shift from conditional tense to active tense.  Oh no. It would be cool if we - OK so we are going to blank.  The signature computer attack of Anonymous is to send massive amounts of traffic to a website which basically shuts a site down. To do this they use a botnet. It is a robot network of millions of compromised computers. And according to Field you can actually buy one of these networks of computers online at a site called the Russian Business Network.  Those dudes sell everything. You want a mail-order bride a botnet some cocaine some heroin and you want a cheeseburger? Go see those guys.  There are lots of sites like these hosted in other countries. And how much does a botnet go for these days?  Five 10 G.  Five 10000 can buy you a decent botnet?  Yeah 5 to 10 G can get you some decent decent power.  People who believe in the cause often donate these computer networks called botnets. This past year many of the Anonymous attacks have happened for free. Anyone who supports the cause can just turn their computer into an attack machine. Speaking of the cause why are they doing this?  It is gone from freedom of information to like Egypt and Libya and Tunisia and Mexico and Spain...  Oh no. That is why I said freedom and freedom of speech and...  It is just like what was done here was wrong.  What Anonymous stands for is kind of up for grabs. I am going to give the last word here to Rob Field.  Everybody says everything is - oh Anonymous WikiLeaks Anonymous liberal . Anonymous this that and the other you know? I mean I am Republican. I am conservative as all get out. But like let us say for instance  I want to join Anonymous because of the fact that I agree with one of these things they are doing. OK you are Anonymous. Right? Like that is it.  Right now it is about transit cops in California. Next week it could be something else entirely. Zoe Chace NPR News.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 