 Well  Google announced it is developing an operating system to take on Microsoft's Windows. Google's product called Chrome OS will not be on the market until late next year. But as NPR's Wendy Kaufman reports it is already generating a lot of interest.  The operating system is essentially the brains of a computer. And right now more than 90 percent of the world's computers have a brain made by Microsoft. Google wants to change that. The company says its operating system will be simpler and easier to use. Google will start by targeting netbook computers which are smaller and usually less powerful than most laptops and PCs. But make no mistake Google does not intend to stop there. It is aiming straight for Microsoft. Mr.  Many people's homepage is Google. But we cannot forget that while Google may be the interface that many people are looking at day in day out it is all running on Windows. That is the framework for your activities.  Lance Ulanoff the chief editor of PC Magazine Online suggests it may be a stretch but Google's strategy makes sense. Mr.  So if you can own search and you can own the operating system you have got a big chunk of the computing experience in 2009.  What is more says Mark Mahaney a senior analyst at CitiGroup if Google can improve the search experience by creating its own operating system then more people will be searching and Google will sell more ads and make more money. Keep in mind that Google gets nearly all its revenue from advertising. Mr.  Anything that serves as an elixir for advertising revenue is good for Google whether that is a better browser whether it is a better operating system whether it is mobile devices it all ties together and back to the advertising revenue stream for Google.  Google has been working on a full-fledged computer operating system for some time. It already has Android an operating system for smartphones. Chrome OS for netbook computers will not be readily available for more than a year. But analysts say Google announced it now to try to outdo Microsoft which is releasing its own updated operating system this fall. It is called Windows 7 and it is getting good reviews. The big question is can Google get computer makers and consumers to demand its product over Windows? Most analysts say it will be extremely tough. They note that even when Microsoft was relying on Vista a much maligned operating system other companies were not able to gain much traction against Microsoft. Again editor Lance Ulanoff. Mr.  So why do we think that when no one could reach into that market share when Microsoft was stumbling that when Microsoft gets its feet under it again and starts running really fast somebody is going to be able to catch up?  Still many experts say that Google's entry into the operating system market will be good for competition and good for consumers. Wendy Kaufman NPR News Seattle. 