 At one point a few years ago the left-leaning feel-good website Upworthy was the fastest growing website of all time. And then Facebook changed the algorithm that controlled its news feed. Way fewer people clicked on Upworthy post. NPR's Sam Sanders looks at what happened after Upworthy went downhill and what that says about the power of Facebook.  You know the Upworthy headline. Here's one.  The Things This 4-Year-Old Is Doing Are Cute. The Reason He is Doing Them Is Heartbreaking.  By 2013 Upworthy and those kind of headlines - it was all reaching about 90 million people per month. But this content especially the headlines - people called it click-bait low-quality stuff just meant to grab eyeballs for the ad revenue. Has Upworthy ever made click-bait?  Sure. I mean I think...  That is Eli Pariser. He is the co-founder and chief executive of Upworthy. Even he admits some of the headlines were off. I asked him to give me an example of Upworthy click-bait.  Yeah let me Google for a minute 'ecause...  OK. He found one from September 2013.  And here's the headline. His First Four Sentences Are Amazing. The Fifth Blew My Mind And Made Me A Little Sick. So the annoying thing about this headline is...  Wait. That is the headline?  ...There is not a lot of - that is the headline.  Wait. Say it again slower - the headline.  His First Four Sentences Are Interesting. The Fifth...  The Fifth Blew My Mind And Made Me A Little Sick. This was an article about the American health care system.  I think it is like a three. Like...   OK.  It is not you know - or a two you know?  The CEO of Upworthy gave that headline a 2 out of 10. Around the end of 2013 traffic to Upworthy started to plummet. Ultimately Upworthy traffic declined by about two-thirds mostly because of Facebook. Engineers at Facebook told the New York Times recently that content like Upworthy's was just not valuable to Facebook users. Jen Golbeck agrees.  They really optimized this technique of manipulating people through headlines to coming to see content that they might not want to see otherwise.  Golbeck studies computer science and social networks at the University of Maryland and she says sometimes websites like Upworthy leave telltale signs for Facebook.  They can see that you leave and then come back right away that you are not really visiting the site to engage with what is there which means you did not like the thing you clicked on.  Or Facebook and see when lots of people click on an article but do not share it with their friends. Those engineers at Facebook can tell when the content is clicky  but not sticky. Upworthy pushed back and said Facebook changed their algorithm to promote Facebook content over Upworthy's. Whatever the case there is a connection between the story of Upworthy and the rise of fake news even though Upworthy is not fake news. They mostly post inspirational content. That is actually their mission.  You can blame them for opening that Pandora's box but still feel bad that they have lost a lot of their ability to do something that I think is a positive contribution to what we see on the web and social media.  Upworthy and fake news have or had one big thing in common - sensational headlines. And how Facebook dealt with Upworthy might show us how they will deal with fake news.  For the longest time Facebook has wanted to avoid any connection with being editorial.  This is Kurt Wagner. He is a senior editor at Recode. That is a tech blog.  And what I mean by that is they did not want users to think that Facebook is deciding what you read and what you do not read.  Which means maybe the only way you are going to see less fake news in spaces like Facebook is if you and everybody else just consumes it less. As for Upworthy they are still here. Amy O'Leary is the editorial director of Upworthy now. She says the company's focused on original reporting more writers. And they have turned down the headlines. AMY O' If a headline maybe is saying this story will definitely make you cry one of the rules I have is I go back to the writer every time and say well did this story definitely make you cry? Like did you actually shed tears at your desk when you were working on this?  And strangely enough Upworthy recently partnered with Facebook to make them videos which maybe makes sense when you consider what Upworthy's CEO Eli Pariser told me. He said being mad at Facebook about all of this would be like being mad at the weather. Sam Sanders NPR News.  Sam Sanders hosts NPR's newest podcast It is Been A Minute a talk show about the news and culture of the week. The first episode is out on Friday. 