 Social media companies do not like people creating accounts under fake names. And this summer Google Plus started actively hunting for names that did not seem real and shutting the accounts down. Online activists dubbed Google's actions the nym wars short for the pseudonym wars. As NPR's Martin Kaste reports they see it as part of a worrying trend forcing people to use real names online.   On the Internet nobody knows you are a dog. Believe it or not that cartoon is now almost two decades old and a lot about the Internet has changed. These days on some sites it is no dogs allowed.  If you want to leave a comment you have to be a Facebook user.  Jimmy Orr is managing editor of the online Los Angeles Times one of several news sites that are now building Facebook into their comments section. He says it makes it harder for people to hide behind fake names.  I am impressed with Facebook's efforts at authentication. It is for real. You know if I were just to join up on Facebook for example to leave a comment and I made up a name chances are it would not show up.  Part of the L.A. Times site still operates under what Orr calls the old Wild West system where all you need to comment on a story is an email address. He says those sections have more trolls commenters who bait each other with racism or personal attacks. The sections with Facebook logins on the other hand are pretty civil.  The reason for that is trolls do not like their friends to know they are trolls. If you are who you are you are less likely to leave a comment that really makes you look bad.  Neither Facebook nor Google would comment for this story. But over the years their executives have expressed a certain impatience with Internet anonymity. Here's Google chief Eric Schmidt at a tech conference last year.  One of the errors that the Internet made a long time ago is that there was not an accurate and non-revocable identity management service. And the best example of an identity management service today that is reasonably reliable is Facebook.  Keep in mind that is the head of Google talking. There is a lot of money at stake here for both companies. Social networks are in the business of collecting information about their users and that information is worth more when it is connected to real names. Schmidt went on to suggest that the anonymity of the Internet is a historical aberration.  You know 200 years ago in a small town you could not sneak around if people did not know who you were.  To be clear Schmidt was talking here about the kind of technical anonymity that facilitates cybercrime. But people who use pseudonyms for more benign reasons worry that this real-name culture is going to spread everywhere with Facebook logins required everywhere they turn.  There is a concern about being shut out of the conversation.  This is a woman who blogs and tweets under the name Garidin Winslow. To her it is an extension of the time-honored literary tradition of pen names. Someday she hopes to write a novel under the name. Winslow also wants the freedom to express herself online without offending the sensibilities of say her boss or future bosses.  I think it is better to err on the side of caution. Your employer is going to be searching for you on the Internet. They are going to be looking for you by name.  Real-name policies have kept her off of Facebook and Google Plus but she is on something called Diaspora. It is a new social network still in the process of rolling out. At Diaspora headquarters in San Francisco co-founder Max Salzberg says this network does not insist on real names.  Certainly with Diaspora it is not a requirement and in fact it is not even something we can enforce because Diaspora is open source.  Open source meaning the software is open for anybody to see or rewrite as they please. Salzberg actually agrees with Google's Eric Schmidt a little bit.  There is a place for people to be able to use their real name and have some sort of like verified like this is actually Max Salzberg responding to your question.  But what the big social networks need to understand he says is that there is also a place for pseudonyms.  I think that anonymity and pseudonyms are slightly different. A pseudonym that is well-constructed is you know something that that person values and sort of wants to maintain at certain levels. And it is still like an authentic personality they have.  Innovations like Diaspora mean pseudonyms are not likely to go away but as Google Plus and Facebook increase their reach the question is on how much of the Internet will those pseudonyms be allowed. Martin Kaste NPR News. 