 It is been a year since the U.S. government admitted that hackers had broken into a computer system that stores some of the most sensitive government data - the names Social Security numbers addresses and other information about millions of people who hold government security clearances or had applied for them. In this week's All Tech Considered we look at what is happened to the government and the victims since.   The agency responsible for keeping those records - the Office of Personnel Management - has made changes. But as NPR's Brian Naylor reports things have been tough for some of the federal workers affected by the breach.  The news headlines last June were pretty dramatic.   The breach into the Office of Personnel Management.   A massive...   Massive...   Massive hacking attack that compromised data on over 21 million Americans.   Really remarkable in its size and its scope.   Worse than they previously thought.   The experts tell us this is just...  That was then. Now...  There is a whole series of things around technology around people and around process that are different today than a year ago.  That is Beth Cobert. She is the acting director of OPM and she is one of the changes at the agency replacing Katherine Archuleta who resigned under pressure from Congress last July. Cobert says cybersecurity has been amped up under her watch.  We have two factor authentication to access the network. That means you need a card as well as a password to log onto your computer. We can see all the devices that are connected to a network at any time. When we see data leaving the network that we think is suspicious we can catch it. We have got tools that detect malware so there is a whole series of multilayer defense as we put into our systems.  Cobert says government workers cannot even check their Gmail accounts from their office computers any longer. The Department of Defense and Homeland Security have been helping OPM design a new more secure software system to allow the agency to conduct government background checks rather than contracting them out. Republican Congressman Will Hurd of Texas is a former CIA agent whose personnel records were among those hacked. He says OPM is moving in the right direction under Cobert. But Hurd says there are still lots of vulnerabilities across government.  Whether it is Department of Education that has tons of information on anyone who is going to school to Social Security Administration that has information on every single American I have seen that they are not even adopting some of the best practices when it comes to good digital system hygiene.  It took OPM some six months to formally notify the millions who had their records breached. They are eligible for three years of credit monitoring and identity theft protection services. Hurd says he personally has not noticed any ill effects from the stolen records. Ryan Lozar thinks he has. The former federal court clerk says he froze his bank accounts after someone spent thousands at Best Buy in his name and opened a PayPal account.  It turns into this endless explaining - and really like they are treating me as someone who has been rejected as having bad credit even though it is a freeze. And it is just exhausting and frustrating.  Lozar is a plaintiff in a class-action suit filed against the government by the American Federation of Government employees. Among other things it seeks monetary damages and lifetime credit monitoring and identity theft protection for the affected people. A hearing is expected this fall. Government officials have pointed to China as being behind the breach. Acting OPM director Cobert acknowledges that whoever it is the U.S. government still has work to do.  There is a whole set of adversaries out in the world who keep looking for bad things and we have got to fundamentally modernize our systems to build in security by design.  But she says the government has made significant strides in the last 12 months when it comes to protecting its data. Brian Naylor NPR News Washington. 