 As we are thinking about the stresses on primary care let' It is estimated that by the year 2050 16 million American may have Alzheimer's dementia. It is a disease that threatens to bankrupt Medicaid and Medicare. We are going to talk now about some recent developments in the diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's. And Im joined by Dr. Marilyn Albert director of the Alzheimer's disease research center at Johns Hopkins University. Welcome back to the program Dr. Albert. Dr.  Glad to be talking to you again.  We have been hearing some good news and bad lately in this field of Alzheimer's research. And let us start with I guess the good news. It is a study of the spinal fluid test that shows great accuracy in identifying patients who will later develop Alzheimer's. Whats the significance of that study do you think? Dr.  What we are hoping is that in the not too distant future there'ill be more effective treatments for Alzheimers disease than what we have now. And we know that the disease takes decades to develop. And what we would like to do in the best of all possible worlds is to treat people before dementia occurs but when we know that they have the disease. So there is a major effort to try to figure out how to identify people as early as possible so that when we have better treatments we can intervene.  Aha the keyword there would be when we have better treatments. Those treatments are not optimal right now and that really leaves patients in a bind. Since there is no cure would they want this test? Do they want to know? What good would a diagnosis do? Dr.  We are not recommending tests of this sort for patients right now. But the reason that this sort of work is getting so much attention is because it has to go along in parallel with the development of better treatments. So you sort of have two lines of research going on. One to find the better treatments and the other to get better at accurate diagnosis as early as possible. And at some point when the better treatments come along then we really will want to identify people very very early.  Okay well let us move on to some discouraging news. The drug company Eli Lilly recently stopped two late-stage clinical trials of an experimental treatment for Alzheimer's. They found that patients on the drug were actually doing worse with cognition and daily functioning. What does that failure tell you and how big a setback is that? Dr.  It is quite discouraging that the trials were stopped. The approach to treatment was a relatively novel one and we knew that Lilly had worked hard to develop it. So we were all disappointed. But there are lots of others drugs that are being tested right now that work by different mechanisms. And I think we just have to hope that one of those is going to be effective.  And when you talk about a drug that may be effective what is your best hope right now? Is it a drug that would stop symptoms delay symptoms or are we really thinking there may be a cure out there? Dr.  I think that nobody anticipates the first new drug that is developed will be a cure. What everybody is assuming is that it will slow up the progression of the disease. So right now the drugs that are on the market make people slightly better than they would be without them but the disease progresses at the same basic rate. And what we are hoping the new drugs would do would be to slow up the progression so that for example if you intervened when people were extremely mild they might stay mild for a decade or so. That would be really wonderful because you do not want to prolong life in people who are very advanced but you would love to be able to prolong high-quality function.  Dr. Albert what do you tell patients who are looking at the timeline and are frustrated by how slow progress has been even though it may seem quick to you in a lab that for them in their daily life there is no great hope on the horizon? Dr.  I tell patients that we do not know when the next effective treatment will come about. The other thing that we tell patients is that they should really consider participating in clinical research in general because that will help to speed the day when we have better treatments. You know we have come an enormous way in the last 30 years and it' the patients the caregivers and the researchers as well as the people in pharmaceutical companies trying to develop better drugs.  Dr. Albert thanks again for talking with us. Dr.  Good to talk to you.  That is Dr. Marilyn Albert. She is professor of neurology at Johns Hopkins where she also directs the Alzheimer's Disease Research Center. 