 It is being called Techpalooza . Some of the world's most powerful CEOs - we are talking Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg Amazon's Jeff Bezos Tim Cook of Apple and Sundar Pichai of Google - all of them will be testifying before Congress tomorrow. These companies are already under investigation by regulators in the U.S. and Europe. They are punching bags for politicians on the left and the right. NPR's Shannon Bond looks at how Big Tech has become a big target. And we should say here that Apple Amazon Google and Facebook are all financial supporters of NPR.  It is rare for titans of industry to line up together for a grilling under oath before Congress. In 1994 it was Big Tobacco.   Let me ask you first - and I would like to just go down the row - whether each of you believes that nicotine is not addictive.  During the financial crisis it was the big three automakers. The CEOs of Ford Chrysler and General Motors arrived by private jet.   I am going to ask the three executives here to raise their hand if they flew here commercial. Let the record show no hands went up.  But tech companies they have not faced this kind of tough questioning since the U.S. government sued Microsoft for using its power to squash competition. That was back in the '90s. So what is with the spotlight on Big Tech now? Historian Margaret O'Mara says for years it seemed like Silicon Valley could do no wrong. MARGARET O' I think one of the reason that the critics fell so out of love with tech was because they were so deeply in love with it before.  These firms were warmly welcomed in Washington as paragons of American innovation. That allowed them to grow quickly and become indispensable. Nicol Turner Lee directs the Brookings Institution's Center for Technology Innovation.  Tech companies are now finding themselves sort of as the connector changing the way that people across the world live learn earn even love right?  The pandemic has made it even more obvious how deeply technology is embedded in our lives. People are ordering more stuff from Amazon using Google's video chat streaming shows and movies on Apple TV. CEO Mark Zuckerberg says more than 3 billion people now use one of Facebook's apps every month.   We know that people especially rely on social apps in times of crisis and in times when we cannot be together in person.  But that same technology intrudes on every part of our lives from our relationships to our elections. Critics worry these big companies are abusing their power. Here's how Kirsten Daru an executive at a tech startup called Tile explained it in another congressional hearing back in January.   You might be the best team in the league but you are playing against a team that owns the field the ball the stadium and the entire league. And they can change the rules of the game in their own favor at any time.  That is the crux of the complaints. The tech giants use their size to bully rivals whether it is the terms of Apple's app store who shows up in Google search how Amazon treats merchants who sell on its site or Facebook's habit of buying smaller competitors like Instagram and WhatsApp. The companies say they play fairly. Rhode Island Democrat David Cicilline disagrees. He is leading this congressional investigation of tech. Here's what he told this program last summer.   The Internet is broken. We are living in a monopoly moment. Our constituents expect us to fix this and to get this marketplace working right.  On Wednesday Cicilline will take those complaints to the most powerful men in tech. Now like everything in the time of the pandemic this hearing is going to be kind of weird. The CEOs are appearing remotely by video. Historian O'Mara says that is a big change from the usual spectacle of executives lawmakers and press in a wood-paneled hearing room. O' They are not having to walk in in their suit and tie and like raise their hands. And there is not going to be that picture.  Instead it will be the year's most high-powered videoconference. Shannon Bond NPR News. 