 All creatures have tricks to heal themselves. If you get a cut your skin will form a scar. Starfish and salamanders can regrow lost limbs. And it turns out that some jellyfish have a really unusual way of repairing an injury. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce tells us scientists were recently shocked to discover this.  Moon jellyfish are strange little creatures. A couple of years ago Michael Abrams at the California Institute of Technology began growing them in the lab.  We started doing kind of old-school experiments where you just sort of cut off pieces and see what happens.  He says each young jellyfish is tiny and looks like a snowflake with eight arms and a mouth in the center. Abrams tried chopping them in half with a razor blade.  If you imagine cutting them in half that means you have now got four arms on one side and no arms on the other side.  He thought the lost limbs might regenerate but no. Instead over a couple of days the remaining limbs moved around the body until the little jellyfish was once again symmetrical.  Rather than four arms on one side you had sort of an X shape - like a cross.  In fact no matter how many arms he cut off these little jellies would rearrange what was left to re-create a symmetrical pattern.  We were not expecting to see that.  His adviser Lea Goentoro was intrigued.  It could be a really different strategy of surviving from injuries so I just thought well we need to look at this a bit more.  The team did a bunch of studies. They are described in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. What they learned is that the jellyfish get healed by swimming. As a wounded jellyfish struggles to move through the water with its remaining limbs its muscles contract and relax. This creates forces that push on the body's elastic jelly-like material reshaping it until the limbs are once again evenly spaced.  It is that propulsion machinery itself that drives its own repair.  The researchers say this idea could prove useful for designing future materials or technologies that would fix themselves not by replacing a part but by simply rearranging what is left. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 