 Predictions are for psychics and in this very unpredictable political season they might do a better job than the pundits. But what about a computer?   On today's All Tech Considered NPR's Laura Sydell pits a computer against two political columnists to find out who or what can best predict the political scandals we will be talking about in a month.  First let us meet the contestants. In this corner...  Dan Buczacer - I run marketing at Quid.  Quid is a data analytics firm. Buczacer is talking for the computer because it does not speak.  Quid uses proprietary software to search visualize and then analyze massive amounts of text. In this case what we are talking about today that massive amount of text happens to come from news sources and blogs written about a particular topic in this case the presidential election.  And we are talking about some 300000 U.S. blogs and publications amounting to nearly seven and a half million articles everything that has been written about Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump since they announced they were running for president. Quid's computers sifted through it to find every controversy that has plagued each candidate.  Two-thirds of them were Donald Trump one-third Hillary Clinton. So Trump is the winner in terms of overall number of controversies generated.  Though Hillary Clinton had fewer controversies they still generated as much coverage as Trump's. The computer then sifted through all of them for patterns like which ones kept reappearing.  We kind of mapped it against both reoccurrence and importance. What sort of an impact did it have at its peak? And so in a lot of ways this was the probably the heaviest part of computation around what we think is going to show up again and again for each candidate.  Buczacer and his computer have done some forecasting about which controversies are going to follow each candidate the most between September 12 and October 12. But I am not going to tell you what they are - not yet. First let us meet our human contestants.  This is a very intimidating thing to do because I mean obviously you are putting me up against Skynet.  That is Jonah Goldberg of the conservative National Review and Skynet is the computer in the Terminator movies that destroys civilization as we know it. While Quid was searching through millions of articles looking for patterns Goldberg has a much more poetic way of predicting the future.  It is always safer to bet making predictions that are in line with the character and personality of the people you are making predictions about. Like in Aesop's Fable it is really easy to predict that the scorpion's going to sting the frog because that is the scorpion's nature.  And our final contestant on the left...  My name is Simon Maloy and I am a political writer for salon.com.  Maloy agrees that the personalities of the candidates are a part of his process but so is the media itself which has to draw readers and viewers and create buzz which is why the media does like controversies.  I think media organizations understand that there is value in writing a story that people will fight about and people will talk about. I think that absolutely factors into it.   And now it is time for computer pundit versus human pundit where our contestants see who or what can pick the top controversies. Take it away Laura.  Thank you Ralph. Each contestant will predict which controversies will get the most coverage over a month-long period. They gave their predictions to NPR on September 12. So the game ends October 12. Let us start with the machine and its forecast about the coverage of Donald Trump.  Building a wall along the Mexican border.  Yes it is the wall.   And now onto our first human over here on the right Jonah Goldberg. Number one...  Is a lot of discussion about his tax returns.   And our last contestant's forecast for Trump Simon Maloy.  I think Trump will at some point say something sexist about Hillary Clinton.   And now round two - our contestants will make their top predictions about Hillary Clinton. Let us start with the computer.  With Hillary I will be shocked if anybody that you are talking to has a different number one. And if they do I predict they will lose. At number one for Hillary is her email scandal of course.   And now human number one Jonah Goldberg.  Debate mishap - I think it would be inappropriately laughing at something she should not laugh at or she does it so much it kind of goes viral the way Al Gore's sighs in 2000 during the debates became a thing.   And Simon Maloy with our final one for Hillary Clinton.  There'ill be a ton of coverage the moments that Clinton makes her first public comments on her health status. Whatever she says I think it is going to be pored over and picked apart endlessly compare with past statements.   And folks that concludes our contest - to humans versus a machine. They each made many more predictions in order of what gets the most coverage and you can find those on our website.   Candidates will be judged by the machine which will measure how much coverage each issue got. Do not worry. It is not programmed to cheat. And Ralph tell us what each contestant wins.  Guests on computer pundit versus human pundit all receive an NPR T-shirt and a badge to get them into the NPR headquarters for three quarters of an hour.  And in the week of October 12 NPR will let you know the winner. For political pundits this could be a turning point. If they have not given up making predictions yet this could be the end. Laura Sydell NPR News. 