 Today Apple announced that Steve Jobs is stepping down as CEO effective immediately. Jobs has engineered Apple's transformation of our relationship with our computers phones and music. He is been ill with pancreatic cancer and on leave from the day-to-day running of the company. Joining us now from San Francisco is NPR's Laura Sydell. And Laura there is been much speculation about Steve Jobs' health for some time now. Today comes his resignation letter. It is short but it is quite poignant.  Well particularly he basically said that you know I have always said if there came a day when I could no longer meet my duties I would step down. And unfortunately that day is here. So in a way it is very sad to read him put it that way.  Yeah. And Steve Jobs is being replaced by Apple's chief operating officer Tim Cook. Jobs will remain though as chairman. How do you think this changes if it does the running of the company of Apple?  Tim Cook is a handpicked successor so many people say there is a team there and that Tim Cook and the other people there have been trained by Jobs and they will continue to run the company the way he has run it. But you know in some ways there is probably only one Steve Jobs.  Yeah. At the same time Tim Cook did take over as interim CEO for Steve Jobs while he was out on medical leave right? Is there much daylight do you think between them on how they would run the company?  Probably not. In many ways you know other than - you know there is a level of fussiness that people talk about with Steve Jobs that I just cannot imagine that as many people would even have the kind of chutzpah that Steve Jobs has to make a change at the last minute on something no matter how much it costs. He is known for things like that. So it is hard to imagine. Plus he has been the face of Apple. Everybody knows who he is. And Tim Cook it is like who is that?  Laura any sense of how investors might react to this news?  Now that is the billion-dollar question perhaps. I think - I imagine many investors will be thinking in fact that without Steve Jobs they are not really sure how things are going to go forward. On the other hand they have some strong strong products. They are so popular. So maybe it will not really affect things as strongly initially.  OK. Laura thank you.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Laura Sydell with the news that Steve Jobs has resigned as the CEO of Apple. 