 Finally in our tech segment this week a new app designed to help New Yorkers get around town more easily and for less money. Reporter Kaomi Goetz explains.  It is a Saturday night and Lydia Bell is on the sidewalk in the bustling Hell's Kitchen area of Manhattan. She is balancing a slice of pizza in one hand the other is tapping away on her iPhone.  Oh okay Weeels has a match. Ride together.  Bell is trying to get to Brooklyn but cannot afford the 25 cab fare. So she is trying out the iPhone app Weeels. It finds other riders nearby who are going to the same place so they can split the ride. The app is only a couple months old and is so far growing by word of mouth. Bell signed up as an early tester. She is not worried about sharing a backseat with a stranger.  I do not know. In general I do not find it too much different from like sitting next to some random person on the subway you know?  After a match is found Weeels gives Bell a meet-up address.   car's not here everyone's here text partner or partner info. So we are now walking towards our partner. And I guess if we do not recognize her we will text her or see her texting on her iPhone. Do you see a number anywhere? It does not seem like there is numbers on here. It says 246 10th Avenue.   There are some glitches. The meet-up spot is a dozen blocks away. It is 11 at night and Bell is walking down a street that she admits is a little creepy. And her iPhone battery dies. Finally they meet.  I am so sorry.  That is okay.  I am Lydia.  Gabriella.  Gabriella? It is nice to meet you.  Nice to meet you.  I think at heart Weeels was initially conceived as a global project.  That is founder and CEO David Mahfouda. A trip on the Trans-Siberian Railroad a few years ago inspired the app. He liked the way strangers developed a sense of camaraderie while taking mass transit. Back home he wanted to develop a way to move people more efficiently and focused on cabs.  The trick is like how do you maximize the utility of these vehicles that are already functional but that just basically are not being used well?  Weeels works with a cab service to offer pre-negotiated rates for each trip. The request comes into Weeels it gives riders the quote and the chance to ride-share. Safety is still a main concern. But Mahfouda says user profiles let potential partners screen each other. And they can rate their experience afterward. Plans are in the works to show users how they are connected socially. Mahfouda says he thinks that will help people become a little braver. For NPR News I am Kaomi Goetz in New York. 