 Now to space and we will take the elevator. The U.S. Patent Office has granted a patent for a freestanding space elevator tower. The idea of a space elevator has long captured the imaginations of writers from Arthur C. Clarke to Roald Dahl.    Luckily for us we have the great glass elevator to speed things - speed things along. Come on.  That was Johnny Depp as Willy Wonka bumping into a transparent glass elevator. In Dahl's books it flew to outer space.  Well the patent given to the Thoth technology company is different. The tower would rise some 12 miles into the sky with a runway or launch pad on top - Inventor Brendan Quine.  We believe that if you take off from the top of our structure you could have a single stage-to-orbit space plane. Then access to space would become more like taking of modern passenger jet.  Quine says he thought this up while he was in the shower. It would take billions of dollars to make he says and he hopes a big company will buy a license for his idea.  Like SpaceX or Alphabet Google's new holding company or perhaps Boeing to step up and build the first prototypes.  But we wondered if this is as crazy as it sounds or crazier. So we called NPR science desk to ask correspondent Geoff Brumfiel and he is here now. Hiya.  Hi there.  So what do you think of this idea?  Well I think the key word here is it is an idea. And the Patent Office deals with idea's novelty not necessarily their feasibility so that is important to keep in mind.  Does it strike you as remotely feasible?  Well I mean it combines two classic sci-fi ideas - a space plane that could take off from a runway and a space elevator that would take you all the way to space. Both of those are extremely difficult to do so this seems to be meeting halfway. You go 12 miles up in an elevator and take off in a plane. I can see lots of reasons why it would be tough though. I mean you could just imagine the winds 12 miles up would make it difficult to fly.  On the other hand it beats walking up 12 miles of stairs.  Yeah - well yeah. I suppose so. And they did not patent that so I guess we will just have to see what happens.  . OK thanks. That is NPR's Geoff Brumfiel reacting to a new patent for a space elevator tower. 