 In Yemen a long and bloody civil war has made access to health care in that country difficult and it is driven out some of Yemen's brightest scientists. NPR's Michaeleen Doucleff met one of them in an unlikely place.  Two years ago Eqbal Dauqan was going to work in the morning as usual. She is a biochemistry professor at a university where she studies the nutrition of food. She was driving on the freeway when suddenly...  I feel something on my car but I ignore because I was driving very fast.  Something had smacked into the side of her car - hard. She reached the parking lot got out of the car and looked at the door. What she saw left her speechless.  I got gun in my car just on the door.  A bullet went through your door?  Yeah.  Right next to you?  Yes.  Eqbal was OK. The door had stopped the bullet. She has no idea where it came from but it turned out to be an ominous sign of what was to come. You see Eqbal is a woman scientist in one of the hardest places on earth just to be a woman - Yemen. The World Economic Forum ranks Yemen as the worst country for women's rights. Women have such few rights that many cannot leave their homes without permission from their husbands.  If she go out with her brother husband it is OK.  But not on her own.  This is our culture.  A culture where the majority of women cannot read half are married by age 18 some as young as age 8. And then there is the black veil. Many women in Yemen including Eqbal cover their entire face with a black veil except for a small slit across their eyes.  I cover my face because I respect our culture.  Respect yes. Blindly follow? No. For the past decade Eqbal has busted through glass ceiling after glass ceiling with grace and fearlessness. Even as a young girl Eqbal says she was a rebel.  I was very naughty .  You were naughty?  Yeah .  She liked breaking rules and proving people wrong. So when her parents told her she might not have the smarts to go into science and engineering like her dad Eqbal thought of course I can.  I told my father I heard a lot about scientists in chemistry. What is the difference between me and them? So I want to try.  And she did more than try. She crushed it. Eqbal won over her father got his financial support and was the first among her friends to finish college. Then she got a scholarship to do her Ph.D. in Malaysia. That led to her writing a book about the fruits mentioned in the Quran and their health benefits. And people love it.  Very successful book now .  Very successful book. Eqbal became such a big star in the Middle East that Al Saeed University in Yemen made her an assistant professor and head of a medical department all before age 35. Eqbal was on top of the world. Then one morning it was all taken away.   In March 2015 Eqbal's hometown of Taiz got tangled up in Yemen's bloody civil war. That is tape taken from Euronews. Bombs were exploding everywhere.  They were bombing the university.  They were bombing the university?  Yeah. They killed some of my students. It is really bad. It is really bad. I will show you.  She turns to her computer and brings up some photos. Oh my gosh.  Yeah very bad.  On the screen is a photo of several bodies lying flat on the ground lined up next to each other covered in cream white sheets.  This is you know nine person from my family.  You lost nine family members?  Yes. They bombing their house. They died - all - nine person from my family.  Are these some children in your family?  Yes.  A few of the bodies are small - Eqbal's niece nephew.  I am sorry.  Oh no. I am sorry.  That is why I leave my country.  After the bombing Eqbal spent a few months trapped in Yemen trapped in a city where snipers shoot children bombs fall on mosques schools markets.  They are bombing everywhere randomly.  And then one day she had an idea. Maybe her science could get her out of the war. She started texting her mentor in Malaysia applied for a special refugee fellowship and a month later she was safe on a plane headed for Kuala Lumpur. Now she is working to save up money so she can get her parents and sister out of the war.  I want to bring my family but it is very difficult.  But Eqbal persists. She works long hours in lab continues to publish papers teach students and has never lost sight of her big dreams.  I have to be strong strong. I want to be strong.  And what is your dream - the ultimate dream?  My dream Nobel Prize.  Nobel Prize.  But I do not think so. It is very difficult .  I do not know. I would not bet against you. And Eqbal has already done so much for science because when little girls in the Middle East see photos of Eqbal as a chemist wearing a headscarf while pipetting and measuring pH they do not need to use their imagination to think I could be just like her. I could be a scientist. Michaeleen Doucleff NPR News. 