 Tomorrow Apple is expected to unveil a new generation of products likely a new low-cost iPhone perhaps a new iPad. One of the most persistent rumors this year has been that the company is building a smartwatch. As NPR's Steve Henn reports the idea of an iWatch captured many people's imaginations because of a watch's potential to measure so much information about its wearer.  Last week Samsung rolled out its own smartwatch but the reviews have been poor. The battery life is bad. And while the watch has voice recognition a la Dick Tracy it left many gadget geeks flat.  So the watch itself if all it is is a glorified smartphone and has some other features to it not so interesting.  Brad Feld is a venture capitalist in Boulder Colorado. What really excites technologists like him about watches is how intimate these devices could be. A watch touches your skin. It can take your pulse measure your temperature record the quality of your sleep. Feld says it could become almost an extension of yourself almost like another organ.  I think we are at version 0.1 of human instrumentation.  Feld envisions a world of wearable devices not just watches that record all kinds of intimate details about our lives. He thinks this data could help make all of us healthier happier and more fulfilled human beings. This is the idea of the Quantified Self.  When you talk about Quantified Self it is important to acknowledge that it is a social movement first.  Sarah Rotman Epps is at Forrester research.  It is a group of people who identify themselves as being interested in quantifying themselves in tracking data about their lives.  And Brad Feld is one of them. He is trying to run a marathon in every state in the country and uses technology to track himself obsessively.  So I use a bunch of different things. I have a Fitbit.  It tracks his daily activity. He invested in that company as well.  I then instrument myself whenever I run.  A watch logs his route his elevation his pace.  That gets integrated with my training software. All of those then are linked to obviously heart rate data.  He logs his weight runs blood tests quarterly and uses devices to track his sleep. Most people probably will not follow Brad Feld down this path. But...  I have tried it.  And Sara Rotman Epps says Forrester Research found roughly a third of adults would like to use something like this to track things like sleep. Millions of Americans already are. But all of this data can be incredibly revealing.  I choose not to wear these devices when I am in bed so whether that is I am sleeping or I am doing something else.   That is just where I draw my own personal line. But other people are different.  In 2011 Fitbit accidentally posted information online about when some of its users were having sex.  You are opting to put this data in the Cloud.  Sarah Rotman Epps.  Having interviewed many of these companies for our research on privacy and where this is going...  Rotman Epps has some concerns.  ...the attitude of these companies is that they will be stewards of your data. But the reality is they do not even know what their business model is.  Members of the Quantified Self movement have demanded that many firms let users download and delete their own information. But Rotman Epps is still leery. She says if a company changes its privacy policy there is not much a user could do. Steve Henn NPR News Silicon Valley.  