  All three engines up and burning. And liftoff. The final liftoff of Atlantis...    Houston now controlling the flight of Atlantis...  The space shuttle will soon be a memory of triumph sacrifice and underrated achievement. For the astronauts who flew them the big old space trucks will be remembered with love.  The very first time I looked back at Earth it took my breath away. And you are just up there floating around completely free to move wherever you want to. It definitely changes your life.  Astronaut Mike Gernhardt has logged 43 days on the shuttle including 23 hours and 16 minutes walking in space. You would think a 55-year-old astronaut would be satisfied with a cold beer on the back porch telling about that time he had to take three spacewalks to install the space station airlock. But no.  So my dream has always been to go to the Moon and I have worked the last five years tirelessly to develop the architecture the operations concepts this new Rover that you might have seen that we actually live in for like two weeks at a time. And we get into the suits that are hanging off the back on suit ports...  But its cancellation has not thrown Gernhardt for a loop. Now instead of going to the Moon he is working on landing astronauts on a giant passing asteroid.  I am not one that goes off and cries in the corner. So I am not happy about that and at the same time me and my team are attacking working on the asteroid very novel ways to anchor and translate on an asteroid surface.  If they cancellation of Constellation does not have Gernhardt crying in a corner others are.  Well I am very angry. And most of the people here are very angry because this administration still has not come up with a mission.  Bob Mitchell is the president of the Bay Area Houston Economic Partnership which includes 51 local aerospace companies. Mitchell says that while thousands of engineers and scientists are losing their NASA-related jobs many are finding new jobs in Houston. The energy sector is extremely healthy. And while not as glamorous as exploring the final frontier exploring for oil is nevertheless pretty lucrative.  The fortunate part of it is these are highly educated well- trained highly skilled employees that other industries are wanting to keep in this region.  Not having a specific mission to Mars or the Moon does not mean there is no missions at all. For example NASA scientist Jon Olansen heads up the Morpheus Project.  The Morpheus Project is a integration of different technologies that we have been pursuing here at Johnson Space Center liquid oxygen liquid methane propulsion as well as autonomous landing and hazard avoidance capability for landing on an extraterrestrial body.  Do not get astronaut Mike Gernhardt started about the new rover which he is already testing at White Sands.  I describe it as a combination between a sports car and a spacesuit. It is a very nimble vehicle. It can actually turn 360 and circle in crab mode. The front of it looks like a helicopter it is got great windows so we can make...  Wade Goodwyn NPR News Dallas. 