 The first people who lived in North America arrived at least 14000 years ago. They are largely a mystery. Archeologists haven' hardly any weavings pottery or other handiwork. But as NPR's Elizabeth Shogren reports a new discovery shows that some of these early North Americans were surprisingly creative artists.  Ten years ago Larry Benson got a chance to check out some rock art on an Indian reservation north of Reno. He was entranced. DR.  Well these things are incredibly beautiful. They are larger than most petroglyphs in the Southwest.  He saw a heap of big boulders nearly every surface covered with geometric patterns things like concentric circles groups of diamond shapes and tree-like symbols.  And they are almost unique in the sense that the grooves have been carved down almost an inch deep in some cases.  And just by looking at them Benson thought he might know how old they were. He noticed that the symbols are much whiter than the gray rock they are carved into. Benson is a paleoclimatologist who works with the University of Colorado. He knew from his climate research that the dry area where the petroglyphs are located was once was a lake and that the white coating was probably left from the last time the rocks were submerged in water.  So this would indicate that the petroglyphs were older than 11000 years. And I did know at least from my limited knowledge that these were probably then the oldest dated petroglyphs in North America.  But to prove it he needed permission to take samples. That took years. Once he dated the different coatings on the rock he confirmed that the artwork was at least 10000 years old and maybe 15000 years old. He published his findings in the journal of Archaeological Science.  Well I think it is really amazing that people that far back were creating such wonderful things.  University of Oregon archeologist Dennis Jenkins dated the earliest known people in North America. He says it is nearly unheard of to find artwork of any kind as old as the Nevada petroglyphs. DR.  To get something this complex this early is very very rare.  Jenkins says many other lakes in the West rose and fell thousands of years ago when the climate was making dramatic shifts. He is hoping that Benson's techniques for dating petroglyphs can be replicated elsewhere. That could help experts understand more about the people who lived on this continent long ago. Elizabeth Shogren NPR News.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 