 Ari let us talk about your driving.  Oh not my driving. I bicycle to work.  All right. All right. But when you are behind the wheel here's something to think about. If you are ever the guy in the left-hand lane slowing down traffic stop it.  OK. This is something we have been talking about since we saw a piece in Vox by freelance science reporter Joseph Stromberg. He stresses the science on all of this is not settled but...  When you are traveling on the highway the moment at which you are most at risk of getting into a crash is when you are changing lanes. And when you have people going slow in the left lane as well as the right lane then people who want to move faster kind of have to zigzag back and forth. They have to change lanes looking over both different shoulders and it just increases the amount of possible accident scenarios that can happen.  Every state has laws that discourage left-lane driving and some including Ohio Texas and Washington are handing out tickets.  But wait a minute you might be saying to yourself. I am going the speed limit. I cannot be the problem. Oh yes you can. Here's Stromberg again.  One of the best predictors of an accident is not necessarily whether someone's speeding or not but the difference between the average speed of traffic surrounding them and how fast they are going. And it turns out that going 5 miles per hour slower than the surrounding speed of traffic puts you at a greater risk of accident than going 5 miles per hour faster.  And slower drivers can mean more traffic jams.  There is you know strong research showing that just a small amount of congestion can ripple outwards and make a really big traffic jam. And a lot of times that is because of just a few cars that are going slower than the speed limit or just at it and blocking up both lanes. And that causes you know layers and layers of people trying to pass just backed up behind them. And so it is annoying but it also really can cause legitimate congestion.  So if you are driving this Labor Day weekend let the lead foots have the left lane.  You will be doing everyone a favor.    But this long line of cars is trying to get through. 