  How did you meet your romantic partner? Friends have long been society's top matchmakers with help from parents and co-workers but they are all losing ground to the Internet. A new study finds nearly a quarter of couples meet online. As NPR's Jennifer Ludden reports the Web may soon become the number one way Americans find a mate.  Technology has not shaken up the dating scene this much since the invention of the telephone. But Michael Rosenfeld of Stanford University says even that does not compare.  The telephone made it easier to be in contact but only really with the people you already knew. That is you would not pick up the phone and call somebody you did not know it would be awkward.  But Rosenfeld says those connecting online are most often complete strangers not even friends of friends. Though of course dating sites reveal a great deal about them. Dr.  You know level of income life goals interests likes dislikes.  Nicole Adams is a 35-year-old psychologist in New York and has been dating online while going through a divorce. Dr.  You also kind of want to weed out the real...  Dr.  ...crazy people for lack of a better term.  Sure she says people used to trust family and friends to consider all that and come up with a good match. Dr.  But nobody really really knows what I like except me.  Adams says she appreciates being able to reach out to people she would never encounter in her own social circles including those from different religions and ethnicities.  Web dating saves a lot of time. Adams says if she does meet someone through friends or family even if sparks do not fly she is more likely to suffer through a few more dates and let him down gently. Dr.  Whereas online dating you do not have any of that pressure. If you meet him and something happens to him mm next. Thanks a lot it is been real.  Ouch. But the smaller the pool of potential partners the more important those Web contacts may be. Researcher Rosenfeld found a whopping 61 percent of same-sex couples meet online. Prof.  So the internet is friend to everybody who is looking for something that is hard to find. And that is true whether you are looking for parts for a '57 Chevy or a partner who has some attributes that are uncommon.  On the other hand a recent Duke University study finds online daters are disproportionately white and well-educated partly because fewer minorities have a computer at home. But that study also predicted Web-dating will continue to grow as online access expands and successful couples spread the word. Stanford University's Rosenfeld says it is all easing a social stigma. Prof.  It used to be that people who met online had a separate story that they thought was more palatable. It seemed a little seedy and unseemly and for some reason people used to think that it was more upstanding to say I met him in a bar.  Bars by the way along with restaurants and other public areas are still the third most likely place for couples to meet. Although Rosenfeld says when you speak to people it turns out many met there after first encountering each other online. Jennifer Ludden NPR News. 