 Remember the periodic table from your school days? Well it is still growing. Scientists say they have created one of the heaviest chemical elements ever seen. Element 115 does not even have a name yet. But as NPR's Geoff Brumfiel reports the researchers say even heavier elements may be just around the corner.  Rodi Herzberg says making super-heavy elements is just like baking. DR.  You take all the ingredients and then you throw them all together in a very controlled way.  If you have done your whisking set the oven at just the right temperature...  What you get out is a perfectly baked cake.  Or if you are a nuclear physicist like Herzberg a new element element 115. OK. So it is not exactly like baking a cake. Scientists start with elements that already exist in nature and combine them together. This creates big new elements packed to the brim with positively charged protons. But positive charges repel so...  If you just put positive charges into it you get something that tries to rip itself apart eventually. And that is why it is very very difficult to create these super-heavy elements.  In fact that is one reason element 115 is not official. Russian scientists first spotted it a few years ago but they could not be sure. They could not measure it before it blew itself apart. Now Herzberg at the University of Liverpool in the U.K. together with colleagues in Europe the U.S. and Japan have detected an X-ray signal that makes it much more likely 115 exists if only briefly. The work will appear in Physical Review Letters. So what is this exotic new element good for?  It has nothing nothing whatsoever to do with antigravity devices or spaceships or anything else. It really is a down-to-earth element 115.  But 115 could be on the edge of something really magical. Nuclear researchers call it the island of stability. Elements on this island are even heavier than 115 but strange quantum effects keep them from breaking apart. They can stick around for minutes days maybe even years.  It could well be that there are elements that live long enough to make milligram or microgram quantities eventually and do something with them.  In the meantime 115 does not even have a name. If further study shows it really really exists an international committee will decide which of its many discoverers around the world will get naming rights. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News. 