 When we hear about a big heist these days it is not usually the result of bank robbers or art thieves. It is some hackers stealing data - credit card numbers income tax records. This week it was news of Russian hackers making off with a billion passwords. Steve Henn from our Planet Money team reports on how this crime spree is making some in Silicon Valley rethink their big data obsession.  If you want to know how valuable your data has become think of it this way - it is bigger than Bitcoin accepted in places where your dollars are not welcome. And look at what your data buys. Gmail alone is amazing and free. Facebook Twitter Google - all free. YouTube including videos of ranchers serenading cattle with trombones - you cannot buy any of these services with real money.  It is actually pretty tough to write a check to Google or Facebook or Twitter. What they want is your data.  That is Chris Soghoian. He studies data security and privacy and he now works for the ACLU. These companies he says collect your data combine it manipulated it use it to target ads and make predictions about your behavior.  When a company's profit depends upon the amount of data that it collects all of the incentives are aligned for it to collect as much data as possible.  Today Google and Facebook combined are worth more than half a trillion dollars. And the giant piles of data about us that they have collected - they are a honeypot. That data attracts hackers identity thieves cops courts stalkers Chinese military hacking collectives Russian mobsters and intelligence analysts from the NSA. Stores like Target and Neiman Marcus cannot keep this stuff safe. Even the NSA - the NSA - could not stop Edward Snowden from walking out the door with big huge piles of its most sensitive secrets.  The one thing that we have learned in the security industry at least over the past 15 years is that the attackers always win.  That is a hacker and computer encryption expert. He goes by the name Moxie Marlinspike.  If what you do is have a lot of really valuable information in one place and you try to secure that you are going to lose. You know like you lose every time. If you have the data someone's going to get it.  Now if you had a bank and guys in ski masks kept coming in and stealing your cash there are a couple of things you could do right? You might hire more big burly security guards or you might decide to keep less cash lying around. And today in Silicon Valley there is a dawning awareness that perhaps big vaults filled with sensitive data are not the best way to go. There is a small movement of developers and entrepreneurs who are trying to change the way the Internet works. They are trying to build systems that collect as little data about you as possible.  I look at the companies that are making money off of personally identifiable information. They need to find another way to make money because that is nuclear waste.  So Nico Sell has cofounded a social network that allows people to connect without collecting tons of personal information. Her company Wickr does not even know your password. This might sound fringy but Wickr just landed a 30 million investment from one of the first people to back Facebook.  Will I kill those business models - the business models of making money off tons of little pieces of personal information? I hope so.  In most cases folks will use Wickr for free. But Sell believes in certain circumstances privacy and security are so important that people and companies would be willing to pay for it the old-fashioned way - with real money. And she is not the only one searching for ways to limit the use of data as a digital currency. Moxy Marlinspike has launched a series of free open-source apps that use end-to-end encryption to keep the content of messages or phone calls secret.  The point of cryptography is to trust algorithms and not people. You know we should not have to trust an individual or an organization to keep us safe or to behave appropriately. You know we should be able to put our trust into math itself. I do not think we can expect you know an individual or an organization to go to jail for us. But you know math does not have that problem.  You cannot put math in jail.  No you cannot.  He says if the government served him with a subpoena or a hacker held a gun to his head and demanded the contents of your calls he could not help them out. There would be nothing he could do. And he is saying to companies everywhere go ahead use my technology. I am not even going to charge you for it. And maybe you will be better off if you have less data lying around. Steve Henn NPR News Silicon Valley. 