 One of the tools that was used to track down the suspect is what is sometimes called an electronic wanted poster. It is believed to be the first time authorities have used the so-called wireless emergency alert system to help track down a suspected terrorist. That system is best known for Amber Alerts and weather emergencies. A message was blasted to millions of New Yorkers' cell phones describing the man they were looking for. NPR's Tovia Smith reports the tactic is also raising concerns of racial profiling.  It is hard to overstate its power. In an instant as New York Police Commissioner James O'Neill told CBS News today authorities enlisted millions of extra eyeballs to their manhunt.  COMMISSIONER JAMES O' I was truly helpful. We try to think all of us working together not just law enforcement. I think that is the way we are going to keep the city safe.  I got one and it was like - oh what is this?  Kabir Daya says when he got the alert on his cell phone yesterday he not only wondered where the suspect might be lurking but also whether he himself might be mistaken for the guy.  I will be honest. That was a little bit in the back of my head as well. I mean there is always a little tinge of anxiety about that kind of stuff you know me looking the way I am. And I have a beard and you know a darker complexion. And I clearly look like I was not necessarily born here.  To some it is especially concerning now amid a series of incidents in New York targeting Muslims and what some Muslim civil rights advocates call a mainstreaming of Islamophobia. Ibrahim Hooper with the Council on American-Islamic Relations says he is troubled that authorities put out the suspect's name that is obviously Muslim but no description or picture.  If you are riding on a train with somebody and you see somebody wearing a headscarf or with a beard or with a darker complexion or somebody you perceive to be Muslim that could lead to suspicion of that person and some kind of action targeting that person.  The message did tell people to see media for pic hoping they would go online to get one. But University of Southern Mississippi professor Bandana Kar who is been studying the alert system for the Department of Homeland Security says that is like putting up a wanted poster with no picture and could hurt more than it helps.  The open-ended nature of that alert being very vague end up generating a lot of false information. Then it confuses the entire system.  DHS officials say they will soon make changes that'ill allow for longer messages and better descriptions but attaching images or a link to one they say requires further study. Julius Genachowski was chair of the FCC when the system was first launched on the tenth anniversary of 911. He says it is an essential tool designed precisely for cases like this.  Yeah this is too powerful to be put on a shelf. I would expect and encourage law enforcement authorities to be thoughtful but to find the best way to use them to maximize the benefits and minimize the risks.  One other suggestion - after a frightening alert about a suspect on the loose residents might also appreciate getting an all-clear when the scare is over. Tovia Smith NPR News New York. 