 Astrophysicist Adam Frank is bouncing in his seat. He is that excited to be at a NASA conference in Houston - a NASA conference all about looking for signs of civilization somewhere far beyond Earth. This sort of meeting has not happened in decades so we have got Adam on the line to tell us all about it. Hey there.  Hey how is it going?  Well thank you. So why has not this kind of meeting happened in decades and why now?  Well in the 1990s NASA was - had a project for doing search for extraterrestrial intelligence or SETI. And it turned out that some people in Congress thought it was a giant waste of taxpayer dollars. But since then you know researchers - there was sort of the sense that NASA was not the place to do SETI. And so even though NASA has done amazing work in searching for life it has really not done much about searching for intelligent life.  So you are at a NASA conference now though and they are searching for signs of extraterrestrial life. That is the focus of this conference?  Yeah. Well really what they are looking to do is they are looking for help suggestions in terms of looking for technosignatures.  What is a technosignature?  A technosignature is basically any signal or evidence you can find that there is a technology-using civilization out there. So we have been talking about things for the last couple days like looking for pollution in the atmosphere of a distant planet. We have talked about detecting satellites - their satellites in orbit. We have even talked about the ability to see cities on distant planets because of their heat signature. So it is really all amazing stuff and we are really getting to the point where some of this is going to be possible now or it is going to be possible in the near future.  For the record have they found anything?  No. We have not found anything yet. But the important thing to understand is that you know people have this idea that like SETI's happening all the time that astronomers are always looking for civilizations among the stars. And it is actually not true. One of the talks that was given was by a researcher who actually looked at how much searching we have done and it turns out that if the stars were like at the ocean then the only thing that we have looked at so far is a hot tub .  Because there is just so - it is so big. There is so much to look at.  There is so much to look at. And we have done so little of it so far. So if you are interested in whether or not there are dolphins in the ocean and you have looked at one hot tub and you did not find a dolphin would you then say like oh there is no dolphins in the ocean?  You are making the case for optimists. The fact that they have not found anything yet by no means rules out that it is out there and could be found.  That is true. What has really changed now is the discovery of exoplanets - that we have found all these planets orbiting other stars whereas 20 years ago we did not know whether there were any planets orbiting any other stars. And that changes the whole nature of how we go about looking for them.  It raises all kinds of possibilities in terms of places to look.  That is it and that we are finally actually able to stare at planets which is where we think life forms. And if you look at the history of SETI originally taking a radio telescope and looking for someone beaming messages to you - right? - an intentional signal and now with these exoplanets that we are staring at we can look for unintentional signal things like pollution or satellites in orbit. And that really changes the game. It is not your grandparents' SETI anymore.  Thank you Adam.  Oh it so much fun. Thank you.  Adam Frank - he teaches astrophysics at the University of Rochester. His most recent book is  Alien Worlds And The Fate Of The Earth.  