 A generation ago kids did not dream of being social media influencers. But last year companies spent around 1.3 billion on marketing through Instagram. So this month's All Tech Considered is all about influencers their careers and their impact on our economy.   Today we hear from two people on opposite ends of this career path. First Cosette Rinab. She is 19. She has thousands of followers on Instagram and TikTok. That is a platform for short-form videos. And honestly she is not wild about the term influencer.  You think of the basic Instagram lifestyle influencer fashion influencer promoting skinny tea you know? I think most people gear towards the term creator.  Rinab got started back in high school with a fashion blog. Soon she was reaching out to different brands asking to collaborate.  I would go on Etsy and find small boutique shops and send them a message. Hi my name's Cosette. I am from New York City. I model and act. I have a fashion blog. Would you like to send me some products to try out and I will write a dedicated blog post about it? One of the first companies was a shoe company that bought shoes and bedazzled them. That was one of my first deals that really struck me as oh wow this is actually something that I could be making money off of.  Fast forward a few years. Rinab is now a rising junior at the University of Southern California and she runs a club for content creators. Hundreds of students apply each semester. Just 10 get in.  I actually give a presentation every semester on collaborating with brands and how exactly to approach that because for some people it is a very foreign idea and they are scared to reach out to companies. I am like how do you expect people to just find your Instagram and reach out to you? You have to make the initiative to actually reach out to them.  You took over this club from its founder who dropped out of college to do this kind of work full-time. So is college even necessary for someone on this path?  That is a good question. I think it depends. You know he was at his maximum earning potential. He saw - he felt that school was holding him back. And there are a lot of people who you know are in such a good place and have such a good positioning in the industry right now that if they do not pursue all of their time it might not be there forever. So yeah I mean I think college is not necessary for the social media industry but a lot of it is experience over education in the sense that if you go out and you do the things yourself you will most likely learn more than you could learn in a classroom.  What are some things that you think some older people people who are not maybe as familiar with this world do not understand about the kind of work you are doing?  I think it is really difficult for people of older generations to really grasp that people are making more money off of YouTube than they could be if they were going to medical school and studying - you know pursuing a career in medicine. So I think it is such a new idea that people just need a little bit more time to get accustomed to the idea.  One thing about this business in particular is it is all about the numbers I mean the same way TV's about ratings. But the follower count for people who do social media work is so important. Do you look at yourselves as kind of like athletes? Like you are in this business to go hard and fast for a long time and then you will get out and do something else? Or do you see yourself doing something like this long-term?  I see myself doing something like this long-term. I think the goal for me is not to hustle hustle hustle get the big numbers fast and then move on to the next thing. I am very natural in front of the camera. I love sharing parts of my life with my following. And while I do not think that I am at a point where I can fully support myself by just doing that I would love to one day.  Cosette Rinab is a student at the University of Southern California. She runs the club Reach a club for influencers. I guess I should say creators right?  Yeah.  Cosette thanks so much.  Thank you so much.  Like Cosette Rinab Sara Li discovered Instagram and its power to persuade when she was a teenager. But she started out an activist. She posted about sexual assault prevention and it went viral.  The number of people who saw my tiny tiny account from Topeka Kan. was mind-blowing. I mean like I had actresses from The CW emailing me that said hey I saw your project on Instagram. It is really cool. Like I think it is great that you are speaking out against sexual assault. How can I get involved?  Li is now a social media strategist. She works with influencers but she says she did not want to be one anymore.  It just really was not for me. I mean it was definitely a few years ago when it was less regulated.  What do you mean by regulated?  Well so nowadays you know there is a lot more transparency on influencers and kind of their brand deals. We have like the megainfluencers like Danielle Bernstein talking about how much she makes in a post. We have FTC guidelines. And you know five years ago there really was not that kind of transparency. I was also 17 18 at the time. And I remember being part of this Facebook group for influencers so kind of a digital influencer club very unlike the one that she had mentioned. But it was essentially more along the lines of how can I edit this photo to make myself as skinny as possible? How can I get this brand deal with this company that is really not great? And I just kind of remember sitting there being like I do not want to promote skinny teas. I do not want to promote you know like these faulty products. You know we are so used to Instagram being this highlight reel that I think that as more and more people talk about influencer culture we are getting this need for transparency and kind of a more genuine storytelling rather than here are the best parts of my life and that is all there is.  It sounds like you are saying that this business has come around in a way that magazines once were right? Like now we are just looking at people - beautiful people with a lot of resources doing what they do.  Yes. Yeah completely. And you know I am not going to say all influencers are bad because that is not true. I know a lot of influencers and content creators who really do put like a genuine authentic version of themselves out there. But on that note I think it is also important to kind of realize that there is a huge huge portion of influencers who do - who kind of are in it for the wrong reason - kind of like that glossy magazine-style life.  How realistic is it to have a sustained career as an influencer?  Very realistic. You know whether you like influencers or not it is a very profitable career. And I would say it is not unrealistic to quit your full-time job to become an influencer. I would say if you are going to do that have an actual business plan in mind because it is not as easy as you know I have a huge following on Instagram. You really have to know the business. You really need to know how to adapt to every single social media change. And you just really need to have a plan in mind.  Is there a danger of burnout? Like when you talk to young people getting into this business is that something that they are aware of?  Oh absolutely. But that is the same for any entrepreneur - right? - any self-starter who may be starting their own business at home. I just think as a content creator there is just more pressure because it is you that you are selling not just the product. I know for me sometimes when I post a lot of stories I am just like I do not even know if I am living my life or I am just posting this to make it seem like I have a life. You know you are watching your own reality directed back at you and then you are also putting it out there for other people to consume. And it is really intense. It is a lot. And for a like full-time content creator to deal with that constantly it cannot be easy.  Sara Li is a writer and social media strategist. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Yeah of course. Thank you so much for having me.  