 Now when animals do become extinct one thing that is lost forever is their sound. Very little science is actually dedicated to the sounds that animals make and almost nobody tries to preserve those sounds. But producer Brent Bachman spoke to one artist who is trying to change that.  Hello London.  Hi. How are you?  Marguerite Humeau just graduated from the Royal College of Art in London.  Two weeks ago.  Congratulations.  Yeah thank you.   This past year in school she is been working on a project to reconstruct the voice boxes of extinct animals. Here' It is made of soft tissue. So unlike bones it does not fossilize. But Marguerite thought maybe there could be another way.  For today I started with Lucy.  You know Lucy.  Is the first chimpanzee which started to walk so it is considered as the first human.  And to recreate her voice Marguerite got a hold of Lucy's skeletal records to accurately reconstruct the resonance cavities in her skull. She even spoke to the surgeon who performed only the second successful human larynx transplant on a woman in California earlier this year.  Actually he told me this very funny story that I actually I was thinking she would get the voice of the donor.  Of someone else right.  Yeah. And actually she recovered her own voice meaning that the specificity of the voice does not come from the larynx itself but from the way you shape air in your lungs and the way it resonates in your resonance cavities. So it meant I was on the right track.  She met with paleontologists even an ear nose and throat doctor. And using resin silicone and rubber she set to work rebuilding Lucy's voice box.  Because what you know what makes the difference between a human voice and an animal sound? The difference is the brain. So they do not you know we think before we talk. I mean for most people.  Yeah.    This is Lucy. The hissing you hear is a pressurized air tank blowing air through her reconstructed vocal chords. Remember those model body parts you used to take apart in school? It kind of looks like that hooked up to a big air tank.  So I am quite happy because it has a pitch of a human but then you can - it is still a roar. You can hear the vibration of a - it is like an animal's voice.   But Marguerite wanted to go bigger. She settled on a woolly mammoth. It is got a relative in the modern elephant so she figured anatomically there would be some reference data. Again she met with more experts...  Yeah then I met zoologists veterinarians.  She redesigned the mammoth's vocal chords. They are eight inches wide. She built artificial lungs resonance cavities modeled after its skull its windpipe. The whole thing is about 20 feet long.   This is Marguerite's mammoth.   It might not have sounded exactly like this. Aside from scientists she also met with the guy who advised Steven Spielberg on the dinosaur sounds in Jurassic Park. But you do feel a presence listening to it.   For that Marguerite says she owes French explorer Bernard Buigues who she calls her biggest help.  He has actually been able to tell touch these animals. They are completely preserved. And so he told me about you know the smell of them and being able to touch the fur of a mammoth which had been living 10000 years ago.   Is it true that there were children in the exhibit who would run and get scared?   I read that on Internet. I have not seen them but I would have loved - that was the whole purpose. So...    That is Marguerite Humeau. She spoke to our producer Brent Bachman. Starting tomorrow you can see and hear her recreation of the voice of Lucy at The Museum of Modern Art in New York. 