 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  I am Michele Norris. And it is time now for All Tech Considered.   The consumer electronics business is changing in a big way. That is according to a new report out today from the Consumer Electronics Association or CEA.  tablet. Sales of tablets the iPad chief among them have skyrocketed. CEA predicts a 157 percent increase in sales this year over last year. And helping fuel that boost are high school and college-bound students. For more we are joined by Sean Murphy. He is been crunching the numbers for the Consumer Electronics Association. He is there with me in the studio. And let us start with your forecast for 2011. Tablets are still relatively young technology. This time last year some experts were still wondering if they had staying power. What do the numbers that you crunch actually tell you?  You are absolutely right. A year ago the success of the iPad really came out of the blue. It was not predicted. So what we saw I think initially was a typical sense of what is the staying power is this a fad how does this affect the PC platforms. What we are seeing now and the numbers bear out we are not even close to seeing what this might end up being in terms of units in revenue. So we are not at the peak yet and we do not anticipate being at the peak for a couple of more years.  So does the tablet us success come at the expense of traditional desktops or laptop computers or even the relatively new very small sort of hybrid computers that are known as netbooks?  That is an inevitable question and we have actually been facing that. Every year or two there is the new product that we are afraid is going to cannibalize all the other platforms. And I remember two years ago at this exact time netbooks were the next ascendant category and we were worried are those going to eat into notebooks and desktops.  As tablets become more ascendant notebook prices are increasingly getting cheaper and cheaper. The technology gets better. And in the CEA industry what we usually see is products get smaller cheaper and better. So people maybe are waiting to see how the dust settles are tablet prices going to come down. So notebooks have not been affected yet. But I think in the next year or two there'ill be an inevitable impact.  Should we assume that these are particularly well-suited for the classroom?  I think they are ideally suited for the classroom for a variety of reasons. A tablet gives you the functionality of a notebook but it is easier to use it is smaller. And I think what we will see in addition to the ease-of-use is professors will be much more interested in incorporating lesson plans. We saw with e-readers text books slowly but steadily being incorporated into digital content. That will certainly not slacken. And it is easier for everyone involved. I think it makes sense if the students are engaged using their technology. It is no longer a toy. It is a real actionable alternative to bring in the classroom.  Now I am going to ask you Sean to look into your crystal ball.  OK.  Because just as smartphones sort of displaced the handheld video camera and other devices do you see another young technology that is out on the horizon that might one day overtake the tablet one day soon?  Well that is the zillion-dollar question right? I would imagine that the next evolution of content will be digital and it will probably be - it has to be portable. But as far as imagining I think even - we are at the point now where even with science fiction we have kind of caught up between Skype being able to project of conversation across the country in real time to being able to download a book and read it in real time. It is hard to imagine what they are going to create that actually will compete. I am constantly humbled by how technology finds ways to make the new product that everyone has to have.  Sean thanks so much for coming in.  My pleasure.  Sean Murphy is a senior analyst with the Consumer Electronics Association. 