 At a press event this morning in Los Angeles Amazon unveiled its latest Kindle tablets and eReaders. As NPR's Steve Henn reports it is unlikely Amazon will make much money selling these new devices. Instead it hopes to profit when people use them to buy digital content.  Forrester analyst James McQuivey says for Amazon this business of selling tablets is a little bit like Gillette selling razors. It does not need to make a lot of money on the tablet itself. What Amazon is after are customers who keep coming back to fill these gadgets up with content - music movies books stuff.  Selling 10 20 million people devices that keep you coming back to buy more products from Amazon really could be considered a marketing expense. If you are Amazon you want people to have these things even if it means you only make a dollar or two - or in some cases no money at all - on these devices. And you can write it all off as marketing really.  When it launched the original Kindle Fire's most appealing characteristic was that it was cheap. It is biggest drawback was it was cheap. It did not have a volume control or a camera. McQuivey says it is - obviously - time for Amazon to up its game.  It has to make the devices as good as the service experience that it is offering.  So today Jeff Bezos Amazon's CEO did just that.   We decided to go big.   Amazon unveiled a bunch of new gadgets including a tablet with a much bigger screen - like the iPad. But Amazon is still pushing the envelope to keep costs down. Its eReaders start at just 69. And for 499 which is the most popular price for an iPad right now Amazon is offering a Kindle Fire that has all the bells and whistles - including a 4G LTE wireless connection. That super-fast connection is something Apple does not offer - at least not yet.  To sweeten this deal Amazon is offering a data plan for just 49 a year. Similar plans for Apple's tablets cost more than four and a half times as much. But before you rush online to buy you might want to wait. Apple's planning its own product announcement next week. Steve Henn NPR News Silicon Valley. 