 Can the most modern of technologies help solve the health woes in the poorest countries in the world? Some biomedical engineers say the answer is yes. They are designing diagnostic laboratories that fit on something as small as a credit card and give results in minutes instead of hours or days. NPR's Joe Palca has that story.  These devices are sometimes referred to as a lab on a chip. To use them all you need to do is obtain a drop of someone's blood.  And the drop of blood goes into the chip and you wait about 15 minutes and you will get the results.  Samuel Sia is in the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Columbia University in New York. Inside the chip are tiny channels that expose the blood to chemicals that can detect diseases. If a disease is present a dark line will appear in a window on the chip. You can read the results by eye or if you want to be more precise you can use a simple reader.  You do not need a expensive microscope or something with lasers to look at it. It is something you can build with components from RadioShack if you want.  In the current issue of Nature Medicine Sia and his colleagues describe a chip that can detect the presence of both the AIDS virus HIV and syphilis in someone's blood. Tests in Rwanda showed they could detect these diseases nearly 99 percent of the time.  And that is really exciting because you really want high sensitivities if you want to have a test be used as a screening test because you do not want to miss people who possibly have the disease.  Sia says not only is the test portable it is relatively cheap. The chip itself is only 10 to 20 cents. The cost goes up once you add in the chemicals you need and the appropriate packaging. But...  We think we can do it for two to 3 dollars per chip and that would include the ability to diagnose multiple diseases on one card.  The device Sia has produced is not yet ready for widespread use. But Catherine Klapperich of Boston University says she is impressed with Sia's work. Klapperich is also building these labs on a chip.  What makes Sam's approach and the approach of this group unique is that they are focused on making the instrumentation simple to use and robust to use in a low-resource environment.  Klapperich says it seems straightforward to transfer these technologies to countries with limited resources.  But once you start designing these things you know you really go into the developing world and you look at how people are doing clinical medicine and you realize all of these things that you cannot take for granted. Even though you think it is very simple it is still not very simple.   But even some enthusiastic about these devices worry they may never live up to their promise. Bernhard Weigl is a staff scientist at PATH an international nonprofit that tries to bring appropriate health technologies to developing countries. Weigl says for these devices to be truly useful they will have to be able to test for several diseases at once. And that is where the problems start.  Pretty soon you have a relatively complex system that either costs a lot or is complex to use or has a lot of potential failures and such things. And so because of those drawbacks it is still not you know after probably about seven eight or maybe 10 years of people working on this it is still not completely clear that this is really going to be the way to go.  Cheap easy to use accurate. Easy to say hard to accomplish. Joe Palca NPR News Washington. 