  What time is it? A new atomic clock described in this week's Science magazine splits the second into quadrillions of pieces. But this ultra precise clock is not just for telling time. As NPR's Adam Cole reports it could prove Einstein wrong.  What a makes a good clock? Andrew Ludlow a physicist at the National Institute of Standards and Technology says one of the most important criteria is stability.  If you could imagine a grandfather clock you know ideally that pendulum would swing back and forth very uniformly in a tick tick tick...   That is stability. But what if you introduce some agent of chaos like a mischievous toddler?  Imagine that toddler shaking the grandfather clock itself. Tick tick-tick tick...   How much that ticking rate varies determines the precision with which you can measure the evolution of time.  Ludlow is a clockmaker but his clocks do not rely on pendulums.  The atomic clock is looking at the very natural internal ticking of the atom.  Let us say you hit a cesium atom with a laser it will vibrate with a certain frequency. Those ticks are very consistent and very fast - there are quadrillions every second. Atomic clock-makers use the regularity of these vibrations to keep time with extreme extreme accuracy. Toddlers cannot mess up these clocks but there is still a little instability. Atoms move around and that makes their vibrations slightly harder to measure. So Ludlow and his team used a lattice of lasers to trap the atoms and then cool them - nearly reaching absolute zero. With the atoms frozen in place scientists can more accurately measure their vibration. Ludlow's clock builds on previous designs and it does not look anything like grandfather clock. It looks more a table at a mad scientist's garage sale. But the mass of tubes and wires is the most precise time-keeper ever built.  Obviously getting to a meeting on time does not require this type of precision.  But lots of technology does. The new clock has the potential to improve GPS and telecommunication networks.  testing the Einstein's Theory of Relativity.  Today many scientists believe that the Theory of Relativity is incompatible with other physical theories.  Einstein predicted that certain physical properties - like the strength of the interaction between photons and electrons or the ratio of the mass of electrons and protons - should never change. But competing theories say that those fundamental constants might actually fluctuate. And such changes would slightly change the ticking speed of atomic clocks.  And as clocks become better and better they become more and more useful tools to explore this possible variation.  Einstein also predicted that clocks in different gravitational fields would tick at different speeds. Take two identical clocks.  Let us have one of them be up here in Boulder Colorado where we are at a relatively high elevation.  A mile above sea level where gravity is just a tiny bit weaker. And the other clock will be here with me in Washington D.C.  Down around sea level.  My clock will tick slightly slower. And after 200000 years Ludlow's clock would be a second faster than mine.  So again not a huge effect.  But it is big enough for most atomic clocks to measure. And Ludlow's clock can register the change in gravity across a single inch of elevation. That kind of sensitivity will allow scientists to test Einstein's theories with greater precision in the real world. Adam Cole NPR News. 