 Every few weeks on All Tech we tackle your social media conundrums. And here to answer today's question about how to behave in the digital age are Baratunde Thurston former digital director at The Onion and author of the book How to be Black and Deana Zandt author of  How You Will Change The World With Social Networking. Our question today comes from a listener in Damascus Maryland  Should you have separate Twitter accounts for personal and professional use?  For the most part most people I believe should only have one Twitter account because it ultimately just gets too confusing when you try to figure out well does this belong in this one or the other one?  Right.  The other thing is that you know some people do have kind of we call it lockdown or private Twitter accounts where only a few people can see and you allow different people to see.  It is a secret society.  But you also run the risk of people accidentally re-sharing and re-tweeting...  Oh yes.  ...your private information that you have shared to your private account.  I hope we are getting to a place where those co-workers are not super judgmental.  Right.  But it is safe to assume you know if you do not want anyone to know it do not put it in a digital medium whatsoever.  So I suggest people just be very conscious and intentional about what they are sharing online and have one account to rule them all.  Oh like The Ring.  Like The Ring.  Awesome. And then you throw that account into the fires of Mount Doom when you are done with it. I used to blog pseudonomous - pseudo...  Numinous?  I blogged under a pseudonym.   There is a word in there.   Could not figure it out. Here's the deal. I ended up collapsing that alternate identity into my own because of what you described. The management of two personalities is not only an impossible psychological condition but just extra brainwork that ultimately I could not reconcile and doing that extra labor.  I am going to go setup a new Twitter account real quick.  You do that. I am going to set up three more.  That is Baratunde Thurston and Deanna Zandt our Emily Posts of the social media age. Have a question for our experts? Email it to alltechnpr.org. 