 Here's an attractive-sounding pitch for a fast-growing app called Robinhood.   You ever think about trading stocks? I mean you can now of course. There is always been a cost usually up to 10 bucks for every single trade. That adds up. No way around it for like people like you and me until now.  This app Robinhood is making news because it is a 0 commission stock trading app. Anthony Effinger from Bloomberg Markets has written about Robinhood. He says the app is aimed at millennials.  This a generation that saw the 2008 crisis and the 2009 collapse in stocks and said you know no I am knowing there. And the two founders of Robinhood were like well let us try to get people back into the market.  Now if they are not charging for trades how does Robinhood make money?  They are going to charge people to have what is called a margin account where you can borrow from them to buy stock which is for anybody - anybody even a big investor - is very dangerous. The second way is they are going to sweep interest off of your cash balances and keep it for themselves.  According to Robinhood as of last month users have transacted over 1 billion through its platform. But is it smart to make stock trading as easy as posting a selfie on Instagram?  Portfolios that do best are the ones that people - they buy a bunch of stuff and they forget about it. They buy bunch of stuff for their 401 and they never look at it again and I have read that story a thousand times in personal finance magazines. This is about trading. The danger is you got this thing in your pocket. You have got a bunch of stocks on there. There is no penalty to buy or sell 'ecause there is no commission so you get a little scared. The market starts going down. What do you do? You bail out and then it is often hard to get back in. You never want to be a trader. You want to be an investor. And when - the experts I talked to - they were concerned this could create traders not investors.  But what if you are a market whiz - you know somebody who really knows things in and out - you know when to sit - could you make some money with this?  There are so few people who beat the S and P. It is just very very hard to beat the market. I mean there is high paid hedge fund managers who make billions who do not beat the market. Look if you are - if - say here's an ideal situation. You are a person at a tech company in San Francisco. You are young. You are working there. You have got all your money tied up in stock of this company. You want to diversify. You get the Robinhood app. You can buy some other stocks. And you hold it and you did that commission-free. That is a victory. If they can convince other people to buy and hold and not trade when they get scared they might have a winner but that is a big if right?  .  I mean it is so tempting to trade if that is in your pocket and the market's going down 600 points.  It is an app on your phone. I am not saying that it is like Candy Crush but you kind of like playing around with these things right?   Yeah and I actually think that is a great point because this is - it is real money. Silicon Valley really wants to take the friction out of everything right? But investing - it turns out a little friction's not a bad thing - something to slow you down and make you take the time to do your research do your homework and stick with your plan. Speed's not always a great thing. I mean look at this last two weeks. I mean the market - you wake up. The market's down a thousand points. You look at your phone. You freak out. You can sell with no cost. But what happened the next day? The market bounced back. You know most often these big drops are followed by recoveries. Now someday maybe that is not going to be true but you know so far the track record is otherwise.  That is Anthony Effinger writer for Bloomberg Markets. 