 Online a good review can make a hotel trendy and a bad one can put a plumber out of a job. It is no wonder that a few businesses are trying to fake us out. And it can be tough for a human to tell a real review from one dreamed up by someone paid to write it. But Jeff Hancock says he is got a computer program that can. He is a researcher at Cornell University who studies deception and his team came up with software to unmask fake online reviews.   trust. And as long as there is not so many deceptive reviews we can continue to use them. But once deception gets too high it becomes an unusable system.  So to develop the software that you did you essentially trained it on a pool of truthful reviews from online and fake reviews written for the study. And then it went head-to-head against human judges. How did the humans do?  The humans did not do very well. And this is consistent with about 40 years of psychological research on deception detection. Our humans got at best up to around 60 trying to decide between the two. The computer on the other hand could get up to 90 accuracy.   Why are we so bad at figuring out when people are lying to us?  Because we have been lying for as long as we have been talking.   And that is about 60000 years. So we have lots of practice.  So you have brought along a couple of the hotel reviews you used in the research the same ones one fake and one authentic.  That is right.  Can we hear those? And let us see if we can figure it out.  My husband and I stayed at The James Chicago Hotel for our anniversary. This place is fantastic. We knew as soon as we arrived we made the right choice. The area of the hotel is great. Since I love to shop I could not ask for more. We will definitely be back to Chicago and we will for sure be back to The James Chicago.  OK. So let us hear the second one.  I have stayed at many hotels traveling for both business and pleasure and I can honestly say that The James is tops. The location is perfect within walking distance to all the great sights and restaurants. Highly recommend to both business travelers and couples.  Oh wow.   The first one kind of bugs me because it keeps using the name of the hotel which you know I do not know if most people would do that. But the second one sounds like such an ad. I mean there was something about it that just sounds so phony. I...  So you are going to go with the second one as fake?  You know I do not know. I am going to go with the first. I do not know why there is...  All right. You are correct.  Really? You are kidding.  You did it. You did it.   Now what was it about both of those?  Well I will give you one reason. There' that is the the is and ah's the prepositions the pronouns all the little words. We as humans we completely ignore those. We do not pay attention to them. We do not think about them when we are producing them.  Really?  And that is one of the things - yeah. That is one of the things we found in this study is that the fake review writers overused first-person reference. And you can hear in that ad that there is - or in that review  My family I love shopping it is perfect for me I will be back.  So the second one talked generally but it did not - he did not mention himself.  Yeah.  That is authentic...  He did not mention himself as much but what he did do is something quite different. And one of the things that is difficult for liars to do is to produce spatial information. You heard in that review he was talking about location to shopping...  That is right.  ...those sort of things.  You have done a lot of research about deception on the Internet. Do you - do people lie differently online than they have historically offline to each other?  I do not think psychologically lying has changed that much. So we see that in online dating for example people will lie about their height and weight. And this is not new to the Internet. Men and women have been lying about those sort of things for millennia. What is new though is in the past I would fake my height or weight through say clothing. Now online it is much more of a tell me world rather than a show me world.  Jeff Hancock is an associate professor of communication at Cornell University. Jeff thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Laura. It was a pleasure. 