 This month on All Tech Considered we examine the gap between how we portray ourselves online and who we really are.   The story of Hollywood is rife with stories of celebrities who broke down under pressure to perform and please their fans. Well that is happening to some YouTube stars these days. As NPR's Laura Sydell reports the pressure has reached new heights in the age of social media algorithms.  Being a YouTube star sounds glamorous to a lot of young people - fame money fun.  Being a YouTuber is like my childhood dream.  And at 20 years old Elle Mills has achieved her dream. She has more than 1.3 million subscribers to her YouTube channel. Her 2 12- to 6-minute videos are characterized by a self-deprecating humor somewhere between Lena Dunham in Girls and a Woody Allen film. Here she is after an attempt to levitate her childhood home.    Happy llama sad llama mentally-disturbed llama super llama drama llama big fat mama llama...  That video got over 33 million views. Twaimz is now 23. He is changed over four years. He is been grappling with his sexuality. He is more interested in putting a positive message into the world than just getting clicks.  I felt like people wanted me to do this one thing and I was growing up and getting older. And I was like I think I am getting too old to be doing the same thing over and over again.  Twaimz fell into a depression. He still wanted to make videos. But he wanted to change his style and the relentless pace of YouTube did not give him time to do that. Taking a break from your own YouTube channel can be risky. Jon Brence the director of talent at Fullscreen helps manage careers for YouTube stars. Brence says he is noticed that YouTube's algorithm favors those who post regularly.  So if you are not actively creating or if you are going on a trip and you have not actively created content to publish during said trip you will go effectively back to the back of the line.  In a statement YouTube says it does not program to favor people who post more often. However viewers on YouTube may prefer channels that post more often and that does impact what the algorithm favors. Still the company knows there is a problem. It is even got a whole section on YouTube where creators can get information about burnout and watch videos like this one about noticing the signs of it.   Do you ever feel like you just cannot create anymore? Well that would be one of the signs of burnout.  YouTube also offers suggestions on how to avoid burnout and live a balanced life. Despite the risks of losing some of her audience Elle Mills says she had to take a break.  To be honest at that point I needed that break so bad that it did not really matter.  In a moment of desperation she turned to her fans to explain it to them.   Now I do not want to worry anyone. I am getting the help I need and I have a bunch of people looking after me. And I will be putting my mental health first for a bit.  Talent manager Brence says for certain stars like Mills turning to her fans helps.  She has a fan base that cares about her first and foremost. And when she is saying I am going to take a break they are willing to take the break with her.  But Brence says there are other stars who are much more dependent on the algorithm. Brence says some stars just burn bright and then burn out after two years and you never hear from them again. Elle Mills says after a month off traveling and talking with friends and family she is back and feeling better. On her return Mills once again opened up to her fans.   As long as I am having fun and I am passionate about what I am making everything's going to be all right. And now I finally feel content again.  And Mills says her fans have come back along with her. Laura Sydell NPR News.  