 You know when you are at a cafeteria and you have got your lunch and then you just do not know where to sit? You do not want to sit alone but you also do not know who would be friendly who might let you sit with them. Well 16-year-old Natalie Hampton has been there. She is an 11th grader from Sherman Oaks Calif. and now the creator of a new app called Sit With Us. Natalie Hampton joins us now. Hey there Natalie.  Hi.  So this is a great idea but I understand it kind of comes from a sad place right? I mean essentially because you had a pretty lonely experience at lunchtime.  Yeah I did. At my old school I was completely ostracized by all of my classmates and so I had to eat lunch alone every day. When you walk into the lunchroom and you see all the tables of everyone sitting there and you know that going up to them would only end in rejection you feel extremely alone and extremely isolated and your stomach drops. And you are searching for a place to eat but you know that if you sit by yourself there'ill be so much embarrassment that comes with it because people will know and they will see you as the girl who has nowhere to sit. So there is so many awful feelings that come along with it.  You eventually changed schools and you did make friends in this new school but it sounds like you could not shake that feeling right that experience.  Well I felt that if I was thriving in a new school but did not do anything about the people who feel like this every single day then I am just as bad as the people who watched me eat alone. I felt like with my story it was my job to stand up and do something about all the kids who feel like this every day. And I wanted to create something that would address bullying but in a positive way.  So you get this idea for an app and how did you want it to work?  The way that it works is it is a free lunch-planning app where kids can find lunch tables if they feel like they have nowhere to go. Pretty much kids can sign up as ambassadors for a Sit With Us club and agree to post open lunches so that anyone who has the app and has nowhere to go can find a table and hopefully make some new friends.  Now it seems like the kind of kid who would do that would be the kind of person you could walk up to and say hey can I sit with you so why have an app? Why not the low-tech version which is just ask to sit down?  Because the way it was at my old school I tried many times to reach out to someone but I was rejected on many times. And you feel like you are labeling yourself as an outcast when you ask to join a table with someone you do not know. This way it is very private. It is through the phone. No one else has to know. And you know that you are not going to be rejected once you get to the table.  So your app launched this week. Have you had a chance to see the app in action just yet?  So far the results have been very very positive. I had my first club meeting the other day and everyone was very excited. And people are already posting open lunches at my school. So I am very excited that things are already kicking off with a great start.  Well Natalie Hampton thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you so much for having me.  Natalie Hampton - her app is called Sit With Us. She is 16 years old from Sherman Oaks Calif. 