 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. Cyber-attacks will cost American businesses anywhere between one and 6 billion over the next year. And experts say there are enough trained professionals to protect computer networks. Students in Delaware recently spent a week learning how to stop these kinds of attacks. As NPR's Carolyn Beeler reports the cybersecurity boot camp was meant to fill what experts consider a huge and dangerous talent gap.  In a classroom in Dover Delaware 20 university students all men are intently typing at long conference tables. But unlike in a normal classroom the screens of these computers are below the table under dark glass so no one can see what they are doing. Makeshift cardboard barriers separate five different teams. It is capture the flag 21st century style. Mr.  Well now that we get to the admin council let me see if there is a deep hole.  Mike Ridenour and his team are hacking their way into a computer network to find so-called flags or hidden pieces of data. Ridenour is using information he found on a social networking site to try to hijack the account of an IT administrator. Mr.  We kind of got some information from the profile pages so we are trying the admin account. And he is a fan of Chuck Norris so I am trying Chuck Norris as the password.  His teammate Aaron Hampton puts it a little more simply. Mr.  We are looking for ways to break computers to find information we are not supposed to find.  This is the kind of thing you could get into serious trouble for if you did it alone in your basement. But training people to do it is the entire point of this camp. The network they are hacking into is fake an elaborate setup created specifically for this exercise. Cyber-attacks on government agencies jumped more than 400 percent from 2006 to 2009. And U.S. security officials say the country's defenses are lacking. By one estimate the United States needs up to 30000 cybersecurity specialists to protect the government and large corporations. Now there are only about a thousand. Alan Paller is the research director at the SANS Institute. It is an organization that specializes in computer security training and it is one of the sponsors at the camp. Mr.  People used to think that it was all technology. If you could buy some tools you could have great cybersecurity. But the attacks have changed so fast that the tools cannot keep up so it is the people skills that allow one nation to be able to protect its computers versus another nation.  Paller says the U.S. is way behind in finding and training talent and that leaves the country's power grid defense industry and banks vulnerable. Mr.  What the cyber challenge is meant to be is an enabler for those people with talent to experiment and try things at a safe environment so that they do not have to go out and explore machines that do not belong to them.  Up until recently there was not much training offered in cybersecurity. So many of the people who know a lot about it learned on their own often in ways that were not within the rules. Aaron Hampton says he is glad there are finally more formal ways for people to learn cyber skills. Mr.  If I had any kind of computer courses 10 15 20 years ago I definitely would have spent less time trying to get into trouble when I first had AOL and my parents did not want me to get to certain things and I had to change their password.  This camp lets him do what he loves without breaking the rules. Mr.  Yeah it is a lot of fun especially since it is legal. You cannot get in trouble for it so that helps.   Security officers and government officials are keeping a close eye on these students and others like them who went to similar camps in New York and California. They are all hoping the people tapping away at their computers among crumpled chip bags and empty water bottles are the next generation of what they are calling cyber-warriors. Carolyn Beeler NPR News. 