 Scientists have detected thousands of planets outside our solar system in recent years. They have found everything from gas giants to smaller Earth-sized worlds. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports they have now found a planet that challenges the conventional wisdom about how planets form.  This newly discovered planet orbits a tiny dim red star about 30 light-years away from Earth. Juan Carlos Morales is an astrophysicist at the Institute of Space Studies of Catalonia in Barcelona. He and his colleagues used a telescope to watch the star. They saw a telltale wobble that meant it was being tugged by the gravity of a big planet.  In terms of size it is - it may be very similar to Jupiter.  That was a surprise.  It is a very large planet for such a small star.  So large that it defies the most popular explanation for how planets form. Alan Boss is an astronomer at the Carnegie Institution for Science in Washington D.C. He explains that newborn stars are temporarily surrounded by a swirling disc of leftover gas and dust.  Those dust grains are what form the cores of the giant planets as well as the bulk of the terrestrial planets like Earth.  The little bits of solid material collide and stick together gradually building up and getting larger and larger - like over a million years or more. At least that is how scientists have explained all the planets they have found until now. Boss says around this puny star that process would happen too slowly to form a gas giant before the disc of gas and dust disappeared. So what did create this planet? Well in the journal Science researchers say there is another possibility one Boss first proposed way back in 1997. Part of the star's disc could spontaneously contract and collapse into a planet.  So that can happen in something like a hundred years.  Boss says this idea has not been taken all that seriously. I asked him how he felt about scientists finally finding a planet that can only be explained in this way.   Well I still - a little shocked that someone actually thinks that I have got - my ideas have some merit. So I am sure I will get over it but it is very pleasant.  Sara Seager is a planetary scientist at MIT. She likes this discovery because it is the latest example of how in science there is frequently two competing explanations.  And in the end of the day it often turns out that both paradigms or both concepts are right actually.  She says nature is smarter than we are. If humans can imagine something it is likely that the universe has done it. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 