 We begin this hour with an exciting new astronomy lesson - the discovery of an Earthlike planet around a distant star. It orbits in the so-called Goldilocks zone where liquid water and possibly life could exist. NPR's Geoff Brumfiel reports on this new faraway world and how it came into view.  NASA has a telescope in space called Kepler and Kepler has just one job - to watch for very faint eclipses caused by faraway planets as they pass in front of their stars. Today scientists announced they had seen possible eclipses from roughly 500 distant worlds.  These new 500 are kind of all types of planets. They are all over the place.  That is Jeff Coughlin an astronomer at the SETI Institute who works on the Kepler mission. Some of the new planets are big gas giants like Jupiter. Some are small. Some orbit near their star and get scorched like our innermost planet Mercury. Others are far away icy and cold.  But 12 of them are in the habitable zone where liquid water could exist on their surface.  And liquid water means life as we know it could also exist. Now of those 12 there is one that really stands out.  Kepler-452B...  Kepler-452B is exciting for a couple of reasons. Doug Caldwell another astronomer on the Kepler mission says that for one thing it is a good size.  It is about 60 percent bigger than the size of the Earth in radius.  Its orbit is similar. One year is 385 Earth days. But maybe the most exciting thing about this planet is not planet itself but the star it orbits.  It is very similar to the Sun. It is about 20 percent brighter than the sun. But the planet 452B is slightly further away from its start than we are from the Sun so it is actually receiving only about 10 percent more energy from its star than we are seeing from our star.  In other words this new planet and its star are pretty much the closest thing to Earth we have seen yet. And that is why everyone's so excited. There could be water and that means there could be life quite similar to what we have here. Now there are some important differences. It appears to be about five times the mass of our planet and its also likely to be quite a bit older. The star's around 6 billion years old. That makes it 1-and-a-half billion years older than the sun.  And presumably the planet is 1-and-a-half billion years older than the Earth.  That could be bad news for any inhabitants on 452B. As stars age they get hotter. And the planet's hot star could be triggering a greenhouse effect on the surface.  So this planet is kind of on the verge of being at that runaway greenhouse stage where it could be losing all of its water.  In fact our own planet will someday be in a similar pickle says  factor on will someday be in a similar pickle says Marc Kuchner an astrophysicist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.  There'ill be drastic changes on Earth as we start losing the oceans just because of the Sun warming up a few percent.  But Kuchner cautions that we should not draw too many conclusions about our own fate from the new 452B.  It is not really a peek into our future.  That is because there are a lot of things we still do not know about this new world.  Is this planet made of rocks? Is it made of some other strange material that we have not even imagined?  We may never be able to answer these questions. 452B is about 1400 light years away. That is way too far to send a space probe. Even the best telescopes we could imagine would strain to see the little world at those vast distances. Nevertheless Kuchner says Kepler-452B is a big deal.  The number of planets that are really in the range of Earth's size and really in their habitable zones is tiny and these are precious. And this is another major discovery.  And everyone hopes there could be even more discoveries to come. NASA's next step is to build a telescope that could search for planets around stars much closer to Earth with Earthlike worlds we might someday be able to see. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News.  Additional reporting for that story came from NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce. 