 If you went to the movie theater this weekend you might have caught the latest Scarlett Johansson action movie called Lucy. It is about a woman who develops superpowers by harnessing the full potential of her brain.   I am able to do things I have never done before. I feel everything and I can control the elements around me.  That is amazing.  You have probably heard this idea before. Most people only use 10 of their brains. The other 90 of the basically dormant. Well in the movie Lucy Morgan Freeman gives us this what-if scenario?   What if there was a way of accessing 100 of our brain? What might we be capable of?  We would be capable of exactly what we are doing now which is to say we do use a hundred percent of our brain.  That is David Eagleman.  I am a neuroscientist at Baylor College of Medicine.  And he says basically all of us are like Lucy. We use all of our brains all of the time.  Even when you are just sitting around doing nothing your brain is screaming with activity all the time around the clock even when you are asleep it is screaming with activity.  In other words this is a total myth. Very wrong but still very popular. Take this clip from an Ellen DeGeneres stand-up special.   It is true they say we use ten percent of our brain. Ten percent of our brain. And I think imagine what we could accomplish if we used the other 60 percent? Do you know what I am saying?  .   Let us say the average person uses ten percent of their brain.  It is even in the movie Tommy Boy.   How much do you use? One and a half percent. The rest is clogged with malted hops and bong residue.  Ariana Anderson is a researcher at UCLA. She looks at brain scans all day long. And she says if someone were actually using just ten percent of their brain capacity...  Well they would probably be declared brain-dead.  Sorry Tommy Boy. No one knows exactly where this myth came from but it is been around since at least the early 1900's. So why is this wrong idea still so popular?  Probably gives us some sort of hope that if we are doing things we should not do such as watching too much TV alcohol abuse well it might be damaging our brain but it is probably damaging the 90 percent that we do not use. And that is not true. Whenever you are doing something that damages your brain it is damaging something that is being used and it is going to leave some sort of deficit behind.  For a long time I have wondered why is this such a sticky myth?  Again David Eagleman.  And I think it is because it gives us a sense that there is something there to be unlocked that we could be so much better than we could. And really this has the same appeal as any fairytale or superhero story. I mean it is the neural equivalent to Peter Parker becoming Spiderman.  In other words it is an idea that belongs in Hollywood. 