 We are going to speak now with someone who has spent the last month exploring a largely uncharted world discovering some bizarre creatures that have never before been seen by humans. Dr. Tim O'Hara is a marine biologist and we are calling him on board the research vessel known as The Investigator. Dr. O'Hara welcome. And tell us where you are right now. TIM O' Hello Ari. Right now we are in the Coral Sea which is an area off northeast Australia. People probably familiar with the Great Barrier Reef - and we are about 100 kilometers offshore of the Barrier Reef. But this is our final site. And after this we head to Brisbane and home.  The Barrier Reef is relatively shallow. You have been exploring quite the opposite someplace very very deep. O' That is right. That is right. Most people think of the sea as something that is surrounding the coastline. And perhaps if you are a scuba diver you dive down to 50 meters. But we have been surveying 4000 meters beneath the sea. So that is two nautical miles straight down. So it is very deep. It is a place of crushing temperatures and no light and very little food. And it is kind of one of the great extreme environments of the planet.  And yet despite those extreme temperatures and pressure and darkness you have found extraordinary things down there. Tell us about it. O' Yeah. There is lots of amazing things. I mean it is a completely different environment that demands different things of the animals. There is not a lot of food so that means everything's kind of long and jelly-like in a lot of ways. A lot of the fish look like eels. And that is because they do not need as much magical energy to function. And a lot of animals just stay still for long periods just waiting for prey to come along.  You have been doing this research for the last month in this abyss. How many new species do you figure you have discovered in that time? O' Well you know that is going to take another couple of years to kind of give you a precise figure. But you know I think a good rule of thumb is at least a third of everything we see would be new.  Is that like dozens or hundreds or what? O' Yeah it would be hundreds.  Hundreds of new species just in the last month. O' Yeah easily. You know we have not explored this environment much in the Southern Hemisphere at all. And around Australia this is really the first dedicated trip to study the abyss. So it is really a voyage of discovery. It is quite amazing in the 21st century you can still do that. But yes you can.  I have been following along on your blog where you have videos and photos. And there are more extraordinary creatures there than I can count. Will you tell us about one of your favorites? O' Sure. I mean I actually study a group of animals called brittle stars. And believe it or not they dominate the deep sea and yet hardly anyone's heard of them. So kind of they are my sentimental favorite.  . O' But you know there is been lots of other amazing animals the crustaceans. You know they have got extraordinary spines all over the bodies. And lots of the worms have petal and hair-like structures all over them. And then there is the fish as well. They are always the outstanding favorites - you know the tripod fish which are sitting on three kind of processes coming from their fins like a camera on a tripod. We have had faceless fish. It is a fish that almost has no eyes. The eyes perhaps are very deep. No one's really quite sure but...  Because when you are in the pitch-black depths of the ocean why would you need eyes? O' Exactly exactly.  And so the mouth is on the underside of its body so it has really no eyes. This is why it is called the faceless fish. O' That is right because really you look at the thing and it is just kind of a round end for the animal. The mouth is underneath. And what it uses it for is sucking. So it would go along the sea floor sucking up little worms and crustaceans and shells and that sort of stuff.  Describe what you are actually doing to get these creatures. O' So we are relying on a good old-fashioned you know metal box on the end of a very very long rope. We have video cameras that we take down. We also have small nets to take some fish and other sort of invertebrates from the sea floor. Some people are a bit disturbed that we go in there and we actually bring the animals back to the surface to look at. But really kind of science demands that we really need to see animals in detail. We want to see the DNA. We need to sort of bring them to the attention of people. Otherwise it is just another hidden world.  When we are talking about hidden worlds like this it is easy for the imagination to run wild. Is there any chance that the collection techniques you are using would miss the leviathans the fast creatures a type of species that might not be caught in your net? O' Yeah sure the megalodons. Yeah.  . O' I mean all those things - yeah absolutely. You know our nets and sleds are very small. So yes anything big smart and intelligent would just move easily out of the way. And you have got to pitch it down. You know it is an area completely without lights. No sunlight can penetrates that far. And you know our cameras go down there - and this huge ball of kind of iridescent light. To a deep-sea creature we are the aliens really. I am sure the intelligent ones just swim out of the way. So yes maybe. Maybe there is that big monster just waiting out there. Who knows?  Well Dr. O'Hara congratulations and thank you for telling us about the expedition. O' And thank you for having me.  Dr. Tim O'Hara is wrapping up his month-long exploration of the abyss off Australia's eastern coast. 