 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeline Brand in California.  I am Melissa Block in Washington. And Madeline?  Mm-hmm.  How many physicists do you think it takes to fix the world's biggest particle collider?  Melissa is this one of your physicist jokes?   I think it might be. And I actually have no idea what the punch line would be.  the giant machine broke down last fall and high-energy physics went on hold. Now Europe's high energy physics lab CERN has announced plans to restart the collider. And NPR's Geff Brumfiel is going to tell us all about it.  If you want to see something really new in high-energy physics you have got to go big and that is where the Large Hadron Collider comes in. The LHC is nearly 17 miles around. It accelerates ordinary particles to near the speed of light and smashes them together. Researchers hope that studying the subatomic shrapnel from those collisions will bring them closer to a theory of everything and might also reveal other things like dark matter. That is the strange stuff that glues galaxies together. The LHC is vastly complicated which is why it is so amazing that last September scientists got particles whizzing around the ring on the very first try.  Okay   Three Two One go.   It all went so smoothly that researchers were expecting the particles to start colliding right away. Joe Lykken is a theoretical physicist at Fermilab near Chicago. Dr.  We were actually betting on when the first collisions would happen. We had a pool going on whether it would be tomorrow or next week or two weeks from now.  Nine days later all bets were off. A faulty connection caused a massive electrical short. Repairing the mess has taken most of the year. Now to understand what this means for high-energy physics you have to understand that the LHC is pretty much the only game in town. Fermilab also has a working collider but it is only a fraction as powerful. That makes it a lot harder to find the really cool stuff everyone wants to study like dark matter. Dr.  It is very disconcerting for all of us in terms of planning our lives. We want to be there when the exciting things are happening. But we cannot afford to just hang around in Geneva forever and wait for years and years for these things to come up and run.  Top researchers can go work on something else for a while but junior scientists need the LHC. Dr.  The people that are really hurts are the young people especially the graduate students who were hoping to have LHC data to analyze in order to finish their Ph.D. theses and become famous and get jobs. Ms.  Do not let me see anything that destroys my career.   That is Sarah Lockwitz. She and her husband are both graduate students at Yale. They moved near Geneva to be closer to the collider. They needed its data to finish their Ph.Ds. But the delays have made that impossible. So this summer they made a big decision. They left Switzerland for Illinois to get data from the smaller collider at Fermilab. Ms.  On the Geneva side we had to sell everything for you know pennies on the dollar a pennies on the euro or whatever you want to say to try and get out of there in a couple of weeks and we just came over with two suitcases and landed and realized like the car we left behind did not work. So we used Cash-for-Clunkers and got a new car and drove over to Chicago.  They are not alone. An increasing number of American graduate students are moving back to Fermilab. Others are just having to wait. It is not ideal says Joe Lykken. Dr.  We shrug our shoulders what else can we do? You do not just switch on a machine like the LHC and have it run smoothly on day one. It is just not the way these things work.  When the LHC switches on again in November it will be at energies too low to see very much. But for the waiting physicists low energies are better than no energies. Geff Brumfiel NPR News. 