 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. If you like sitting in cafes with wireless enjoying a coffee and free Internet access for as long as you like that may be getting harder. Small independent cafes are introducing stricter policies to save money while times are tight. They are trying to get more turnover at their tables as Cyrus Farivar reports from Oakland California.  I am a freelancer which means I work at home a lot. When I do not want to work at home  Hudson Bay Cafe. It is a cozy coffeehouse just a few blocks from home. There is good coffee a nice atmosphere and of course free Wi-Fi. On any given day there is at least half a dozen people here who are tapping away on their laptops. When I first started coming they gave me or anybody the code for the Wi-Fi network. It was valid for days at a time but now that is changed. Mr.  We have got to turn the tables just like a restaurant does in order to be able to survive.  Owner Sadri Madjlessi says too much Wi-Fi is bad for business. Ms.  We used to lose customers because they could not sit down because every single table is taken and every single outlet was taken. I mean what are they going to do? I mean they are not going to get a cup of coffee just because I am here right?  Now the code changes much more frequently. You cannot even get it unless you spend three bucks. But Madjlessi is not the only caf owner that is changing the way he runs his Wi-Fi. Last year at Naidre's Cafe and Cocoa Bar in New York managers started covering up power outlets and limiting the use of Wi-Fi during lunch hours. In Seattle where they set coffee trends for the whole country one cafe has had their Wi-Fi on only during weekdays. But other cafe owners are not sure if Wi-Fi is hurting their business all that much. This summer Coffee Bar in San Francisco's Potrero Hill neighborhood put up a couple signs asking laptop users to make room for customers who were spending more money. But owner Jason Paul says ultimately it was not worth it. Mr.  We can sit here and laugh about the guy who comes up and gets five refills of hot water but at the end of the day he is not going to make or break our business.  Plus he adds that most of his customers are good Wi-Fi citizens and know when they are abusing the network. For me though there' my home office. At least I know I will not restrict my own use or kick myself out. For NPR News I am Cyrus Farivar in my home office in Oakland. 