 Ashley Madison a website that helps people cheat on their spouses has been hacked. The site is known both for publicity stunts and its slogan life is short have an affair. Attackers calling themselves The Impact Team stole large caches of data from Ashley Madison including they say information about users who paid to have their profiles deleted from the site. NPR's Aarti Shahani reports.  Ashley Madison is an online dating site with a twist.   She only sleeps with married men.  People go there to cheat.   And it is crazy. It is a whole other world than the normal dating world.  Forty-two-year-old Thea on The Dr. Drew Show talks about her experience.   I have gone to you know concerts. I have gone to the nicest restaurants. I have taken trips.  After her boyfriend passed away she says she turned to the site. And in her nine months there she went on 50 dates with men who were supposedly in committed relationships.   I definitely get treated a little like a princess by these guys because they are risking something by going out with me.  It turns out the risk is bigger than many users expected. The so-called Impact Team broke into Ashley Madison stole financial data banking records and user data. Parent company Avid Life Media told customers if they paid about 20 they could erase their entire profile scrub themselves clean. Hackers say the company was lying and leaked a bit of user account data for the world to see.  There is a pattern certainly that suggests that extortion and ransoming is becoming more prevalent.  Will Gragido is head of threat research for Digital Shadows a San Francisco-based company that monitors the dark web.  That is very - that is very evident with respect to the type of data that we have seen exfiltrated and posted online.  He says hackers could try to extract money from users of the dating site who want to keep their secret secret though it is also possible the attack which was reported by KrebsOnSecurity has a moralistic motivation. Hackers are demanding the website and sibling site be shut down entirely.  I personally have not seen that before no.  In a statement Avid Life Media says it is working with law enforcement and private investigators and the company is invoking copyright law to take down stolen data that is been posted on other sites. But that is kind of too little too late. Gragido says any number of people could have made copies of that data and stored it offline.  At that point in time the horse is out of the barn. You never know who is going to use the data for what purpose.  Hackers are threatening to release data on millions of users. Earlier this year the dating site Adult Friend Finder was also hacked. Aarti Shahani NPR News San Francisco. 