 Apple's new device the iPhone X has a feature that is getting a lot of attention. The phone has face recognition technology built in. You can unlock it by looking at it or rather letting it look at you. As NPR's Laura Sydell reports privacy advocates worry the new technology could be abused.  When it comes to giving the public confidence in its Face ID system the company had a major fail when it demonstrated it for the first time in public last week. Apple Vice President Craig Federighi went to open his phone by looking at it. It did not work.   Let us try that again. Whoa whoa whoa let us go to back up here.  Apple says the fail had to do with stagehands moving the phone around before the demo. Apple says it is built the most secure and easy to use facial recognition technology on the market. Fatemeh Khatibloo an analyst with Forrester believes the company.  What we know about Apple is that they tend to get this stuff right.  Khatibloo thinks the reason this feature has not been widely adopted so far is because other companies have not done a good job.  Android has had face recognition unlock for a while now. It just has not been a very good or consistent experience.  For example critics of Samsung's Galaxy Note 8 say it is easily fooled with a photo of the owner. Apple's new phone will not be available until early October but the company says a photo will not work because the iPhone uses 3D scanners. Still privacy advocates are worried. Senator Al Franken wrote a letter to Apple's CEO Tim Cook. Among his concerns is whether the face recognition data could be taken out of the phone and used for other purposes. Apple says that will not be possible because the data will be stored locally in the phone. So even Apple cannot get it. Still that does not entirely reassure privacy advocates like Claire Garvie with the Center on Privacy and Technology at Georgetown Law. She worries if Apple's Face ID does work well people will get more willing to accept other uses for the technology.  Forgetting that other uses of face recognition may be less accurate may be more privacy-invasive may make mistakes.  For example Garvie says many retailers have been quietly rolling out face recognition technology to identify shoplifters. But that is not error-free.  So imagine you look very similar to somebody who is enrolled in a known shoplifter database and the machine thinks you are that person. So every time you walk into one of these retail stores you might get hustled out of the store.  Well a lot of customers were hustling into Apple's store in downtown San Francisco this weekend. I asked a few shoppers how they feel about the new feature and most felt like Jess Bendit.  Is it going to take off because it is convenient - probably. I mean a lot of people - you know hey we are all narcissists often so the idea that my phone could recognize me personally - that is super flattering I guess.  And Apple has been marketing itself for some time as the company that values user privacy. That is a message that is gotten through to Apple fans like Nick Reynolds.  I think it is cool that they are pushing the boundaries of technology again. And given it is Apple they are going to do it in a way that is like - respects privacy compared to like anybody else who might do it. So that is cool.  At least at this store there was a sense that resistance is futile. Face ID is the future. And if it is convenient and fast convenience will trump privacy. Laura Sydell NPR News San Francisco. 