 The recent leaks of classified documents about government surveillance have raised a lot of questions about the loss of privacy.  Secrecy. Classified documents used to be kept in a safe and read by a select few who could not take them from the room. Now many a top-secret document can be accessed by hundreds if not thousands of people creating a security nightmare as NPR's Dina Temple-Raston reports. Stealing classified documents used to be decidedly low tech. Just think about ex-communist Whittaker Chambers. He accused State Department employee Alger Hiss of spying for the Soviet Union. This is Chambers' testimony about Hiss before the House Committee on Unamerican Activities in 1947.   The damning evidence in that case was a small piece of microfilm Chambers had stored in a hollowed out pumpkin.  We are a long way from that now.  That is Joel Brenner. He worked at the National Security Agency. He was the inspector general there.  You can walk out of a building with a Zip drive or a USB stick on the end of your keychain with all of the information that is in that building and walk right out without sweating a bit or anybody noticing what you are doing. That is a very different world we are in.  That may be what happened in this latest case involving a former NSA contractor named Edward Snowden. Here he is speaking to The Guardian newspaper.  When you are in positions of privileged access like a systems administrator for these sort of intelligence community agencies you are exposed to a lot more information on a broader scale than the average employee.  And that gets to a key point. It is not just more difficult to maintain privacy in this new era Brenner says it is harder to keep secrets too.  The public thinks that privacy and secrecy are somehow different and that privacy's gone through the floor while secrecy's gone through the roof. And the truth is they have both gone through the floor. They are both in the gutter and for the same set of technological and cultural reasons.  Culturally we are sharing everything where we are eating on FourSquare who we are dating on Facebook. Technologically all this sharing takes place on networks that are not exactly secure and private citizens are not the only ones using them.  Companies and governments use the same IT infrastructure to communicate as we do.  Joel Brenner the former NSA official says that is a problem if you are trying to keep secrets.  Organizations and governments are losing information in the same way that people are.  And just like in business the government needs someone to keep their networks running. They need IT guys and those people are becoming very powerful. Investigators are looking at what Edward Snowden's administrator permissions gave him access to and which secrets he might have been able to retrieve.  You know we call this stuff top secret but if a thousand people have access to it it may be called top secret but there is some important sense in which it is not so secret anymore. You know Ben Franklin had it right when he said three can keep a secret if two of them are dead.  U.S. officials say that Snowden who appeared to be in Hong Kong just yesterday has disappeared. Glenn Greenwald of The Guardian newspaper has promised more leaks to come. Dina Temple-Raston NPR News. 