 Here's the Twitter bio of Chris Andrikanich of Cleveland - dad husband self-proclaimed geek. And newly added to that bio - I am not affiliated with Google Alphabet Inc. That is because Chris Andrikanich's Twitter handle happens to be Alphabet and Alphabet is the new parent company of Google. When news of that restructuring broke yesterday Andrikanich's Twitter feed exploded. And he joins us now to talk about that. Mr. Andrikanich what kinds of tweets were you seeing? Did you know what was going on?  It took a few tweets to figure it out. I was getting notifications on my computer and I started noticing people saying things like I am going to be lucky or he is going to get paid I think was one of the Wired articles.  Oh yeah? And you were thinking that would be nice what is  up with that?  Yeah I do not get too many notifications that I am included in tweets. So when I started getting three four five of them back to back to back one of the tweets had a link to an article and I clicked on it and saw the story and kind of said oh well that explains this.  Yeah? And I saw that you posted at the end of the day yesterday well that was an interesting way to end a Monday - which has now been re-tweeted 6.9 thousand times.  Yeah. I have always been excited since 2007 if I got one re-tweet so...  And that is when you joined Twitter right?  Yes back in 2007 yeah.  Well how did you choose the handle Alphabet in the first place back in 2007?  It was pretty easy. When I went to college at Ohio University I was joining a fraternity and one of the guys said who is this Chris Andri-alphabet kid?  .  And from there it just kind of stuck as a nickname. So when I would sign up for things or needed a username for a service I would always start with Alphabet to see it was available. And with Twitter it was. So I did.  Wow. And you figure you are going to keep your handle? Has there been any outreach from the Google folks or the Alphabet folks to say maybe you want to surrender that now we would like it?  Nobody's contacted me. Lots of advice on Twitter as to what I should do.  I am sure.  . I have not heard from anybody regarding the handle.  You mentioned that you have been getting all kinds of advice. What kind of advice have you been getting?  It is mostly just you know hold out for big money because it is Google.  Well it does raise a question - can you sell your Twitter handle?  Something I need to look into I guess.  And you are taking that advice with a grain of salt?  Well right now I think I just want to let this die down and go back to just tweeting gibberish.  You know I have been checking your Twitter feed in the course of our conversation - while paying attention to you of course - and you have gained a whole bunch of followers just in the few minutes that we have been talking.  Yeah I think it was under 900 as of like 4 oclock yesterday and then as of lunchtime it was like 3500.  Well it is up to 36 - 3697. So there you go.  . I do not know why. I just - you know maybe I should start throwing out some gobbledygook. .  Well Chris Andrikanich enjoy these 15 minutes at least of fame. Thanks for talking with us.  Thank you.  That is Chris Andrikanich of Cleveland Ohio. He tweets Alphabet. 