 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Over the last few days a network of zombie computers staged a brazen attack.  several government and commercial Web sites in the U.S. and South Korea. Experts are not yet sure who launched the attack and they say it was not a major strike. But as NPR's Ari Shapiro reports it may be a harbinger of things to come.  The mischief started July 5th. American and South Korean computers were inundated with electronic messages from a string of computers that had been taken over by hackers. Some Web sites like whitehouse.gov withstood the attack just fine. Others like The Washington Post Secret Service and Treasury Department sites briefly went offline. James Lewis of the Center for Strategic and International Studies calls the attack a test of which agencies were prepared and which were not. The results he says were mixed. Dr.  We cannot expect to have this kind of uneven catch-as-catch-can defense and not suffer something more consequential if a sophisticated opponent were to attack us.  South Korean lawmakers have said the attack came from North Korea. American officials say it is too early to know that for sure. Stewart Baker used to work at the Department of Homeland Security and the National Security Agency. He says if this attack did come from North Korea that is really saying something. Mr.  North Korea is maybe not the least savvy about the Internet of all the countries of the world but it is got to be in the bottom 10 percent. And if even they can launch an attack that has an impact then we all ought to be worried about what more sophisticated countries can do.  In the last decade or so waging cyber attacks has become much easier. Organized criminal operations run massive networks of zombie computers. Anyone can pay to use them. Aaron Philipp is a cybersecurity expert at Navigant Consulting. Mr.  What you are actually seeing now are organized efforts and essentially software packages that you can buy off the shelf that will do this type of work. You take the software package you customize it for exactly what you want it to go after and you deploy it. And you can rent time on these exploited networks.  Essentially as James Lewis of CSIS puts it Mr.  It is like warfare in the Middle Ages. You can go out and hire mercenary bands.  But it is unlike traditional warfare in one important way says Professor Eugene Spafford of Purdue University.  It is extremely difficult to tell where these attacks come from because these kinds of distributed attacks can make use of compromised machines around the world that are controlled indirectly by one person sitting at a desk who knows where.  The anonymity of these attacks makes it hard for the U.S. to respond. The incidents of the last few days are hardly significant enough to be considered an act of war. But former Homeland Security official Stewart Baker says things could get much worse. Mr.  While I was at the department we discovered a flaw in the software of generators. They are used for large power plants that actually could cause the generator to tear itself to pieces.  And to make matters worse Baker says our defenses are not as good as they need to be. Mr.  I think that if you talk to private industry or if you talk to officials responsible for protecting our networks they all say that they feel less secure now than they did five years ago.  As for how likely a catastrophic cyber attack is  if something seems bound to happen sooner or later then eventually it actually will happen. Ari Shapiro NPR News Washington. 