 Finally in Technology a Q and A on your Ps and Qs in social media that is. And here to help are Baratunde Thurston former digital director at The Onion and author of the book How to Be Black and Deanna Zandt. She is the author of  How You Will Change the World with Social Networking. This week's topic with the presidential race heating up is about how to handle sensitive subjects like politics and faith on Facebook or Twitter.  So I actually - I lost a good friend over battles about an election.  Wow.  Yeah it was very - it was a painful dramatic time. I think I lost many more on Twitter...   ...because you have less room to explain in any kind of given to death and nothing through Facebook. It was real to me is that this person really strongly we held beliefs that I did not and we just reached an impasse. I understand the challenge.  Well I think the way to think about this is also not that these things are a platform or a soap box from which the kind of push your views and thoughts other people. But we think about it in terms of sharing of sharing what is happening here.  are you really going to change someone's mind. Is there someone who is who is against marriage equality  oh my God you are right absolutely?  Yes.  You know you are not going to actually leave - you are only frustrating yourself.  My advice if you really want to engage in it because of the messaging feature on Facebook. Have a one-on-one back and forth. Because the other thing about common threads it is such a performance.  Hmm-mm yeah.  And to see other people watch and people are Liking. And it is like we will if you all of a sudden they will put yourself in a boxing ring an and there is instigators and there is people that know betting on the fight and Don King is there for some reason.   Do not let Don King ruin your family on Facebook. That is really the point here.  Bottom-line no Don King.  Yes.    I am going to knock you out. Huh. Mama said knock you out. Huh...  That is Deanna Zandt and Baratunde Thurston. Have a question for our experts you can e-mail it to AllTechat NPR.org.    I am going to knock you out. Huuuh. I am going to knock you out. Huuuh. Mama said knock you out. Huuuh. Do not you call this a regular jam. I am going to rock this land. I am going to take this itty bitty world by storm and I am just getting warm Just like Muhammad Ali. They called him Cassius. Watch me bash this beat like a skull 'ecause you know I had beef wit. Why do you riff with me the maniac psycho...    Listen to my gear shift. I am blasting outlasting kind of like Shaft so you could say I am shafting. Old... 