 On Shark Tank the ABC reality TV show entrepreneurs take turns pitching their business ideas to a panel of skeptical investors otherwise known as the sharks. Now imagine those sharks are kids. Brenda Salinas has the story from Austin Texas.  Entrepreneur Regina Vatterott stands up in front of 50 people on the top floor of a startup hub in Austin. She is here to pitch smart pillbox company EllieGrid to a panel of six kid judges.  So how it works is if you or your dad or mom has to take medications at breakfast at breakfast time the three compartments light up and you would take let us say two from this compartment three from this compartment and one from this compartment. And it also sends you notifications on your smartphone so you can track it all online too.  Unlike the entrepreneurs on Shark Tank Vatterott is not here to get investors. There is no cash prize. Still it is hard-fought. The kids are asking some tough questions.  How do you make money?  Do you provide a warranty like if it breaks?  How are people going to pay for it?  Judges Emma Fiebig Anicia Moncivais and Piers Powell hear six more pitches including a social media network for books and a subscription sock company idea from Melissa Huisman.  So we have a subscription business model where people sign up online on our website and they say give me socks every month. And so we have a sock-of-the-month club.  Anicia the judge coordinator is in high school and the five other kids are between third and sixth grade. They turn in their score sheets deliberate and then...  The judges have spoken.  ...Mike Millard the founder of Pitch-A-Kid gives out the results.  And the winner of this year's first Pitch-A-Kid event at the Capital Factory goes to EllieGrid.   I was a little nervous because I did not know if they understood you know the grand scheme of how important medication adherence was. But they really seemed to get it. They did not even ask questions about that.  Pitch-A-Kid judge and co-founder Audrey Millard says she definitely held back.  My dad was telling me in the car like how nervous people were and how like they are like oh I do not know how to explain this in a kid-friendly language. Oh no what if - what will I do if they do not understand me - and stuff like that. So I decided not to go too hard on them.  Mike Millard says kids have a unique way of knowing when someone has not totally thought a business idea through.  About a year ago I was doing a website with my daughter and she asked me really tough questions. She said who is the website for? How are they going to know about it? And what I realized - that they were non-filtered honest questions on how to be successful.  Meaning if you cannot explain it to a kid you probably are not ready to talk to investors. And just because the judges like Audrey are small does not mean they do not take their job seriously including what they were going to wear.  A couple of days ago I was searching how to look businesslike.  The kids in the panel and in the audience got an introduction to startup culture. And the entrepreneurs practiced addressing some of the issues they need to think through for their business model to succeed. For NPR News I am Brenda Salinas in Austin Texas. 