 One of the people who helped land humans on the moon died today just two days after the nation celebrated the 50th anniversary of that landing. Chris Kraft helped shape NASA's space program as the agency's first flight director. He put his stamp on everything from the Mercury program to the space shuttle. He was 95. NPR's Russell Lewis has this remembrance.  Anyone who has watched a rocket launch marveled at the moon landings or seen the space station streak across the darkened night sky can thank Chris Kraft.  Chris Kraft really was the architect of Mission Control.  That is Andrew Chaikin who has written extensively about the space program. He says one person is synonymous with NASA and it is Chris Kraft one of NASA's earliest employees who directed some of the most important missions in the agency's history.   Three two one zero - liftoff.  This is from NASA's first manned flight - Alan Shepard aboard Freedom 7 in 1961. It was a short 15-minute suborbital trip. In this recording Chris Kraft talks to his fellow controllers just after liftoff.   Five-two-five altitude 2000 feet trajectory OK.  That is a familiar voice - 1 12 G.   In a 2015 NPR interview Kraft remembered that launch. He said he might have sounded cool calm and collected.   But I was shaking like a leaf . I was not too bad after the first one. But that first one was something else.  During the 1960s NASA was a place full of ideas and energy as the agency rushed to meet the end-of-decade challenge to land humans on the moon. The organization took risks and succeeded in large part because of Chris Kraft. He joined NASA not long after it was created in 1958 and helped design a space program from scratch. It was a mighty undertaking - so many things he had to think through like developing a communication system to speak to the crew every 15 minutes.   What do I have to do to do that? Well I had to build a whole damn worldwide network which had never been done before. That in itself  was quite a job.  In addition to the technical he had to put together his team - dozens of controllers who monitored the astronauts their spacecraft - anything to do with the mission. And this is perhaps what Chris Kraft was best known for.   When I gave them the job I said it is your job to now take this on and get it done. I am not going to stand behind you and push you. You come up with your ideas on how to do it.  His leadership was tested after the Apollo 1 launchpad fire in 1967. Three astronauts died during a countdown rehearsal. Kraft said he never got over the accident and wrestled with whether the rush to the moon ultimately killed the crew.   We allowed the poor workmanship to happen and that was unforgivable frankly. And we knew it was happening - were not willing to stop the wheels to fix it.  Still he was proud of what he was able to accomplish.   We need to have that curiosity. We need to have that inate feeling of be ready. Be prepared. It pays off in success.  Many of Kraft's original ideas remain in use today. In fact Mission Control Center in Houston is named after him. Chris Kraft never once saw a launch with his own eyes. He was either working the mission or later in life watching from home on television. Russell Lewis NPR News.  