 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. A federal court ruling yesterday has left some scientists in the lurch. The court ruled that federal funding of embryonic stem cell research must come to a halt at least temporarily. And now the scientific community is trying to figure out what lies ahead. The court's ruling applies only to stem cells derived from embryos not to so-called adult stem cells more on that distinction in a moment. First here's NPR's Julie Rovner.  National Institutes of Health Director Francis Collins said he was stunned by the decision by federal district court Judge Royce Lamberth to halt federal embryonic stem cell research funding and he predicted that if the injunction is not lifted the outcome will not be good. Dr.  This decision has the potential to do serious damage to one of the most promising areas of biomedical research.  Collins said researchers who have already gotten the 131 million in grant money from NIH this year will not have to give it back. But work on tens of millions of dollars in grant renewals has been halted so has review of pending grants. Alan Trounson heads the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine. It is funded by a state-ballot measure. But he says many researchers in the state were also getting NIH funds. For them the outlook is grim. Dr.  Part of the laboratories will be decimated by this and so I do not think the universities here are in a good state to support those missing grant funds for the time being because of the difficulties of the Californian economy and the impacts it is having on the universities here.  But those researches will not get any sympathy from those who brought the lawsuit. They point to a law in effect since the mid-1990s. Known as the Dickey-Wicker Amendment it bans funding of research that harms embryos. They argued in their lawsuit that the ban on funding should extend to research on embryonic stem cell lines whether or not they were created with federal dollars. And the judge agreed with them. Steven Aden is the lawyer for the plaintiffs in the case. Mr.  He in essence said that Congress intended much more in passing the Dickey-Wicker Amendment than an arcane interpretation that says as long as the taxpayer dollars did not specifically go for the destruction of the embryo it is okay.  Even some who do support federal funding of embryonic stem cell research have longed been suspect of the way that funding has been pursued. Dr.  The belief has been cultivated that the matter could be handled by executive order.  Louis Ghanem is an ethicist at Harvard Medical School and a supporter of embryonic stem cell research. But he is been warning for years that an opinion by a lawyer for the Clinton administration that federal funds could be used for embryonic stem cell research as long as they were not used to actually destroy the embryo would never hold up in court. In fact he says had anyone bothered to sue President George W. Bush's policy probably would have been overturned on the same grounds. Dr.  The opinion was issued in 1999 and it is been invoked by three successive administrations. And this just happens by accident to be the first time that a court has ruled on the merit about that interpretation.  And he says there is only one way to fix it. Dr.  The right originates with the Congress and they have got the complete power to override it.  And that is exactly what Colorado Congresswoman Diana DeGette hopes will happen as soon as Congress gets back from its summer break. She said she was already working to again pass the bill Congress has passed twice in the past four years.  I think that the shocking nature of this court opinion yesterday will raise that bill up much higher on the agenda.  If there is going to be a problem with the bill it will likely be in the Senate where almost nothing is moving. DeGette notes the last time the stem cell bill was before that chamber it got more than enough votes to break a filibuster but that was not just before a pivotal midterm election. Julie Rovner NPR News Washington. 