 I am Robert Siegel.  I am Melissa Block and this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News.  Welcome back to the program.  Oh great to be back.  First there are now six astronauts currently at the Space Station. And NASA says that none are in danger. How and when would they get back to Earth?  Well that is correct. None are in danger because they have their own spacecraft up there. There are two Soyuz spacecraft docked to the station. And each one can accommodate three crew members - the three that went up and down. And so if there were an emergency if there were the need all six crew members could safely come back to Earth.  Very few of us of course can imagine what it is like to be up there in the Space Station but you were there. And I believe your last mission was 193 days long. If you - did you know what to do in case of emergency? What were the instructions to do if you had to bail out?  And in any case the procedure is very similar. It is to try to find the problem isolate it and work your way backwards towards your rescue vehicle towards your escape vehicle. So we simulate this many times on the ground emergency training to go through and run these procedures.  Well first let us imagine for a second now that it was decided that all six of the people up there should leave. Is that NASA's call by the way? Is it entirely NASA's call?  Well NASA's the lead center but - lead control center that is and the lead partner in the International Space Station program. But of course Russia's the other major partner. If it came down to it ultimately it would be NASA's call. But most decisions like that would be pretty clearly you know unanimous one way or the other.  Well the ISS the Space Station is massive. I gather it is about the length and width of a football field. And it is full of stuff. I mean there are things being done there. If there were no people onboard what would its effectiveness be to do whatever scientific work it is doing?  And so basically what could happen is you could have - we could lose the entire station. It would eventually - the orbit would decay and it would reenter the Earth's atmosphere and break apart in many large pieces would survive the reentry and pose a hazard to you know to land masses on the ground.  Was NASA mistaken to bank so entirely on the Soyuz rockets at this stage?  And so I personally - and my colleagues - you know we know how long it takes to investigate a launch or failure and put a fix in place. And boy November is cutting it very close. We may really have to de-crew the station. And in that case we will run a much higher risk of potentially losing the station.  Dr. Chiao thank you very much for talking with us once again.  My pleasure.  That is Leroy Chiao he is now among other things an executive vice president and director of Excalibur Almaz a private manned spaceflight company. 