 The Hubble Space Telescope is whizzing around our planet at 17000 miles per hour. This is the telescope that is shown us things like super-detailed images of Saturn and gorgeous stellar nurseries where thousands of stars are born. Scientists who use Hubble eagerly await the images that are beamed down. But as NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports they sometimes get a surprise.  The Hubble Space Telescope launched back in 1990 when Mike Brown was just getting started as a professional astronomer.  I have been using it pretty consistently for most of the last 30 years.  Brown works at Caltech and recently he had an experienced with Hubble that he is never had before. He got permission to use Hubble to do a detailed study of Jupiter's four largest moons. These moons are called the Galilean moons since Galileo spotted them in the year 1610. Ganymede is the largest. It is actually the most massive moon in the solar system. It is bigger than the planet Mercury and Brown says Ganymede has a huge magnetic field.  It is bizarre that it has that huge magnetic field. No other moons have magnetic fields that are measurable. We really do not have any idea why it would have such a strong magnetic field why it would have a magnetic field at all.  And then there is the three other moons of Jupiter that he wanted Hubble to peer at - Io Europa Callisto.  Io's got the volcanoes. Like who does not love volcanoes? It is the most volcanically active place in the solar system. Europa has more liquid water than the Earth does. And Callisto - well there is Callisto.  Callisto is just a boring cratered moon. But still Hubble was going to look at them all. After Hubble was supposed to have checked out Ganymede the data got beamed down processed and sent to Brown by email. He eagerly opened it up. There was nothing there.  Pretty much what you always do as a scientist - when you see something that did not work you are like what did I screw up this time?  He checked and rechecked the instructions he sent to Hubble. They were fine. So was Ganymede just inexplicably gone? Did a Death Star obliterate it? It might seem like anything is possible. This is after all the year 2020. But the reality is mundane. Hubble was just pointing at the wrong patch of sky. Brown says this kind of error quickly happened two more times.  I do not know if three times in a week is unusual or not but it seems pretty unusual to me.  I called up the head of the Hubble mission at the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore. Tom Brown - no relation to Mike Brown - told me that yes Hubble does sometimes just aim in the wrong direction.  So it used to happen on the order of about 1 of the time and these days it happens more like 5 of the time.  This is an aging telescope after all. A couple years ago when a gyroscope on Hubble failed researchers activated one of its onboard spares so-called gyroscope 3. It is been glitchy from the get-go.  It tells you the telescope is moving around even when it is not.  Telescope operators compensate for this error but sometimes it gets out of whack before they are able to adjust things. A disappointed researcher can submit a request to have a do-over so they will get their data eventually assuming they were not trying to see some once-in-a-million-years brief cosmic event. Brown says no one really knows why gyroscope 3 is such a pain and conceivably it could get so bad they might have to turn that one off.  The biggest downside then is instead of having the entire sky available at any one time we would have half the sky available at any one time.  Still Hubble would remain enormously popular. Hundreds of teams get to use the telescope every year. They are the lucky ones. There is so much demand the majority of proposed observations have to be rejected. Hubble is being used for fields that did not even exist when it was launched like studying planets that orbit distant stars.  Hubble really is a very unique resource for humanity. And once it is gone I mean a lot of people are not - you know are already dreading that day. But I think when it is gone it is going to hit people even more hard.  He says Hubble could keep going for at least another five years. NASA has another big space telescope called the James Webb in the works but it is not exactly like Hubble and will not launch before late next year. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 