 Earlier this week the online gossip site Gawker reported that one of the GOP presidential candidates Newt Gingrich may have bought most of the 1.3 million followers of his Twitter account. Gingrich's campaign variously denies the accusation. But the controversy got us wondering if Twitter users can actually buy followers. As NPR's Hansi Lo Wang reports they sure can.  Full disclosure I have a Twitter account. How many followers? Zero which can make you feel a bit inadequate when you are sized up next to Twitter heavyweights like Britney Spears with 8.8 million followers and Twitter mother monster herself Lady Gaga with 12.2 million. Yes I know I am not a pop music sensation but even NPR's very own...  I am Scott Simon.  ...has more than a million followers. Still fellow lonely Twitter users do not fret. If your tweets are not enticing enough fans you can always pay Jake Schintgen to do the job. Schintgen is a co-owner of Twitter1k.com an online service that is boosted Twitter follower counts for clients ranging from social media newbies to celebrities to...  Major clothing lines launching a new product to Christian groups looking for a bigger outreach.  For a little less than 25 Schintgen says his company can take your Twitter follower count from zero to 1000. And his biggest complaint so far from customers who go to his company's website?  Speed. Often people think if I type my credit card number I get 2000 followers in an hour.  Schintgen says that quick of a turnaround is impossible given Twitter's spam filters. But fork over about 45 and his company will guarantee 2000 followers in 20 to 30 days. How do they do it? Schintgen says Twitter1K.com promotes clients' Twitter accounts to other Twitter users with similar interests with the end goal of getting them to follow their clients. If you are wondering if Schintgen's company has any competitors there are plenty.  how to buy Twitter followers.   Here at uSocial we know the secrets to making you an overnight rock star on Twitter.  And those secrets can cost you thousands of dollars if you want to go into really big numbers of followers- say a few hundred thousand. Peter Shankman advises companies on social media strategies. And he says the secret to gathering Twitter followers en masse begins with pinpointing the most common Twitter user you know the one that signs up for an account and then never tweets.   Hey you know if you start following this person I will give you a penny or I will give you a coupon. Or follow these hundred people I will give you a dollar. A dollar's something of value to a lot of people so they say OK this does not cost me anything. Click click click. They follow those people.  And Shankman says that payout to followers has a payoff for the client.  You get these really really big numbers in your Twitter follower count. But they are useless numbers. You are speaking into an open cavern and no one's listening.  Although a large Twitter follower count might catch the eye of anyone who is trying to measure popularity. Newt Gingrich recently called attention to his Twitter account saying he has six times as many Twitter followers as all the other current GOP presidential hopefuls combined. But Shankman says numbers can be deceiving.  Ten years ago it was the number of page views you had in your website. Thirty years ago it was the subscription numbers you had or the size or square footage of your house. But in the concept of Twitter numbers only tell a very small part of the story.  And any legitimate Twitter story is built tweet by tweet. Hansi Lo Wang NPR News. 