 If only cars could talk to each other. Actually they can. At least there is technology out there that could get them sharing information with other cars which could potentially save thousands of lives every year. Michigan Radio's Tracy Samilton has been reporting on this and explains there is a high-stakes game of chicken going on when it comes to actually putting the technology in every car.  You and I we are the good drivers right? We have never cut someone off in our blind spot. We have never run a red light or not noticed a car in front slowing down and nearly hit them. But all those other drivers they do that a lot. And it is dangerous. What if our cars had devices that could communicate with other cars and help us avoid accidents? Well that technology using GPS and Wi-Fi exists. It is called vehicle-to-vehicle or V2V.  It enhances your senses in a way to give you more time to react to potentially dangerous events.  That is Cem Saraydar with General Motors. GM was the first in the U.S. to put V2V in a car namely the Cadillac CTS. Saraydar says the potential is huge. It could prevent up to 80 percent of accidents involving non-impaired drivers potentially saving 15000 lives a year. Saraydar has arranged a demonstration. And we get into a CTS with researcher at Vivek Vijaya Kumar behind the wheel. Another driver is in a different CTS.  So each vehicle transmits or broadcasts information such as its position speed heading and so on.  There is different warnings for different situations. If the CTS in front suddenly brakes this lady tells you to watch out.   Hard braking ahead.  The seat can vibrate on the right or the left to call out dangers on either side of the car. In one scenario we are creeping along about to enter a road from the parking lot. Bushes are obscuring our view of the car that is about to be in our path. The seat vibrates and there is this.   Get your attention? That is the point. And if you are about to plow into the back of another car you will get a whole slew of warnings...   ...Plus a projection on the windshield to warn you. Automakers say the technology has proven itself and is ready for prime time. So what is holding it up? A final regulation mandating V2V has languished in both the Obama and Trump administrations. So now Toyota in a challenge to competitors says it will voluntarily put V2V in most of its cars - by the mid-2020s. Toyota's John Kenney says this technology is really V2E vehicle-to-everything. Cars can communicate with traffic lights that are sending signals. If people carried little clip-on devices or put apps on their iPhones...  We can also communicate with pedestrians and motorcyclists and bicyclists and road workers to make them safer.  Proponents are really frustrated by the delay. Jim Sayer heads the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute. The group conducted one of the first pilots of V2V seven years ago. Sayer says while V2V or V2E is not as sexy as autonomous vehicles it is safe. And it works.  Every year we wait to require these devices thousands of lives are being lost that could otherwise be saved.  And there is yet another reason for urgency. The FCC has set aside a frequency for V2V but other industries are eyeing it hungrily. For NPR News I am Tracy Samilton.  