 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. From antelope meat to crocodile boots the illegal trade in wildlife products is a multibillion dollar business. It is a difficult trade to stop in part because authorities often cannot tell whether a frozen hunk of meat or a skin comes from a protected animal or not. But as NPR's Christopher Joyce reports there is a technology that could give wildlife investigators a new tool to identify what kind of animal a product came from even from a single scale or feather.  The key to this whole idea is DNA DNA from animals and insects. It is stored here. This is the real bowels of the museum is not it? Dr.  It really is. You can sort of follow the pipes and wires and ducts and everything  George Amato is an evolutionary biologist and he works at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. It is 19th century a gigantic stone castle of a building. We are somewhere deep in the basement. Amato is going to show me something called the Barcode of Life Data System. The system's guts if you will is a storehouse of frozen animal tissue. Dr.  Everything from microbes to whales.  In a locked room stands seven steel canisters. They look like six-foot-tall thermoses. Ms.  And we have about 70000 samples right now. We have a continuous influx.  Julie Feinstein keeps everything inside those thermoses cooled with liquid nitrogen. Scientists from around the world have been sending samples here for years from rainforests in Costa Rica or museum drawers in Chicago. Amato opens one canister to see inside. Dr.  We will make sure that you do not either freeze your nose or your hands to the side of the vat so  Each holds boxes of tiny vials bits of butterfly wings whale blubber you name it. They are analyzing them to build up a reference library of DNA from different species. Dr.  We get DNA from feathers. They could be blood samples skin samples or for smaller organisms we might have the whole organism.  What Amato and his colleagues want to do now is use bits of this DNA library to curb trade in endangered wildlife. Here' Let us say you are a customs agent who is found a hunk of meat in a suitcase. You do not know if it is a duiker antelope or hamburger. So you send a bit of it to Amato. What Amato has identified is a particular sequence of DNA in every animal that seems to be unique to every species. He calls it a DNA barcode. So a duiker antelope has a barcode that is different from other antelopes or cows for that matter. Amato compares the DNA from the customs agent to the DNA in his library and knows right away if the meat is legal. A lot of the trade that wildlife authorities want to stop is in bush meat. It can be anything from antelope to monkey. Biologist Mitch Eaton at the U.S. Geological Survey has documented the trade in the forests of Central Africa. Mr.  These regions are becoming more and more global. It is not just local hunting that is happening any more. The increase in pressure on these forests for economic and commercial purposes is growing very quickly.  Eaton says wildlife investigators need a tool to figure out what is okay for local consumption and what is prohibited for trading across international borders whether it is meat or refined products like skins. Mr.  If these things are being transported as refined products or pieces of wildlife and they have no ability to tell what species it actually is they would be able to use this technology and it takes all the guesswork out really. Dr.  These are leather products that were confiscated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and sent to us.  In the DNA lab at the Natural History Museum in New York Amato pulls down a box of handbags briefcases shoes. The federal Fish and Wildlife Service provided them so Amato could test his barcode technology. Because the leather goods have been processed or preserved in some way it is hard to get clean DNA but the barcoding still works some of the time. Dr.  This pair of boots you can see where we have removed one of the scales to do the isolation. These boots I think we looked online and they sold for 4000 a pair. I think they were supposed to be made out of Nile crocodile. I will have to see yeah.  Amato's team has just described its barcode technique in the journal Conservation Genetics. Amato says they have already identified illegal imports of whale dolphin meat and even smoked monkey. Christopher Joyce NPR News. 