 We used to say that a picture is worth 1000 words but that was back in the analog era. A digital image is worth several thousand after you Photoshop it a few times. The latest instance of this is a Microsoft ad which shows three people seated at a conference table taking in a PowerPoint demonstration with such gleeful smiles on their faces you would think they are actually watching Madagascar 2 or something like that. On the right is a woman in a business suit who is wielding the clicker on the left is an Asian man white shirt no tie collar open. And between them is a black man looking like the oldest and most senior certainly most formally dressed executive in the room.  Empower your people with the IT tools they need. Next comes the Microsoft Poland version of the same ad as it went viral yesterday. Same woman same Asian man but instead of the black exec there is a white man with the very same suit same shirt same tie same wristwatch even the same black wrist just a white head for the overwhelmingly white Polish market. Microsoft says today we are looking into the details of this situation. We apologize and have replaced the image with the original photograph. Well joining us is Hany Farid who is professor of computer science at Dartmouth College. And professor Farid first how common from what you have seen is this sort of swapping out of heads to make a different racial impression in a picture online?  It is surprisingly common in fact. In fact the notion of swapping out heads dates back all the way to the 1800s when somebody did it to a photograph of Abraham Lincoln. The University of Wisconsin at Madison got in trouble a while back when they spliced in a black head into a sea of white heads to show more racial diversity. And just earlier this year Fun Guide of Toronto did the same thing to try to increase the racial diversity of a cover of their magazine. So it seems to be a fairly common manipulation in fact.  Those were both instances of trying to create greater diversity as opposed to this case creating a little bit less diversity. Prof.  Right right. It seems to be an equal opportunity Photoshop manipulation.  Now you are working on software that would be able to detect images that have been manipulated. Prof.  That is correct. And in fact in this particular image of the Microsoft ad there was a glaring error that they made - in addition to the black hand and the white face - and that is the lighting on the face is completely wrong. So if you look at the middle person the white head that was spliced in it is clear that the lighting is coming from his right. But if you look at the other two people in the room there is no such dominant light in there. And one of the very powerful tools that we have developed is one that looks at lighting inconsistencies to determine whether something has been manipulated.  As you said there is a rich history to manipulating photographs. And there was a wonderful book a few years ago The Commissar Vanishes about the Soviet practice of eliminating people who would been politically eliminated from all the images in which they would appeared. Prof.  That is right.  But does this strike you as a different order of effectiveness what can now be done with digital images? Prof.  I think the difference is twofold today. One is that the tools to manipulate photographs are now available to nearly everybody. And the other thing is the ability to distribute this material widely and quickly. And those two things have combined to have fundamentally changed our relationship with digital imagery.  Well Professor Farid thank you very much for talking with us. Prof.  Thank you for your time.  That is Hany Farid who is professor of computer science at Dartmouth College. 