 Now we are going to take a step back - a really really really big step back and consider how we fit in the universe. Actually Adam Frank is going to consider that. He is our resident astrophysicist who blogs for NPR.  Does the size of space - those zillions of stars and zillions of miles of nothing in between them - does that freak you out? Well if it does guess what? You are not alone. I give a lot of public talks about the universe really. It is in my job description. Astronomer check. Study stuff in space check. Give talks about the universe check. And every time I give a public astronomy presentation whether it is about black holes or the Big Bang or the Hubble Space Telescope at the end someone always raises the same issue. Space is so big they will say. Are not we all insignificant? Sometimes they will even say it makes me feel kind of bad. The vast huge bigity bigness of the universe freaks a lot of people out. Just to be clear space is pretty big. It took 10 years for last summer's New Horizon probe to cross the solar system and reach Pluto even though it was speeding along at 36000 miles per hour. The Milky Way Galaxy which is kind of like our local city in space has 400 billion stars and they are so far apart from each other that even if you traveled as fast as New Horizons it would take about a hundred centuries to get from one to the other. And what is in between all those stars? Well in some addresses in interstellar space there is only a few atoms in an entire cubic meter. So yeah yeah I get it. The universe is really big. And it is really empty. But I am here to tell you that is no reason to get all freaked out. Instead I think it is reason to celebrate. Sure space is unimaginably vast and you are just a tiny speck of speckiness in the vast wheeling cosmos. But does that mean you are insignificant and unimportant? Yes it does. And that is awesome because what that means is you are off the hook. Space is so crazy big that most of the day-to-day stuff that we sweat just does not matter and that is a good thing. Did your car get a flat on the way back home today? Does not matter. Did you spill coffee on that new white dress shirt just before a meeting? Does not matter. Did you swipe right on Tinder a thousand times and no one swiped back? Does not matter. It does not matter because the immense vastness of the universe can be a kind of gift reminding us all to chill out dude. The whole stage of our lives with all its immense joy and sorrow is really part of a much larger and much grander play. Knowing the true scale of the universe does not have to freak us out. Instead it can remind us to do the best we can to be careful to be compassionate to give it all of our effort and then step back. The universe is a big place and there is a lot going on. That means that at one scale at least our problems just are not that important so stop worrying so much. And remember what the great sage Bill Murray told us in Meatballs that immortal tale of summer camp. It just does not matter. It just does not matter. It just does not matter.    It just does not matter. It just does not matter. It just does not matter. It just does not matter.    Meatballs meatballs meatballs. 