 On its first day as a public company Facebook stock traded for more than 40 a share. Today investors can pick up a share for half that. And Fidelity a big institutional investor has sold off a chunk of its stake. As NPR's Steve Henn reports executives at Facebook are now desperate to change the conversation about their company.  For years the vast majority of business stories about Facebook seemed to describe some kind of unstoppable force - a company that was doubling in size every year with members who spent more time on the network month after month and a user base so large it rivaled the most populous nations on Earth. And then as Facebook prepared to go public suddenly the only thing business writers and analysts were interested in talking about was the money.  Over a billion dollars less than what we and others had forecasted.  So Facebook is now in the ranks of the big companies and essentially it will stop innovating the way we have seen innovation before.  We are talking about Facebook having to grow its revenues at between 25 and 30 percent per year.  That was Debra Aho Williamson Vivek Wadhwa and Anant Sundaramm - three of literally thousands of analysts who recently have been expressing their skepticism about Facebook's future as a business. Now Facebook is trying to change this narrative. Today the company is launching what it calls a micro-site FacebookStories.com. It is really an online monthly magazine devoted to stories on how Facebook can be used.  In collaboration with over 950 million people around the world we are creating this map of human connections that really has never existed before.  Peter Jordan is one of the site's creators. And if Facebook were a religion Jordon is a true believer.  In a way we are charting that map of human connections. And I think you know we do not even know what is going to be possible with this. And so for us it is really just exciting to see what people around the world are doing with this technology that we are building here.  Each month Facebook Stories will have a theme. This month it is memory.  I mean the first story we are going to be releasing is about this guy - Mayak Sharma -  in New Delhi India.  Sharma was struck with meningitis and hydroencephalitis.  And lost his entire life memories at the age of 27.  In a short film produced by Jordan Sharma says after his illness he did not recognized his mother.  I could not even recognize my own reflection. I had to get used to this idea that this is how I look.  His family and friends were a mystery.  It is the past that makes you who you are right? So who am I?  According to Jordan Sharma used Facebook to rebuild and rediscover what he lost. Sharma would contact people on the site and ask are you from my past? Are you my friend?  Through this he is been able to reclaim some of those memories that he is lost and get a sense of who he is and who he was.  When he got sick Sharma had just five friends on Facebook. Now he has close to a hundred. Although Jordan says Sharma's memory has not returned he now - at least - has been told stories about his own past. And this is the kind of story Facebook is now desperate to tell about itself one where the network's transformative - maybe miraculous. Brian Solis at the Altimeter Group says Facebook needs investors advertisers and especially employees to buy into this idea that it is more than just another tech business built on hype.  Yeah. Well at the end of the month the lockout for employee stocks lifts.  On August 20th employees who own Facebook shares will be able to sell them.  The value of employee stocks has greatly diminished since its IPO. That has to hit the morale at some level.  And while Mark Zuckerberg may say Facebook was not initially created to be a business it is one now. And ultimately its success or failure will be measured in dollars and cents. Steve Henn NPR News Silicon Valley. 