 It all started with a man from Virginia who called Johns Hopkins Hospital offering to donate a kidney.  eight donors eight recipients with surgeries performed in four hospitals over three weeks. Dr. Robert Montgomery coordinated the kidney exchange. He is director of the Johns Hopkins Comprehensive Transplant Center. Welcome to the program. Dr.  Thank you.  And Dr. Montgomery why do not you explain how this domino donor chain works starting with that first altruistic donor Thomas Koontz. Dr.  The way the domino works is that you have an individual who does not have a designated recipient. In this case it was Thomas Koontz who basically said I will donate my kidney to anyone who needs it. And so he gave his kidney to a patient whose sister had wanted to give a kidney to her but was unable to because they were incompatible. And so Thomas essentially starts the dominos falling. So Thomas gave his kidney to that patient and then that patient's sister gave a kidney to another patient who also had an incompatible donor. And you can see then that this sets up a chain reaction.  Now most of the surgeries that we are talking about in this domino kidney transplant were performed there at Johns Hopkins. Others though at hospitals in St. Louis Oklahoma City and Detroit. How did you coordinate all this with these three other hospitals in three other cities? Dr.  The kidneys were shuttled between the hospitals in both commercial airliners and charter airliners. So it does involve a tremendous amount of coordination and a logistical support in order to pull something like this off. Now we have been doing these domino-paired donations for about six years and we have been drawing from our single-center pool of incompatible donors and recipients. But in recent years we have started to cross-pollinate. In other words we have done computer match runs that have included patients from other hospitals and that is how this came about.  How long can the kidneys be kept in between surgeries? Dr.  Generally speaking live donor kidney transplants at least up until this point have had the donor and the recipient at the same hospital  and in fact often in adjoining rooms  and the kidney comes out of the donor and is immediately transplanted into the recipient. Now we looked at the database and what we found was that there did not seem to be any effect if the kidney had only been outside of the body for an hour or as long as eight hours.  So you still had to get those kidneys onto a plane and on their way pretty fast. Dr.  Exactly.  Dr. Montgomery somewhere in the middle of this chain did you start getting confused and losing track of whose kidney was coming from whom and going to whom? Dr.  Well you know it is sort of like keeping track of your children.  If you have a lot of children.  Dr.  You know we pay attention to detail.  Well I would hope so. Dr.  So we have a system of multiple people checking the facts and the data over and over again. It is really not quite as difficult to keep it all together as you might imagine.  Well the last surgery in your chain was on July 6. How are the patients doing? Dr.  Patients are doing well. All of our patients are doing well and the kidneys seem to be quite happy in their new home.  These are happy kidneys the kidneys are happy?  Dr.  They are all working well.  Well Dr. Montgomery thanks for talking with us. Dr.  Oh happy to do it.  That is Dr. Robert Montgomery chief transplant surgeon at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore talking about the first ever eight-way domino kidney transplant. 