 And just a few miles from Facebook's headquarters another Silicon Valley startup is hoping to become the next big thing. It is called Aardvark and it uses your profile from services like Facebook and your online friends to help you get advice on specific questions - questions you might not get a good answer from by Googling for example. New York Times tech columnist David Pogue took Aardvark for a spin. Mr.  It takes advantage of the modern social networking era to give you something that nobody's quite done before which is harness the power of the Internet to give you answers quickly from the one person who might know best. Mr.  Most people now have a few hundred friends on a social network such as Facebook.  That is Damon Horowitz one of the founders and chief technology officer for Aardvark. Mr.  If each of those friends has a few hundred friends that is tens of thousands of people in your extended social network. It is too large of a number for you to keep up with all of the things that your friends know and all the things that their friends know. So that is where Aardvark comes in is applying technology to index all of that information and deliver the right person.  So we decided to try Aardvark out ourselves to see if it is all that it is cracked up to be. Okay so I' What is a good present for my nephew who is turning 13? He likes gadgets so maybe something electronic but not an iPod. And I am going to hit send and hopefully Aardvark will find someone in my online network who might know and then send me the answer back. Mr.  Most questions are answered in under five minutes.  Once more Aardvark founder Damon Horowitz. Mr.  You find yourself suddenly talking with somebody who is a friend of a friend and it is a magical experience when it happens.  But what do these people get out of answering those questions? Here's David Pogue of the New York Times again. Mr.  There is an ego boost at knowing the answer and feeling good that you just helped out somebody out there.  These are total strangers who are sitting by their instant messaging programs waiting for questions from total strangers that they can answer for free. That always surprises me but I am happy for it.  Okay let us check to see whether we got an answer to our question. I was looking for a good gift for my 13-year-old nephew who likes gadgets but not an iPod. I see that Johan from Ashley Ohio has answered  Have you considered an iPhone 3GS? Not exactly the answer I was hoping for but I guess the service is only as good as your network. Aardvark's been up for about a month and so far it is focused pretty much on Facebook. But co-founder Damon Horowitz says soon it will expand to work with other sites as well and you can try it out at vark.com. 