 There is also a fast-growing startup culture focused on the Internet of things.   Would not it be smart if your bed knew when you got up so that it could turn on the lights open the shades and start the coffee pot?  That is Alex Hawkinson founder and CEO of SmartThings in a video for a Kickstarter campaign that raised more than a million dollars last year. The company has since raised many millions more.  Alex Hawkinson joins us now. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  So I understand that you are constantly testing things out in your own house and you know we just heard in the commercial there about the light and the coffee pot but what are three automatic tasks that would not have been possible a few years ago that you are now able to use in your home because of Internet connected technology?  Sure three good examples - I mean one is very like that Kickstarter video. So my house I wear a fitness bracelet that has been integrated by a company called Jawbone into our platform so the house actually knows when I physically am waking up and does things like turn on the coffee pot. It actually turns on NPR in the kitchen and reads me the weather forecast when I walk into the kitchen for the first time.  Really.   Yeah it is - the Jetson lifestyle is upon us.  The Internet of things strikes some people as something tech companies are doing because they can right the data's there the equipment is there the connectivity is there. Is this a case where you are essentially creating a marketplace for something we did not even know we needed?  I do not think so. I think a lot of the benefits are really practical and very profound for almost anyone. So the consumer may be very interested in knowing let us say whether their front door was opened while they were away from home but they may not be aware that there is such a simple answer to enable them to tell that at this point. So it is a discontinuity between not the value that it creates but really just the awareness that the options are already so readily available.  What is the weirdest connected device in your house?  You know we have a stage in our basement which sounds crazy but a stage with like a disco ball and a costume room and stuff. And so when my daughter leaps up on it specifically like the music and lighting and disco ball starts going in the right way. There is a few other things there is like romance mode. You know the house knows when it is a Friday or Saturday night and the kids are asleep that sort of stuff. So I will not say that is weird but it is...  No a little. What does that do then? Like the lights go down?  I do not know it is never worked for me in terms of the real goal but you know the lights dim and the Barry White comes on the Sonos mostly as a joke that type of stuff. And of course puts on the classical music and brings up the lights if there is motion outside the kids' bedrooms.  And that is technology that is useful my friend.  Exactly.  Alex Hawkinson he is founder and CEO of SmartThings. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you so much. 