 Here's an awkward situation. You are in Hawaii on vacation with your spouse and you find out you have been exposed as part of an adultery website. Your email is in the Ashley Madison data that hackers leaked but you never signed up for the site. This is the situation one man found himself in and NPR's Aarti Shahani talked to him and his wife about what happened.  Over the weekend Casey Corcoran and his wife are in a hotel room overlooking the ocean.  Margie's getting dressed putting on her flower lei. I am just reading a little bit of news before we are about to go out for this romantic dinner.  It'30 p.m. He comes across an article about the Ashley Madison hack and it says...  If you are interested in finding out if your email somehow got on there here are a couple of search engines.  He is curious. He decides to put in this email see if he wound up on the membership roster maybe through another site he is on and...  It pops up and says confirmed.  As in he is there. Corcoran is at a loss for words.  I do not say anything and I go to the second search engine. I think this has to be a mistake.  And again confirmed. At this point he says he calls out to his wife...  Margie - I said you are not going to believe this but you know that Ashley Madison leak?  Margie - Margie Skeer comes and sits on the couch right next to him.  My first thought was what?  Couples around the U.S. - around the world - have been having this moment since hackers leaked tens of millions of user profiles. And it did occur to Skeer that if a guy really did have an account...  They might have said oh my goodness. Look. Somebody registered me.  Plausible deniability - Ashley Madison does not require you to verify your email address. So you can say somebody else signed me up as a joke maybe. And real users do not need email because they exchange messages through an internal chat service. But Skeer says if her husband ever cheated he would probably pick someone up at a bookstore not at Ashley Madison.  That would not be his style at all and we have a very open and very good relationship so I...  By open you do not mean open relationship?   No no no. We have a strictly monogamous but very open communication.  The couple wanted to know who used Corcoran's Gmail address and they debated should they log on?  Well I am already associated with the site. It is not like somebody is going to leak my email again.  They did a password reset to get into the account and went straight to the tabs with personal information. The profile was of a gentleman with a very similar name to Corcoran which may be why he borrowed the email. But this guy lives in a different part of the country and he is taller and heavier - 5 foot 10 inches and 210lbs.  And I said boy if that really was me somebody would be really surprised when I showed up. So...  The profile listed a hometown an age a username that looked like his last name with a year tagged on to the end of it. The couple had enough to turn to the white pages online and in minutes they got a guy who matched this profile picture perfect.  Yeah you can get his Facebook page.  Myspace page.  His Myspace page Facebook page.  Which is a picture of him...  Giving the finger.  Giving the finger.  Corcoran says he feels violated. Professionally he is an advocate for women's rights and has even been a relationship counselor. So many Ashley Madison search engines have been put online. He is positive people he knows have looked him up.  Most people that actually found my name doing that were not going to say anything to me. They were not going to call me out on it.  The couple wants to get a certified confession from the guy who used Corcoran's email - proof to back him up when he says it was not me. Aarti Shahani NPR News. 