 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand.  And we are now going to meet two of this year's Fellows. First Dr. Lakshminarayanan Mahadevan is professor of applied mathematics at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Harvard. Congratulations.  Thank you so much Robert.  I was looking at the titles of your published articles and in addition to many mathematical applications to biology some of the more recent titles include phrases like fluid rope trick tumbling cards rolling droplets sand flowing in a silo and my favorite wrinkling of a stretched elastic sheet. You sound like you are part mathematician and part all purpose handyman or magician.  No not a magician tried to explain some of these things using mathematical ideas. But as you said they are very common observations that all of us make.  The observation for example that flags flutter in the wind?  And how that relates to how fish swim and how in fact I am allowed or able to speak with you right now because vocal folds inside my voice box are vibrating and allowing me to make sounds that allow me to communicate with you.  And one can find similar mathematical patterns recurring in fluttering flags and vibrating vocal chords and fish swimming?  Indeed. Indeed.  Enough to keep you busy in your life?   Certainly to keep me out of trouble.   I would like you to explain - one of the recent investigations you have done into some everyday phenomenon that we are familiar with?  And the way it does so is essentially by each petal grows but it grows along its edge more than it grows along its center. And as a consequence the petals which are originally convex closed became concave and open and unfurl. And so we made a mathematical theory for it. We tried to essentially connect that to experiments and empirical observations in the laboratory which are easy to do because you go to a florist and you buy half a dozen lilies and just watch them. So it is great fun.  So think of the number of lilies you could buy with the MacArthur Grant over the next few years.   I have not thought about that but yes.   How significantly might this fellowship affect or change your work?  I certainly hope - I know that it will give me the kind of freedom that I have had and even more now to pursue problems which perhaps people did not even think were problems. But also I think at a different level may be to try and see if I can use this to try and encourage and inculcate curiosity in young people about everyday things.  Well Professor Lakshminarayanan Mahadevan of Harvard 2009 MacArthur Foundation Fellow thank you very much for talking with us today.  Thank you very much. 