 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  I am Robert Siegel. And it is time now for All Tech Considered.   Last week a YouTube social media campaign rocked the Internet with over 34 million views in less than a week and Lady Gaga had nothing to do with it.  Mr.  Swan dive into the best night of your life. So ladies should your man smell like an Old Spice man?  Old Spice took its popular television ad campaign featuring a bare-chested sultry voice over-the-top ladies man and brought it to YouTube. Here' fans of the ads used social networks like Twitter to ask questions of the Old Spice guy. And in 186 cases he responded personally with short videos.  Mr.   The president's lost some female support. How does the White House get those women voters back?  Old Spice guy responds with a few suggestions.  Mr.  Instead of opening the State of the Union address with my fellow Americans try opening with hello ladies.  Advertisers and social media experts are buzzing after the campaign's success. The response videos are being hailed as the fastest growing viral video campaign of any product in history. Marshall Kirkpatrick joins me now from Portland Oregon to talk about the campaign's success. He is the co-editor of the technology blog Read Write Web. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you for having me Robert.  And so a Portland-based marketing firm called WiedenKennedy is responsible for this Old Spice ad campaign. You spoke with one of the creative directors. How did they post 186 personalized videos to YouTube in just two days? Mr.  The campaign put out a call for questions and then they had a complex system hacked together to pull in all of the responses and questions and comments from all over the Web  not just Twitter and Facebook but even much smaller social networks. And then the writers and the creatives made the decisions together quickly to decide who to respond to. And they did the entire production of each short little video in an average of seven minutes per video.  Tens of millions of views. Why do you think this took off so much? Mr.  The celebrities that got responded to helped quite a bit because he would make a video for Alyssa Milano or Ellen DeGeneres and they would tweet and Facebook out links to the campaigns. But once people got there the Old Spice guy was answering questions from people with names like PancakeHumper and it could be you as opposed to traditional advertising.  I should just point out it actually is not me in that case. PancakeHumper I was just going to say. Mr.  Nor is it me but it could be. There is something about the potential that you could be spoken to directly that I think was very very captivating.  Well has this changed the marketing landscape from what you are hearing or do you think it is just a one-off event? Mr.  Oh I think that it has - everyone else that I have spoken to has referenced it. And for example I am working on a story right now about a big concert with a world famous rock band in New York City coming up sponsored by a major financial service and everyone asks can that effort be as successful as a guy in a bath towel?  Big question though for measuring success here. Are Old Spice products flying off the shelves all over the world? Mr.  Old Spice representatives say that while they will not disclose specific numbers they have seen a very clear increase in sales they believe as a result of the campaign.  Well Marshall Kirkpatrick thank you very much for talking with us. Mr.  Thanks for having me Robert.  Marshall Kirkpatrick is the co-editor of the technology blog Read Write Web. And joining me now from his home in Van Nuys California is the man behind the smell like a man man campaign Isaiah Mustafa the Old Spice guy. Mr. Mustafa was a pro-football player a struggling actor until the success of the Old Spice commercials. One of the first personalized YouTube videos that Mustafa did was for NPR's pop culture blogger Linda Holmes.  Mr.  Linda thanks for sharing my recent Old Spice work on National Public Radio. I hope your organization continues to prosper with generous listener donations just as my body prospers with a generous intake of lean proteins vegetables antioxidants...  Isaiah Mustafa welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Mr.  Hi thank you for having me.  And what was it like to make nearly 200 personalized videos in just a couple of days? Mr.  It was exhilarating to tell you the truth. We were going pretty quick so there was not much time for any messing up or flubbing of lines. So each response really only had one take. It was one take per response give or take a few that we wanted to take our time with.  So you are a champ reader in there to be able to do that.  Mr.  Yes I read a lot. I read a lot of comic books out loud when I was a kid because I liked to really get into each character. So I think that really helped me.  So where does this lead you to? Movie deals? A Saturday morning series on the Old Spice guy? What happens? Mr.  Right. It is just really led to a lot more opportunity. Recently I signed a deal with NBC which means that I will be basically a first look with NBC. I am really excited. I am about to start a movie called Free Enterprise 2. It is a William Shatner film so I am really excited about that also.  Do you ever worry a little bit? This is a good kind of worry to have that your acting career might in some way be contained by the fact that you are the Old Spice guy you know. You are the funny Old Spice guy. Mr.  You know what? When I was on a couch about a year ago worrying about where my rent was going to come from that is a real worry. So to be worrying about whether my acting career is going to be contained by Old Spice is a problem that I would like to have.  Well good luck to you. Mr.  Thank you.  That is Isaiah Mustafa better known at least for now as the Old Spice guy. Would you like to just say something to our listeners right now before you go? Mr.  Hello listeners thank you for tuning in. I will be seeing you again most likely in your bathroom.   If Isaiah Mustafa goes on to have a successful acting career he will be in good company. Many well-known actors got their start in TV commercials.  Ms.  I always considered the GAF View-Master an ingenious invention.  That is a very young and precocious Jodie Foster before she went on to two Oscars for best actress.  And here's another Academy Award winning actress Susan Sarandon.  Ms.  Smooth Dermassage all over. I use Dermassage every day.  Also a TV commercial veteran an actor who is currently starring in the nation's number one movie.  Mr.  This is a chunk of super soft Bubble Yum bubble gum.  That is a preteen Leonardo DiCaprio.  And finally an actor so revered he is played God twice.  Mr.  Kills germs. The germs that can give you bad breath. See? And it lasts you understand?  That is Morgan Freeman pitching mouthwash.  Proving that for Old Spice spokesmodel Isaiah Mustafa the future smells very good indeed. 