 Scroll through Facebook or Instagram you will see tons of photos of children - photos posted by their parents. One British study found parents post about 1500 images of their kids on social media before those kids turn 5 years old. In this week's All Tech Considered we and NPR's Life Kit are looking at sharenting what moms and dads may not realize when they post online about their kids and what their kids have to say about it.   Let us bring in Anya Kamenetz. She is a host of the Life Kit parenting podcast and she is been taking a look at sharenting and children's privacy. She is going to walk us through the facts and I hope give us some advice which I could certainly use. Anya welcome.  Hi Mary Louise.  Hey there. So my kids who are now teenagers lectured me about this early on and their lecture boiled down basically to do not even think about posting pictures.   But I do see my friends doing it all the time and posting about kids you know from very young still in diapers all the way up through their teenagers.  Sure. And I mean I have done the same myself. But you know we do not often get to hear about the kids' perspective. So that is why we were so interested. When we did the NPR Student Podcast Challenge earlier this year we heard from Chelsea Whitwer's fifth grade class at Westchester Elementary in Kirkwood Mo. And here's what they said.   OK. So what do you guys think about your parents posting on the Internet?  I do not really like it because like I did not ask and it is sometimes an embarrassing photo.  What about you? How do you feel about your parents posting on the Internet?  If it is like an OK photo then sure. It is fine. But if like - if it is - yeah if it is an embarrassing photo then I do not want it. And I want them to ask me to post something.  They want to be asked. Anya you followed up and talked to some of these kids' parents. What did they tell you?  Yeah we talked to Jenna Mihms. She is one of the mothers. And she said the podcast really surprised her.   I thought it was interesting how sensitive the kids were of the thought of being embarrassed by things that parents post.  And Mary Louise Jenna Mihms had some really interesting insights into why parents post. She says personally she sometimes feels a social pressure from other parents to post online even though personally she is inclined to be more private. And she asked her kids about this.   And I have actually asked them before if it makes them feel bad that I do not post about them because I know that is an opportunity for parents to sort of brag on their kids and highlight accomplishments.  And so when she goes online she says...   I see all these great accomplishments and proud parent moments that I did not want my kids to feel that their parents did not love them just as much as every other parent.  And Anya I totally get that. You want to brag about your kids. I mean let me push back on behalf of all the parents listening who might be thinking I am the adult here. I am your parent. This is my social media account and I should know what is best for you.  Right. I totally understand that. And one expert we talked to Stacey Steinberg kind of brought out what this conflict is. She is a professor at the University of Florida Levin College of Law. She is also a photographer herself and a mother of three and so she started to wonder...   How could we balance our kids' right to privacy with our interest in sharing our stories?  So notice that Steinberg says balance here right? So parents yes we have legitimate interest in talking about our kids sharing our struggles getting support. But Stacey Steinberg also suggests that there are risks we should be aware of as well as trade-offs.  And what are the risks she is pointing to?  Well one terrifying thing that she spelled out was that you should never post online any photos or videos that show your children in states of undress even briefly. And the reason is that we have seen from recent reporting that the nature of the Internet and its recommendation algorithms is that those innocent pictures can essentially be served up to predators online.  Yeah. I mean this is where it gets not just tricky but really scary because I would certainly be aware of that with a teenager but less so with cute baby in the bubble bath.  Yeah exactly. And this gets into a bigger point Mary Louise. I mean we have been talking about the personal emotional family dynamics of sharenting but the bigger question I think is why is the Internet set up this way? You know why is it so hard to keep our kids safe just when we are going about our daily lives and sharing with family and friends?  And why is it so hard to keep our kids safe? Are there changes that could be made here?  So to get a little bit more of the policy perspective I actually called up Sonia Livingstone. She is a leading expert in kids online at the London School of Economics. And Livingstone says that she will be in the U.S. and she will see parents snapping photos even of other kids not even just their own kids. And that seems very strange to her.  Can this be right that parents will take pictures of children at a public park or at a swimming pool? And it just really made me think in Britain we just do not do that anymore. We never take a picture of anyone else's child because we will get - we know that they have - you know that child has its own rights as it were.  And so when Livingstone says that about children's rights she actually means something very specific Mary Louise. She pointed to something called the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. And this is a big document that was adopted back in 1990 by all countries essentially except the U.S. And it talks about what is good for the child and that means access to resources to help them develop the ability to express themselves as well as protections from risk or harm and that even includes participating in mass media and being able to access mass media but in a way that is safe. And so Livingstone says that in the U.K. and really all across Europe this perspective of children's rights is starting to inform policy.  Inform policy in what way? What is being changed?  Well the U.K. government is currently developing what they call an age-appropriate design code. And this is the first of its kind in the world. And it is essentially like zoning laws for the Internet. It means any online service that is likely to be accessed by children will need to be very very careful and very transparent on how they store and how they share data. And so this really turns the notion of sharenting on its head a bit. You know instead of us parents having to be so careful of how we guard our children's images and their stories it puts a little bit more responsibility out on the platforms.  And so that is what is happening in Europe. What about here in the U.S. Anya?  In the U.S. there are early stages of efforts to update the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act. And that is kind of the biggest piece of legislation on this topic. But it is really kind of early days.  Early days - OK. So while they wrangle that wherever it is going to go on Capitol Hill what should we do? Give us some news we can use.  Well one idea I will share from Stacey Steinberg is this.   We need to give kids veto power over what it is that we share about them online.  For example after her 8-year-old's gymnastics meet she puts a laptop up on the kitchen counter and she lets him pick what photos to post and respond to the comments like from his uncle. So this not only gives kids a way to stay in touch with friends and family but it is also a great way of role modeling good judgment on social media which I know you know your teenagers and my kids always show.  Always.   And so like the kids from Missouri said also you know they probably want you to do that. They want you to check in.  NPR's Anya Kamenetz thanks so much for coming on and talking about sharenting.  Thanks Mary Louise.  Anya hosts NPR's Life Kit parenting podcast. The Life Kit series has practical tips on all sorts of things and you can find it on your smartphone or your laptop at npr.orglifekit. 