 California today filed its 60th lawsuit against the Trump administration. This is the latest over the administration's decision to revoke California's authority to set its own clean car standards. More than a dozen states now follow those standards. Those states and more have joined the suit. The fight could go all the way to the Supreme Court. Earlier this week I spoke with California's Attorney General Xavier Becerra. He says the Trump administration is trying to put the brakes on progress. Today a conversation with EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler.  It is important to remember - and I do not think all the states were paying attention to this aspect - we are not stopping California's ability to set standards for health protection health emissions from automobiles. This is only about CO2 energy efficiency. California still has the right the ability to set a standard to protect their citizens for clean air rationale for emissions from cars that impact public health. What we are talking about here is energy efficiency and that is something that we do not believe the state of California or any state should be setting for the entire country.  You know one of the things that is also come up is the fact that four major automakers agreed to meet California standards. I mean what about their stance is so troubling to the president and to you?  Automobile manufacturers can always go above. What we do is we set the floor. They can always go above and there is no reason why they cannot sell more energy-efficient vehicles than what the federal standard is. The problem is if one state decides to set a standard it would then end up applying to the entire country. Our standard...  It does not apply. Right? States volunteer if they want to join California in having a similar standard.  Auto manufacturers will not manufacture two different vehicles. Our standard is going to make cars cheaper more energy-efficient. It is going to lower the price of a car and it is going to save lives.  The internal EPA memo surfaced with the Associated Press talking about auto emission standards. It was saying that what you guys are proposing could result in 17 more deaths a year than the Obama standards.  No. We do not believe that that is accurate. We are using NTSA's data. They are the ones that track public safety and highway mortality. And their data shows that our proposal will save lives overall. And as far as the four auto companies and their position with California we have not seen the details of that deal so we do not know exactly what those auto companies may have signed up for or what they may have agreed to. That was why my general counsel and the general counsel of the Department of Transportation sent that letter to California wanting to better understand what it is exactly that they believe they agreed to so that we can see whether or not they have the legal ability to make that kind of an agreement. You know the Congress gave Department of Transportation and EPA the ability to set energy-efficiency standards.  They also gave California this ability to have a waiver right? I mean that is part of...  Only for extraordinary...  ...The Clean Air Act.  Only for extraordinary and compelling reasons. We are not...  And you feel those reasons have changed?  It is not that they have changed that they just are not there and they have not been there.  Regarding the cost of cars - because this is something the administration has talked about - Governor Newsom has said that China is going to eliminate the internal combustion engine. India Japan - the rest of the world they are moving in a new direction. Is not this move hurting the country's ability to compete globally?  Not at all. What this does - again it sets a floor. And any car manufacturer can - if they can make the advances and produce the electric vehicles or other vehicles that consumers want to buy that is great. And we applaud that and we encourage that. But the Obama standard anticipated that there would be 50 electronic - electric vehicles by 2025. Right now electric vehicles only make up 2 of the fleet being sold here in the United States.  Will not this discourage that development or that innovation?  No. But we cannot - you cannot force Americans to buy a product that they do not want to purchase.  This is part of a larger administration deregulation effort right? Many of these rollbacks not just this one are being challenged in court. I mean how confident are you that this legacy of deregulation is going to withstand legal challenge?  We are very confident 'ecause we are following the statutes. We are following the law. Perfect example is what we did for the utility sector. The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan was stayed by the Supreme Court. That was an historic stay. They had never stepped in at that stage in litigation and actually issued a stay for a Clean Air Act regulation. They did that because I believe the Clean Power Plan was outside of the Clean Air Act. It was outside the bounds of the law.  Are you hoping this too will go to the Supreme Court?  Well I think we need that certainty. So I do hope if we are challenged on it it goes to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court upholds what we are doing. But we are closely following - unlike the previous administration - we are closely following the statutes and we are closely following the Supreme Court decisions. So our regulations are based in the law and that is what a regulatory agency is supposed to do.  Now my time is almost up but I want to ask this because people in California have been asking it. Which is is this political punishment? Is this punitive against a blue state that has been suing this administration quite a bit?  Absolutely not. It is not punitive at all. You know the automobile manufacturers were not able to comply with the Obama standard. Only three companies were able to meet the Obama standards. And the Obama standards...  But four companies had said they were going to work with California. OK? So they had...  They said - but we do not know.  They were working on it.  They were working on it. So California thinks that the administration has swooped in and the governor has alluded to this idea of a kind of political vengeance.  There is no political vengeance at all. I just wish the California officials would focus more on cleaning up the air in their state than trying to look like they are doing something globally for climate change. I think they are the ones politicizing this. They do not like what the president says on climate change so they are trying to show the rest of the world that they can do a lot when they really should be focusing on providing clean air and clean water to their citizens. 'ecause they are not doing that.  Andrew Wheeler is administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Thank you for your time.  Thank you. 