 There is no shortage of the information you can read on Wikipedia. In fact according to Wikipedia users can view about 4 million articles and that is just in English. But the website is having a hard time finding the right people to maintain it. They are in a way the police of Wikipedia guardians against the spurious entry. Officially they are called administrators. Last week at the Wikimania Conference in Washington it came out that those who are qualified for the position are few and far between. And Wikipedia is now trying to find more of them. I am now joined by Andrew Lee himself a Wikipedia administrator and author of the book The Wikipedia Revolution. Welcome to the program.  Good to be with you.  You are one of them. So tell us who are these administrators?  Well administrators started out in the history of Wikipedia as being very modest folks. And it is something that was joked about in the early days of being somewhat like a janitor of Wikipedia. So ordinary users on Wikipedia get to read and write articles. But administrators had the authority - or actually the power to delete articles to lock down articles if there was too much traffic. But over the years that has morphed to the point where - as you said in your intro that it is become more like a police. And maybe not out of design but just out of habit and culture it has grown to that kind of role.  I am surprised by this role. I have spoken a couple of times with Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales and he is always made it sound like a very very nonhierarchical system anyone can edit anything on the website. And in cases where facts are rapidly changing - if it is about something that is in the news - that access could be limited to experienced editors which he defined for me as people who have done it for four days. You are describing a more qualified core of editors than that.  Well the original conception was that an administrator should not have any more authority than anyone else they just simply had the keys to the closet so to speak. But I think that is changed over the years. As Wikipedia has become more prominent and more popular around the world the users have felt that they needed to start to have kind of a more privileged class to lock down articles and to maintain quality. And unfortunately there is no other strata except for administrators. So I believe that that role has been elevated to the higher functions that it has now.  Well what do you have to do to become an administrator?  Well it used to be fairly simple. You just had to prove that you could reliably edit and you were not doing anything wrong. These days it unfortunately has become somewhat of a hazing ritual. And you have to answer some very complex questions to prove you understand copyright whether you believe in the notability of certain topics or articles. And it is pretty extensive to the point where there are not as many folks applying for adminship as in the past. And whereas you used to have maybe 30 people to 50 people per month become promoted to administration status right now there is only about one or two per month.  Because it is just not that new anymore or not that cool anymore? Why? What do you think it is?  Well that is an interesting question. At Wikimania's conference we found that with looking at other Wiki sites there was a significant drop in 2007 not just in Wikipedia but other Wiki websites out there. And the theory these days that people are looking into is whether the arrival of Facebook and Twitter and other social media properties actually you know got the attention of users in much greater numbers than we thought. And maybe there was a drop all around in the blogging and Wiki world.  Well Andrew Lee thank you very much for talking with us.  My pleasure.  That is Andrew Lee author of the book The Wikipedia Revolution and himself an administrator of Wikipedia. 