 It is time now for All Tech Considered.   This month we are looking at the tech issues that most affect rural America. And today we go to a remote place where one of the most isolated Native American tribes is finally getting more broadband Internet service and it has not been easy. But if the Havasupai can install reliable high-speed Internet at the bottom of the Grand Canyon they could bridge the digital divide for other tribes. From member station KJZZ Laurel Morales reports.  The Havasupai Reservation is only accessible by foot by mule or by helicopter.   It is a five-minute flight from the rim of the canyon to Supai Village where 450 tribal members live in small homes made of panel siding and materials that can be easily hauled to the canyon floor. It is no wonder Internet access has been a challenge. But recently the Havasupai have had some help from the Oakland-based nonprofit MuralNet.  Oh yeah. Look at that. We got bars. Dang.  MuralNet's Mariel Triggs trains the Havasupai how to install a network box outside a home. Triggs with the help of Flagstaff-based Niles Radio built what is called a microwave hop from towers at the rim that beam a signal down to Supai Village.  And we were able to put up the network in just a few hours for less than the cost of a Toyota Corolla frankly.  Triggs says the geography was not the issue. It was policy holding up the process. The Federal Communications Commission finally granted the tribe a permanent license last spring. Now the Havasupai want to increase the signal but they have run into another hurdle. Another Internet provider says it may be interested in bringing broadband here. So now the FCC is dealing with concerns over competition.  We have the funds. We have the money. We could do it. We could put the materials that are needed in the towers and connect everything but we have to wait for all this policy stuff again to sort out.  Triggs says she is worried it could take years.  It just kills me because I feel like policy is actually causing the digital divide right now rather than helping to fix it.  Currently only seven Havasupai families can connect including the Balderramas. Sally Balderrama's son Evan is 9 but tests at the kindergarten level. A therapist flies down into the canyon twice a month to work with Evan and other kids with special needs.  It is not enough time. You know it is not enough. I wish they can stay at least for you know three to four days.  Thanks to the new Internet connection the therapist can work with Evan three times a week via Skype. Have you noticed a difference in Evan?  Oh yeah. Yeah. And the Internet is good - it is - but we have times you know when it pauses and it spins. And you know that is kind of frustrating.  One of the people trying to get the tribe more reliable high-speed Internet for kids with special needs is Councilwoman Ophelia Watahomigie-Corliss. She points to a whole host of other reasons - so teens can take high school courses online instead of being sent away to boarding schools so they can have better emergency communication during one of their many flash floods and for better health care.  We have different generations of telemedicine equipment that have just been sitting around collecting dust because it is been unable to be established. Broadband speeds high-speed Internet - those things are specific.  Meanwhile the FCC estimates at least a third of people living on tribal lands do not have access to high-speed Internet so the agency is giving tribes first dibs on applying for available broadband spectrum ahead of commercial companies at the beginning of 2020. But the problem is this. The FCC would require the tribes to build their infrastructure - the towers and antennas - in half the time required of major telecom companies. For NPR News I am Laurel Morales in Flagstaff.  