 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. In so many ways the Internet has shoved aside old-fashioned letters the kind written on stationery or letterhead. Email texting Twitter Skype and social media have also overshadowed faxes postcards and telegrams. But there is a website that serves as a bridge between the new technology and the old. It is called LettersOfNote.com. On it  Marilyn Monroe Elvis Presley Bruce Springsteen Charles Darwin John F. Kennedy and the list goes on and on. Shaun Usher came up with the idea for LettersOfNote.com and he joins me now from Manchester England. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me on.  Where do all these letters come from? I look at the site almost every day and I am always amazed at the stuff that seems to come in over your transom.  The majority come in from - they are already on the Internet. I mean there is so many archives on the Internet but they are not very accessible to the layperson. So it is just a matter of navigating these educational websites to find the gold as it were.  Let us mine through some of this gold.   Let us tick through some of the letters. I want to begin with a letter that is just so sweet. It is written by JFK and he is asking his father for a raise.   That is one of my favorites actually. That was in 1927 I think he was 10 years old. You can see the effort he is put into writing it - like literally you can see the shaky handwriting. If I could read the whole thing if you would like?  Oh let us hear it.   Dedicated to My Mr. J.P. Kennedy. My recent allowance is 40 cents. This I used for airplanes and other playthings of childhood. But now I am a Scout and I put away my childish things. Before I would spend 20 cents of my 40 cents allowance and in five minutes I would have empty pockets and nothing to gain and 20 cents to lose. When I a Scout I have to buy canteens haversacks blankets searchligs poncho things that will last for years - and I could always use it while I cannot use a chocolate marshmallow sundae with vanilla ice cream. And so I put in my plea for a raise of 30 cents for me to buy Scout things and pay my own way more around Philly.  John Fitzgerald Francis Kennedy.  And you know that he got that raise...   ...in his allowance. How can you say no?   He must have. You could not say no to that.   Some of these letters take you deep inside the world of the people who wrote them or the people who received them. I was struck by the correspondence that you have either to or written by Marilyn Monroe - and in particular a letter that she received just after she had admitted herself for psychiatric treatment.  Yeah there is quite a few Marilyn Monroe letters. But yeah this particular one Marlon Brando wrote to her basically telling her to stay strong while she was in the institute. It is a tragic thing to read - especially now knowing how she ended up. But that is one of the great things about this site. It is a whole range of emotions you go through reading these letters.  There is also a wonderful letter about receiving champagne from a German where you see a much more playful and coquettish Marilyn Monroe.  To be honest I do not know much about it. It was written to a member of the German Consulate.  Dear Mr.  Thank you for your champagne. It arrived. I drank it and I was gayer.   Thanks again. My best Marilyn Monroe. And that is it. So simple but it was just Marilyn Monroe.  I love the love letter from Johnny Cash to June Carter Cash.  It is beautiful.  Is not that lovely?  Mmm.  It' You got a way with words and a way with me as well - he writes like he is writing a song.   You can almost hear him singing this.  The fire and excitement may be gone now that we do not go out there and sing them anymore. But the ring of fire still burns around you and I keeping our love hotter than a pepper sprout. Love John.   Amazing. Amazing.  Thanks for the Dream - what is that letter about?  Thanks for the Dream is a letter from Roald Dahl. A little girl - she would been reading The BFG it was her favorite book. And in The BFG they bottle up dreams. So she decided to make her own out of glitter and the little bottle and some oil. And her dad helped her to make this little bottle. And she sent it to Roald Dahl and said here's one of my dreams for you - really lovely. So he wrote back and he said thanks very much for your dream. I will go into town later tonight and blow it into the rooms of some children.  Yeah.  Tonight I shall go down to the village and blow it through the bedroom window of some sleeping child and see if it works.  It is lovely a perfect reply.  Do you do this in part to help keep the art of letter writing alive to help people understand that it really is an art to actually write something down as opposed to just pounding out a message via email?  Yes. But to be honest I would be quite a hypocrite if I said that too much because personally I have not written letters for quite a few years. The last letter I wrote was a complaint letter - not the nicest. I just have not got the time. But there is a glimmer of hope. I think there will always be people that will write letters. Some people will just never come around to using technology like the Internet. But if there is a part of it that touches people in that kind of way and reminds them that letter writing is indeed an art and should be carried on then that is got to be a good thing.  I have been talking to Shaun Usher. He is the editor of Letters of Note. That is an online archive of correspondence. He is currently compiling a book about the project. Shaun it is been great to talk to you. Thanks so much.  Thank you very much. 