 One day not long ago Greg Storm DiCostanzo was listening to his local public radio station to coverage of the WikiLeaks story. Now when we at ALL THINGS CONSIDERED first heard about the latest round of documents released by WikiLeaks we thought about the national security implications and about what sort of story these documents tell about the war in Afghanistan. Well not DiCostanzo. Every time he heard about WikiLeaks he thought about WookieeLeaks.   That is right as in Chewbacca from the Star Wars movies. Greg DiCostanzo joins me now to explain to our listeners what exactly is a WookieeLeak. So Greg or I guess I should call you Storm. Mr.  Yes please.  Please tell us. What is the answer to that question? What exactly is a WookieeLeak? Mr.  A WookieeLeak is a Twitter hash-tag game and a hash tag is something where you can place a hash mark a number symbol in front of a word like say WookieeLeaks to create a searchable codeword that anyone interested in that subject can very quickly look up. So if you have this codeword you can create games usually revolving around puns. It seemed to me like it would make a terrific Twitter game to come up with these ideas about okay what if instead of from the war in Afghanistan there were leaks coming out of the Star Wars universe.  Testimony in some of the papers indicate that Chewbacca used mind-altering drugs while on Endor.  Mr.  Salacious.   Can you do me a favor? Can you share with me some of your favorite posts just read through a few of them? Mr.  Sure.  Insurgents targeted by Imperial stormtroopers revealed to be cute fuzzy Ewoks.  Protocol droid fluent in six million languages discharged for violating do not ask do not tell.  What is it about Star Wars that inspires such  boy you could say geekiness or perhaps you could say passion. Mr.  I think there were so many people who grew up with it as I did. I was seven or eight years old when I first saw it. And I think it is one of the those rare shared experiences anymore that cuts across so many different types of people. And the characters are terrific.  Storm thanks so much for coming in. Mr.  Thank you for having me.  That is Greg Storm DiCostanzo. He created Wookieeleaks. He is also half of the comedy duo Paul and Storm.   And one final note. Today we say goodbye to a true Jedi master Chelsea Jones.  She is been a key part of our team of ace bookers working the phones lining up the guests you hear on the program including countless lawmakers artists and experts on everything from medicine to message decoding to the official World Cup ball.  However impossible the assignment Chelsea got the job done with grace and with good humor qualities she will take with her to law school this fall.  Chelsea we are going to miss you. May the force be with you.   It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 