 All is not well with the nation's bird. The most comprehensive study ever on birds in America is out today. It is says many populations are in steep decline even as others are doing well. NPR's Christopher Joyce has this story on the state of the birds.  Scientists from the federal government universities and conservation groups - 23 organizations in all spent years on the State of the Birds a Study. They looked at birds from different habitats. Shorebirds like knots grassland dwellers like Meadowlarks and birds that live in deserts and in wetlands. The upshot?  If we were to give our nations birds a report card it would be somewhere in the C range.  Peter Marra is a migratory bird specialist who works at the Smithsonian Institution's National Zoo in Washington D.C. He helped write the study. The birds in trouble the report lists 232 species on its so-called watch list are in decline. That is especially true for those that live in forests and grassland areas like the pinyon jay and longspurs or in arid lands like the sage grouse. But numbers for other kinds of birds are on the upswing.  Several the coastal birds are indeed success stories.  Coastal birds like turnstones and or oystercatchers for example. Wetland birds that were once in danger are now doing better too like wood ducks and ibis. That is partly due to recent laws that have protected and restored their wetland habitats.  These populations come back when we create the habituate.  But Marra says bringing birds back from dangerous decline is sort of an admission of failure. The report emphasizes that it is better to focus on birds that are not yet in decline and keep them that way. At the National Zoo Marra has netted a catbird. It is gray and nondescript. Catbird's are not in trouble but Marra says that was true of the American passenger pigeon too. Once numbering in the billions then hunted and collected to extinction 100 years ago.  Our job should be preserving abundance keeping species common when they are common and not let the passenger pigeon example rule the day.  Most ducks for example are still abundant. Ken Rosenberg he is a bird biologist at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology and an author of the report says hunters as well as conservationists deserve credit.  We have put a tremendous amount of resources and money into wetland and waterfowl conservation because of the hunters who contribute financially.  Hunters help pay to protect wetlands where ducks live and breed. But Rosenberg says other bird habitats do not get much respect.  An opposite situation might be grasslands and arid lands that are mostly considered to be sort of wastelands to a lot of people.  But that is where lots of songbirds are in trouble birds like pipits and thrashers. Of course many species of birds have adapted as humans rearrange the landscape and some people say those that cannot - well species have always been going extinct.  Sure we can exist and we can have all the nature disappear around us but you know what kind of life will that be?  One way to keep the disappearances to a minimum is to track more birds to find out where they go and to protect those places. At the National Zoo Peter Marra holds a black-crowned night heron that his crew has netted. Last year Marra put a tracking device on this birds back.  Last year we determined for the first time that of the three birds that we tracked - one stayed in Georgetown. I was convinced it was in a dumpster eating prosciutto ends. The other two headed down to Florida.  Florida is a crucial stopover for migrating birds like the these and it is a state where bird habitat is disappearing fast. It is the kind of place the report says birds both common and endangered will need to survive.  So why do not we let him go. All right buddy. Here we go.  Christopher Joyce NPR News. 