 Sometimes it is great to have an astrophysicist at your fingertips. You know what I mean? Well we have NPR blogger Adam Frank and we asked you to send in your big questions about physics astronomy or science in general so that we can give you some short answers or rather so Adam can give you some short answers. Hi Adam.  Hey.  This question comes from Bob MacNeal. Adam take it away.  Bob asks what accounts for the strength of Earth's magnetic field and how does it compare to Venus and Mars. And also what about its longevity? How long does it last?  OK Adam let us break this down bit by bit. When I think of Earth's magnetic field I think of - OK we have got a North and South pole and if you take a compass that has a little piece of metal in it it will point north using that magnetic field. But what is it actually?  OK well basically what a magnetic field is is it is a force. It is basically a force field which extends through space. And what is happening in the earth is that stuff happening in the core is generating that magnetic field. And you know you can detect it with your compass but there is much more to it. In fact one of the things that the magnetic field is doing is it is protecting us from radiation coming from the sun.  OK let us talk about the next part of the question now which is how Earth's magnetic field compares to Mars and Venus.  Yeah well the interesting thing is neither Mars nor Venus really has much of a magnetic field at all. They are thousands of times or more weaker than the Earth's field.  Why is Earth's so much stronger then?  Well it is all about what is happening in the Earth's core. So you know thousands of miles below our feet the core of the Earth is actually - it is so hot that it is made of iron and nickel and it is molten. It is flowing. And you know we all know that metal makes good conductors right? Well here we have got flowing metal and that is essentially a current right? When you run a current through a wire what you are actually get - is that generates magnetic field. So in the center of the Earth since the Earth is spinning all that molten liquid iron is splashing around and spinning around. That creates huge currents and those huge currents create the huge magnetic field that we have.  Well thank you Earth's magnetic field.   I agree. Let us send it a card.  That is University of Rochester professor and NPR science blogger Adam Frank. And if you have a question about physics astronomy science in general just send us a note and we will put Adam's Ph.D. to good use. The show is on Twitter npratc. You can find us on Facebook as well. Thanks Adam.  Thank you. 