 If you are desperate to escape the heat that is now blanketing the U.S.  Gusev Crater on Mars. It is winter there. But if you go you will not be alone. You will also find NASA's robotic rover called Spirit. It landed in Gusev Crater six and a half years ago and since then it is been snapping pictures and exploring the red planet's watery past until recently. Now the rover is silent. It is in a kind of hibernation mode in order to survive the Martian winter. Almost every instrument including the communication radio is shut down. NPR's Joe Palca recently visited the rover control room at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena and he has this report.  Winter is always a tough time for a solar-powered outpost on Mars. Days are short the sun is low on the horizon and it is cold really cold more than 60 degrees below zero. Dr.  And that is colder than the rover has ever been on Mars.  John Callas is mission manager for NASA's rover program. Dr.  Now the rover was tested to that temperature here on the ground but that was seven years ago with a brand new rover. This is a rover that is quite senior.  And this was a mission that was intended to last 90 days not seven years. In previous winters the rover used battery-powered heaters to keep warm. But this year those heaters are shut off to save energy.  One the rover's been stuck in the sand for more than a year with its solar panels not pointing in the best direction and two those solar panels are covered with Martian dust so they are not as efficient at recharging the rover's batteries. That is why engineers let Spirit enter a deep sleep mode for the winter. Dr.  When Spirit will wake up is very uncertain right now.  It will only wake up when the days get longer and the solar panels are able to recharge the batteries. Callas says they have made a computer model to predict when that will be. Dr.  That model predicts that the rover might wake up sometime around the late September early October time frame.  But Callas says the model's calculations are based on several assumptions so it may not be very accurate. Dr.  The rover could wake up tomorrow if temperatures are warmer than we expected. That is why we have been listening every day. We have been listening every day for some time now.  If it does wake up its roving days are likely over. Two of its six motorized wheels have stopped working and mission managers are not optimistic about getting it rolling again. But Callas says if Spirit does wake up it still makes a great weather station and can help with experiments designed to understand the planet's core. On the other side of Mars Spirit is twin rover Opportunity is in much better shape. It also uses solar arrays for power and it also has a lot of dust on those arrays. But every once in a while Opportunity gets lucky. Dr.  Recently we had a cleaning event on Opportunity. Part of the dust on the solar arrays was blown off by some sort of wind event and now we have a lot more power and we can drive almost every day at this point.  Opportunity is on its way to a large crater called Endeavor. Scientists hope to find very old rock formations there. Opportunity started its 12-mile trek to the crater two years ago and it is about halfway there. Dr.  As we get closer to Martian summer we should be able to drive longer and longer each day.  Some of the instruments on Opportunity are showing signs of age but Callas will not make any predictions about when its mission will end. Why should he? Dr.  We are going to keep going until the rover stops.  And at least for now that day still seems a long way off. Joe Palca NPR News. 