 When Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt blasted through his own world record yesterday he barely had time to savor that incredible feat before people were asking how much lower can he go? Bolt slashed a full eleven-hundredths off his previous record time in the 100-meter finals at the World Track and Field Championships in Berlin.  9.58 seconds. So where could it stop? Is there a human speed limit? We are going to put that question to professor Peter Weyand a physiologist at Southern Methodist University in Dallas. He specializes in the biomechanics of running. Professor Weyand welcome to the program.  Thank you. It is nice to be here.  And what do you think? Can this record keep tumbling? Prof.  Oh absolutely. I expect that it will and I think there is a lot more to come than what we have seen so far.  Well how far? I mean Usain Bolt was asked about this right after the race. He said well maybe 9.4 seconds. Maybe that would be the limit but he said you never know. Prof.  You never do. And I would say that he is being conservative. I think it could fall a lot more than that. You know I would say in the next decade it would not surprise me if it goes below nine seconds.  Nine seconds? Prof.  Sure. It could go faster than that - and it probably will.  Well what determines this physiologically? I mean when you study the biomechanics of running and you have looked at these 100-meter sprinters what do you see that is contributing to these faster and faster times? Prof.  Well what they do is really remarkable because it comes down to how hard they can hit the ground in relation to how much they weigh and how fast they can do it. So for somebody of Usain Bolt's caliber he will hit the ground with a peak force of about five times his body weight. So if he is just under 200 pounds that is almost 1000 pounds of force. And they do that in about a tenth of a second or less. So what they do is hit really hard really fast.  And you are figuring that the more he runs the better he will get? Prof.  Yeah. I think the - when the ultimate - the question of the ultimate speed limit is posed it really comes down to a limitation of how fast the muscles can turn on. And we know biologically we are not anywhere close to that limit.  If you leave out anything you might chemically add to your body to get it to do things it would not ordinarily do what else can the human body do to improve on these incredible speeds that we are seeing? Prof.  Since the scientific understanding of speed is not terribly mature we are seeing some training programs that have come along in the last five to 10 years that seem to be a lot more effective. And those training programs being implemented progressively more effectively by these elite athletes certainly has the potential to bring times down by another half a second or so.  Now Usain Bolt is 6'5. He is taller than those other runners. Is that an advantage to him or not? I mean it takes him longer to get out of the blocks I guess but he has this enormous stride. Prof.  It should be a disadvantage being that tall and he is unusually tall. What sprinters do is a trade-off between starting and finishing. And when they start it is a disadvantage to be taller and bigger because it takes longer to get the body going. But once they get up to speed it is an advantage. So if you look at athletes how tall they are and how big they are by event specialty the sprinters that run the short indoor dashes tend to be shorter bodies because most of that race is the accelerating or speeding up part where it is an advantage to be short. But outdoors on the track for example if you go from 100 to 200 to 400 meters the specialists get progressively taller as you go from 100 to 200 and then again from 200 to 400. So what is remarkable about him he should be disadvantaged at the start but he is not. He gets out just as fast or faster than his competitors which is at odds in terms of muscle physiology and body size as we understand it currently.  What about the age factor for Usain Bolt here? He is 22. That is pretty young for a sprinter? Prof.  It is pretty young. Although in recent years we have seen sprinters continue to compete well into their early 30s. So he is got a lot of time left.  He could do a lot. Prof.  Oh yeah. Absolutely.  Professor Weyand thanks very much. Prof.  Okay. Thank you Melissa.  Professor Peter Weyand is a physiologist and biomechanist at Southern Methodist University in Dallas. 