 The online dating website OkCupid claims it uses quote math to get you dates. You go to the site answer a bunch of personal questions and you are matched up with people based on your answers. Here's how OkCupid describes their system. It is extremely accurate as long as A - you are honest and B - you know what you want. Well you may know what you want but what users probably did not know until yesterday is that the company sometimes manipulates dating profiles. OkCupid's president Christian Rudder disclosed this in a company blog post. He says the company has been running experiments with the data in the profiles. Christian Rudder joins me now from our New York bureau to talk more about this. Christian welcome to the program.  Hi I am glad to be here.  So your blog post reveals the results of several OkCupid experiments. One you strip the photos from people's profiles - right? - so that they had to decide...  That is right.  ...whether to pursue someone without the benefit of knowing what they look like - kind of  virtual blind date. But in another instance you tried to test the power of suggestion. How did you do it?  Well we did in two ways. We took people who we thought were not compatible and we told them that they were. And then we did kind of the opposite where we took people who we thought were compatible and told them that we were not. And then we basically monitored the conversations that these people had under these auspices.  How did they act?  The power of suggestion was powerful. It turns out that our own internal prediction our match percentage which is our guess at your compatibility was kind of half the story and then just the mere label was the other half.  So the mere suggestion that you are compatible is actually as good as really being compatible?  It seems like it at least you know from our experiment. Of course the best thing - that it is doubly powerful to both be a good match and be told that you are a good match which of course is what we do almost all the time.  Now you have essentially sent people on bad dates in the name of science. What is been the response to you revealing this?  Well my last interview - this British dude called me a sociopath so there is that.  What?   But I mean just to clarify we did tell people after the fact - after we had collected the messaging data that they had been in an experiment and we gave them the correct match percentage.  You know we asked some of our listeners to weigh in on twitter and several noted that in academia...   A fair and balanced medium if there ever was one.  Yes a fair and balanced medium. Research involving human subjects is limited. It is monitored. It is run by an institutional review board. How is what you are doing - what other companies are doing ethical?  I will just sidestep the fact that you at least have the charade of consent with these terms and conditions.  You call it a charade of consent. That is not a good sign.  Yeah I mean - yeah sure. But at the same time look when I was in college you get 20 bucks to go sit down in the - you know I went to Harvard and William James Hall is where they do all these psychology experiments. You need 20 bucks you are like sure I will go sign up for something and you sign a form. You have no idea what the experiment is. And so you - 'ecause if there is information it ruins the experiment. So this kind of good old days of past research standards - I do not even think - it does not pertain even there you know? I think also experiment is such a loaded word. You know I mean we test things all the time. I honestly cannot remember the last time we launched a significant feature on OkCupid that we did not at least roll out to ten percent of the user base beforehand just to make sure that it behaved equivalently with the kind of status quo.  You know another question that people asked us to ask you was did you give any consideration to the people who are genuinely looking for a relationship and feel betrayed?  Yes. We have a tremendous amount of empathy for our users. People are at that office because they like what we do. We create love in the world. We create sex - whatever people want you know? Yeah we do take that very seriously. Now the betrayed part - I feel like that is the misunderstanding part that I am kind of here to address or that I kind of poked in the eye in the blog post is that it is not betrayal. It is part of how we got to serving that first goal. Just consider the alternative for running the experiment that we ran. What if our algorithm had been garbage you know? Then if we had not run this kind of experiment and all these other kinds of experiments to test it then instead of running garbage at a thousand users or whatever it was in this experiment we are throwing garbage at four million people instead. And we do not - you have got to ask the question in order make sure you are doing a good job.  Christian Rudder he is president of OkCupid and author of the forthcoming book Dataclysm. Thanks so much for speaking with us.  It was my pleasure Audie. 