 Lasers are incredibly useful. Think of your CD player or the supermarket checkout scanner. And some lasers are so small they can fit on a computer chip. But those lasers look huge next to the latest development. As NPR's Richard Harris reports scientists say that they have built the world's smallest laser. And that it opens up all sorts of new possibilities.  Conventional wisdom has it that lasers can only be miniaturized so far. That is because to create a laser beam a light literally bounces around inside of a chamber. And since a light wave has a certain length it essentially needs room to turn around. But six years ago Mark Stockman at Georgia State University started thinking outside the box. Dr.  I got an idea to create a laser whose size is not limited to conventional limitation of laser.  Stockman realized that a rapidly vibrating electron sitting on the surface of a tiny piece of metal could actually produce laser light. Dr.  This is a nano-pendulum basically. It can be confined to almost any small place.  In 2003  figure out how to build these vibrating electrons or nano-pendulums in real life. They are called plasmons by the way. Many research groups took up the challenge. And in the past few months three have declared victory. One is a team that includes Mikhail Noginov at Norfolk State University. They made a laser out of a bead of gold that is so small you cannot even see it under the microscope. It is just 44 nanometers across. Dr.  For the comparison the thickness of the human hair is 50 micrometers. So our device is about 1000 times smaller than that.  Now Noginov did not just build the world's smallest laser for bragging rights. Lasers on this scale can produce tiny light sources which in turn can help scientists capture images of tiny things we really care about like the molecules inside our bodies. But the biggest potential here may be a new generation of computers. They could be 1000 times faster than computers today. But of course they have to be wired into a circuit. Dr.  If you want to use it in electronics you want to attach it with wires to the rest of the circuit.  And that is the challenge. It is not so easy to accomplish using Noginov's free-floating bead of gold. But other research groups are hot on that trail. One is in the Netherlands. Another is at the University of California at Berkeley. Xiang Zhang at Cal is author of a new paper In Nature. His group's current nano-laser can in theory be put right onto a computer chip. Dr.  All the processes we are using here is already used in the semiconductor manufacturing. So I would not think it will take too long to reach real application maybe a few years.  And those real applications could include future generations of computer storage. Impressed they can already cram a whole movie onto a DVD? Those are burned with today's lasers. Zhang says there is plenty of room for improvement. Dr.  For example you can use this to make very high density DVD recorders. You may be able to store the whole library into a one disc.  An entire library on a disc. Dr.  Right.  Wow. Dr.  That is a possibility.  Of course the most exciting thing about new technologies is you never know where they will lead. Richard Harris NPR News. 