 If you catch an Uber in Pittsburgh there is a chance your driver may not actually drive. That is because driverless Ubers hit the streets in Pittsburgh as of Wednesday. To be clear the ride-sharing service does have humans in the front seat to make sure everything goes smoothly. We wanted to find out more about the future of this technology and the risks so we have called on Timothy Carone. He is a professor at the University of Notre Dame and he wrote the book  Changes To Lives And To Businesses. and he is with us now. Thank you so much for joining us.  Thank you for having me Michel.  So people might have a picture in their mind about self-driving cars. Before we get into the details can you just tell us a little bit about where the technology is now compared to what people might imagine?  Well the technology is at a - I will call it a hyper cruise control where cars can control their driving and their movement down basic you know either highways or streets with traffic lights and kind of the normal pedestrian traffic. So you think about kind of the normal traffic patterns you encounter say driving to work. The cars are getting good enough to handle those situations. What they do not do is they are not capable of true autonomous operations. They cannot - you cannot get into a car today and tell it where to go and then sit back fall asleep for three hours when it takes you to work. That kind of capability is not present.  You know to that end Alex Davies from wired.com rode in one of these test-run vehicles on Wednesday. We talked to him earlier and he talked about you know what the guy in the front - or person in the front seat - actually does.   Throughout our ride the engineer would take over maybe every three four or five minutes. They are taking over in the parts where they are not completely confident in the car's ability to drive safely or to even drive intelligently at points.  Well you know taking over I have to say every three four or five minutes - you are kind of doing a lot of driving there. That does not seem very driverless to me.  Right. And I think this is a great way for people to see how far the driverless technology truly is. You know for example the Uber cars cannot change lanes so that three to four minutes could potentially be changing lanes in various turns in difficult situations that you know we find simple but the Uber technology is not quite prepared to do so. You know the cars are not quite there yet so having the driver in the car is absolutely key I think for the evolution of driverless cars to go to that next level.  So when do you think - and I - forgive me. I am asking you to speculate now. When do you think this all comes to fruition? When will getting that driver's license cease to be a rite of passage?  I would start to look in about five to eight years to start to see demonstrable changes in that. You know just like people you know the millennials and the younger generation they no longer opt for land phone lines when they get an apartment for the first time. They have their cell phone. They do not need a landline anymore. And that is what is going to start to show up are people who eventually you know - when people come to that age their parents are going to say you know what? You got an app on your phone to get whatever car you need. Let us save on insurance and let us save on everything and you just - you can get the car you need when you need it. And I think we will start to see that say five years out.  That is Timothy Carone. He teaches at the University of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business. He is also the author of  Changes To Lives And To Businesses which talks about the transition to autonomous systems like driverless cars. Thank you so much for joining us.  Thank you Michel. 