 The temperature in Death Valley Calif. this week has reached a searing 130 degrees. It could be the highest temperature ever accurately measured on earth - could be. But first it is got to be verified by a bunch of scientists. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports.  Back in 2005 Randy Cerveny was watching Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans.  And while it was a really bad hurricane I heard several news reports referring to it as the worst hurricane that has ever been seen. And that is not true.  For example a far deadlier one hit Galveston Texas in 1900. Cerveny is a meteorologist at Arizona State University and it occurred to him that there was no system to verify claims about world records for weather.  I suggested that we set one up and the World Meteorological Organization said hey that sounds like a great idea. Would you be willing to do it?  So he did. The World Meteorological Organization is the part of the United Nations that makes sure weather measurements around the globe get done in a standardized way. And since 2007 it is also made independent verifications of weather extremes like the highest ocean wave or the strongest wind gust. When a new claim to fame is made Cerveny puts together an ad hoc group of the world's best experts on that subject. They spend months examining every detail related to the measurement.  They are going to look at the instrument. They are going to look at the observation practices. They are going to look at the terrain and the overall weather that is going on at that particular location.  In addition to verifying new claims they sometimes reconsider old ones. Take what was supposedly the hottest air temperature ever measured on earth - 136.4 degrees Fahrenheit in Libya in 1922. When the expert committee saw the original log sheets they found data in wrong columns and other discrepancies put in there by a substitute weather official. They concluded that the high measurement was unreliable and recommended that it be ditched. Cerveny says the final decision is always made by one person.  Unfortunately that is me .  Right now he says a committee is examining a possible record-high temperatures set a couple months ago for the Arctic Circle - 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit. In addition to this United Nations group some countries convene their own expert panels to check out extreme weather measurements made within their own borders. One in the U.S. will be looking at that 130 degrees Fahrenheit reading in Death Valley and Dan Berk is not worried. He is a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Las Vegas Nev. which covers Death Valley.  I see no reason to believe on the surface that this 130 is incorrect. I think based on what I can see now that it will probably stand up.  Let us say it is real. Would it be the highest temperature ever accurately recorded? Well the official current world record is an earlier measurement in Death Valley - 134 degrees Fahrenheit in July of 1913. Some scientists have pointed out problems with that one.  I got to tell you that as far as world records and controversies surrounding them I do not think anything beats the 134 temperature at Death Valley.  So far though the national and global verification committees have not taken that one up. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News.  