 A Harvard psychology professor was recently forced to retract a paper that he had published and is now on leave from the university. The work of professor Marc Hauser has been the subject of an internal Harvard investigation. Hauser is a highly regarded scholar something of an academic star. He is written on the psychology of morality. Nicholas Wade has been covering this story for the New York Times and he joins me now. First tell us a bit more about professor Marc Hauser. Mr.  Well he is one of Harvard's most visible researchers. He is notable for the way he crosses disciplinary fields in a way that few scientists do and he is made quite a mark for himself.  Now in the case of the paper that he published in the journal Cognition that he is since retracted what was it that professor Hauser claimed that he is had to retract? Mr.  It was an experiment with monkeys in which he was trying to see if they could follow abstract or logical rules.  Whether monkeys could follow abstract or logical rules - and the research according to the article said they could? Mr.  Yes it did.  I gather though that it does not only concern the single journal article in Cognition. There is other work of his that is been under review? Mr.  Yes there are two other papers. Now with these two other papers their inquiry committee could not find any of the original data to support these experiments. So Hauser presumably told them that well he just lost the data and if they did not believe him he would go and do the experiment again which is exactly what he did. And he got the same results as originally published.  You wrote - in your story you mentioned a complaint from some years ago from 1995 about another experiment with cotton-top tamarin monkeys. The question was could they recognize themselves in a mirror? And there was some dispute as to whether they could I gather. We are not talking about whether you read the numbers on a voltmeter or in a centrifuge the same way. These are fairly subjective observations are not they? Mr.  Yes the particular experimental  that Hauser had is sort of tricky and does depend on one's personal observation. The rule is you should always get an independent observer to score your results as a check on what you think you have seen. It is not clear if this was always done in Hauser's experiments.  Were these findings of his - about the behavior of monkeys and at what level of primate we can expect certain learned behaviors - are they cutting-edge stuff? Are they important in the field so far as you know? Mr.  Yes they are very important. They are an extension to monkeys over a technique that has been developed for human infants. That gives you insights into what is in babies' minds which turns out to be a lot more than people thought. And Marc Hauser took this technique he applied it to his monkeys and he reported that there was lots more going on in the monkeys' minds than what we have thought. So it is very important research. So researchers in other universities are calling on Harvard to make clear exactly what the problem is and so that the integrity of the scientific literature can be maintained.  Is this handling of this matter by Harvard - is this sort of typical of a major research university's handling questions about research? Or is it unusually secretive? How would you describe it in your experience? Mr.  It is particularly secretive. Harvard has said really only one thing about the whole affair which is that it directed Hauser to correct three papers and explain to the editors what had gone wrong which - Hauser did the first but not the second. He did not explain to the editors what had gone wrong. And this actually throws into question not just these three papers but everything else that Hauser has published during the last eight years. So that is why other researchers feel that Harvard should come clean as quickly as possible and explain exactly what the problem is.  Nicholas Wade thank you very much for talking with us. Mr.  You are very welcome.  Nicholas Wade science reporter for the New York Times. 