 This is ALL PR News. I am ROBERT SIEGEL.  And I am Melissa Block.   That perky tune is a signal that it is time for All Tech Considered. And today we are going to consider the meme. That is M-E-M-E. And it is a word I have been hearing more and more lately including on this program. And Robert I asked you recently if you knew what it meant. You said you did not know.  Me me.   No I thought that might be Marcel Marceau mispelled.   Well it is not - although I have to confess I had no idea what it meant either and I started asking around the building. It did turn out to be something that the youngest members of our staff are very familiar with - the meme. Here' It has come to mean a phenomenon of popular culture that spreads like crazy through the Internet. It could be anything from a Hitler film with wacky subtitles...     Or a clip from a newscast turned into an Auto-Tuned song.    ...hide your kids hide your wife hide you kids hide your wife hide your kids hide your wife.  But if you are thinking that the word meme was coined by a 20-something hipster you would be way off.  I am Richard Dawkins. I am a retired professor at Oxford University. And I introduced the word meme in 1976 in my book The Selfish Gene.  That is right the renowned evolutionary biologist is the man behind the meme. He defined it as a unit of cultural transmission a new kind of replicator that follows the rules of Darwin's natural selection. As Richard Dawkins envisioned them memes propogate themselves by leaping from brain to brain.  Anything that is copied anything that is imitated so something like a tune that you hear whistled clothes fashions or shoe fashions or hat fashions. These things spread through the population like a measles epidemic and then they may jump to another population they may decay. The whole thing looks very like the spread of a virus.  Well then the task for you I guess back in 1976 was to come up with a word to describe this unit of cultural transmission that you are talking about. How did you come up with meme?  Well I wanted a word that was sort of a monosyllable a bit like gene and - but which had some kind of connection with the idea of imitation. I asked a classical scholar who produced a word mimeme as a unit of imitation and I abbreviated it to meme.  At what point did it occur to you that this word was taking off was sort of embedded in the language?  Well it became a meme in its own right I think relatively soon. And then of course it took off in a big way with the Internet.  I started Googling and stumbled upon a know-your-meme website which has a whole series of videos. I do not know if you have seen them.  No I have not.  Okay. So they take Internet phenomena that have spread through viral videos and discuss them and there is a sort of a scientific veneer to them humorously intended - a guy sitting in a white lab coat. And let me play you a tape of one. This is one of the examples they are talking about.   Good evening. Chief scientist Yada here on a breaking meme that we have been tracking over the last several days. Standing cat is the name of a viral video uploaded to YouTube in November of 2009 that - air quote - went viral in the spring of 2010.  Richard Dawkins we got a breaking meme there what do you think?  Yes well I mean I think anything which spreads virally through the culture through the memesphere is legitimate use of the term.  You know when I am thinking about you coming up with this in 1976 what was your knowledge of computers then? I mean had you thought at all about how the rise of the Internet - just the rise of computers in general might feed into what you were talking about or was it really beyond what you were thinking about?  Well I was pretty computer-literate for the time but neither I nor anybody else I think had any - very clear idea of what - this enormous flowering that would become the Internet. It is become the perfect ecology for memes. I mean the Internet is now one great memetic ecosystem.  Welcome to our world.  Welcome to the world of memes.  Yeah.  Ben Huh has taken Richard Dawkins' memetic ecosystem and made it his playground. He is the founder of the Cheezburger Network which runs a large collection of Internet humor and culture websites - 55 of them including...  Failbook.com which makes fun of Facebook Very Demotivational which is demotivational posters There I Fixed It! which is homemade kluges and we have got Engrish E-N-G-R-I-S-H funny.com which is horrible mistranslations from across the globe.  But here' Ben Huh thinks Richard Dawkins' definition of a meme an idea replicated from person to person is too expansive a definition in the Internet world.  Well me saying memes on the Internet it has a slightly narrower meaning.  You want a higher bar.  We want a cool velvet-rope club.   Ben Huh says an Internet meme has to have added value - an idea has to be reinterpreted. People have to add their own signature or stamp. Or it has to be a part of a broader grouping - an added layer of cultural zeitgeist.  Somebody will look at a viral video and say that is a meme. Well that is actually a viral piece of content that gets spread from person to person. But that is not necessarily an idea in and of itself.  I want to play you a few examples here and I want you to tell me in listening to them whether you would say they are meme or not meme. Okay here's one.    In it a cat identified as Rocky stands on its hind legs in order to look at something outside of a window.  Standing cat - meme or not meme?  Not meme. It is a viral video.  Not meme. Okay. Did not meet the standard.  Correct.  Okay. Here's another one.     Double rainbow oh my God double rainbow. It is a double rainbow.  Okay. This went everywhere. This is a guy - this is a song derived from video of a guy who saw a double rainbow and just went crazy.  Well the guy who saw the double rainbow happened to be on ecstasy and the guys who remixed that video into what they called Auto-Tuning are called the Gregory Brothers. This is actually a meme. The double rainbow meme has been mixed into many other things. So people have used double rainbow quite a bit actually over the last couple of months.  So meets the standard of a meme.  Absolutely meets the standard yes.  Okay here's one more.    Never gonna give you up never gonna let you down...  Okay Ben Huh what do we got there?  Well first of all I am supposed to be offended because what you have just done is what is called Rickrolling. And you have Rick rolled me. And therefore I should be insulted.  Sorry.  Yes. I demand an apology from ALL THINGS CONSIDERED right now.  And Rickrolling is?  So let us say I sent you a link. Melissa check out this great news story that I have found. And you click on it and you are confronted with this video of Rick Astley singing this song and there is this moment of being baffled - I do not understand. That is Rickrolling.  And meme or not meme?  The music itself and the song itself is what it is. It is a song. It is a music video. However what you just did where you Rickrolled me that is a meme.  So if I were to say to you that a meme really is defined as something that diverts many many many people from doing a good day's work what do you think?   Well that is probably an overly broad definition but it is like a huge distraction from everyday life that people can participate and remix and pass on.  And Ben Huh says Internet memes are pressure valves that let us blow off steam in our daily lives. At least that is his story - and he is sticking to it.    Never going to give you up never going to let you down never gonna run around and desert you. Never gonna make you cry never gonna say goodbye never gonna tell a lie and hurt you. Never gonna give you up never gonna let you down never gonna run around and desert you.  Consider yourself Rickrolled. This is NPR. 