 There is a lot about the sun that remains a mystery. NASA plans to send a probe into space Saturday that will get closer to the sun than ever before. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports it stands out in another way too.  This spacecraft is the first one that NASA has ever named after a living person. It is called the Parker probe. Ninety-one-year-old Eugene Parker learned of the honor when he got a call from the head of science at NASA.  And he said we have this idea about putting your name on it. Do you object? And I said no I guess not - rather flattering in fact.  Eugene Parker is a godlike figure among folks who study the sun. Sixty years ago in 1958 he predicted that the sun was constantly spewing out a stream of charged particles at supersonic speeds. He called it the solar wind. Back then this seemed laughable. Everybody knew that space was empty.  Well it is normal in the scientific world if you say something new and different that it will not be believed. So it was no surprise. And it was annoying but no surprise.  One of his critics even suggested he should go to the library and read up on the sun before trying to write papers about it.  And  the question is well what do they think now? Well they are all dead by now so it does not really matter.  Because he was right about the solar wind.   NASA says that is the sound of it from data collected by the Voyager 1 probe. He was right about a lot of other stuff too. You can open textbooks and read about the Parker spiral the Parker equation the Parker instability the Parker limit.  In our field he is definitely a celebrity.  Angela Olinto is an astrophysicist at the University of Chicago where Parker worked for decades.  Most of science is done by a lot of small steps by a lot of different people. He is one of those few people that we know that have made big breakthroughs a few times.  I went to see the Parker Solar Probe before it got packed into the rocket. Project scientist Nicky Fox and I put on white protective suits and went into a big clean room.   The Parker Solar Probe is the first mission to really journey into the sun's corona. So that is the atmosphere that we could all see on August 21 when we had a total solar eclipse.  During the eclipse the blacked-out circle of the sun was surrounded by a ghostly white ring. That is where this probe is going. After traveling for seven years it will come within 4 million miles of the sun's surface. It will be going really fast.  It will be moving at about 430000 miles an hour which is about 118 miles a second. We will be the fastest thing ever by an awful lot.  The spacecraft looks like a two-story-high flashlight wrapped in silver foil. The end that will point towards the sun has a heat shield to protect the probe from temperatures as high as 2500 degrees Fahrenheit. Mission system engineer Jim Kinnison says the heat shield is a 4 12-inch-thick layer of foam.  It kind of looks like the florist foam that you would use to make flower arrangements very similar in feel and in texture. This though is pure carbon.  Behind this shield it will be room temperature and that is where the instruments are. Fox says their measurements will hopefully help explain the mystery of why the sun's atmosphere is super hot 300 times hotter than the sun's surface.  And that just should not happen. It kind of defies the laws of nature. If you move away from a heat source it should get cooler. But for us it actually gets hotter.  Figuring that one out is something Eugene Parker is looking forward to.  It will be really fun to be able to close in on that problem eventually.  You know what else is fun? A rocket launch.  I have an invitation to go to the Cape and sit there close up and watch the thing go. It is my first rocket launch so it will be very interesting.  And it will be the first time the namesake of a NASA mission will get to see it blast off. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 