 The world of biology is undergoing a revolution. Genetics is no longer all about genes. Just as important are smaller sequences of DNA between genes that tell the genes what to do. NPR's Joe Palca reports on a new study that suggests changes in these non-gene sequences of DNA may hold the key to explaining how all species evolved.  To better understand this revolution in biology we have to go back about a century. At that time nobody knew exactly what a gene was. The concept was that a gene was responsible for a particular trait.  There was a gene for blue eyes a gene for curly hair etc. etc.  Gregory Wray is a geneticist at Duke University. But the notion of what a gene was became more concrete in 1953 when Watson and Crick showed that genes were made of DNA and that DNA was the chemical that allowed genes to be passed from parent to child.  We came to understand a gene as a stretch of DNA that codes for a protein and the protein is involved in producing that trait whatever we are interested in eye color hair so forth.  Proteins make up the enzymes and hormones and membranes that make eyes and hair and all the rest of our bits. Wray says biologists spent the next several decades exploring the steps involved in turning genetic instructions into protein.  How do you make a protein? What does that protein do? What is the piece of DNA that codes for that protein?  Scientists churned out tens of thousands of scientific papers in the latter half of the 20th century explaining all that.  And now we are really coming to realize that is only half the picture.   understanding this other half of the picture not about genes but stretches of DNA that tell genes what to do regulate them determine when and where they make proteins. Wray says humans have about 20000 genes but as many as a million of these so-called regulatory elements so scientists have a lot to do. Early work suggests these elements hold the key to understanding what goes wrong in many diseases. Craig Lowe at Stanford University says these regulatory elements are also crucial for how different species evolved.  There may not necessarily always be changes in the genes or gains of genes or losses of genes that are causing interesting adaptations but it is often how these genes are regulated.  Even tiny changes in when genes switch on as an animal is growing can have a major impact on its size or shape. Lowe and geneticist David Haussler have a paper in Science this week describing how some of these regulatory elements have changed over hundreds of millions of years of evolution. Haussler is at the University of California Santa Cruz.  There are many genes that have changed remarkable little between a mouse and a human for example and yet they behave differently within the cell and that is largely due to the fact that they are regulated differently.  Like many revolutions only a handful of people saw this one coming. David Stern is a geneticist with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. He says as recently as two decades ago scientists had little interest in the DNA that was not part of a gene.  We used to call this junk DNA and it is perfectly obvious now that what we used to call junk DNA is chock-full of the actual information that builds our organisms.  Geneticists still think a lot of our DNA is junk. Makes you wonder if there are any other undiscovered treasures in all that junk that might spawn another revolution in biology. Joe Palca NPR News Washington.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 