 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. And it is time now for All Tech Considered. Do you agree to the terms of service? For most of us the answer is yes after blindly scrolling down to the bottom to check the box. We have to if we want to use that cool new software we just downloaded or that smartphone we just bought. But what exactly are we agreeing to? Many of us do not know and do not care until it affects us directly especially when it comes to privacy. And one of the more recent dustups has been around Facebook's new messenger app.  Basically Facebook Messenger is the same thing as sending a Facebook message right within Facebook. But it is a separate app with some different features.  That is Reed Albergotti. He covers Facebook for The Wall Street Journal talking about Facebook's new feature for mobile phones.  A lot of people when they downloaded the Facebook Messenger app especially in the Android operating system they realized that they were being asked to give Facebook permission to access all sorts of things.  Things such as your microphone camera and location. That is when people started complaining to Facebook. They had downloaded something and agreed to the terms to use it but they had not realized until later all the things it could possibly do.  I mean Facebook has amassed the largest store of data of personalized information about people in the history of the world. Nobody not even the NSA has this much data stored on servers about people. So I think that is one of the reasons these privacy concerns flare up about Facebook from time to time - because I do not think most people realize really what they are giving up.  And of course it is not just Facebook. We agree all the time to terms for software and websites and we do it blindly. Why do we have these boxes to click on anyway? For that we turn to Omri Ben Shahar. He teaches contract law at the University of Chicago. He is co-author of the book  The Failure Of Mandated Disclosure. Welcome to the program.  Happy to be here Audie.  So the idea of mandated disclosure people might recognize as the terms and conditions. And you have studied this issue at one point actually printing out the Apple iTunes contract right? What did that look like?  Yes after I received one of their new versions on my iPhone. When I scrolled down and it said page 1 of 55 I emailed it to myself printed it out and it looked like a 30-feet long monster of eight-point font. So to display its enormity I hung it from the roof of the building of University of Chicago Library for all to see to try to exhibit the length and the pointlessness of trying to read the disclosure that we receive from all sorts of services.  Pointless even for an expert in contract law?  It is pointless probably even for the lawyers that drafted it because when I looked at that particular version I found many typos. It looked like probably not even the disclosers read their own texts carefully.  Now there is actually a little legal history behind that popup box - right? - like the idea that hey before you go any further you have got to click yay or nay.  There is actually a very interesting decision by then-Judge Sonia Sotomayor before she became a Supreme Court justice. In the early days of the Internet when we all used the program - I do not know if you remember it - Netscape Navigator.  Yes of course. .  Yep. So Netscape invented one of these data harvesting devices. But it wanted people's agreement. The problem is that their lawyers did not advise them to get expressed agreement by these mechanical clicks of I agree. Instead they only explained what they are doing in a link. And the link Judge Sotomayor held was not conspicuous enough. So people were denied the opportunity to give meaningful agreement to that. And I think most businesses learn that if they want to make sure they are not subject to lawsuits they have to get these agreements through the I agree click.  Now what is wrong with doing it this way? I mean yes it is annoying. Yes we should probably read them. But what is damaging about it?  There is nothing wrong. It is a very minor annoyance. But there is also nothing good. We know from studies that nobody reads it. And when I say nobody I am not rounding up a small number to zero.  .  The actual - the number is actually zero. So this is a fiction of informed consent. And if we think that there are reasons to protect people to help them make meaningful choices this particular regime is failing.  What are some of the alternatives that will A - let consumers know what they are getting into right?  Yes.  And corporations do not want to be sued. I mean what is the next option?  Well I think to know what the solution has to be we have to understand if there is a problem here. And so far the problem of websites collecting people's information seems a bit abstract. We do not have actual victims who say look what happened to me and ask for some kind of legal protection.  But you - you did say earlier that corporations are trying to protect themselves legally right? I mean they must perceive a problem then.  They perceive the problem that they might be sued for using people's private information without consent. And because of that they try to protect themselves to avoid lawsuits. But in the area of data collection and privacy concerns it seems that what is going on in this market is a grand bargain. The businesses give you these fantastic services Google Search Facebook and many other things for free. You in return give us the information and we commercialize it by selling it to advertisers and sending you targeted ads. Now if you do not like it you do not have to use our service. This is how we do it. If you are very sophisticated and you do not like it there are ways in which you can opt out. You can pay probably up to a hundred dollars a year to all sorts of online services that will anonymize you. But for many people the bargain is a great bargain. They do not really care that much about a hypothetical dignitary effect of having their information stored by someone. And at the same time they like very much that they do not have to pay.  Sounds like you are saying we should not bother reading those terms and conditions.  Oh absolute not - do not even try. You do not have enough time in the year. Do not feel guilty about it. What you should do is follow some of these watchdog and watch groups that circulate information about particularly annoying new practices like the one that you mentioned that Facebook is launching. And in the past this kind of consumer pushback has led Facebook and Google and others to scale back their aggressive data harvesting practices. To the extent that something truly upsets a large number of consumers we see that this - the mechanism forces businesses to respond to consumer demand.  Omri Ben Shahar. He teaches contract law at the University of Chicago. He is also co-author of the book  The Failure Of Mandated Disclosure. Thanks so much for talking with us.  It is been a pleasure.  OK one note for you privacy hawks who just know there are keys to look for in that gobbledygook if only you could understand it. For you there is Jonathan Zittrain law professor at Harvard. He says you can look for certain things in a website's privacy policy.  It will be important to see if that site reserves the right to sell your data or provide it to third parties that it selects.  And Zittrain says if you want your computer to warn you about less-than-kosher policies you can download a plug-in called Disconnect.  It will have ahead of time parsed that ridiculously long terms of service. And it will purport to give you red flags if there is something within it that is not normal.  Then again even Disconnect has its own terms of use. 