 Part of the experience of summer sleepaway camp is missing loved ones. And for many kids that includes their beloved cellphones. Most camps ban them. As NPR's Tovia Smith reports many campers and their parents are struggling to adjust.  When campers pulled up the driveway to the Cape Cod Sea Camps on opening day they were greeted by a series of signs welcoming them and warning them.  Send your last snap. Like send your last text.  Sixteen-year-old old Lily Hildreth  says going cold turkey was not easy.  When we first get here you like tap your pockets and you are like what am I missing? And it is like all of the time.  Fifteen-year-old Jack Riley  actually got the shakes sort of.  I would like think I got a text. And I would like look around in my pockets. Like where is my phone? And like oh wait I do not have my phone. I am at camp.  It is like vibrations that are not there.  Resident camp director and psychologist Stephen Gray Wallace stands in front of a circle of campers in their weekly meeting where he is often counseling them through their withdrawal.  They say when you hear your texts come in or your - a buzz it is addictive .  Scientists continue to study what brain chemistry might be at work to make social media seem so irresistible. But meantime Wallace says camps like his have been tweaking their rules trying to find the right balance for kids who never disconnect. First the rule was phones for emergencies only on trip days. Then texts and calls were allowed on trips. But Wallace says the lure of social media proved too strong.  It got to the point where it was just unmanageable. We were literally sinking you know in this morass of disciplinary situations.  Now kids are allowed a social media fix on trips. But at camp they are back on the wagon and it only took them a couple of weeks before many campers started surprising themselves.  I have not read a book in like five years and I just recently started reading one. I forgot how much I loved reading.  Sixteen-year-old Jonah Backman  says he is totally detoxed.  Oftentimes I will sort of just find myself walking around like enjoying like you know - going down to the ocean just sort of being there.  Looking over the bluffs at the Cape Cod Bay it is such a picture-perfect scene. Kids still fight the urge to snap and post.  This - I mean this view - you definitely want your friends to see it. I mean how could you not want to brag about this?  But 17-year-old Agie Chamblin  says when she is not worrying about selfies she can actually be more herself. And she is made friends she otherwise would not.  Well I think a cellphone's a virtual wall that you put up for yourself. You are on your phone and it is like you do not need to communicate with this person. You just do not have to.  Sixteen-year-old Brooke Hackel  agrees. What first felt restrictive now feels liberating and it is completely cured her FOMO or fear of missing out that she gets from seeing everyone else's happy posts.  I feel like social media stresses me out a lot and so not being able to have it prevents it completely. There is nothing you can worry about because it is out of your hands.   Jailbreak.  Yeah.  Walking past a dodgeball game Chamlin says it is been hardest to cut the cord with her parents.  When things happen - like oh this person is not being nice to me. All I want is to hear my mom's voice. But it also forces you to like be innovative I guess and figure it out.  Sometimes Camp Director Wallace says the pushback actually comes from parents.  They want to be on the phone. They want to be involved. They want to be engineering an outcome.  He is actually caught parents smuggling phones in.  I have to laugh yes. I say it with shame as well .  Janet Shapiro  from a suburb of Boston was one of those moms but she quickly learned her lessons.  He was calling all the time - too often. I did not want to hear from him.  This year she did not smuggle in a phone but turns out her son got resourceful and did it himself. Now she is hoping he gets caught. Tovia Smith NPR News. 