 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. And now a shaggy dog story. Scientists have located the genes that make a poodle's hair curly and a collie's hair long and straight. But the research is not so much about hair as it is about how genes cause disease. NPR's Christopher Joyce reports that the hair of the dog has a tale to tell.  Before we get to the science let us get the skinny on dog hair from a hands-on expert dog groomer Patty Dunn who works at Greater Annapolis Veterinary Hospital in Maryland.  Ms.  This is the kennel. This is where they board.  She gamely tries to describe the kinds of dog hair she has to work with. Ms.  This one is an Old English sheepdog on the left. He is just had his hair cut. They definitely have really long hair - coats.  OKy so dogs wanted no part of this. We retreated and I pressed on in my investigation of canine coiffure. MS.  A poodle would definitely give you more options as far as a haircut goes than a border collie. Poodle kind of has like an afro that you can fluff up and do anything you want to whereas the border collie lies flat so you have fewer options.  And that difference is exactly why geneticist Elaine Ostrander studied dog hair. Ms.  So if you think about a dog's coat it can be long it can be short it can be curly it can be wavy it can be straight it can be wiry it can be soft.  Ostrander who works at the National Human Genome Research Institute wanted to know how genes create all this variety. So she studied about 1000 dogs from about 90 different breeds. She searched dog DNA the way a chef might compare recipes for souffle. What changed ingredient makes one different from the next? What mutation gives an Airedale his curls and a golden retriever her tresses? What she discovered and published in the journal Science was that a mere three genes control all the different kinds of dog hair. Ms.  This particular study has demonstrated to us how you can take a seemingly really complex trait - you can go to the dog park and every breed of dog looks different than other breed it seems. And yet you know when we get down to the molecular biology we really find that it is combinations of three different genes that accounts for all that variation - and that is incredible. I mean I - 20 years ago I never would have predicted that.  Now this actually has value in studying disease. Human and dog cancers are very similar so the fact that only three genes can create so much variation in hair might provide clues to how genes cause so many cancers in dogs and humans. Ms.  Whether or not the exact same gene is mutated in humans does not really matter. It is telling us the pathways that are involved the kinds of genes that are involved and the kinds of changes in those genes that lead to those diseases.  Ostrander admits she had help with her research from one particular border collie. Ms.  Tess. It was short for Contessa because she thought she was really something. I got her when she was 9 weeks old. And for the first 10 years of my career she came to work with me most days.  Tess has since died but is remembered as spending her time in the lab herding graduate students. Christopher Joyce NPR News. 