 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block. When you look something up on the Internet where do you go? If you answer Google you have got lots of company. Many of us use Google for practically everything from search to email to social networking. Well some say Google is acting like a monopoly and CEO Eric Schmidt was on Capitol Hill today to defend the company. NPR's Yuki Noguchi has been following today's Senate hearing. And Yuki is Google actually being accused of violating antitrust law here?  Not formally Melissa. The European Commission and the Federal Trade Commission are looking into this. They have opened inquiries into the company but there is no actual charges. The senators are obviously interested enough to hold these hearings but on the whole you know they seemed - the tone today was more fact-finding than finger-pointing.  And Congress also heard testimony from some of Google's competitors. They say the company is not behaving properly. What did they tell Congress?  Well essentially they are saying that Google's search engine is rigged. And you know Yelp is one of the companies that is saying this. This is a consumer review website. And it says that Google steals its content then it - you know when you do a search for say a restaurant that Google puts its site - its own site over Yelp's. And this is what Google's Eric Schmidt had to say about that.  Not every website can come on top. It is a ranking problem. And there are definitely complaints from businesses who want to be first in rankings even when they are not the best match as best we can tell for user search.  But Yelp and you know some of the other companies dispute that also. I mean they say that Google's like a mob boss. You know they say that Google threatens to delist Yelp from its search results if it does not comply with this system. And of course Yelp cannot really afford that because it depends so much on Google for traffic.  It sounds Yuki like a skirmish between private companies. There are of course other search engines. How do they argue that this is in fact a monopoly?  Right. So this is what Google would say. Google would say you have a choice. You do not like us go somewhere else and take your ad dollars there. But you know that is not the only thing that is stoking interest here because Google's empire is so rapidly expanding. It is so powerful in so many ways. You know it is changed the way we interact with news with social networking Smartphones. And when you have a growing grip on power like that it makes regulators nervous or at least very attentive.  It is interesting that Google's biggest rival Microsoft was not on the panel before Congress today. Why not?  Well just because their nametag is not there does not mean they are not actually influencing this. I mean Thomas Barnett is a private attorney who was testifying today. He represents an anti-Google coalition called FairSearch. And Barnett has represented Microsoft at least in the past and of course Microsoft is a member of FairSearch. So you could say actually Microsoft did have a seat at the table.  OK. Now Microsoft has faced anti-trust cases itself both in the U.S. and in Europe. Is there a comparison to be drawn here between Microsoft what it faced and what Google conceivably could face?  Well you know that is debatable. Microsoft was charged in the late 1990s with bundling together its operating system with its browser. And of course back then everyone was using Microsoft operating systems. So the charge was that Microsoft leveraged that near monopoly to force people to use its Internet browser. Microsoft of course ultimately settled that case in the U.S. and paid hefty fines in Europe. Now Google would say that that is not a good comparison because the Web is very different. You can click away from Google if you do not want to use it. But you know the truth is any time you have a company that is as successful and as dominant as Google - or Microsoft before it - you are going to draw scrutiny. And you will have those rivals who have a financial and possibly legal interest in saying very loudly that there is an anti-trust issue.  OK. NPR's Yuki Noguchi. Yuki thanks so much.  Thank you Melissa. 