 Instagram is rolling out new features to stop bullying on its platform and we spoke about it yesterday with the company's head Adam Mosseri. He used to work at Facebook and he says it was there that he learned how social media could become a weapon. Mosseri developed the News Feed feature that amplified misinformation and propaganda during the 2016 election. He told me how that experience changed Facebook and his own approach to developing tools for social media.  In the early days we were so excited and optimistic about the value that comes from connecting people and just quite frankly under-focused and somewhat naive about the negative consequences of connecting people at scale. And so we were just invested way more on one side than the other. And the balance had to shift. And that is the major lesson for me and I think for most of us at Facebook the company over the last few years. And this is not just about making a decision about how many people work on one project versus another. It is an actual cultural shift where you have to shift people's mindsets. When they have an idea that they are excited about you need to get them to a place where they naturally not only think about all the good that can come from it but how that idea might be abused.  Right. I mean just for context for people you helped design - or designed the News Feed for Facebook right? And that was the feature essentially that was manipulated by trolls and foreign actors in the 2016 election. But now you are in charge at Instagram right? So what is your lesson as a person who designs these things about like how a tool can be manipulated?  The most important lesson to me is that when you build a new feature or idea - we will come up with something benign - let us say events on Facebook did not exist and we are like oh we are going build events. It will be great. People will be able to schedule a time and get together and hang out in the real world. That is awesome. That is exciting. We should be enthusiastic about that but we need to also think about how events might be misused. Could spammers use it to try and get people to - I do not know - buy fake iPads? Or could people use it to try to get people that they want to meet in real life in nefarious ways? You have to approach it with like an adversarial mindset. Imagine I am just a bad actor. There is all sorts of bad actors - ideologically motivated financially motivated and otherwise. How would I abuse this thing? And then you need to try and design the experience to mitigate or address those abuses first class. And then on top of that you try to identify the problems proactively and remove them. That is a...  How big a shift was that for you?  It is a big shift. I mean it is a - it makes everything you do much more complicated because honestly trying to build a feature that people use is difficult enough. But the people - the bad actors that you are combating at a - as a platform of our scale are really sophisticated. But that is just the way we need to run our company at this point.  It is interesting because I think there was a time when Silicon Valley would basically say to us like we are just a platform making things and it is a tool. And like who knows if other bad things happen? That is not really our problem. I get the sense you guys realize it is your problem.  We have realized that we have a lot of responsibility to understand how our platform is used and to address any abuses whenever possible. There is another tension though where we want to be careful about overstepping. There are certain things that we cannot and should not do given our scale. We are not going to weigh on one ideological point of view or one religious point of view for instance. But yes I think one of the big experiences that the industry as a whole has happened - has had over the last few years is to really become more aware of the negative consequences of what we do and to try and proactively embrace that responsibility and address those issues.  Adam Mosseri thank you so much for speaking with us.  Absolutely. Thank you so much for the time.  Adam Mosseri is head of Instagram. We should note Instagram's parent company Facebook is among NPR's financial sponsors.  