 When it comes to this convergence between movies and computer screens many of you may turn to Netflix. Well today we are going to meet a new set of characters who are putting a lot of energy into that website. They are serial raters and some of them have rated - as in given somewhere between one and five stars - to as many as 50000 films. Alexis Madrigal covers technology for theAtlantic.com and he recently wrote about Netflix and what exactly makes these prolific online film critics tick. Mr.  There are all kinds of different people. I think one of the things that I have found is that once people figure out that Netflix has an algorithm that it has a computer program that tries to find the particular movie needles out of the entire movie haystack lots of people just want to start training it. They want to make it do exactly what it is that they want.  This algorithm is - is it it takes your preferences based on your ratings and sort of finds the movies that it might be perfect for you that you have never thought of. Mr.  Yes. Just think of an algorithm like a big flow chart. You sort of say hey I want to watch a romantic comedy. And it takes that input and says based on all these other things that you have said we know all these things about you and all these movies that you have rated you will probably like -it crunches the numbers - Sleepless in Seattle.  Spits it out and... Mr.  Spits it out yeah.  And hopes that you will then get it. Mr.  Exactly.  These people I am really interested in the characters that you have talked to. What exactly is driving them? Is it a hope that they will just get these magical movies that they have missed? Mr.  Well you know I think so. I mean some of them just kind of started. But I think some people really get into the game aspect of it. Like if you think about rating Netflix movies it is kind of functioning on this really basic game mechanic. Like you rate a movie your score goes up by one and then you are put in a slightly more complex situation. It actually strikes me a lot like really simple casual games that have become really popular online like Zynga's Farmville. You know it is a really basic nurturing game. You are growing stuff. You are growing like corn. And this is kind of the same thing except what you are growing is this little avatar of yourself that only knows about movies and you.  How much is this trend - say something about personal preferences becoming more and more important you know on Facebook on you know Gmail - I mean getting these preferences sort of popped back into the account. Mr.  Yeah I think of it as kind of - a kind of cyborg-type situation where people realize that there is a machine out there that wants to reshape itself to meet their desires. That is what really is fascinating to me about this particular topic -  is that if when you start training algorithms you start changing the way the system is working on your behalf.  Can I just ask you about these characters you have interviewed? I mean what are they doing? Are they sitting on a computer all day watching movies -getting on rating a thousand movies and then going on to the next movie? Mr.  No I think you know what is interesting is they are surprising in their normalcy. Take Josh Glenn who I interviewed. He runs a website High Lowbrow.  He is a serial rater. Mr.  Yeah he is a serial rater. He rated 2200 movies in one morning. I mean that is a little bit weird. On the other hand like you know people do all sorts of weird stuff with their Sunday mornings. It did not take that much time you know. And I think sometimes when we hear about online activities we sort of move it into this different realm where it is automatically kind of weird. You know my next-door neighbor has this like '57 Thunderbird and he has spent no less than 30 hours in the past three days working on this car. And I mean what is that? That is probably a couple thousand ratings right there.  Yeah probably. Alexis Madrigal covers technology for theatlantic.com. Thanks for joining us. Mr.  Thank you. 