 So as we have heard there are apps for weight loss but way back in prehistoric analogue times back in the 20th century companies promised the secret to slimming down with the technology of their time. And still today you will find it every cafe and grocery store - the artificial sweetener. And if that is not something you think of as technology well according to Carolyn de la Pena the sweetener is one of the 20th century's most significant technological advancements. Professor de la Pena teaches at the American studies department at the University of California Davis. She is the author of a new book called  The Story of Artificial Sweeteners from Saccharine to Splenda. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  And when do we mark the dawn of artificial sweeteners? Prof.  Well artificial sweeteners began with saccharine which was invented in the 1870s but the dawn for consumers came in the early 20th century when people found out that quite unbeknownst to them saccharine had been replacing sugar in a lot of carbonated beverages and canned foods. And it was actually a part of that progressive era where consumers sort of revolted against impurities in their food. So it did not start out well.   use it and you will be slimmer you will look better. Prof.  Right. And so that actually occurred after saccharine appeared on the market the first time. So after World War II when people had to try to find other forms of sweetener when sugar was rationed consumers began to experiment with things like honey. And saccharine was one of the things that people also used.  Well by the 1960s people could see a commercial like this one on television. This was for Coca-Cola's sugar free this is a saccharine-flavored Coke substitute pre-Diet Coke era. It was called Tab.    Do not you want to have a good shape? He wants you with a good shape. Shape with Tab.  Tab can help you stay in his mind. It is sugar free and it tastes better than any diet cola.  For those of you who never understood why there was a counterculture in 1968 there is a commercial from those days aimed at women. You will stick in his mind if you have a good shape with Tab. Prof.  I love that ad. Yeah and I think you have to put that in this context when suddenly foods had appeared so much cheaper and new advertising messages that especially for women really surrounded them with this message that you know food is happiness and you should indulge yourself. And at the same time there is the competing message that women have to be thin. So products like Tab really cleverly positioned themselves as able to do these two things.  You write about artificial sweeteners as a feature of technology. I looked this up on the Web. Here's a lab experiment as far as I am concerned. In a saucepan over medium heat reduce merlot to half volume add tomato paste mustard and seasonings whisk until smooth add cream and simmer the sauce until reduced by half and thickened. Is that technology or is that just cooking? Prof.  That is a great question. Yeah absolutely. I mean cooking is technology. Cooking is chemistry. Our food products are technologies. I think what is so different about artificial sweetener is that it is a technology not only created in the lab as are so many things that we eat these days but that also really fundamentally transforms our experience of sweet. Artificial sweeteners that we use today are between 200 and 600 times per part sweeter than table sugar. And so in that sense it is a technology that not just sort of does what we think it does which is removes calories from what we are ingesting but I think also has an impact on how we experience sweetness and then how we continue to desire it more.  Yeah we become addicted to sweetness. Maybe not sugar but to that pleasant sensation. Prof.  Absolutely. There are studies that are coming out now that do show a correlation between artificial sweetener consumption and weight gain quite the opposite of what we think we are getting when we opt for those diet sweets.  Well Professor de la Pena thank you very much for talking with us. Prof.  Oh you are welcome. It is been a pleasure.  That is Carolyn de la Pena who is the author of  The Story of Artificial Sweeteners from Saccharine to Splenda. 