 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. In All Tech Considered today two stories about how 3-D technology is changing medicine. We start with a story that combines the work of a world-famous sculptor with three-dimensional imaging. Auguste Rodin's famous hand sculptures are on display at Stanford University. A Stanford Medical School professor found them fascinating replications of real-life disease. With the help of some iPads and the pictures from the patient's CAT scans. Those sculptors are now a teaching school. Here's NPR's Laura Sydell.  When Dr. James Chang was a medical resident at Stanford he used to relax on the grass at the Sculpture Garden at its Cantor Arts Center. It is filled with some of Auguste Rodin's most famous works.  And the more I looked at the Rodin sculptures - I was training in hand surgery at the time. And I focused on the hands. And if you look at each hand they are exactly like the actual medical conditions I was treating.  The works include the Burghers of Calais a group of five defeated noblemen. Chang noticed that one had fused fingers.  We have children with Apert's syndrome that have a similar fusion of the fingers and an open thumb. And we release the fingers to put into a more natural condition.  When he finished his residency in 1998 Chang joined the Stanford faculty in plastic surgery. And he decided to consult an expert on Rodin. He went to Bernard Barryte the curator of European art at the Cantor. What made Rodin a revolutionary artist says Barryte is that he broke from the classical traditions of idealizing the human form.  He wants to render it warts and all. So if the hand is the result of an accident that sort of enhances it and it enriches its meaning for him. And he uses that to render figures much more expressive and much more powerful.  Barryte says as a student Rodin also liked to visit the Musee Dupuytren in Paris a museum filled with pictures of diseases and human deformities. Initially Chang used Rodin in his classes by having his students come look at them and diagnose what they saw. He says Rodin was kind of a gateway for students to gain an appreciation of the importance of the hand.  So many patients come tell me I wish I could do this or I would love doing this with my hands. And I want the hand surgery trainee to understand that patient's emotions are very much tied into their hands. And that is what Rodin does in his art. He expresses lots of emotions from his hands.  But a couple of years ago he had another idea. He consulted with Stanford's Division of Clinical Anatomy where they have been creating a library of 3-D scans of human bodies with various diseases. He gave them CT scans of his patients who had the same conditions Rodin had sculpted.  And they would superimpose my patients on CT scans into the hands. And now I am able to show the anatomy in three-dimensions underneath or inside Rodin's Hands.  Exactly how this is done can be seen now at Stanford's Cantor Arts Center. Chris Crowe a medical student who works in Doctor Chang's lab moves the lens of an iPad around a display with one of Rodin's hands. From every angle the iPad shows what would actually be underneath the skin. One of the hands has a lump near the wrist.  When you look at just the sculpture we see the cyst. And we do not know where really the cyst is sitting in relation to other structures. And so using the CT of a real patient you can see that the cyst lies very close to an artery.  Crowe says for aspiring surgeons like himself seeing the cyst in three-dimensions actually helps him understand how to make choices about surgery.  Generally speaking these cysts lie under arteries and make it a difficult thing. And that might not be appreciated until you see the CT showing the artery running over the cyst.  Although this has largely been a project about teaching it is gotten many of the participants imagining further uses for the technology. Matt Hasel is the project manager at the Division of Anatomy. And he and his colleagues have been thinking about ways to use this on real patients.  We would take your scan data drop it on the iPad and actually you know a doctor could sit with you and demonstrate what is going on in your own anatomy.  For example if you had a broken hand you could see the fracture and all the anatomy around it. Hasel says there is still a lot of work to do before they can make this happen with a live human. But he says this project has inspired him to find a way to make the technology work in a doctor's office and in the operating room. Laura Sydell NPR News San Francisco. 