 And now to a little more about that man the Higgs behind the Higgs boson - Peter Higgs. As we just heard Higgs and his team proposed the existence of the so-called God particle back in the 1960s. I am joined now by Victoria Martin who is a lecturer in physics and astronomy at the University of Edinburgh. She has studied with Peter Higgs and worked with him at CERN. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  I gather you spoke with Peter Higgs today. What did he tell you?  I had a very brief phone conversation with him and he actually said it is been quite a tiring day with all the media interest but also a very exciting day to finally see the results.  And do you think that he actually had expected to see his theory proven or supported?  I think he is probably always been a bit kind of quietly confident that it was the correct theory but you know it had to be experimentally tested so he was waiting until we managed to be able to test the theory that he came up with and find the Higgs boson. So I think - I am sure he is very happy today that we have finally done that.  I want to ask you about this particle's nickname the God particle. What did Higgs who I have read is an atheist think about the nickname the God particle?  I am sure - I actually have not ever asked him this directly but I am sure he does not like it. Almost all particle physicists detest that name. It was actually Leon Lederman who is a Nobel laureate that came up with it. But he was trying to call it that goddamn particle and that was not allowed by the publishers so it became the God particle. So the name stuck and I think it is fine because then people know what we are talking about. But secretly all of us hate the name the God particle.  Well back to Peter Higgs. Tell us about what he was like to work with.  I first met him when I was an undergraduate student doing my bachelor's degree at the University of Edinburgh and he was one of my lecturers. And I remember him as being quite a tough lecturer kind of no-nonsense lecturer but he also was quite inspiring as a lecturer. I do remember one particular moment when he was talking about symmetries where I finally for that one instant understood the very fundamental symmetry in our universe. I had this lovely picture in my head which I still carry around to this day because it is a symmetry we use a lot in particle physics.  And I suppose this comes with the territory of being a theoretical physicist but how did he handle the idea of having this grand theoretical proposition out there for decades before there was any experimental proof of it?  Historically when Peter came up with the theory everyone liked it. But it was not actually needed to explain the rest of particle physics. That came out a bit later when we started to think about the patterns of the different subatomic particles that we found. And people realized that they needed to use the thing we call now the Higgs mechanism to explain the reason why these particles have a mass why they have a substance. And I am sure he is been - in following you know our experimentalists looking for the Higgs boson all this time but he you know he is never said please find it. He is not a grandstanding man that would really want us to do anything but the proper scientific method that we actually employed to discover this.  Well was he constantly surrounded perhaps unbeknownst to him by people whispering that is the Higgs that is the Higgs Higgs boson that is him over there?  Yes yes. So he retired when I graduated back in 1996 but he does still come into the department and often I call them science groupies but you see some younger scientists say oh look there is Professor Higgs and they do want to talk to him. Occasionally he is asked for his autograph and for photograph and for interviews and things. I think he finds this slightly bemusing that he is almost a minor science celebrity where he is actually a very modest man in reality.  Victoria Martin thank you very much for talking with us.  Thank you very much.  Victoria Martin a lecturer in physics and astronomy at the University of Edinburgh. We were speaking of Peter Higgs. 