 This is ALL PR News. Guy Raz is away. I am Audie Cornish. We begin this hour with a milestone like no other. Earlier this week someone somewhere in the world pulled up a chair to a computer opened a Web browser and logged on to Facebook for the very first time. That person was the 500 millionth to register on the site. In a moment a conversation with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. But first a little bit about how we got here how Facebook became a cultural force and changed the way half a billion people communicate. It all started in a dorm room in 2004 as a way to connect with other people at college. Mr.  Then you know later on in the all-freshman dining hall or at one of those super-awkward ice cream socials it might be much easier to start up a conversation.  That is Chris Hughes a junior at Harvard. He is co-founder of the getting-to-know-you website thefacebook.com.   Thefacebook.com started at Harvard only about seven months ago. Mr.  A  book of everyone's little mini picture and then like two or three tidbits of information.  It has spread to nearly 70 colleges and universities almost 200000 users.  I like listening to music...  Basketball.  ...board games.  Making cool things out of foil. Mr.  I do not see people sitting around in dorm rooms and dreaming about being friends with people.  Reports today suggests that Yahoo may be interested in buying Facebook that is the social networking website 1 billion - with a B.  Well you know these social networking sites let people post pictures and create Web page talk to each other.  This is a busy time for the social networking business called facebook.com.  Social network.  The average user has 130 friends on the site.  Really really genuinely... Mr.  The Top 10 Signs You are Obsessed With...  Hate Facebook. Mr.  ...Facebook.  The social networks are profoundly changing the definition of what we consider private.  Starting today anybody can join which has provoked a backlash among some members... Mr. MARK ok.com People like exclusivity.  Nine million or so people online... Mr.  You know that is not something we are going to talk about.  Facebook the website is inviting technology companies and programmers - add features to the site.  Only people at your own school or people you know can see it.  They are aiming to overtake MySpace...  Sketchy people can get on it now.  ...and become the social operating system for the Internet.  Its popularity is exploding.  My name is Jillian and I am a Facebook addict.  Three hundred million active users on Facebook and about half of them log on on any given day.  At first it was really just Internet thing like MySpace which I never really liked...  This is exploding so quickly...  ...then I realized that it was a whole lot more.   I love how it lets you update your status - like with the most insignificant things you are doing in your life. Ms.  I did not know what Facebook was.  Ms.  And now that I do know what it is I have to say it sounds like a huge waste of time.   Facebook.  Facebook.  This week after just six years the social networking site Facebook reached...  Facebook everything from...  Five hundred million...  That is remarkable news.  ...that is the mind-boggling number of users...   With a world without Facebook I think I would die. 