 What parent of a young child cannot relate to this?   Why do you still refuse to sleep through the night?  .  This video has been viewed nearly 4 million times and there are a lot like it. The premise is simple - a Florida dad and his 14-month-old documenting new fatherhood. In the process he is become a bit of a parenting celebrity. Elissa Nadworny of the NPR Ed team has this profile.  After La Guardia Cross' daughter was born in the midst of freaking out he got his camera and he started recording.   This is  New Father Chronicles New Father Chronicles.  He began uploading his little videos to YouTube.  I thought it would be funny 'ecause I knew I had no idea what I was doing.  In one of his first videos Cross sitting in his bedroom attempts to translate for baby Amalah.   .  She does not like the way I am burping her.  .  She needs to be changed.  .  She does not like being changed.  There were ups and downs some cameos from his wife Leah at their home in Florida. It was just a way for friends and family to see his little girl grow. But then other new parents people Cross did not know - they started commenting on the videos.  I relate. I get you. That is funny same thing with me. Why do not you swaddle them? Why do not you try this? Oh that happens to you. Why do not you do this? And so that was the beginning of it being more than friends and family.  As Amalah grew so did his audience. Today Cross publishes new videos weekly. He left his job. Video views climbed to the millions. And the ads partnerships and sponsors - they support his family.   So I am a husband. I am a new dad. And I wanted to be able to give some strategies to other husbands who were also new dads on how to survive new fatherhood.  Cross now has a second daughter Nayely who is joined the cast too. His parenting tips - they are funny but helpful like his endorsement of the multipurpose all-powerful baby wipe.   So if there is pee use a wipe. If there is poop wipe it up - boogers wipe dirt yep stains do it restaurant table and shopping cart disinfectant yes.  He insists he is an extreme non-expert when it comes to fatherhood. But his experience - it resonates.  I realized wow there is not a lot of dads chronicling the life of their kids online.  And when you look just for dads of color that handful of content creators - it gets even smaller.  People had to tell me how important it was to see representation of a black father in any form of media YouTube or whatever. Like by accident I am showcasing the anti-stereotype.  I ask Cross if he is ever had any reservations about putting his kids online oversharing or overexposing them.  It is too positive not to share. I want families to see other little girls other dads other moms with their kids in ways that they do not see.  Cross says that is why his show his brand is now bigger than just his journey with fatherhood. But the girls are growing up. They are no longer newborns. So is there a finale in sight?  I mean there is people out there like please let this go until she graduates from high school so we can see every stage - first prom first this. I mean there is so many stories to tell and I want to continue to tell it.  For now he is focused on the current season. He just wrapped an episode about how peaceful car rides are not.   Can I please just have one minute...  It is not fair.  ...Of time to myself?  I am not talking. I was just...  But you are talking...  Elissa Nadworny NPR News. 