 Today at Apple headquarters in Cupertino Calif. Apple CEO Tim Cook made a dramatic introduction.   This is iPhone 10. It is the biggest leap forward since the original iPhone.  This phone debuts on the tenth anniversary of the iPhone. Over the past decade competition in the smartphone market has grown. Samsung is gaining market share. Chinese brands are outdoing Apple in the important Chinese market. Joining us now to put today's announcement in perspective is NPR's Laura Sydell. Hi Laura.  Hi there.  One of the most striking things about this new iPhone is the price. A thousand dollars is really expensive. What do people get for that?  Right. That is a lot. Well first off it has an edge-to-edge OLED screen and that looks really good. And that means it also will give you a bit more battery power. So you get an extra two more hours out of that. There is no more home button. So there is going to be some changes for people who are used to the iPhone. You touch the screen to wake it up. And there is a way you just kind of swipe up. And you can see your apps and all of that. Also the new iPhone has wireless charging. And perhaps the most unique part of this is it has this face-scanning technology. And Apple's calling it Face ID. And it means you are going to be able to sign in to your phone just by looking at the phone or use Apple Pay just by looking at the phone.  I imagine that'ill give Apple a lot of biometrics data. Is there a privacy concern here?  Well people are definitely raising that - that there could be privacy concerns here. Apple during the press conference said first off nobody else will be able to get in here other than you. A photo will not work. Even your evil twin will not work. Then there is the question of giving all this data to Apple. Now they did not say. But historically speaking what Apple has done for example with its thumbprint data is it is only on your phone. They do not want your information. They have made this really clear. One of the things that Tim Cook has put himself out there as is that Apple is not like other companies that are selling advertising. They are selling devices. So it will be stored on your phone most likely. And therefore nobody else will be able to access it including Apple.  Are these features enough to as Tim Cook described it set the path for technology for the next decade?  Well there is some other features on it that I have to say I think people are going to really like and are surprisingly important I think. So you know emojis - very popular they now have these things called Animojis. Animojis will let you actually add your own facial expression to the emoji. Seems small but these kind of social things can be huge.  Like superimpose my face on a pair of cherries or something like that.  Exactly. You got it .  OK.  And secondly it is also got augmented reality features. So you will be able to play a game as if it is in the real world. You and somebody else can sit in a room and play that game looking on a table in front of you. Remember last summer there was a big craze with augmented reality. That was Pokemon Go.  Right.  So Apple is betting we are going to have a big craze with all these new things now.  Tell us about the competition. The iPhone is up against Samsung's Galaxy Note 8 which has gotten really good reviews.  Yes it does. And it is 950 so also expensive. And it is got the OLED screen and the curved sides - all that stuff. It does not have Face ID. But here's what is more important. People do not really want to change ecosystems. If you are in the Apple ecosystem and you are using their products you do not want to learn a whole new system. So I think the customers they have are going to want to upgrade. I also would add that there is now an upgraded iPhone 7 called an iPhone 8. It has some of the features of the new iPhone 10. But it does not have face recognition. And it starts at 699 which is a bit more affordable in the universe of Apple's very expensive products. And remember Apple's a premium brand. They have never said they were going to be the cheapest. What Apple is all about is giving you the premium experience the aspirational experience Ari.  That is NPR's Laura Sydell. Thanks a lot Laura.  You are welcome.  