 A simple little website called I Write Like has really taken off in popularity this week.  You just type or paste in some prose. The site analyzes the text and tells you that your writing is like that of well H.P. Lovecraft.  Or Margaret Atwood.  Or William Shakespeare.  The site is the work of a computer whiz named Dmitry Chestnykh. And we reached him on a Skype line in Montenegro and he tried to explain how it all works. Mr.  It is a simple algorithm actually. It is called Bayesian classifier.  Dmitry Chestnykh says the technology is similar to the way an email program might be able to tell that one message is from your mother and another is simply spam.  But perhaps like a spam filter I Write Like's results can seem a little well random at times.  Well it can Robert. I put a bit of text from my upcoming book The Grace of Silence into the website. Here's part of the passage I inserted.  Before the alarm clock goes off before the smell of coffee or bacon find its way to your bedroom door there is often a sound outside your window that jolts you out of slumber during the winter months in Minnesota. It is the scrape of a snow shovel against wet cement.  Okay you put that passage into I Write Like and it tells you that your prose most resembles what author?  Stephen King.  Stephen King. Ah the resemblance is unmistakable.   Pretty scary huh?  I tried something that is a bit more prosaic. I submitted part of a memo I wrote in response to an inventory request from NPR an inventory of recording equipment that I might or might not have in my possession.   Second  E3414 Shock Mount Fishpole Pistol Grip Battery Pack 121 Card Reader.  And I Write Like said you write like whom?  Like David Foster Wallace.  The cadence the rhythm it really does sound like David Foster Wallace.  In fact I submitted lots of other things I had written that were not inventory memos and they all came out David Foster Wallace.   Well there you go. Well for his part the site's author says he is working to make some improvements. Mr.  I need to put more works of different writers to make it more accurate.  Dmitry Chestnykh. His site is called I Write Like.  Stephen King.  If you say so. 