 Picking a mate can be one of the life's most important decisions but sometimes people make a choice that seems to make no sense at all. Humans are not the only ones. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports that frogs seem to make irrational romantic decisions.  These little frogs live in Central America and they are called tungara frogs.  And that is because the call they make sounds very much like that it is kind of a tungara.  Amanda Lea is biologist at the University of Texas Austin. She says only the males make these calls to woo the females and scientists have a pretty good idea of what the females like.  They tend to like longer calls. They also like lower frequency calls. And then the other thing that is a really big - a big one for these gals is the call rate. So they love faster call rates. The faster a male can call the better.  But in real life love is complicated. Female frogs face countless suitors and the researchers wondered did a female always pick the male that scored highest on the froggy love-call meter? So to find out they put female frogs in a room with some loudspeakers. From one came a voice that had a very fast call rate.   Fast is good but other features in this voice were less attractive. Then the females heard a second call.   This voice was attractive but it was slower. The ladies had to make a choice.  They have two traits to evaluate. They have the call rate and they have the attractiveness of the call.  They picked speed. They liked the fast guy best. The researchers then repeated the experiment but this time they added a third option - a frog with an attractive voice that was very very very slow. The females did not pick him. Still his mere presence had a profound affect. When he was around the superfast guy did not win. Instead females picked the frog they had rejected the first time around.  They actually switched their preferences so now call rate is no longer the most important thing.  This finding is reported in the journal Science and it seems to make no sense. David Stephens is a behavioral ecologist at the University of Minnesota. He says this is an example of something called the decoy effect. That is when adding a third inferior option inexplicably result in the rejection of the best choice. Scientists see it in all sorts of decision making in humans and other animals too.  In humming birds and bees and the most stunning example is actually in a - not an animal at all but in a slime mold.  I am sorry - a slime mold.  A slime mold yeah.  The slime mold was trying to pick the best place to grow and to eat. Stephens says what is interesting about this frog study is that it found the decoy effect in something as crucial as picking a mate.  Mate choice is like for many people the gold-standard decision.  So science does not yet know. Are these frogs making an epic mistake or being smart about love in ways we do not understand? Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 