 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  By now you have likely heard about the 13000-pound satellite the size of a school bus that is about to fall out of orbit and plunge to earth. NASA had expected that to happen sometime today. Well here's the latest.  The satellite's rate of descent has slowed.  NASA spokeswoman Beth Dickey.  And that is why the estimated reentry time is coming a bit later than was originally predicted.  It could happen this evening or as late as tomorrow morning. Scientists had thought it would splash down in the South Pacific but with the changing schedule comes the chance that pieces of the satellite will fall on the United States. I am sorry Beth Dickey was no more specific than that.  But do not worry. All but 10 percent of the satellite should burn up as it falls. The biggest surviving chunk will be a mere 300 pounds. No need to panic.  The satellite goes by the acronym UARS - that is U-A-R-S. It stands for upper atmosphere research satellite.  UARS was put in space to measure the ozone layer but now scientists are measuring it and they are looking at all of the many factors that affect how and when and where it falls including what is happening on the sun.  In the past few weeks solar activity had been causing the satellite's rate of descent to speed up and our satellite trackers now are finding solar activity is not the major influencing factor. In fact something appears to have happened to the satellite to reduce the amount of drag on it and so prolonging its descent from orbit.  All of this uncertainty makes the falling satellite a perfect opportunity for gamblers. For example the Irish betting site PaddyPower.com is offering odds on where the satellite pieces will hit first.  Africa nine to four. South America 11 to four. Asia three to one. North America three to one. Australia six to one. Europe eight to one. Antarctica 16 to one.  That is Cillian Convoy. He is a representative for that betting site and he is offering those calculations from a safe spot. Odds that a piece of UARS will fall on Ireland 66 to one. 