 China's military appears to have successfully tested a new spacecraft. Last week's mission was shrouded in secrecy. But as NPR's Geoff Brumfiel reports there are some clues about what China sent into space and why.  Last Friday a Chinese rocket took off carrying a mysterious payload. A terse statement on state media said it was quote a reusable experimental spacecraft.  But they did not give a launch time. They do not give any more details - no real official footage of the launch.  Jonathan McDowell is an astronomer at the Center for Astrophysics Harvard  Smithsonian who specializes in tracking satellites and spacecraft orbiting the Earth. When he plotted the course of China's new craft he found that it passed over a secretive military facility an area called Lop Nur where China once tested its nuclear weapons.  There is an air base there which has a big runway that is aligned exactly in the direction of the orbit of the spacecraft.  On Sunday China announced its new spacecraft had landed. Sure enough fuzzy satellite images snapped by a commercial company called Planet seemed to show activity on the giant runway right at the moment the landing would have occurred. McDowell says that the evidence is circumstantial but he believes China has just tested a space plane. Think of it as a little space shuttle a craft with wings probably too small to carry people that took off on a rocket and coasted back to Earth.  The information sort of all hangs together now that this was a test of something probably a space plane that made a winged reentry and landed on the runway at Lop Nur.  The U.S. Air Force has a similar spacecraft called the X-37B. It is been launching since 2010. So if that is what China tested why now?  It is a great question. We are not even really sure why the United States military is pursuing a space plane like it is been doing for the last decade or so.  Brian Weeden studies space security issues with the Secure World Foundation. The U.S. X-37B program remains highly classified. Weeden says he believes it is being used to test new sensors and systems for the military.  Think about it. If you are building a brand-new satellite and you have got a lot of fancy new technology that is never been in space before that is potentially risky. But if you can fly some of that technology in space let us say in the payload bay of a reusable space plane that could allow you to get a better feel for how it might react.  McDowell says that space planes which travel many times the speed of sound could also potentially help with the development of so-called hypersonic weapons. But honestly he thinks China could just be copying the U.S.  If the Americans have one of those there must be a good reason for it. So we better get one too.  The landing of the space plane or whatever it was is just the latest success for China. McDowell says it recently completed its own satellite navigation system. It has a robotic mission going to Mars and several probes on the moon.  China is firing on all thrusters in space and just really increasing its level of involvement and capabilities. And I think that this is just one more reflection of that.  Geoff Brumfiel NPR News Washington. 