 A thumbs-up tweet today from the account associated with a space probe on a comet millions of miles away - life on 67-P is good the tweet crows about three hours sunlight a day and feeling energized. The Philae Lander has woken up after seven months of hibernation. It made history back in November becoming the first lander ever to set down on a comet which are essentially speeding chunks of ice and rock. But that landing was rough. It could not charge its solar array and it entered a deep sleep. Well now the Philae Lander is back in contact and that is great news for Valentina Lommatsch. She is a Philae operations engineer at the Lander Control Center in Cologne Germany. Welcome to the program.  Hi.  And what were your thoughts when you first heard that Philae was back communicating?  I was just completely blown away. I could not believe it. I had started to lose hope actually and it was just really really great to hear from Philae.  Started to lose hope - you thought maybe Philae was gone for good.  Yeah. I do the predictions for the solar array and I had predicted that we had enough energy to switch on Philae already in February. Unfortunately the temperature said something different. And when we did a thermal analysis we found out that he is not going to wake up until probably between June and August or perhaps not at all which was a bit unfortunate if that had been the case - luckily it was not.  And now the comet is getting closer to the sun so the solar array is - is what? It is firing up again.  The solar array has been active the entire time but unfortunately the temperature was just too low. Philae is not able to switch itself on until the internal compartment reaches a temperature of minus 45 degrees. And the comet has an outside temperature at least in November of minus 170 degrees. So you can imagine...  Yeah.  ...It is a bit hard to stay warm when it is so cold outside.  Well apart from the thrill and the burst of excitement about actually landing the Philae Lander on a comet - first time ever that is been done - what do you hope to learn? What kind of data would it be able to send back that would be really exciting for you?  The instrument that a lot of scientists are very excited about is the SD2 drill which will take a sample of the comet and then give that to three different instruments - a camera which is basically a microscope can look at how the material looks and two mass spectrometers which can tell us what the comet is made of. And it is very interesting to find out what comets are made of because hypothetically they are left over from when the universe was created. And so it is nice to see what the building blocks were for the earth and the solar system and the universe.  That is pretty big stuff.  Yeah exactly.  Well Valentina Lommatsch thanks so much for talking to us about it.  No problem thank you.  Valentina Lommatsch is an operations engineer for the Philae Lander. It is just woken up after seven months of hibernation. She works at the Lander Control Center in Cologne Germany. 