  space. A California company called Interorbital Systems is offering a personal satellite kit that it says will open up space research for hobbyists schools and amateur engineers. The company provides the materials - everything from an antenna and batteries to solar panels and a microcomputer. And they will launch it into space on their rocket for you. The first test flights are taking off next month. But at 8000 a pop who would buy one? Alex Antunes for one. He is a professional astronomer and science writer who bought one of the kits. Mr.  I got the box from Interorbital Systems about the size of a shoebox. And I opened it up and it was parts. It has a power system that is basically two lithium AA batteries hooked together a little stick of gum computer chip a bunch of very fragile solar cells are packed away antenna and lots of wires. And if you were expecting to see Sputnik it is completely different.   Yeah the box is sort of - it looks maybe something you would see in a spy movie actually. It is a metal box with these... Mr.  Actually I bought the spy movie box myself.  Mr.  I needed to get a padded case so I replaced the cardboard one with something that is more portable.  And it is far more impressive. And then everything is then - lots of cords and things wrapped in bubble wrap. And then this is the main event right? This cylinder... Mr.  The cylinder a little bit larger than a one liter bottle. And it is not actually the shell of the satellite or the casing it is what the satellite has to fit into. Their rocket has a bunch of these tube sets loaded like bullets in a gun. And this is the cylinder that it has to eject out of.  Oh. Mr.  But inside it can look like anything. It can be solid. It can be spider web. You could build a satellite out of wood as long as it fits inside this tube then it can be launched.  All right. Now what is your satellite going to do? Mr.  I decided to make a music instrument in space basically to take the ionosphere the upper part of the atmosphere where there is a lot of the Earth's magnetic field and where the sun interacts with and causes all sorts of activity and say well let us put something up there and convert that directly to sound data and you can hear it.  So right now do we know what the ionosphere sounds like? Mr.  When you sonify something like the ionosphere I am hoping that we are going to get a broad sense of what is going on there. Is this something that is active? Is this something that is not? Something that anyone can latch on to and say wow that is a really energetic environment space is harsh or wow things move a lot slower in space than we expect.  You are essentially shooting a musical instrument into space. What would that sound like? Mr.  I am sending down the data as mini-data which is the equivalent of sending player piano rolls or sheet music. What people decide to map that to is up to them. And people will be able to take the ionosphere and put it into compositions. So it is a lot like a solar Theremin an instrument that uses the amount of light that it is getting to create sounds. And a Theremin is what Brian Wilson used for Good Vibrations.    I am picking up good vibrations she is giving me excitations... Mr.  And I thought what if you put an instrument that converted the ionosphere how it intrinsically is into music? So I have some sound samples where I do sample sounds from three detectors to measure the magnetic field the temperature and light each separately and then I show how they mix together.  Mr.  And then when you put all three together it sounds like a completely different piece. And in the hands of a skilled musician hopefully it would become music.  I had to ask you are already a professionally astronomer so what is your goal here? Mr.  Well I worked my whole career operating other people's satellites enabling other scientists to do their work getting data to other scientists. And this was incredibly appealing because now I get to design my own satellite to do whatever I want.  Alex Antunes is a professional astronomer and science writer. He joined us here in our studio with his satellite the TubeSat. Alex thank you for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you very much Audie. It was a pleasure to be here. 