 Companies in Silicon Valley have been blocking white supremacists stopping their ability to raise money online removing them from Internet search engines and preventing websites from registering. The goal is to make it harder for hate groups to reach their audience. Here to talk about this and what it tells us about free speech and corporate power is NPR's Aarti Shahani. Hello.  Hi.  So first of all which companies are doing this and what are they doing?  Well a bunch of Silicon Valley companies are blocking hate groups in one way or another OK? There is a site called The Daily Stormer. It is basically this horrific neo-Nazi blog that decided to write an article making fun of attacking the woman who was killed in Charlottesville by the man who plowed his car into protesters. Well Facebook decided to use software to automatically zap any link to that offensive article unless the person who posted it put a caption that was critical of it OK? Facebook and Twitter have also both deactivated the accounts of several white nationalists. Beyond the social networks you know to exist on the worldwide web You have to register your domain. So thedailystormer.com was using this well-known registrar called GoDaddy. GoDaddy kicked them off so they then went to Google. And then Google kicked them off too. And besides that Spotify is removing so-called white power music.  And is all this since the racial violence in Charlottesville or has it been going on longer?  No. I mean Charlottesville's the turning point exactly.  Yeah OK. So how significantly are groups like The Daily Stormer being harmed? I mean can they still raise money?  Well on the money side PayPal is barring some users who were raising money for the white supremacist rally. Apple is suspending Apple Pay support if you try to buy far right merchandise like say swastika T-shirts. And so what you are basically seeing is a lot of Internet companies - giant ones and smaller ones - stepping up after Charlottesville to say we are not going to facilitate the communication or the fundraising of these groups.  And you have been in touch with a tech company that says it is never censored any users before this week. Tell us about their decision.  Yeah. This is actually fascinating. There is the CEO of this one tech company called Cloudflare and he decided to go ahead and block or stop providing security service to that site I mentioned The Daily Storm . And he did it in two moves. The first was to stop the service. So the headline around it is basically hey another tech company's taking a stand against hate. But then shortly thereafter he wrote a blog post about why he did what he did and he said it was actually unsettling. He described it as such because no court ordered it. It was his choice. You know as a tech CEO he can wake up one morning and just decide to flip the switch on someone and it could be because he is having a bad day for something arbitrary you know which is not great for democracy.  Right.  So what is interesting about what he did - the CEO of Cloudflare - is admitting to something that many tech CEOs do not want to admit which is you know they have got tremendous power over speech and content.  Right. And so I wonder. I mean has there been backlash to these decisions - not that you know masses of people are coming out and supporting white supremacists but saying this is a little - this makes me nervous that you guys can have this much power to do this kind of thing?  Yeah well I mean what is interesting is that first of all the white supremacist sites that have been targeted - some of those leaders have spoken to me and said that this is not fair and these companies are overstepping. And you know ironically  the same entities that are calling for the overthrow of government or the radical sort of reformation of it want them to step in and regulate. And that is not so dissimilar from what some progressives have been saying as well about these companies. I mean this is not at all the first time that Google and Facebook and others have stepped in to delist content you know? Facebook has had campaigns against radical Islam and blocked those kinds of sites and people have often questioned well are they using their corporate power legitimately?  OK. That is NPR's Aarti Shahani. Thank you so much.  Thank you. 