 Time now for All Tech Considered.   This month All Tech is all about social media influencers. We heard last week from college student Cosette Rinab. She posts content to Instagram and TikTok and she hopes to turn that into a full-time career.   People are making more money off of YouTube than they could be if they were going to medical school and studying you know pursuing a career in medicine.  We are going to talk now about the influencer economy the money involved and the tradeoffs required. Taylor Lorenz writes for The Atlantic. She is covered the business of influencers for a decade. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  So how much money changes hands? What are we talking about?  Billions and billions of dollars. It is estimated that brands are going to spend upwards of 10 billion on influencer marketing efforts by 2020 which is just next year.  Can we talk about the companies for a second? Why would a company the size of a Walmart or a major clothing chain even need to advertise in this way through social media right? Like having some person pose next to something or wear the clothes. What is the payoff for them?  Well influencer marketing is very powerful because you know people have very close relationships with these influencers. You know they often follow people who they aspire to be like or people that seem like them and resonate with their lifestyle. So you know Walmart for instance paying a mom in Kentucky to speak to other moms in the South is much more powerful than them just running spammy banner ads most of which get ignored.  Right. I mean part of the thing that makes it appealing is it does not always feel like an ad.  Exactly. It does not feel like an ad. And often  because there is not a lot of regulation around this it is often not even disclosed as an ad.  Who has the upper hand the brands or the influencers?  The brands absolutely. I mean they are ultimately the ones that control the purse strings. So they are often the ones dictating the terms of these agreements and sometimes screwing over  the younger you know smaller influencers who often do not even have management or any power to negotiate.  What do you mean by that? What kind of contract can be structured in a way that would be at a disadvantage to a young person trying to come up in the business?  Well most of these people do not even have formal contracts. That is the first problem. I mean brand deals are negotiated over direct messages on different platforms. It is very fluid and very casual. You know if you are the top 1 of YouTubers or Instagram stars you are likely to have management or maybe you are repped by a talent agency. But for the vast majority of so-called influencers they are doing it all themselves.  Right. Basically they are independent contractors. And what are the pitfalls for that in this particular business?  I mean a lot of these influencers will work with middlemen which are essentially influencer management agencies. So Walmart will work with one of these social media influencer agencies and say we want to run a social campaign with you know 10 influencers between these ages that have these qualifications. And the agency will then pull from this massive pool and you know pull influencers to work with the brand. And the brand will pay the agency directly and the agency does not always pay the influencer.  Wow. So they will just take the money ?  Yeah. I mean we saw Speakr which is actually the biggest and oldest social media influencer agency actually you know fail to pay hundreds of influencers just last year. These are people with millions of followers in some cases and they were owed tens of thousands of dollars in others' cases - so yeah.  You are describing an industry and players that are basically regulating themselves right? And you have even described some abuse. Is there any effort by the social media companies or the government to have any kind of regulatory influence here?  Well the FTC did attempt to kind of regulate it by you know saying that if you post an ad you have to disclose that it is an ad. The thing is is that all of these ad deals are structured very fluidly. You know you can get a lot of free product and become a brand ambassador and post about that product all the time but maybe you are not receiving direct payment. You know? And so I think that regulators need a much better understanding of this industry in general in order to regulate it. On the platform side actually Instagram and YouTube and all of these social media platforms definitely realize that there is a lot of commerce happening on their platforms. But I think their stance on it is to kind of just try and get a piece of that pie rather than help the influencers themselves.  Taylor Lorenz is a staff writer at The Atlantic. She covers Internet culture. Thanks so much.  Yeah thank you for having me. 