 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. Two companies that have advertised email services that would cloak users communications are shutting down. The government apparently thinks that one of these companies may have information relevant to an investigation. Lavabit was used by NSA leaker Edward Snowden. In a letter to users Lavabit is founder said a legal battle with the U.S. government forced the closure. He said he was barred from describing the nature of the case. Hours later a second encrypted email service Silent Circle closed down as well. Joining us now to help puzzle through what may have happened NPR's Steven Henn. And Steve first just explain to us what an encrypted email service is.  Sure. It is exactly what it sounds like. Lavabit was founded in hopes of offering an email service that did not create a huge cache of personal communications that the government or maybe others could tap into and read. So all the messages held on its servers are encrypted. The thing is because of how email is designed many computer scientists say ultimately it is pretty much impossible to make email completely secure. Basically that has to do with the fact that people use different systems to connect. So if I send you an email from Lavabit but you have a Gmail account that message has to be deciphered before you can read it. And at that point my message is not going to be protected. The government or someone else could be grabbed it. It is also possible that the government could use the courts to require a company like Lavabit to turn over its encryption keys and then use those keys to look at all my old archived messages. In fact it was that fear that inspired this second company Silent Circle to shutter its own security email system yesterday.  But Steve what is known about Edward Snowden's use of Lavabit.  Not a lot. You know we know he used a lot of that account to set up a press conference in Moscow in the airport last month but we cannot even know for certain if the legal case that led Lavabit is owners to close their business was related to Snowden's account. The court records are sealed and there is a gag order on thi case.  And what has Lavabit said about why it shut down?  Well again not much because of that gag order. But the owner Ladar Levison published an open letter yesterday saying that while he could not legally share with his users the events that led to his decision to close he was going to appeal his case to the fourth circuit. The strong implication is that he decided to shut down his business that he is been running for 10 years because he was forced to choose between complying with a government order he did not believe in or closing.  And did the closure of this second service Silent Circle have anything to do with Lavabit shutting down?  Well yes and no. Silent Circle offers a number of secure communication services including encrypted instant messaging and voice over IP calls. And their clients include big oil companies even parts of the U.S. intelligence community. Both the U.S. and British special forces use their services. Basically executives there told me they could no longer promise that their email on their services were as secure as their other products. And they did not want to risk their client information being captured so they closed the service and destroyed all the archived emails. And this actuallt brings up another point. Folks at Silent Circles and actually the owner of Lavabit both warned that this kind of government surveillance ultimately could undermine U.S. technology firms abroad. And the fear was echoed today in a report by the Information Technology Innovation Foundation. It estimated the NSA spying scandal could cost cloud computing companies more than 21 and 35 billion in lost international business just over the next few years.  That is NPR's technology correspondent Steve Henn. Steve thank you.  My pleasure. 