 The laws around buying extraterrestrial land or resources are pretty nebulous and for a long time this was a moot point. Almost nobody went to space much less did business there. And that is changing. So Stacey Vanek Smith from The Indicator has been following the money to find out who is cashing in on the final frontier.  Who owns the moon? If you ask Christopher Lamar he will tell you his dad owns it. Chris is the president of the Lunar Embassy.  Lunar Embassy is a company that provides a methodology for the distribution of equity upon celestial bodies within our solar system. It is...  You sell property in space.  I sell property in space.  . Lunar Embassy is selling this property in space based on Chris's dad who claimed ownership of the moon and all of the planets 40 years ago. It was a really low point in his life.  And he is sitting at a red light. And he is saying to himself if only I owned a lot of property things would be a lot better right? And staring out in the windshield was a full moon. And he said well there is a lot of property.  After this red light eureka moment Chris' dad headed to the county recorder's office in San Francisco.  He filed a claim of ownership for the moon of Earth the other eight planets in our solar system and their moons in entirety.  Chris' dad just said hey so you know the moon and also Mars and Saturn and all those? No country has the right to claim them. But individuals technically can so dibs. Just like that Lunar Embassy was launched. You can go to their website and take your pick of planets. An acre of Venus Mercury Mars the moon - for 25 it can be yours.  We are reaching 6 million landowners.  Six million is a lot.  Yeah it is.  I mean 6 million's like - it is like your business is worth millions of dollars.  Correct.  More than 100 million actually. And Chris says nobody - not the government or the U.N. - has ever challenged his business or his ownership claim. But a little healthy competition might be on the horizon.  You could argue that what NASA is doing and what the Lunar Embassy is doing is essentially the same thing.  Atossa Araxia Abrahamian is a journalist and author who researches property and jurisdictions. And in the course of her research she came across something really strange.  NASA has given a handful of small emergent space companies contract to go to the moon gather some materials from the moon.  Is it just like dirt?  I mean it is dirt but it is really cool outer space dirt.  The contracts state that NASA would then buy the dirt from these companies when they get it back to Earth for not a ton of money.  I think the biggest one I saw was like a thousand or a few thousand dollars.  So why is NASA doing this? According to Atossa the logic behind these contracts is very similar to the logic Chris's dad used 40 years ago. In the case of NASA says Atossa...  They are establishing that moon dirt can be bought and sold. And not only can it be bought and sold but it can be bought and sold by earthlings on Earth using earthling dollars.  With these weird little moon dirt contracts NASA is establishing an economic precedent for buying and selling stuff from space. In other words says Atossa a market is born. Stacey Vanek Smith NPR News. 