 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  I am Audie Cornish and it is time for All Tech Considered.   We begin in Las Vegas where the tech world is gathering for two different conferences. Black Hat and DEFCON are both dedicated to hacking and security. And they bring together a wide range of interested parties from security researchers to hackers to leaders from the federal government. NPR's Steve Henn will be there too and he joins us now. Hey there Steve.  Hey.  So why two different hacker conferences?  Well these two conferences have slightly different traditions. DEFCON is a little bit more countercultural has almost an anarchist feel to it. Black Hat traditionally has been a little bit more buttoned up. And they both attract a variety of really technically sophisticated people to Las Vegas so it works for both of them to take place during the same week. Many people go to both but they sort of specialize a little bit.  So what are the highlights?  Well one of the big highlights will be a talk by General Keith Alexander the head of the NSA. You might remember that the organizers of DEFCON asked the NSA and Feds generally not to come to the conference this year. But the organizers of Black Hat had asked Alexander to speak months before the details of the NSA surveillance program were leaked. And the speech will really be Alexander's first chance to publicly respond to you know a growing chorus of voices in D.C. that are calling for new legislation to rein in the NSA surveillance programs. It should be an interesting speech and more interesting because it will take place before a skeptical and technically sophisticated audience. So it is one to watch.  Now the other big news in the hacking community this week has been the death of Barnaby Jack. And he was a well-known hacker who was found dead in San Francisco last week. But tell us more about him and at this point what is known about his death?  Well Barnaby Jack was really one of the good guys. He spent his professional life hacking products not for personal gain but instead to pressure companies to make them safer. He became famous for hacking into ATMs and getting them to spew cash. That hack was known as jackpotting. He was reportedly found dead in his apartment last week. Foul play is not suspected. The cause of death is still being investigated by the San Francisco medical examiner. And we most likely will not have any more answers for a few more weeks. But this has been a tough time in the hacking community. It is tight-knit. Jack was widely considered to be brilliant and well liked. And he had a talk coming up this week at Black Hat on work he done on pacemakers showing that you could attack them remotely and potentially deliver a lethal shock to someone wearing one. He did similar research on insulin pumps last year and that actually led to changes in the product that made them more secure.  You know ATMs computers I understand that. But insulin pumps and pacemakers why?  You know it is actually one of the big themes at both Black Hat and DEFCON this year. More and more things are being connected to the Net and having computers built into them. And when that happens they become vulnerable to attacks like this. So this year we are going to see research showing that cars can be hacked toys can be hacked television sets so all those things like infrastructure and oil fields and water treatment plants. You know the researchers and hackers I have talked to say one of their big concerns is that as non-tech industries adopt these technologies they are not necessarily doing what they need to to make them safe.  That is NPR's Steve Henn. Steve thank you.  My pleasure. 