 And now time for a sweaty dance party.    ...she blinded me with science...    ...with something to prove. So do not just stand there bust a move...    Video killed the radio star...  This playlist is created by an app called Songza. And if you are up to get down this app has virtual mixed tape for you. Songza offers ready-made playlists for all kinds of activities  everything from waking up to unwinding after a long day to lists with tongue-in-cheek names such as indie music that is not too weird.   I was following the pack all swallowed in their coats...  Well we have Chicago-based wedding DJ Mary Nisi to trade in her turntables for a Smartphone for this review.  The whole app is based on the idea that you log in and it is Wednesday and it is late afternoon and it gives you six options of what could potentially be happening to you. It could be you know working about to head on your commute home from work studying midday dance party.    You did not have to cut me off...  Click on Midday Dance Party and then within that it gives you pretty broad genres like '90s 2000s '50s'60s Indie Pop. And then like it might have some weird wild card in there like European City Dancing or whatever.     One of the few complaints that I have for this app is that it is like a rabbit hole. It is like especially for someone like myself that you know I want to kind of hear what I want to hear and I will keep going deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper into the app.     So I actually convinced my spin instructor to play it and we chose Massive Pop Hits which was basically what I want out of exercising. I want to feel like I am like dancing at a gay dance club.   There was a remix of Titanium by Sia and that kind of set the room on fire. People went kind of bananas for that one.    I am bulletproof nothing to lose. Fire away. Fire away...  Overall the app itself is pretty great. You know instead of having to make a playlist for every situation you go into - if you are going to a barbecue or if you are cleaning the house not cleaning the house studying taking a study break dancing in your living room - there is literally a playlist for everything in there. and I will say it pretty much has something for everybody.    Anything you want you got it...  That is wedding DJ Mary Nisi with her review of the app called Songza.    Anything at all you got it...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 