 We learned a couple of years ago about the work of Professor Mahmood Shivji at the Guy Harvey Research Institute in Fort Lauderdale Florida. Professor Shivji teaches conservation biology including a course in genetics. And in 2007 at the urging of a local TV station he tested the DNA of seafood that was sold at local restaurants as grouper.  catfish or tilapia. Well since then  in Philadelphia Charlotte Kansas City. And he is also gone beyond grouper. And Professor Shivji I think that we can now say that you are America's leading fish detective.  Oh well I am flattered. Thank you.   Okay. First of all I want you tell us about the case of the red snapper on the menu in Kansas City. Prof.  Well you know the Kansas City NBC television station went and sampled 20 restaurants in the Kansas City area. And of those 20 they sampled 15 menu items that were labeled red snapper. And of course we did not know what they were supposed to be. And when we returned the results of them it turned out that only one out of the 15 was actually authentic red snapper. So 14 were mislabeled items. It was quite amazing.  Yeah. This has become an annual class exercise for you on DNA extraction I gather. Prof.  Yes. You know it is actually been quite interesting. I mean I found this sort of a restaurant fish CSI work makes for a rather good teaching tool in my undergraduate classes.  This would not be an academic exercise. But I am wondering can you imagine your research squaring off against some panel of noted chefs or gourmands to see if they can tell the difference between fish that is being sold as grouper or that really is grouper. Prof.  Well you know DNA does not lie. It is a very powerful tool and that is why they use it in human forensics as well. Having said that I mean there are clearly people that can tell just by looking at the product or usually actually by eating it whether it is a grouper or a snapper or something else. But there are relatively few people who can do that. And you know the argument has been made that the vast majority of consumers cannot tell the difference. So what is the big deal really you know?  Yeah it seems that a lot of people are buying fish for name. Prof.  Oh very much so. You know unfortunately this mislabeling is not a harmless sort of endeavor you know. I mean first of all it is dishonest business practice and consumer fraud and it is illegal. But really from my perspective what is equally important - although I think less appreciated - is that all this common mislabeling on menus gives consumers the erroneous perception that groupers and red snapper are abundant in the ocean when the reality is that these species are severely overfished and in serious need of better management and conservation efforts.  Do you think by the way that the restaurants that are serving whatever it might be tilapia or catfish and calling it grouper do you assume they are doing that knowingly? Or is there any room for error on the wholesale level here? Prof.  I think it is a mixed bag. You know we have done enough of these cases now to sort of come to realize that some restaurant owners simply do not know and they are actually being fooled by the distributors. In other cases we have found situations where the restaurant actually knows and they actually have boxes in the back called tilapia which they are then selling as grouper.  Has this turned - in your professional and your academic career - has it altered your own ordering habits when you go out to eat at a restaurant? Prof.  Oh absolutely. You know and it is not the mislabeling that is the main reason. It is just that as a conservation biologist I am well-aware of all the overfishing issues. And so I never order grouper or snapper or swordfish on the menu because these are you know these fish are in trouble. But now knowing about the mislabeling on top of that you know clearly it is - you know I stay away from it.  But given what you have found  that grouper on the menu is that grouper or is it you know is it actually catfish? Prof.  I do routinely believe me. You know when it is on the menu I will you know I am not going to order it but I will actually ask. And of course the response is oh yes of course it is grouper.  Well Prof.  And then sometimes I will take a sample and test it and much of the time it is not.  You mean from your own dining you will come back. Prof.  Yeah say if I am with a group of people and somebody has ordered that dish for example I will just you know steal a small piece and take it back to the lab. But I will not order it myself.  Well have they got your picture up in the kitchen of all the seafood restaurants in South Florida now?  Prof.  Oh you know I do not know yet. They have not let me back in the kitchens. But hmm I better be careful here.  Well Professor Shivji - that is Professor Mahmood Shivji who teaches conservation biology at the Guy Harvey Research Institute of Nova Southeastern University in South Florida. Thanks a lot for talking with us. Prof.  Thank you so much. 