 Today a spacecraft sailed past the dwarf planet Pluto for the very first time snapping pictures and taking measurements. How those images look what those measurements are - well researchers are now in a state of wait and see as NPR's Geoff Brumfiel reports.  So how do you celebrate first contact with a new world 3 billion miles away?  Nine eight seven six...  With a party of course. At the precise moment the probe sailed past Pluto researchers family and friends cheered in an auditorium at the Applied Physics Lab in Laurel Md. Everyone was there even the people who would normally be talking to the probe.  There is no one in mission control right now.  Glenn Fountain is the project manager for the spacecraft which is named New Horizons. If it sounds like negligence well it is not. New Horizons is so far from Earth it would take four-and-a-half hours for a signal from here to reach it. The plucky little probe is doing all its scientific measurements by itself.  It is all on automatic pilot if you will. It is all preprogrammed.  And it will not send its next message home until its work is nearly done. So even after the cheering ended researcher Carly Howett and her colleagues had nothing to do but wait. And although they were all exhausted nobody was going home.  I mean it is thoroughly exciting. I have had one hour's sleep and I am buzzing - and not due to you know sort of caffeine or anything like that. Just - it is so exciting.  Fellow scientist Carey Lisse adds they cannot really rest until New Horizons finally gets in touch.  We really will not relax and celebrate until the phone home that we know that everything's fine with the spacecraft and that we will be getting our data down from all of its hard work.  That is exactly it. I mean New Horizons is working hard right now but if it does not phone home that will be futile.  Researchers expect to hear from the spacecraft later tonight and that is only the beginning. It will be months before all the data and pictures reach Earth. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News. 