 OK so I have a friend and for the purposes of this confession I am going to change his name to Rafiq  - his name is not Rafiq. Now when I first met Paul - Rafiq at university I marveled because he was maybe the single most goofiest-looking individual I would ever seen up close. And it was not just his big ears and bug eyes and weirdly balanced head bone it was his sense of style. This brother he casually paired together a pith helmet with some high-rider gym shorts maybe throw in a Michael Jackson Thriller jacket on his way out of the door. And we are going to organic chemistry class - right? - not Comic-Con. And I do not know when I started forgetting what he looked like but I did forget because his appearance was not the most important thing about him. And for real this wacky flamboyance was not even the eighth- or ninth-most important thing about him because he had this big old heart. Maybe I am moping 'ecause some girly's not feeling me the way I am feeling her and I get a note telling me to keep my head up from Rafiq. And it was not just me. He would show love to everybody like a child might only he was a grown man. Instead he would listen to people's problem - big open smiles way-too-loud laughs. It was ridiculous. One day he signed us up to hold babies at the hospital 'ecause he thought that would be a good idea. Fool what you signing me up for? Well I showed up. Yeah it was a pretty good idea. And when we went out the ladies they dug him - this goofy-looking dude. And the more he learned about himself he decided he liked guys and they liked him too. Who is your friend? He is so handsome. Rafiq is a lot of things handsome is not one of them. We ended up living together graduated university and I moved away. We did not get to hang out enough you know? But he was still in my heart. And one day I go to his hometown where he lives. And I am at a coffee shop with a friend and I am excited. I tell her I cannot wait for you to meet Rafiq. And in the meantime I am kind of people watching. Look look look look look look - that one's got that big hair and that dude's doing a Monty Python walk. And then she says whoa check out this guy. And of course there he is Rafiq. And I am so happy. But for a moment I try to see him through her eyes - walking through downtown in a wizard cape cowboy boots and a Superman shirt. And I am like listen you are not going to believe this - I know this - but that dude that dude right there is the coolest dude in the world. 