 Welcome back to econd Skin episode. Today we are exploring what happens when for one reason or another we have to act like someone we are not. And for our next story SNAP JUDGMENT's Nancy Lopez brings us to that vast border between Texas and Mexico.  At 19 Norma is not proud of what she has to do to provide for her family. She is a single mother living in the U.S. illegally and she is thinking of a way out when she gets her chance in the least likely of places. One day her boyfriend gets caught smuggling weed across the border and she goes to visit him in a Corpus Christi jail.  This agent - DEA agent approaches me and tells me he wants to talk to me. He explains to me the trouble he is - my boyfriend's in that I can help if I know anything I want to share. Anything I say can get me out of trouble. It would be helping my boyfriend and myself. So I sit down with him - with the agent and I tell him everything I have been doing for the past three years.  The agent is Charles or Charlie as Norma comes to call him a police officer assigned to the DEA task force in Corpus Christi. What Norma tells them is that when she was 16 her mother's boyfriend sold her to drug traffickers from Mexico to work as a mule.  I had heard that they would kill you before you can get out of it so I was worried. I did not know how long this was going to last.  Norma had been making the trip to Mexico twice a month smuggling 3 pounds of heroin across the border to California for the past three years. As she got more comfortable the trips got shorter and the money got better. Norma even bought a house.  I am not going to lie it felt good in a way. I felt like I was getting out of being poor having to worry about what we are going to eat tomorrow. It felt good to have money in my pocket. I was 16 I knew what it was like not to have.  Still Norma knew this could not last forever.  I am just thinking what is next? What is it going to take for me to be able to get away from all this? The cartel people knew everything about me knew where I lived knew about my family. It was not going to be easy to get out. I was theirs and they were going to use me 'til either I got caught or I got killed.  Back in Corpus Christi Charlie offers Norma a third option.  He tells me that we are going to make a deal. He promised me citizenship and he promised me witness protection if I become an informant if I help them catch something big. They were after something big. I am relieved and he made it seem like the right thing to do. And I agreed. I said I would do it.  Charlie connects her with another agent who gives Norma her first assignment. A month later when she returns from a trip to Mexico she goes to Corpus Christi where agents tape a wire to her chest and send her to her usual drop in California.  When I get to California the people I deliver the car to are mad. I took too long delivering. I kept telling them I had car trouble so it took me longer but they were not buying it. They knew something was up. They are unloading the car in a garage. They could not find what they were looking for. And one guy came towards me with a - like a wrench hitting it on his hand like in a threatening manner like he was going to hit me with it if I did not say where his stuff was. I am kind of talking to myself and I was saying he is coming with a wrench but they were not responding. I thought I was going to die. And that is when the DEA agents came in and busted everybody. I thought that was the end of it but it did not happen that way.  The DEA busts the California drug traffickers and confiscates 25 pounds of heroin from the operation - that is millions of dollars. And in exchange Norma says she gets 10000 and a Social Security card. She escapes the cartel and starts a new life in Dallas. But instead of permanent resident papers she gets a temporary permit to be in the country.  I call Charlie and I ask him. And he tells me somebody dropped the ball and there is no paperwork. Nothing is being done.  And you say to him?  Nothing. Nothing. I never really - I guess I never stood up for myself.  The reality is as a police officer Charlie cannot grant citizenship. What he can do is put Norma in touch with DEA agents who can help her get an S Visa also called a snitch visa for informants like Norma.  Every time he knew of somebody needing help he would call me. He would tell me this is your chance. This guy's good. He is one of the best agents. He is going to give you what you need and you should talk to him. And I always did.  Norma does things like set up a drug deal over the phone or meet a dealer face-to-face to buy heroin each time placing herself in danger. And for the risk each time she gets a temporary permit lasting six months to a year. As frustrated as Norma is with the DEA the one person she can talk to is Charlie.  I would talk to him every week. We were - I do not know people have asked about this relationship but we were just friends. If I was feeling bad or if I - I do not know if I was going through something hard I would call him and share my stuff with him. If things were hard at work or if my kid was sick just regular stuff.  But all of that started to change a few years ago when Norma realizes Charlie can only do so much. This time she calls Charlie with an operation. A drug dealer has asked her to hide a large stash of cash.  The first thing I thought was Charlie. Maybe they need cash money maybe when they see a bunch of money they will help me out.  And it is actually common for an informant to get a cut of the money that the DEA captures in a sting.  They always promise you 25 percent of whatever they get.  Norma wants to use her cut of the money to hire her own attorney to get citizenship. The deal goes down but afterwards Norma says they refused to pay her the money.  They were not going to pay me because I am illegal. And Charlie I do not know if he played it off or if he knew all along. At first he pretended to be mad at the agents but then he acted like nothing happened.  It might seem like Norma's just mad about the cash but for her it is more than that. By this point she is been working as an informant for 20 years.  I always told Charlie I will give you everything for a piece of paper. Do not give me money I do not need money. I work and I am good enough with that. I just need to feel free.  And in 2010 Charlie comes to Norma with a new mission.  Charlie told me that I had a real good chance of getting help if I call this guy and I did. This guy was Rolando. I called Rolando and I said if he could help me I would help him.  This time Norma wants a guarantee.  And I told him that I wanted my papers. And I told him I was not going to risk my life again for just a permit. And he told me he could not. So I told him I could not help him either. We left it at that.  Norma says that two weeks later he calls her again.  He asked me if I had changed my mind and I told him no. And before he hung up he asked me if I still lived at the same address and I said yes. Early the next Monday around 5 in the morning Rolando came to my house with three other male agents. And he told me that he was going to sign me up.  Norma says that the agents gave her an ultimatum - help us or else.  He wanted me to sign up for an operation to help them bust a border patrol agent who was charging to cross illegals. He told me that he was going to deport me and take my daughter to CPS. I had to agree. He really did not leave me a choice. They told me they were going to be in contact with me.  A female agent contacts Norma but then she learns how Norma got pulled into the operation. She tells Norma she is been compromised cancels the operation and sends her home. Norma says she is relieved until she gets a call from agent Rolando.  He called me to the McAllen office. He said I was a troublemaker. He took my papers. I still had a permit for a year left. He turned my purse upside down and he got an agent to escort me to the Hidalgo Bridge. And he deported me.  Just like that she is in Mexico. And Norma is afraid fearing retribution from the old drug cartel.  I could not call anybody. A week later I swam the river to get home to my family.  Norma finds her way back to Dallas but she knows she is in trouble. So she goes to go see an advocate who can find her an immigration attorney willing to take on her case.  Nothing I said to him he believed because I was nervous. I could not sit still.  The advocate had heard thousands of deportation stories but he would never heard one like Norma's. And then she handed him business cards of the different agents she would worked for.  And that is when he got I guess excited 'ecause he could not believe something like that could happen.  The first person she told him to call was Charlie.  He knew my situation. He knew everything I had done. I thought he would help me.  Charlie recently retired from the force. He does not want to talk but he does help. He writes a letter on Norma's behalf. In it he says Norma helped the government and that her help was very substantial. He writes that Norma has been a good example of a caring citizen and that he has spoken with her on several occasions. If she were deported to Mexico he continues he feels she would be a target for retaliation by the cartel she used to work for. But even with this letter no lawyer has yet to take her case because of her criminal past. They all tell her they cannot do anything for. The only thing she can do is tell her story.  I spoke to my advocate and he has a group of reporters. He would tell me talk to them tell them everything they ask everything you know.  And that is exactly what Norma has done. That is all she has left.  I cannot regret things that I have already done. I just wish I could have done things different. And yeah some people took advantage of me but I am still here. I am still fighting. Sometimes I feel like I am one of the lucky ones. I am still alive.  Norma please stay safe. Thank you so much for sharing your story with the SNAP. We first heard about Norma's story from Yolanda Gonzalez Gomez's investigative report Double Crossed by the DEA. We will have a link on our website snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Nancy Lopez with sound design by Renzo Gorrio.   When SNAP JUDGMENT returns we are kicking it live on stage with a young man trying to be something he most certainly is not. econd Skin episode back in just a moment. Stay tuned. 