 From PRX and NPR welcome back to o The Brink episode. My name is Glynn Washington. And longtime listeners of the show they know that sometimes we tell stories that are not true - but not because they never happened it is because they have not happened yet. This next piece comes to us from the overactive brain of writer Manuel Gonzales.    What - what are you doing? Stop .   He shrunk his wife. It was a mistake. One moment she was her normal size laughing at his pink tie telling him to switch it out for the green one she got him last Christmas. And the next she was the size of a mouse kicking and biting at his shoe. He picked her up and put her in his pocket. She tried to sink her tiny nails into his shirt to tear at the cotton but she was too small. She had no power.   Cannot you un-shrink me?   Do not worry. I will take care of you now and protect you.   What the  are you talking about? You shrunk me. Un-shrink me.  We do not know how to do that yet.   What about that expantiator  thing. You said you got the money for that expanding thing at work.   That is development. That is years off. Anyway do not you think you could like it this way?   Of course not. I want to go outside and see my friends.   OK OK. I just need some time. Just for now let us try and make things better. I will make this right.   He did not make it right. He did have a multitude of enlarging tools back at the Miniaturizing Department. But instead he built her a tiny house. He relished the smell of sawdust and wood and wood glue the metallic smell that lingered on the tips of his fingers after handling so many small nails. He ordered one of his employees in the Miniaturizing Department to shrink down a dining room set a nice bed and a few sets of sheets. He had some fun shrinking the refrigerator and whole shopping trips worth of groceries. After he had put all final touches on the house he put it on his bedside table. And the next morning he looked through the little windows at the unmade bed the tiny lamp glowing in the living room. She was frying up some thin strips of bacon in the kitchen muttering angrily to herself and avoiding his gaze and his cheerful good morning. He wondered was it possible that they could be happy there together? He wondered if this mistake could be the solution to all their marital woes. She would always made fun of his clothes of his job the way he allowed his mother to boss him around. Now he could continue to work. He would shrink pearl necklaces and other little trinkets for her in his lab. He would tell friends she was on vacation that she was taking night classes. He would sleep beside her in the little house every night. But the next evening when he came home from work he could not find her. He opened up the dollhouse lifted up the bed opened the dresser. She was gone. He thought maybe she just needed some time. So he wrote her a note on a Post-it - he could not change her back but she would see life would be simpler this way they would be happier. But his note went unanswered untouched on the kitchen counter. He did not see her for days on end. He started in his way to miss her. And so he miniaturized her cellphone. He put it on the dining room table in the little house where his wife could easily find it. He called the phone four or five times a day. But after a few days she still had not returned any of his calls. Maybe the phone did not work he thought or she had left. Or maybe she was dead. But on the fourth day he came back to his desk from a meeting and found a message on his office phone.   Hey it is me. I got your calls. I am back in this stupid tiny house. Let us talk this out.   He missed her deeply then - the way she used to sling her arm over his side as they slept the way she used to tap her feet to an unheard tune as she cooked dinner. He grabbed his jacket and left his office sped home his heart in his throat. He parked the car on the lawn burst through the door and took the stairs three four at a time. He through the dollhouse open. There she was in the little bedroom on the bed. Her hair tousled the sleeve of her nightgown falling from her narrow shoulder.   Well hello to you too.   What is going on here?   What are you talking about?   It is 1 in the afternoon. Why are you in bed? And why are you wearing that nightgown?   What do you mean? What about it?   That pink nightgown - the one I like so much.   I was taking a nap.   There is someone in here is not there?   What?   I bet you called Richard.   Richard who?   Do not play dumb like that. Richard - Richard Wear from my department. You could not stop laughing at his stupid golf jokes at the last company picnic. I bet you called him up told him to shrink himself and come right over did not you?   Are you kidding me?   Richard come out. I know you are in there.   Do not embarrass yourself. Come on.   Is he in the closet? Get out of the bed. I bet he is hiding under there.   He is not here.   Oh no? We will see if that is true.   What do you mean?   Let us just see how you and Richard fare without sunlight or food or water. You will need me then.   I told you he is not here. You cannot trap me in here forever.   Oh no? Watch me.   He locked his wife inside the dollhouse. He nailed the house shut covered the windows with squares of cardboard glued and then duct taped from the outside. He threw a drop cloth over the little prison and weighted it down with bricks from the garage.   Just wait you will be calling for me before you know it. You will see.    He came home the next night to find the dollhouse burned to the ground. He searched the charred embers and ashes for a sign of her but he could not find one. He did not know how she would managed to free herself. And then it struck him - if she could escape and then destroy the dollhouse what else was she capable of? That night he wore earmuffs and swimming goggles to bed. He tied down the sheets layered the bed three and four blankets thick. In the wee hours the sickening smell of burnt flesh jarred him from sleep. He found a burnt cockroach on the nightstand speared through its abdomen by a tiny metal skewer. And out of a corner of his eye he saw her small figure jump from the nightstand and scurry beneath the bedroom door. The next day he starved the cat. And just before bed he let it loose in the house. But he woke to find it dead on the pillow opposite him covered as though it was taking a nap. How had she killed it? How had she moved it and settled it onto his pillow? The cat was well over five times her size. She had loved that cat. He did not want to take any more chances so he drew a bath let it overflow and flooded his bedroom. The water was two feet deep. He perched the bed atop brick stilts. He slept without earmuffs or headphones. He fell asleep and dreamed she was drowning in his moat. But she did not drown. Instead she climbed atop his pillow.    Oh God my eye.   .   Come back. Come back.    But she was gone. He waded around his bed and found her boat an old sardine can still slick with salt oil and smashed it again and again until his hand was cut and bruised. He opened the bedroom door and the water spilled into the hall.   Can you see the white flag? Am I waving it high enough for you?   He walked to the stairs where he slipped on the hardwood tumbling down the 13 steps into the kitchen. And then from the bottom of the stairwell he spied her camp - a small hut made of a coffee tin and a couple of overturned Tupperware containers. Tiny spears lined the entrance each bearing the head of a spider a cockroach a fly. There she sat warming her hands at the fire humming to herself. She was wearing scraps of grubby kitchen towels crudely sewn together. Crawling towards her he pleaded...   Please please let us solve this now. I will do anything. I will take you back to the lab. I will set you right.   She turned then. Her eyes were red. Her smile crooked and wide.   .   .    He escaped from the back door. He stumbled through the overgrown weeds and brambles the sad remnants of his wife's old vegetable garden. He pushed his way into the shed and he clung to himself shaking. He was safe at least until she found him. And she would find him and destroy him tiny though she was.   .   That is what he gets Snappers. That is what he gets. That story comes to us from writer Manuel Gonzales. You can find out more about Manuel on our website snapjudgment.org. Special thanks to narrator Ms. Thao Nguyen San Francisco's own rock 'n' roll superstar. Our husband and wife are played by Sam Fishman and Eliza Smith. This story was produced by Eliza Smith with sound design and wholly original score was by Pat Mesiti-Miller.   All right now you are saying Glynn I need more stories. Well the stories you are pushing me dare I say it past the brink. But do not worry there is plenty of SNAP awaiting your listening pleasure. Subscribe right now to the podcast before it is too late - snapjudgment.org. SNAP's on the Facebook on the Twitter. The Corporation for Public Broadcasting cannot be angry just because I dealt the cards. Much love to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange they are the ones who sold me the trick deck - prx.org. And even though this is not the news no way is this the news - in fact you could find yourself in a compromising situation with that hottie from work and when their lover comes home you could climb out of the window onto the ledge just like in all the sitcoms and when you hear the yelling about who was here somebody was here you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 