 Well today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR we proudly present Fool's Gold amazing stories where real people discover that all that glitters is not gold. My name is Glynn Washington. Please make sure all your valuables are properly accounted for because this is a SNAP JUDGMENT. Now then here at the ow that we do some serious hard-hitting pieces right? But not right now at least not yet. You see we called the Pulitzer committee and we told them we do not need your stinking prize we do not care. Good storytelling is its own reward. Mark am I right? Yeah. Now our first piece today on that theme comes to us from a storyteller a storyteller by the name of Tim Tate.  The time is the mid-'60s. The place anywhere suburban USA. My brother is 8 I am 9 years old. We love a magazine called Monster Magazine which we read religiously every single month. This month in the back of Monster Magazine besides itching powder and x-ray glasses you could purchase a monkey. Not a sea-monkey not a stuffed monkey an actual squirrel monkey the size of a cat - a big cat and you only had to send 19.95. And we had 19.95 because we washed cars we mowed lawns. So my brother and I think this would be the best - the best idea we have ever had because not only will he do our chores for us and we will love him and he will love us but also he will go to school with us. Everybody at school will love us because we have a monkey on our shoulder. It was going to treat all of our ills. So we decide that this would be the best idea we ever had but we knew from experience that if we asked my mom in advance there was but one outcome - the answer would be no. But we also knew that any half-dead kind of bedraggled moth-eaten animal we drag home she would let us keep 'ecause she was a big softy. So with both those pieces of knowledge we set off for our own monkey. We decide his name will be Pepe. We make him a little hat and a cape. And we will dress him when he comes and everyone will know him because his name will be Pepe. So we send off the money and we wait.   About three weeks go by and back then women had bridge tournaments with the women from the country club. This was one of those days. So my mom's having a big bridge party. We have been you know squeezed into our plaid jackets little red bowties and our hair's been slicked down and we look very nice - we look like twins. And we are just kind of sitting there smiling so we do not embarrass anybody and they are just pointing and pinching our cheeks. By the way the cardinal rule in our house is you never ever embarrass your mother in front of the bridge club. That is the worst thing you can do. So as we sit there petrified that we might embarrass our mother there is a knock at the door it is the postman. And the postman has a box addressed to me and my brother. And it is the size of a shoebox. And in the front of the shoebox is a little tiny metal grill. And on the little metal grill what we see is a little monkeys mouth going  up against this thing. So when my mother seeing this monkey and seeing it is from Monkey Island or wherever it was from - and she says oh my god. I do not care what the boys have ordered. Take this thing back it is not coming to my house. Take it back where you got it from. I do not want this thing in my home. And the postman says if I take him back he will die. So now my brother and I are about to have a stage 4 meltdown in front of the bridge club which she cannot have right? And we know that she is sending our friend away to a certain death. So she says oh for god's sakes all right. Put the monkey in the kitchen. Now your father's at the hardware store. Now listen when he comes back and when this bridge club's over we will resolve this monkey issue. But in the meantime you do not touch that box you do not go in the kitchen you do not even look in the kitchen you do not smell the kitchen. You stay out here and when I finish with the bridge club and your father's home we will deal with it at that time and not a second before. And then she goes back down to play bridge. But we are 8 and 9 years old. We have a monkey in the box in the kitchen. There is no power on this planet that is going to keep us out. Now being 8 and 9 you know where all the creaking floorboards are. So we take off our shoes and we silently creep into the kitchen. You are not near that monkey are you? Of course not of course not. And we run back to where we were. So we go in the kitchen and we see that the box has a little frayed corner. So we think to ourselves all right. If we take a little knife we can help that corner and help Pepe escape so it looks like he just came out on his own because we know he is like suffocating in there - we just cannot take it. So we get the steak knife out. And at first we are tepid and we are kind of slowly kind of working it to let it open but pretty soon we just start hacking at the box. And were stabbing at it and the monkey's starting to screech - dodging this knife coming at it right and left going ah ah. Finally boing  out pops Pepe. Now monkeys are very very very smart creatures. They do not defecate in enclosed places and he has been waiting a long long time in that box. And so sadly now he is freaked out because a knife's been plunging at him he is been shipped in a shoebox. So now as he screeches at the top of his lungs bites us with needlelike teeth and runs in the living room there is an arc of urine in front of him and a huge trail of defecation wherever he went around that living room. So now the women hearing that there is something screeching inside think oh my god what happened - run up the steps with their arms up going oh my god what is going on? Oh my god. In those years women had huge beehives that were sprayed and stinky and horrible. And Pepe decides at this moment in time that the best defense is a very strong offense and leaps on one of the women and gets entangled in her hair. And he starts biting on the poor woman who is now bleeding and screaming and crying. And at this moment my poor father walks back into the house. When he left he was a mild-mannered accountant in the suburbs with two lovely children and a bridge club downstairs. And now he thinks a rabid squirrel has broken in. He has no idea what it is because it could not be a monkey - was not even in his comprehension. And so the monkey had run behind the sofa. And so he runs down and gets big leather garden gloves and he comes upstairs any he traps the monkey in the corner behind the sofa. And we pull my sister's old crib with screen sides. We push it out in the front lawn and we put Pepe inside the crib and then we put a screen door on top of that and then we put bricks on top of that. And then all eyes turned to my brother and I. Now we are in trouble of course but at this point my aunt is visiting so before any horrible retribution can happen to my brother and I my aunt speaks up and she says oh look how sweet he is being. Look he is a nice monkey. Look - and you know I mean the boys were stabbing him and he was shipped in a shoebox. You know he is had a tough life. And I have never pet a monkey. I just want to pet a little monkey. Let me pet - I bet I can calm him down. So my aunt goes over but where an arm can go in a monkey can come out. And out comes Pepe. And a monkey who believes he is about to go to the next beyond in panic jumps out - and to escape bites the first thing in front of his eyes. And what is that? That is my aunt's pendulous breast. So the monkey bites her so hard on her breast that his head is shaking back and forth. So he bites her and now my aunt lets out a bloodcurdling screech that the entire neighborhood can hear. And she screeches like high heaven. And finally she swats Pepe off. He runs into the woods behind the house. We search for him every single day. So we would call Pepe and we would leave food for him constantly. We had Purina Monkey Chow because there were so many people with monkeys back then I guess. In fact our mom would go up and buy monkey chow for us even though she had no real desire to. But she - we would make her go buy monkey chow. She would give us bananas. She would do whatever we had to to take food to Pepe. We leave toys out in the woods. We go home after school and we have a group of our friends together and we all say you know help us today. And different people would help us on different days. And we would scour the woods endlessly. And we would always think we caught a glimpse of Pepe - just a little tail somewhere or a little face around the corner which most of the times turned out to be a squirrel but sometimes we thought we saw him. And so we always were sure that he was there. At night out of our bedroom windows we would see him in the trees in our minds looking over us and we knew he was waiting to come back home. And we did this for - it must have been two or three months. And then one day we find his little desiccated body at the foot of an oak tree. We take it and we dress poor Pepe in the cape and hat that might have been his had circumstances been different. We put him back in the box that he originally was shipped in. We get our wagon and we put back crpe paper around the entire wagon. We borrow our parents' giant black clothes - my father's black suit and we have a hat. And we have rolled up our sleeves and cuffs because they are way too long but we had this huge funeral precession. We have got our friends to go behind it and we finally get around to the backyard. My father's there with the shovel going you know put the thing in the ground. But we are very solemn and we bury him in the backyard. And we have made a tombstone for him out of paper-mache that we spent days making and it said RIP Pepe our dearest friend. And we finally bury him and we plant flowers around the gravesite. And there he still lies peacefully resting in this moment. The tombstone is gone but the area's full of flowers so he always will be there happily covered in flowers. There is an addendum to the story and that is my mother year - many years later she was on her deathbed - pulled us aside and said she had something to admit. And we thought oh my god this must be something horrible. Oh my god what could she be hiding that she would have to admit it on her deathbed? And what she decided to tell us and admit at that moment was that during that time the newspapers radios and televisions had all had sightings - monkey sightings all around our neighborhood. And they were trying to find out who the owner of the monkey was so if the monkey was captured they knew who to return it to. And for god sakes my mother said I hid all those newspapers. And if it was coming on the TV I shooed you out of the room and I hid all that from you so you would never know it because she was so afraid the monkey would be returned to the house. So that was her big confession but of course we had forgiven her. But Pepe who now lives on forever in story form sadly left us much too quickly.  Yes we know and we did not do it. And I can promise you that no monkeys were hurt in the making of this story. And if you think it is a good idea to order a monkey in the mail please turn yourself into the nearest police officer at once. Rest in peace Pepe. That story was originally performed by Tim Tate for Speakeasy D.C. It is a live storytelling nonprofit. That piece was produced by Julia Botero with sound design by Pat Mesiti-Millier and Leon Morimoto. Now when SNAP JUDGMENT continues we are going to make big money the old-fashioned way. We are going to gamble for it when the Fool's Gold episode continues. Stay tuned. 