 OK so my go-to place in the morning is this coffee shop right down the street from SNAP. They got the Wi-Fi right. So I was leaving there the other day still pretty early had my green tea mug get my chai. It is a great way to start the day. And I am leaving there and this dude he walked by me on the sidewalk and he bumps me hard - hard. Knocks my tea to the ground. What? Then he turns around and smiles like I am a punk. And you have got to understand my instinct is Detroit. You do not hit me in broad daylight walking down the street. I will take that card partner and raise you. And I see him seeing me holding a bookbag in one arm and a tea cozy thing in the other. He wants to laugh now. And then I want to laugh too. I want to fight some guy in the street because he bumped me. No bra'. I am going to let the universe handle this one because the universe is more cold-blooded than I will ever be. Today on RX and NPR we proudly present The Big Payback. Amazing stories when karma kicks in right when you least expect it. My name is Glynn Washington. Get yourself a cup of tea or alternative beverage of your choice because this is SNAP JUDGMENT.   Now for our first story the fireworks have been lit. Get your gold spandex ready because SNAP JUDGMENT is about to face off against the greatest wrestling family in the world. Prepare yourself for the radio rumble.   ...Is taking the punishment from Fritz Von Erich who is bearing in using all that mighty weight of his - weighs in the vicinity of 270 pounds...  I can remember being a little boy watching my dad wrestle. Ever since I was born we have been - my father has been in the wrestling business - have not known any other occupation. Pretty much the ring is just like your playpen.  Kevin Von Erich's dad was known as The Iron Claw. He had this famous move in the ring. He would squeeze his opponent's temples until they bled.   ...On the head. The master of the Iron Claw applies it as only he can. It is rather like taking a grape and squeezing it until the juice pops out.  Kevin and his little brothers used to sit at the TV commentators' table watching his dad's fights. Once when he was about 11 his protective instinct took over and he just flung himself onto his father's opponent. K.  I mean we really - we were crying tears in our eyes - could not stand to see your dad getting beat up in the ring. You know it is - I could not take it. I just ran in that ring and he kicked me in the stomach and threw me out of the ropes. But I was you know just wild. I was a little boy. So I just came running back to really put some punishment on him. He just kicked me again and threw me out - all the trouble I caused him. But yeah I got so into it I just could not contain myself and I had to jump in there.  That was the first time Kevin appeared in a professional wrestling ring. Eight years later he stepped into the ring officially - the first of the next Von Erich generation to go pro. Eventually all four of his little brothers became professional wrestlers and the five of them fought together. The Von Erich brothers brought a new style to wrestling. K.  We wanted wrestling to be a sport that we enjoyed ourselves. Wrestling had on TV - what really put me against it it looked fake. It looked so phony. I did not want to be any part of that at all. And when we adjusted it so it was something that we actually enjoyed doing.  So the Von Erichs wrestled like actual brothers in the backyard hurting each other. K.  And so we went ahead and just tried to just put as much punishment on each other as we could - you know just hit really hard. And the people like that. It made good TV. It was something they had not - they were not used to watching. And it was a lot of fun to watch and so wrestling changed then. And you see what you see now. And they have credited us for that.  The brothers were like a pride of lions - feathered golden-blonde hair huge muscles stuffed into tiny gold spandex. Kevin David Kerry Mike and Chris were young handsome and aggressive in the ring.   ...The abdominal stretch by Kevin Von Erich. And listen to the crowd. K.  The crowd changed. It went from older than 39 years old male you know working men - but when I started doing it the kids started coming because they were not used to seeing young guys wrestle. And so they were selling more snow cones and Cokes and candy than they were beer back in those days and it was a new thing. We were having huge crowds and our TV ratings were sky high.  When the boys would take the ring the Texas Sportatorium would sell out - 4000 people 70 percent of them screaming girls. K.  Girls started really just coming in and that had never happened before. It was a new thing and so you can tell by the sound of the crowd - when the crowd exploded in sound then you can really tell when the little girls are out there. That high-pitched squeal - just wow. It just rings your ears you know.  Fans would start filling the Sportatorium hours before the fight was scheduled to begin. Girls would chase the Von Erich boys for their autographs stakeout their homes. K.  Yeah that would be a problem when we would have people camping out in front of the house and things like that. We would have to call the police on things like that.  The Von Erich brothers rose to fame in the early '80s. They soared off the ropes locks of feathered hair flying behind them. And their TV show run by their father World Class Championship Wrestling became the second-highest rated show in the country. They came up with the idea of entering the ring to a signature song. K.  I came out to Stranglehold. That is when you start getting ready and you just start springing and bouncing and getting you know psyched and then hear your music. And then you are beyond - you start to change into a werewolf. And then your music crescendos. You hear the drums and you kick the door open. Then you are a full-fledged werewolf now. And you hit the ring and you just have fun. The pitch just was more than we would ever had. You feel like you are walking two feet off the ground. You just - adrenaline just takes over. And it makes for great TV. And when the people are just freaking out like that then you feel like you can fly. And it is a great feeling. We traveled all over the world. We saw the coolest things. We had fun. Everywhere we went we had fun.  The fun involved slamming into each other into other huge wrestlers slamming into the floor the walls folding chairs all day long. K.  The hardest part was that we were running three shows a day. I would have to do a show at noon and then do a show at 3 oclock in the after - and then do another show at seven oclock that night. Really hard on the body yeah. I have had a lot of knee surgeries. I got beat up so often that when I realized that you know it is only going to be a punch in the face. It is real loud. It does not really hurt that bad and you know it is just loud. The next thing I know I am waking up and they are loading me into an ambulance. I have had so many concussions. I know that I have you know - that I have hurt you know - that I have damage to my you know - to my brain from it.  Wrestling was hard on the body and the mind. And even the smiling band of brothers were coming apart. David the second oldest Von Erich brother was the first to surrender. In 1984 he was found dead in a hotel room in Japan. The cause of his death has been heavily disputed in the wrestling world. K.  Actually it may have been wrestling-related.  Thousands of fans came to David's funeral.   They came to the First Baptist Church by the thousands wrestling fans who wanted to pay tribute to David Von Erich. The 25-year-old wrestler died...  But after David's death the Von Erich team began to crumble one massive body after another. K.  You know believe it or not Dave the first one was - I never quite got up after that one. That - Dave was the toughest one that was like - that when I stayed -  Mike was next and that was really bad.  Mike had hurt his shoulder wrestling. And after a series of surgeries and hospitalizations he overdosed on pills. Chris the youngest boy tried very hard to keep up with the Von Erich prowess in the ring. But he just never had the body or the athleticism. And in this family that was an impossibly hard burden to bear. K.  He was not going to get big. He was not going to be - he was not quick and agile and the power was not on his side either. It had just shot him down. And so he wanted so bad to be a wrestler and it was just - was not going to happen. And it was just Chris could not bear it could not tolerate it. He just shot himself in the head with a nine millimeter.  So that left Kevin and one other brother Kerry. But after years battling an addiction to pain pills Kerry shot himself in the heart.   ...The death of the professional wrestler called Kerry Von Erich was a suicide. Bill Brown reports this tragedy is not the first for the Von Erich family. They seem to have it all... K.  He forged prescriptions to get pain medicine. And that is - so I would attribute pain pills to Kerry's death. So many wrestlers have died and it is because of those darn pain pills. Pain pills you know kill the pain but they are tricky. They kill the pain that one time and the next time it takes a little bit more to kill the pain. And the next thing you know you are addicted to the stuff. They are really tricky and they have killed a lot of wrestlers.  So Kevin was the only surviving Von Erich boy. After his brothers died he kept wrestling flying to fights across the country punishing his body going back to hotel rooms alone at night. K.  You know I may have even quit wrestling back then. But the fans coming out like they did they are genuinely concerned you know and loved me. I could feel it and made me you know not want to let them down. And so I would wrestle when I did not feel like it sometimes.  The ghosts of his brothers were everywhere he went - etched on the corner posts the turnbuckles of wrestling rings in stadiums and gyms. K.  We used to write in the turnbuckles. You know we would always have a lot of autograph-seekers in the turnbuckles. So we always had plenty of pens. And so one of the brothers would write hey Kev or hey Kerry on the turnbuckles. You know and so that is how we would say hey you know write something funny or something kind of dirty to the other one or something. You know I do not know. But then after they were dead and I would work these towns and I would seen it written in the turnbuckle - you know hey Kev - and it got to where it was I did not want to be there. I was an unhappy guy. Somebody may have asked me if I was going to achieve immortality by my wrestling by my tapes by kind of a pioneer and all that. But I think I told them that I would much rather achieve immortality by not dying.  So Kevin climbed out of the ring for good in 1995. K.  If you are going to be a professional wrestler and you are going to put your body through that and you decide this is more important than everything else well then for me I ruined my body. I had a lot of fun doing it - no complaints here - just I am pretty beat up now. But I would probably do it all over again. The fun we had - we had a blast.  When Kevin took off his robe and waved goodbye to the fans he knew he would have to go far from the cameras and the dressing rooms of Dallas. So he moved his family to Kauai. His two sons would watch his glory days on VHS.   Now the music plays for the entrance of our challenger Kevin Von Erich.  I would constantly sit there and watch videos of my dad. And even when I was little I would dress up - I would dress up like my dad and pretend like I was him. I would go wrestle with my brother on the trampoline.  This is Marshall one of Kevin's sons. M.  He would go in there and like the crowd would be screaming his name. I was never around to experience it. But I would - just off videos and stuff - but I did go to a couple little shows with my dad. And it was a great experience as a kid to see your dad as like a superhero. But my background was kind of the same as his. I never thought I would be able to wrestle. It kind of seemed like it was - like it would be a dream come true but it was too good to be true in a way.  Marshall and his brother Ross played football and track and field. And a few years ago at the urging of some scouts they decided it was their time to climb over the ropes and into the ring. Marshall does not talk about it like it was a decision but more like a path he was guided to by an invisible hand - something that happened to him. M.  And it did not really hit me what I was doing until I came out. Like my song came on and I came out and I saw the people. And I was like OK I guess this is it. It was a really cool feeling and it was actually awesome. And the crowd gets louder and louder and louder and then they start - and then by the end of course they are screaming. And it is so much fun having them behind you. K.  It is your second nature. M.  Yeah. K.  To him - you see him in the ring it is just like watching a duck in the water.  But you must feel some hesitation letting - seeing them go back into the ring that was responsible for so much death in your family. K.  I do not look at it like that. That is a coward's way to look at it. You know I cannot take the good and complain when the bad comes along.  So - but Kevin as an outsider I guess I have to come clean here. I am not sure why wrestling is worth the risk. K.  You know I think it is - really kind of goes down into something really more primal. A boy wants to be like his dad. I know that is what it was with me. I wanted to be just like him. Maybe that is nature. That is just the way it works. M.  I just want to try to - try to kind of give off the same thing my dad and his brothers did is - when fans come to the show and stuff. The more and more I wrestled the more and more I loved it. And I would not - yeah I guess it is kind of like a drug. I want to keep doing it and I do not want to stop right now. K.  It is dangerous. You are right. People do get hurt. But you know what Anna? Whatever we decide to do in life you want to be the best at it. If they want to pursue wrestling that is their call. And I guarantee you they will be the best because no one is going to work harder than they are. I guarantee you that. Pay the price the other guy will not pay like Von Erich-style. That is what we were known for and that is - if there was a legacy that is it. We give it all we have got.  Big thanks to Kevin and Marshall for speaking with the SNAP. You can find out more about them on our website SnapJudgment.org. That piece was produced by Anna Sussman with sound design by Renzo Gorrio. When we return we have got a very bad teacher. We have got a very bad man. And we have got a very bad gambler when SNAP JUDGMENT The Big Payback episode continues. Stay tuned. 