 From PRX and NPR welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT LIVE! the Encore episode already in progress.   That is right. Get ready for our next guest Vijai Nathan. She spent her entire career getting on her parents' last nerve. And today you are going to find out why they are kind of proud of her. Please put your hands together Vijai Nathan.   When I was little I loved riding in the car with my mom 'ecause she always let me control the radio. That station wagon was my personal disco. And I became Madonna. Lucky Star Material Girl Like A Virgin - that was my favorite. One time I sang the song extra loud to see if my mom knew what the words meant. NATHAN  Like a virgin touched for the very first time. Like a vir - was as far as I got. One hand on the wheel the other at my throat. She said  Vijai are not like a virgin. You are a virgin.     My sisters and I were not allowed to talk about or think about sex. According to my mom  sex is only for the Americans. I mean every day she would tell me that I would get an arranged marriage and that I would never date and that I would be pure and perfect on my wedding night. And I believed this - until I went to college. There I met girls who were so care-free and liberated. They consumed men like pieces of cheese. So at 20 years old even though I was the youngest girl in my family I decided that I was going to be the first to lose my virginity. But I was going to be smart about it. I wanted a man who would be great in bed but never break my heart. I found the perfect specimen at my summer job waitressing at the Woodmont Country Club - Kevin Williams 23 6' 2'' sexy athletic body IQ of a mango.   No chance of falling in love. So after weeks of making out in his car I was ready to take the next step. Friday night I went to the Safeway in the Orthodox Jewish neighborhood so I would not run into anyone that I knew. There I bought condoms spermicide K-Y Jelly and a Snickers. I did not want to look like a total deviant to the checkout girl.   Saturday night I went to Kevin's house and we did it. And I could have been anyone to him. And he could have been anyone to me. And I did not feel so liberated. Nothing had changed. I was still me. Afterwards we shared the Snickers. But I decided that I would wait for love or marriage before I ever did it again. Now quality time in my family is Sunday brunch at my dad's golf club. He does not know how to play but he insists  it is good for business contacts. After the meal he says  let us take a walk just me Shanthi  Indu  and Vijai. And immediately I know something is up because my father never ever physically exerts himself. I start to panic as we stumble past those happy golfing families onto a quiet dirt path. He motions for me and my sisters to sit at a picnic table turns to my oldest sister and says  Shanthi are you having sex? Dad I am a third-year resident. I am too tired to have sex.  Good. Good girl. Indu are you having sex? Dad I am 26 years old still living at home and thoroughly repulsed that you are asking me this question. No I am not.  Good. Good girl. Vijai your mother has found something that leads her to believe that you are having sex.   I had gotten rid of everything. There was nothing at home that would give me away. So I decided to stay calm poker-faced play the reasonable adult. Daddy I do not know what you are talking about. What did she find?  She will not tell me. She said if she tells me I will kill you.    Look Vijai I am a liberal guy not like Mommy. You can tell me yeah? I know you kids you go to college you smoke you drink you have sex. So tell me Vijai are you a virgin? I did not want to lie to my dad 'ecause I never directly lied to my parents before. Well Dad I think that is just too personal to discuss.  Well then you have answered my question. And in that moment I could see that he was no longer looking at me but through me. And I was losing him losing my family losing my place. I had stopped being good being the baby being Indian. I was becoming something different foreign American. And I had to make a choice. Daddy of course I have never had sex. I am still a virgin. I am still good.  I knew it. Your mother she is crazy.    I told her my daughters they are not loose like the Chopra girls but they are from Bombay what do you expect? And as he chattered on I felt the fragility of my life and relief as I saw those shattered pieces moving back into place. I felt so loved safe whole. I felt like a virgin.  