 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR the Choosing Sides episode. Today we are nosing into situations where neutrality is not an option. Now you know the forces that make us choose one thing or the other they are often people family our neighbors our boss. But sometimes that which makes you decide where you stand it is so much bigger than any one person. For our next piece SNAP JUDGMENT's Anna Sussman takes us to the top of the world.  We would eat caribou we eat a lot. And muktuk it is the outer skin of a whale - beluga whale. And then we have a certain thing called Eskimo ice cream. It is made with rendered caribou fat and then you whip it up and put berries and meat in it and it is very delicious.  Margaret Pokiak's family lived in a one-room tent insulated with ice bricks on an island in the Arctic Ocean in northern Canada.  Well when I was growing up we never went into town or anything because there was no towns to go to. We would get a year supply of food and then we would spend all winter.  Her family is into it. They hunted and fished and traded fur.  Then we would go out and play with the caribou hide balls. We would have balls that is made with fur with hairy side inside. And we would travel by dog team out for a drive or a ride. My dad would make up little beds and I would have a polar bear skin that is on the floor side and then the caribou hide on top of that.  At night Margaret's half-sister would read stories to the family in the tent. She had been sent to a residential school run by the Catholic Church and the Canadian government for Inuit kids so she knew how to read. Margaret did not understanding the English words her sister read aloud but she was fascinated.  I did not even know what she is talking about but it sounds like it was very very interesting. And that is was my interest in learning to read came about.  Margaret wanted to go to school but there were not any schools near the island so her only option was to go to a residential school like her sister. Her father had also been to a residential school and he and her sister would warn a Margaret you do not really want to go there.  They would say that but we just do not understand things like that when you are a kid you know a little kid. But I knew one thing for sure that I had it in my head that I was going to learn to read.  In lots of places the police and the missionaries were forcibly removing kids from their homes and taking them off to these residential schools. Families would literally hide their kids under beds and in the bush nobody wanted to go. But Margaret did not know any better so when the ice melted on the ocean Margaret's family boarded a boat to the mainland.  And mom and dad they took me to the school and they were not hardly saying anything. We all said our goodbyes and they left.  About half the children at the school were Inuit and the other half were from different native tribes. The nuns took their handmade clothes and replaced them with uniforms and forbid them all from speaking their native languages. Margaret realized very quickly that the school was not what she had hoped and that she was more alone than she could have ever imagined. She was 8 years old.  You do not understand what they are talking about and you were not allowed to use your language. They's say shh. So it is - you feel very isolated. I wondered why I even wanted to go to school because I thought the very first thing they would do is teach me how to read and write and that was not it at all.  She did not even enter a classroom for her first three months at the school.  We had to do chores like scrubbing floors and...  The kids had to get the school ready for the winter cleaning and unloading supplies from barges.  Everybody had to unload the cordwood you know? It is a lineup like a chain gang and the first three or four days you just think you are dying when you wake up - you ache so much. You carry on and then at night you hear a lot of children - we all would be crying. And a lot of them try not to make any sound but you see - hear the little ones they have nobody to tell them it is going to be OK. You learn how not to cry and I just - it was very hard. Their main goal was to teach you how to be a Catholic. And they tell us that if we did not get our parents converted that they were going to go to hell. And when you are a little kid you just do not want your parents to go to hell. When they first asked me to kneel down I did not know what I was supposed to do.  Margaret wanted to go home but she was forbidden from writing to her parents to tell them how unhappy she was. And then in the middle of the dark northwest winter she got her chance.  Before Christmas time they want us to go to the radio station and say hi to your folks.  The nuns brought the kids to a local radio station. They were going to broadcast holiday messages out to the remote snowy islands of the North.  All the girls were happy and said oh we would be talking to our parents on the radio station. And so oh goody I can let them know that I want to go home and please come and get me. So we walked over to where the radio station was. I was waiting outside with the rest of the girls maybe about 30 I think. And they would bring us in one by one. I was very excited. I thought finally I am going to be able to tell what I really wanted to say to my parents. And we are all trying to move around so we can stay warm because it is very cold up there. Everyone had gone in there and I was maybe three or four of the last child to go in. And then they gave me a piece of paper and they said you can read that. And of course they wanted to say that they were treating me really good. And I thought well that is not how I felt. And I did not want to say that so it was my turn I got in front of the microphone but I will not say anything. I could tell the nun was very mad but she could not say anything loudly. I just absolutely never said anything and that was that.  The parents were listening to the radio waiting for her to speak they could hear her breathing. They knew something was up.  But there is hardly anything they could do about it because they were hundreds of miles away.  There was no way for her parents to come and get her. They were on an island in the middle of the ocean. It was two years before the ice melted enough for Margaret and the other students to board a boat home for the summer.  We were all so happy and we were - we kept stopping and letting off most of the children along the Mackenzie River. When we arrived in Tatiatuk everyone got off the boat. I seen my mom and I went up to her and I was standing in front of her and she did not recognize me because I had grown and I was all dark brown from the sun from the last two years. She looked at me and she said not my girl not my girl. And that is the first English words I ever heard her say. It was the worst kind of feeling a person can have I think without actually dying. And the food I was not used to eating the foods that I grew up with. And everything tasted - they smelled so strong and I was not used to that. At home I would not eat. I could not - I had lost my language and I could not understand any words at all. It was quite awful not being able to speak to your mother.  And did you want to go back to school?  No I did not. I told dad I never wanted to go back to school.  But it was not up to her. The missionaries would come back to collect the children.  You learn how to hide when you think they are coming. So it is quite scary that when you think that they going to find you and take you away.  But there was no way the Inuit could hide from the rest of Canada. Outsiders were flooding into the island and the government together with missionaries were taking away more and more children. Margaret's father pretty much saw the writing on the wall. His kids would need certain skills to compete.  He was not excited about it it is just - like if you want to be in tune with the world you have to kind of use your own judgment at times.  And he told Margaret he had to send her little sisters to school and he needed to send her too to take care of them.  He figured my little sisters would be OK if I went with them.  That spring Margaret climbed into a boat with her two little sisters from a nearby town they called Tuk.  As soon as we got on the boat I made sure that my little sisters were with me. And we all sat together and I even have a picture someone had taken where we all look so sad and we are all sitting together in a group my sisters and I. We were watching Tuk getting farther and farther away and we are all trying not to cry. We are not happy but we were just OK being together.  When Margaret Pokiak and her sisters left on the boat that day they had no idea that one of Margaret's sisters would go on to become the first Inuit nurse in Canada. And of Margaret's 16 brothers and sisters about half went to live in mainstream Canada and half continued to live traditionally. The Canadian government eventually apologized for the residential schools treatment of Inuit children and Margaret - Margaret eventually fell in love with a cowboy and moved to a farm down south. To find out more about the Inuit people who were systematically cut off from their cultures we will have a link to more information on our website snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Anna Sussman. You are listening to elling with a beat. We will be right back in a moment. Stayed tuned. 