 Welcome back to e Of The Beholder special today. Just because things look one way to one person does not mean that is the way they really are. Case in point - our next story comes to us by way of a fantastic new show called Israel Story. And in it producer Shoshi Shmuluvitz finds out what happens when at long last you cave in to your parents' demands.   It was about seven years ago that Ghazi Al-Buliwi's father was first diagnosed with kidney cancer. And Ghazi still remembers the day about three years into the treatment when he took his dad home from the hospital.  And he just stopped me at a stoplight. And I remember exactly where - it was like Court and Warren in Brooklyn. And he turns to me as we are waiting for this light to change and he turns and he goes you know I want to see your children before I die. That statement right there propelled me to do things that I would never thought I would do.  You see Ghazi's parents were originally Palestinian refugees and they would been pressuring him for a long time to get married to a traditional Muslim girl. But even though he was born in a refugee camp Ghazi always felt more American than Palestinian. So this idea of settling down it really terrified him particularly because of the way he was expected to settle down.  You cannot date without being married. That is like the Islamic way. You cannot date someone without marrying them so it is like the ultimate let us-play-Russian-roulette-with-your-life  way of marriage. Like oh well let us get married and then let us date.  But Ghazi also knew that he loved his dad and that before he died he wanted to give him those grandchildren.  So I did something very impulsive. I had a conversation with my mom which I never thought I would have with her but I was like look I want to compromise with you guys. I want a woman who is more on the modern side of things. We are Jordanian-Palestinian. I think Queen Rania of Jordan is amazingly beautiful. If I can find someone like Queen Rania of Jordan I would be so happy. And so my mom's exact words - Queen Rania? Yeah her family's from Tulkarm where our relatives live. I will tell you what in Tulkarm it is like going to a lemon tree. You could pick all the Queen Ranias you want. You could just pluck them out. And she did this thing with her hands where she mimed plucking a Queen Rania off a tree. And I am like visualizing like beautiful women hanging like Queen Rania on a tree that I would just pluck out when I got there. So I book a ticket.  And the next thing he knows Ghazi is flying into Tel Aviv hailing a taxi and getting dropped off at a checkpoint in the West Bank.  And now I am walking towards soldiers with a huge suitcase who are literally looking at me with their guns up not pointing at me but they are like - kind of like what is this guy doing? And I am like oh . This is when it dawns on me that you are - this might be a really big mistake. You should not have left Brooklyn. So I go into Tulkarm and I go to what my father told me to go to which is a section of the refugee camp that my family lives in Hadet al-Balouna  - neighborhood of the Balouna. The Balouna is my family tribal name. And that is where I pull up and you know meet my family. And then eventually they start taking me around to meet women.   You sit down. There is the men of the girl's family on one side of the living room. My family guys sit on one side. And then you are just kind of waiting there. You kind of small talk. People are like chain-smoking in these rooms and like I am like dying here. And then eventually the girl - and it is almost every time verbatim - the girl comes out with a tray of drinks. She serves all the men. The last drink is for you. She makes eye contact with you then sits with her relatives. And then you just sit and you just stare at each other like something's supposed to happen. It is such a weird thing but a lot of these girls would come out of these rooms and I am thinking Queen Rania all the way. I am thinking this is going to be a hot girl coming through this door.  And the first woman he met was attractive.  Turned out to be my 17-year-old second cousin. She was actually kind of cute.  But the cousin thing was a deal-breaker for Ghazi so he kept looking.  I sat with one girl - Islamic girl - who is a pharmacist so you could go oh she is like a scientist. She asked me do you pray? I said no I really - I am going to be very honest with you. I am not going to lie. I do not pray. She goes oh you are going to go to hell. I guess that is the  version of can I please have the check?  A week goes by a week and a half. Ghazi's going from house to house drinking tea meeting women but he keeps striking out. On top of that the conditions of the refugee camp where his family lives are really starting to get to him.  The refugee camp is just like such a depressing thing - kids with no shoes on people are poor dirt everywhere. I would take three showers a day. Nice Jewish settlements with nice clean houses across the fence which I watch every day. And I wish why could not my family have been Jewish settlers? Why? Why? So I am already like checked out. I am already gone. I am going back to New York. That is it. I am done. I kind of did what I had to do here for my father. And then like someone goes look there is this girl. Let us just go see her. She is at an amusement park with her mom. We know her. We have already talked. We are going - they are going to meet us there. So I go with my cousin and my niece. I am not expecting anything. I get to the amusement park and meet the mom. She goes oh she is with her sister on the Ferris wheel.   And it is - a Ferris wheel is supposed to do a 360. It is supposed to do circles but this is Tulkarm. The Ferris wheel is not doing 360s. It is doing a 180. So it would go up and it would come down like a crescent moon. It is like everything is breaking down in here. The bumper cars are not bumping. They had like a zoo. The snake died they told me. It is like so sad the conditions there. I mean people need - and so anyway so I am trying to figure out what this girl looks like because the Ferris wheel is coming down going up coming down going up. But this girl gets out and I like focus on her. And the girl looked like Audrey Hepburn. She was not wearing a hijab very Western looking had really cool looking jeans. I say hello to her. She is a little shy. We walk back to her mom. I sit with her mom. We are talking.  Her family it turned out was a lot like Ghazi's - Muslim but modern. And unlike his relatives they actually lived outside the refugee camp in a nicer part of town. If there was a deal breaker Ghazi could not find one.  The conversation turns to would you ever let your daughter go to live in America? I live in New York. It is really nice there. Mom was like yeah totally. And you know it was kind of a done-deal there. I was like oh if the mom is agreeing to this it is cool. And you know I thought she was innocent. And a part of me thought you know what I can give her great life. We can love each other. She can take care of me. I can take care of her. And I am walking back with my cousin. I am like dude done. Let us just - I am ready. Let us get the guys. Let us just do this.   We got married on Christmas December 25. I remember that day specifically. I thought it was really romantic that I got married on Christmas. We go to the Islamic Sharia Court and then I sign this wedding contract. And at that point she is my wife right? But really in their eyes she is only my fiancee. Even though we are married on paper she is not really your wife until that wedding night when we give her to your family and she becomes yours.  But now that Ghazi and - let us call her Farrah  - are technically married they no longer need supervision meaning they are allowed to be alone together while the two families prepare for the big wedding.  And what you get to feel as you go along is this person is totally uncomfortable with me which I can totally understand that.  But one thing Ghazi's aunts and uncles could not understand and which was kind of bothering them was that Farrah's family kept asking Ghazi to buy things for them - ice cream aspirin stuff like that.  And it is such not the Arab customary thing. Usually if you are a guest of an Arab household Arabs are just like so offended that you would even suggest paying for anything because you are like the houseguest.  Still Ghazi does not want to rock the boat so he goes along with it. And then one night Farrah finds him in his room.   She comes in and she goes oh I want to show you pictures of my brother who - her brother's a police officer in training. She comes from a cop family. And she opens up this folder and there is a bunch of photos in there - just photos of her brother doing kind of like an obstacle course. He is climbing the rope. He is like running. It is hot out. You can see guys with their shirts off. And then at a certain point it is him posing with his shirt off and then him posing with his shirt off with a gun like a machine gun with a cigarette in his mouth like seductive pose. And then she turns to me she goes - is not he tasty? I am like huh? Is not he tasty? And she goes cannot you see why all the girls want him? But the way she said it I am like what the hell just - it is like the fourth day and I am like this family's nuts. And my younger cousin brought up the fact that she was not the virgin image of a girl who stays home. She is you know she is gone out with some guys behind her family's back you know stuff that I have no idea about until - you know of course until I signed the wedding contract.  But Ghazi like come on like you want a modern like westernized girl who is not wearing a hijab but then she also has to be a virgin.  Yeah but you know what? It is this whole fantasy that my parents built up for me that said you know what? All these girls in Tulkarm are under lock and key. You are going to get yourself a girl that has not been polluted by society. And then you know - and of course they are also throwing in the fact that she is going to look like you know Queen Rania of Jordan. And so like all that builds up and then you know you finally get someone that kind of resembles your fantasy. And then the fantasy starts to crack.   Meanwhile Ghazi is making more and more purchases. Farrah's mother he says turns out to be something of a big-time spender and she is having him pay not just for incidentals but for nights out groceries even utility bills. And Farrah does not seem to be warming up to him at all. In fact she just gets colder until she finally puts her foot down and says that there will not be any sex on the wedding night.  And so at a certain point you know you stop and you think and you go OK this family's using me for my money. And this person did not see a life with me but her mom probably pushed her into marrying me which was not cool and that this girl signed on the dotted line.  So Ghazi finally decides to put his own foot down.  We are going to go buy a wedding dress the next day. If she asks for an expensive wedding dress I am done with her. I am going to tell her I cannot marry you.  And sure enough the dress that Farrah and her mother pick out is super expensive.  I kind of was like tell her we are going to another wedding gown store. I think that is a little - a little high. Mother comes out does not look happy. My wife comes out does not look happy. Start walking - silence. And I turned to my wife. I am like what is wrong? Oh you know what is wrong. You should not have upset my mother. She said it in such a way that I just stopped without - it is been building up. I was like you know what? I cannot do this. I divorce you.   Then Ghazi turns around and leaves Farrah and her mother just standing there in the street.  So I had a nervous breakdown the nervous breakdown being I cry scream and then walk through a refugee camp just cursing myself. I tell my uncle I have got to get out of this. He said do not worry do not worry stop stop like do not cry. I am like a 34-year-old guy crying. I have been like robbed at gunpoint in Brooklyn and I never cried then. I peed on myself but I did not cry. And here I am like walking through the road just crying. He is like stop do not cry. I know this great lawyer.  Who is this lawyer? He goes do not worry. He is the best in all of Tulkarm. His name is Arafat Arafat . I am like so - like it was enough to make me stop crying and go Arafat Arafat? And he is like yes Arafat Arafat. He is the best lawyer in all of Tulkaram.  And at this point Ghazi needs a lawyer. He knows he just Farrah and her family hanging in a big way - and in public no less. So he walks back into town to meet with Arafat Arafat.  And he is like tell me what happened? I was like Arafat Arafat this is what happened. He goes did you enter her? And he made a hole with his finger and he put the - I said no. I tried to. I wish I had entered her. He goes OK that is good that is good. And he sits back in his chair and he thinks that is good. I said listen I have got to get out of here. I have had it. I had a nervous breakdown. I have been crying. Look at my eyes. He goes why were you crying? Because men do not cry. It is like - she is like - this is too much for me. He goes do not worry about it. You are not really married to her. I said but dude I have this wedding. He goes yeah technically you are as far as Allah is concerned - that you are married to this girl. But you did not have sex with her so there is - still there is this kind of this purity to who she is. He goes sign this. It is a power of attorney. I will be you here in Tulkarm. He goes do not worry I am going to make it all better. Go back to America. I will take care of this for you.   And then I get this call from her uncle the chief of police who as I know now is a nutjob. He has had people's legs broken for my wife just whistling or like saying something to her in a like a come-on way. Like two guys ended up in wheelchairs for like two months.  But it was even worse than Ghazi knew at that moment because marrying Farrah was not the only mistake he would made.   In my hysteria I had told someone in town she is not going to have sex with me. She is having sex with her brother - because I am having a nervous break down. This like coupled with the fact that I just divorced her got back to the brother. So the brother said he had dishonored our family by saying I had sex with my sister. I issue a fatwa against this guy. If he is to show his face at any point I will kill him dead in the street. Now her uncle's saying oh I am going to send a police car to come get you and we should really talk about this. I am like - I started freaking out. This guy's going to kill me. I said listen I am really emotional. I cannot talk right now. I need to drink some tea relax. I will come see you in the morning. He goes you are going to come in the morning? I said yeah. I was like where am I going to go? I am in Tulkarm. He goes all right. I will send a car for you in the morning. I hung up the phone ran into my room in that refugee camp packed that suitcase up. Everyone had gone to sleep and I just lay there with the suitcase holding the suitcase like it was my mother. And every time a light would come on the door I am like they are coming for me they are coming. They are going to come and get me. And I wait. I know the buses start running at like 5. I pick up that suitcase. I do not even say anything to my relatives. I run through that door and now I am running through the refugee camp. It is like semi-dark. The sun is coming up. People are - chickens are like cackling . And I am running with this suitcase on my head and I am like running through alleyways. People are in their underwear. I see people through windows see people having breakfast. I see the news. And I get to the bus. I remember getting on that bus. I am like oh please do not let them stop this bus at the checkpoint - got past the Palestinian checkpoint get to the Israeli checkpoint. Now we are on our road end up in Ramallah...  At which point Ghazi takes another taxi out of the West Bank and into Jerusalem. Then he boards a flight to take him back to New York. Later the two families would reach a divorce agreement but Ghazi says at first he felt remorse.  Because I misjudged the situation that I was walking into. I go to a place that I have never been to before - to a culture that I have no idea how it operates. I am trying to play a game that belongs to another person with this idea my parents had written for me and I should not even be there.  All of which is on his mind when he is finally back in Brooklyn at his parents' door.  They are like hey look who is home. I was like hey so did you hear anything from our relatives about Arafat Arafat? They are like do not worry about it. It was like such a nonchalant you will get better - it is OK. Right? . This is after I would gone through everything. And then they turned back and they watch Al Jazeera. Here's the punchline. My dad was not dying  Today Ghazi is 38 still single and his father is still alive holding out for Ghazi to get married in the traditional way to a nice Muslim girl.  He just Jewish guilted me in his own Arab way to get married for him and you know I kind of feel it still. You love your parents so much that you end up hating yourself and that is where I am today. I love them so much that I hate myself. Look at what I did. I should not have done that but I did it because I love them.   Thank you so much Ghazi for sharing your story. We know that with game like that you are going to find a bride soon. 