 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT. From PRX and NPR the Making It Work episode. My name is Glynn Washington and today we are digging into stories from people who do not have it just handed to them on a platter. For our next story we go to the heart of what is happening - New York City Queens where MC Homeboy Sandman tells his story.  The year is 2008 when I found out what my true inner passion was that I was a musician - I said yo I am not losing focus. For me I am like I am not getting caught up in a rat race. Right now the things that I am going to do for money it is all got to be related to my rhymes.   I am nickel and diming it selling CDs doing shows. I am trying to make it work. You know I had managed to pay some rent. I got this fat crib but then you know soon after moving in fell behind. Falling behind falling behind and the landlord is like yo I am not feeling it trying to evict me all types of times. I have been to court on multiple occasions. Comes to a point where I am five months behind on my rent. I am five months behind all right? At almost a grand a month. Five grand in the hole. So I make the decision when I go to court tomorrow morning I am going  to tell the judge I give up. I as not got no money. I am going to get out of the place right? OK. So next morning I wake up walk over to the courthouse. When I get into the courthouse I got to speak with the court clerk right? I speak with this woman and for some reason - who knows why - she is like yo what are you going to do? You are not going to give the place up right? Like what do you mean? You know you have the record in front of you. I have no money. She says do not give up. You have to tell the judge you will get it. Tell the judge give you 15 days. Whatever you got to do you cannot give up. This is the court clerk mind you. She is supposed to be on their side. I said miss what am I supposed to do? She looks at me with a look in her eye like she cares about me like she feels real concern for my well-being. And she is like yo trust me b get 15 days. So I say all right fine. She just talked me into telling the judge that I was going to have the money in 15 days. I go in front of the judge. I say judge 15 days I will have it. Judge of course says what do you mean 15 days you will have it? I say 15 days boom you know what I am saying? Despite the fact that I clearly have no idea where the money's going to come from the judge says fine and he gives me 15 days. It does not make any sense. Nothing that happened in court that day made sense. I leave just flabbergasted and when I get home sat down turned the computer on took the internet that I was stealing from somebody else's internet in the building - and the first e-mail I see Tag Records MC competition today this afternoon  Rucker Park grand prize 5000. Grand prize 5000. And when I see this I feel like a feeling washing over me and just like you know magic of some sort - or divine intervention for real. You know what I am saying? The prize money was what I owed on this very day. I feel like all I got to do is show up win - which is obviously going to happen based on the psychosis that just took place in the courtroom. And this is crazy to me. It is Jermaine Dupri's tag records right? And I go over there - this place is packed - Rucker Park jam packed fence to fence. OK? And the crowd was nuts. It is deranged out there. This particular competition - it was not a rap battle. It was not predicated on dissing each other trying to cut each other down which is something I personally do not get down with. Instead it was a let us see who could rap incredible competition which of course I was built for. It started off with like 40 MCs right? Each round - the winner was determined based on crowd noise. The cats who get the loudest response are going to go you know to the next round. And everybody got up in the first round and spit their bars and all that. Of course I get up there - boom I shut it down with a verse.   From the beginning the crowd is loving me like crazy. Obviously I am on to the next round next round.   Cannot nobody rhyme  like me and it is always been that way. So it becomes apparent that I am the crowd favorite with the exception of one other person. There is this kid named Cashflow. I remember the kid's name - Cashflow. And Cashflow was from across the street. He was from the building across the street and knew half the people in the park. I get to the last round - comes down to me and Cashflow. Cashflow and I were going back and forth and the crowd was just maximum noise could not get no louder each time. The judge just keeps going all right go again. So we go about three extra rounds. And there was really no way to differentiate his crowd noise from my crowd noise. So they had to go and get this decibel noise meter reader. Once they  brought the noise meter out they had us do one more round and I went first.   And I got bars until the earth stops spinning. So I spit all types of bars right?   And the crowd made gigantic stupendous enormous noise. And you look on this device and it was super loud. And I am like yo he is not going to top that this kid. You know what I mean? So then he gets up -   He spits his bars and you know I am not trying to downplay him. He could rap. And like I do not know if his cousins was there - mothers brother aunts uncles aunts sisters sister-in-law grandparents whoever was there they went berserk for him. They was screaming people was getting nosebleeds. They went as wild as they can. And you look at the device when he was finished - I was down by .02. When they announced that he had beat me by those .02 you know - I try to never feel bad if I do my best and I know I had done my best but it did not even make sense. I was like no this cannot - it cannot be it cannot be that I did not win this. You know what I mean? Like he got it by the most slenderest of margins that it is just like if a bird flew overhead the bird's wings - it determine the outcome of the competition. And that was it. And he read it off. And the crowd was majorly like no hell no - yeah hell yeah. This is TAG Records when Jermaine Dupri was doing the TAG Records thing. A couple of minutes later Jermaine Dupri emerges. OK he comes out steps out on the stage and he says yo it is a tie. Jermaine Dupri you know 'ecause he know his hip-hop he said this Sandman kid is not going to lose to this kid Cashflow. It is a tie. Done deal. They both going to get the money. It was beautiful. It was beautiful. Maybe we will have to split this and I get a nice 2500. I will go back to the judge with 2500 he will be like all right I will get you a little more time. Yo they gave me the full five g's. They gave me the full five g's OK? As if I had won the joint out right. As it turns out I got evicted five months later. OK I got evicted five months later but in the five months that winning that competition bought me such significant things happened in my career. The day that I got evicted the next day I was leaving for three weeks to be on the road. The moral of the story is go for it son. Go for broke. You know you going for broke because you broke. And when you go for broke God is going to look out. And Jermaine Dupri is going to look out too. Peace.   That is how Homeboy Sandman gets down. His latest record White Sands is out right now on Stones Throw Records. And understand the music from that piece all of it was taken from Homeboy Sandman's catalogue. We will have links on our website - snapjudgment.org. And if there was any question that piece was produced by Pat Mesiti-Miller. 