 OK so my roommate Paul and I we just moved to a house in Detroit Michigan. Now Paul - Paul there is lots to be said about Paul. But for now I am just going to mark that he is an accomplished fairly good-looking white guy. He is intense. He is always thinking these thoughts like the Constitution only applies to the first 13 states. Or 95 percent of the universe is dark matter and nobody knows what the rest of it is made of. That is just the way he is. And because Paul is interested in everything it surprises me not in the least when I arrive home one day to find him watching a TV show featuring Louis Farrakhan of the Nation of Islam. What Paul finds personally appealing about Farrakhan's message of black empowerment I do not know but then - it is Paul. And Paul is really digging on this show. He is clapping and cheering - that is right Louis that is right. Then I hear the shouting. I run out what is the problem? Farrakhan just said that black women should not date white dudes. He said it is an abomination. Calm down. People say stuff on TV. But what if I want to talk to one of these sisters? Brother it is your lucky day - we live in Detroit. There is plenty to choose from and Farrakhan does not run this. I see him - he is fuming right? Whatever. I figure in a few days he will forget all about it. But he does not forget. He keeps talking about how Louis Farrakhan let him down. How it is not right that the Nation of Islam the Detroit chapter founded by one Malcolm X is not cool with equal opportunity getting down. Paul it does not matter it does not matter. He will not listen. And one day we are driving down the street about to pick up some barbecue when we see eight or nine Nation of Islam fellas. They are clean-shaven pressed suit bow-tied no-nonsense serious-about-their-business brothers walking down the street. And Paul pulls over the car and he is like I am going to go talk to them about this thing with black women. And this right here this here is where I put my foot down. Are you crazy? That is the Fruit. You do not go messing with the Fruit. What is wrong with you? Huh? What is the Fruit? The Fruit of Islam are the paramilitary arm of the Nation of Islam the brothers that do not play. Black nationalists are scared of them. Let it go Paul. I am just going to go talk to them. Do not do it Paul let it go. Paul opens the door strolls over to the fellas. And it is the end of the line time for my man Paul. I lean way down in the car so no one mistakes me as being with this crazy person and I wait for the unfortunate tragedy to unfold. It should not take long. I ease my head up to window level only to see Paul hanging with the Fruit of Islam everybody joking and laughing. He is like all right - later on fellas. He gets back in the car all smiles. What'd they say? I convinced them. You convinced them? Yup. He pulls out into traffic he pauses and he looks at me serious. Yeah but we should probably lay off the pork. Today on SNAP JUDGMENT we proudly present End Of The Line amazing stories from real people pushing past their own point of no return. My name is Glynn Washington. Please make sure your emergency information is in order because this is SNAP JUDGMENT. 