 OK so when I started school at the University of Michigan I was a bit intimidated. I told my Grammy that I heard there were some fancy kids there with their trust funds and their dinner jackets. And I was nervous 'ecause I did not know if they were going to like me or not. And she said do not worry about them baby. You let them worry about you. Well I moved into this place with three other guys and actually Granny was right. So what I did not have a lot of money? No one seemed to mind. I met my new roommate. He says hey hey - my dad's a new member at the country club and I want you guys to be my first guests - country club? - me? I always thought they feasted on roasted black folk in places like that. But I did not want to be rude so I went. And we walked through the mahogany door we sat down in their cushioned seats and lots of people came and they called me sir un-ironically. My roommate told me his father had a bet with some other Richie Rich - right? - that whoever rang up the biggest tab would win some kind of bragging rights. And my roommate was straight skippy. We have got to win. We have to win. So order whatever you want. Order two of them. So the waiters kept on coming with crab and steak tartare and pork and desserts they set on fire and all kinds of stuff. We ate and ate until we could not eat another pecan-encrusted mouthful. So the next day he invited all of us to go back out there again. Cool. Then again and again and finally I had to tell him I did not want any peach compote a la mode for breakfast or whatever. I just wanted some cornflakes man.  And I am not going to choke down any lobster bisque at two oclock in the afternoon. I was a pretender anyway. Everyone there knew  had tricked some rich kid who was taking advantage. But my roommate begged me to go. Man I just want my dad to win this contest. Who cares about a stupid contest? My dad cares. If he wins then he will know that he is arrived. Rich people problems. But my roommate was begging. All right man let us go polish off a roast quail with some of that balsamic reduction. Now it is only a couple of days later in Econ class right in front of me I see a couple of those guys - country club guys. And the tall good-looking guy in the corduroy jacket tells the other tall good-looking guy in the corduroy jacket he says dude at the club it is the most ridiculous thing. Some imbeciles they are busy inflating their expenses for show dude. They are feeding people off the street man. We are like a homeless shelter now. And the other one he says it like it is received wisdom passed down from the land of gentry. He says dude do not you know it man? New money is always stupid money. I could not help it I laughed. When they look back I pretended there was something funny in the Econ textbook. I go back to my crib. And my roommate is crazy happy. We did it. We did it. My father won his bet. We have arrived. Nobody can say Jack to us now. Moving on up. Right on brother. Congratulations. Let us wash down a juicy lobster with some of that Madara  97 to celebrate. And I am like man come on. I know you think I am a jerk he says. Well yeah kind of I do. But I do not hold it against you. And he is like please just come with me. And I think about it and I have to live with this guy so we go to the club. And before we even get out of the car I see the neckties the shiny shoes the cufflinks and I look over and my roommate is breathing heavy like he is preparing for something horrible. And I am like man what are we doing? You do not even want to be here. Of course I want to be here. And I tell him I have got an idea. Let us road trip to my grandmother's house in Detroit instead. Your grandmother? Really? Is she going to like me? Why are you so worried if someone's going to like you? And I laugh at myself as soon as I say it. But roomies worked himself into a lather. Is she going to like me? And I am honest - No. She is not going to like you. Then why? Because we are going to eat real food. But - and look - if and when my grandmother does like you then you will know you have really arrived.   Congratulations you have subverted the system and made it to the end of the episode. They did not want it to happen. But what you miss some? No worries. You can fight the power with full episodes - pictures stories stuff - available right now on at snapjudgment.org. Our twitter handle - snapjudgmentorg. Stick it to the man and friend SNAP on Facebook.   SNAP was produced by myself and America's most wanted radio outlaws - run and hide from the Jesse James of the airwaves - the uber producer Mark Ristich.   If the beats are rockin' do not come knocking for Pat Mesiti-Miller. Stephanie Foo is lactose intolerant and she absolutely will not stand for any lactose. Anna Sussman turned off the tracking functions on her phone. Nick Van der Kolk rages against the mean. Julia DeWitt believes humans and dinosaurs lived together in harmony. Renzo Gorrio can take a punch like a real man - try him. And Will Urbina personally invented all the modern dance crazes you see on the YouTube there.   Now then one corporation we can vouch for is the Corporation for   Public Broadcasting. And again I apologize for speaking as the representative when I was trying to buy that circus. Much love to CPB PRX - the public radio exchange has the power. They demand that the public listen to public media whether they like it or not - prx.org. This is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact for a laugh you could set up one of those coffee stands that serve 25 shots of espresso. And when the yuppies come running from far and wide to give you all their money you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 