 We are going to kick off today's episode in the place of my birth - Detroit Michigan. Shannon Cason is one of SNAP's favorite storytellers and people want to know why. I will tell you why - because lots of people can tell a story - but Shannon   Shannon tells it like it is.   When my mom left my dad we moved from Detroit to Ecorse. Ecorse is one of the only suburbs outside of Detroit that Detroiters look down on. But I did not think about it. I was just a 12-year-old kid growing up. I never did much wrong. I even got involved with the Boy Scouts of America. Well it is like this - I really did not want to become a Boy Scout something about the name Boy seemed disrespectful. And that uniform with the little neckerchief and all the badges - yeah I did not see myself wearing that. But the Boy Scout meeting was in a gym and I love basketball.   Calm down guys.   The arrangement the troop leader made with me and my friends was if we become Boy Scouts we would spend one hour in the Boy Scout meeting doing Boy Scouty things...  Everybody line up.  ...And the last hour he would throw out a basketball.  All right guys go play hoops.  Now we did not have to wear a uniform so I was in.  Stop cherry-picking.  The only kid who did actually wear a Boy Scout uniform was the troop leader's son. And we would torture him for wearing it. So one day I am on my way to my Boy Scout meeting and I had a dollar so stopped at the corner store to get some Better Made Red-Hot chips and a Faygo Peach - my favorite. Now I hate it when people talk bad about my neighborhood. But there was a drug raid going down at the corner store.   And these were not regular police. These are like evil police. It was like the police were high on meth and they were chasing after the crack heads. The police were called to DRANO - the Downriver Area Narcotics Organization. That was their name - DRANO. And I remember I was standing watching as DRANO was cleaning up the streets. And they had on the combat gear and I am watching - like I am watching a cartoon of G.I. Joe not thinking that I look like every other person that they are arresting. So one of the DRANO guys like Incredible Hulk leaps over to me and screams at me and throws me against the wall and then handcuffs me. They put us all in a van. The city did not even have enough money for a proper paddy wagon. It was just a van with the seats taken out. It was not even orderly we were just all stuffed in the back like slavery transport. They take us to this dungeon in the bottom of some building and they had us like lined up against the wall facing them. And it is dark in the room. And this may surprise some people but then to some probably not so much the police start whooping everyone's ass. One cop cut his hand punching someone. They just stomped that guy out. They got to me and I think they knew I was young. I was not even in high school yet. But they called me out and one of the officers - huge guy dressed like a ninja turtle - he asked me what you was doing out there? And I know he saw my fear I told him I was just going to my Boy Scout meeting. And he smacked me. It was a smack so hard it took a while for the pain to catch up with the actual sound of the smack. Do not lie to me young man. What you was doing out there? I had to think about it I think I was - yeah I was actually headed to Boy Scouts. And he smacked me again. So I am not dumb. The next time I just told him what he wanted to hear - sir I was out there and I was I was on the corner and I was selling drugs. Then he did not smack me anymore. They eventually called my mom to come pick me up. But she sends my dad who is going to take his own time to get there. Then that officer who smacked me calls me out again. He is like - come here. I as not going to hit you. Come here. And he said I want you to know you as not got to live this life young man. I know it seems attractive. You see these guys they have got the cars the women they rappin' about it. I grew up in the same neighborhood you did young man. And I am going to tell you that life does not pay. You either going to end up dead or in jail. And I tell you you come to jail through me I am going to put my foot - and it was not pleasant things he was saying he would do to me - but he went on. The only reason I feel for you and know it is not all your fault is because your drug dealing dad just showed up smelling like a weed factory. I should throw Bob Marley in jail right now. They have got programs that can help you. They have got the DARE program I am involved in that the Junior ROTC I was involved in that. Get in one of these programs young man. And I wanted to tell the guy my dad actually does not sell drugs. He is a good dad. He just smokes a little weed. And you really do not have the right to put your hands on me like that. And I cannot help but go to the corner. That is where the store is at you big dummy. But of course I did not say that. I said yes sir and left.   I told my dad everything that happened and my dad tells me that this is all a part of growing up in the streets we live in. I did not want to accept that. But what I did do - I asked my dad to get me a Boy Scout uniform. And every time I went to the corner store before my meetings I stood there drinking my pop eating my chips just like before just wishing I would run into that DRANO cop again - so I could tell him I am in a program you big dummy it is called the Boy Scouts.   Coach coach why we cannot practice longer?  Shannon Cason is a writer an award-winning storyteller and now he is completing his very first crime novel. I wonder where he gets his material? You can find out more about Shannon's world on his website shannoncason.com. We are going to have a link on our website snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Mr. Mark Ristich.   Now on ge against the machine episode continues. We are going to battle the most powerful artificial intelligence system ever conceived. We are going to run away from a pregnant lady and we are going to join high society. All that and more when SNAP JUDGMENT continues stay tuned. 