 OK so Spanish class High School - we are about to have the big Christmas pageant and you have got to understand the teacher hates me - hates me. He says stuff like Washington give me a reason. Just give me a reason. One more screw-up and you are out of here - fail. Well we are supposed to sing Feliz Navidad right? But I cannot sing that because I do not celebrate Christmas. For my family Christmas is a pagan affliction delivered by Satan. Look that is how I grew up all right? So I go to the teacher. I tell him teacher I cannot sing Feliz Navidad and stuff because I do not want to go to hell. And the teacher man says listen - you are going to sing or you are going to fail. So there it was. For the merry celebration we huddle in groups of four and when he points to us we are supposed to jump up and say Feliz Navidad. And the teacher looks at me. He looks at me with authority. He looks at me with all the power of the high school faculty chair oozing from his pores. And I look at him with no power at all. He holds up his arms he points at us and three students jump up and shout Feliz Navidad Feliz Navidad. And I sit watching them. Watching him. Saying nothing. The teacher starts shouting spittle flying from his mouth in rage Washington you - out of my class. To the principal's office. Right now. Fail. Fail. My ears ringing I shuffled down the empty hallway marching down to the principal's office. Kicked out of class? Fail? No high school graduation? Man. I arrive at the office. Yes? I mumble to the lady that I need to speak with the principal. She gives me her are not you the worst person in the world look. But just like jail before meeting the principal I get one phone call to call my mom and dad. Not this time. Not again. I am not going to call my mom and dad. I am suffering an injustice here and someone needs to know about it. Instead I call the Grand Rapids Press. I tell the lady who answers I say looky here - my civil rights are being violated because I did not want to sing Feliz Navidad. She says she will transfer me to a reporter. Then things start happening really quickly. Glynn who are you speaking to? The principle - he is in my face now. Oh it is too late. I am blowing the whistle on this whole operation. I tell him I have got the newspaper on the line. I tell him what just went down in class. I remember his eyes going wide. The principal he grabs my arm he walks me back to class. He pulls my seat out for me. He says what a fine fellow I happen to be and then he asks my Spanish teacher if they can speak in the hallway for just a moment. Just a moment. I do not even have to tell you the look the Spanish teacher gave me. When the shouting in the hallway stops my teacher comes back into the classroom walks to the front and says through gritted teeth that the school celebrates people of all religious and ethnic backgrounds and will endeavor to respect their belief systems. Yeah. That is right. That is right. After class I walked out with my head held high. But I could not stop whistling this catchy little tune this catchy little tune got stuck in my head. . Today on RX and NPR we proudly present Rage Against The Machine stories where they have got plans for you but you - you have got plans for them. My name is Glynn Washington and this is SNAP JUDGMENT. 