 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR - The Grand Illusion episode. Now today we are jumping into stories about belief. Now I am not sure if I should give a warning to sensitive listeners about this story or not. Let me just say that some men - all men - they might find themselves a bit squeamish at some point. James Kenyon  he was born and raised in Colombia with his dog Lucas . And when it is time for Lucas to stop making puppies James brought Lucas in to get fixed. SNAP JUDGMENT.  He gave me a small jar with Lucas's testicles inside. There it is a standard procedure to give to the pet's owner whatever tissue had been removed in surgery the same way like a patient is given like liters of fat after a liposuction.  It is - I think it is a matter of trust or rather lack of it. You know like it is like you need to see it to believe it was done. Anyway I put the jar with Lucas's testicles in my backpack and I went home.   That night I took out the jar and I showed it to my brothers. My brothers - they looked at it like from a distance and they were like ew and they make faces. They were disgusted. They looked like sushi balls you know it is like  - and then one of my brothers said I wonder what it feels like to hold someone else's balls in your hands. And then they all started laughing. It was of course a joke. I was not being targeted or anything. But because I was so insecure and I was carrying this big secret I felt like I was being attacked at the moment. And I got anxious and nervous and then I looked down at the contents of the jar and all of a sudden I felt like the panic was going away - or rather that it was transforming into like a sense of power or control that I had never known before. And then I took a deep breath and I just said I am gay.   And I said it out loud because they were still laughing and then they grew quiet. They looked at me like waiting for me to tell them that I was just joking and in that particular moment I could have backed down and said that yes that it was a joke or I could stand my ground. And fortunately you know I was still holding the jar between my hands because I could swear at that moment that it was Lucas's balls that were giving me this bravery. And so I said - I said it again - I am gay. And in case there was any doubt I just added gay as in homosexual.   And that was it. And then everyone was really quiet and my two oldest brothers they just - they looked calm - you know more like resigned. And then my brother the one who had made the comment he was just confused and embarrassed and my youngest brother started crying. And at that point I just left the room.   I think when I was five-years-old - and I know that sounds very premature but that is how sure I was - I knew that I was attracted to boys and from that moment it was just a struggle. Coming out may be one of the most difficult tasks you confront in your life as a gay man or a woman. For me it just happened - it was then or never. And I actually had that opportunity you know that chance of taking it back.   And I mean there is like a long tradition of literally believing bravery comes from the balls. You know testicles are always a metaphor or even a slang for having the courage to act to do something. Thanks to Lucas's balls I decided to go to ahead with it.   I buried it - Lucas's balls in the backyard of my house. And I marked the spot where they - where they live. And then every time I went to Colombia I visited and it was like a little shrine. I made sure that they were there for me. You never know when you are going to need an extra pair of balls .   Big thanks to James Kenyon for sharing his story with The Snap. The piece was produced by Julia DeWitt the sound design by Leon Morimoto. Additional thanks as well to Lucas - without whom this story would not have been possible. The mystery has been unveiled. You have come to the end of this SNAP JUDGMENT episode. But if you need more more awaits. Podcasts full episodes movies pictures stuff at snapjudgment.org. Join snap nation friend us on Facebook follow us on twitter. Snap is produced by the continent's most powerful illusionist - look over there - no there - it is the producer Mr. Mark Ristich.   Pat Mesiti-Miller pulls the levers. Anna Sussman can turn into a bird. Julia DeWitt can sing like a bird. Joe Rosenberg gives passerby the bird. Nancy Lopez wants to know if you have heard because Davey Kim has heard Renzo Gorrio has heard heard heard. Snap production crew - Leon Morimoto Ana Adlerstein Eliza Smith and Aurora Soria  know the word. But Will Urbina refuses to tell us what the word is. I want to tell them Will. I want to tell them the word - the bird is the word. The bird bird bird - the bird is the word.   Someone ever order you to do something just because they said so and that is policy around here? Well neither have the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. That is why we love them so much - the CPB big thanks. PRX knows the word is the bird - prx.org. WBEZ in Chicago is not just going to sit here and be WBEZ by the likes of you or anybody else - no way man. And this is not the news - no way is this the news. In fact you could pull back the curtains of this entire operation and see a tiny little man in a tiny little room eating his tiny little sandwich and you would still not be as far from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 