 Welcome back to age Against The Machine episode. And today man - SNAP's decided not to be another cog in the wheel man. You know what I am saying? We are going to grow out long man. We are going to ride the open road. Do not try to keep us in your corporate button-up 401 premium gasoline world - no. See one of the best ways that we know to stick it to the man or to a higher power or to your upstairs neighbor is to just sing your heart out. And that is exactly what Paul Cauthen does. Take it away Paul.   When I was young my granddad was a song leader in the church. And his twin brother was the preacher. And this was a little small Church of Christ in East Texas. He taught me how to sing harmony when I was about six. Me and my two sisters were put in a bath tub. He would hum a note into your ear and he taught us how to really listen. I became a good singer at a young age you know I sang in the church a lot - super conservative Church of Christ. Sunday morning Sunday night Wednesday night three times a week thing. The rules of the Church of Christ - you do not sing with an instrument. Our voice is a voice that was given to us by God and God only is kind of the thing. I loved to go in the community and sing with 400 people all a cappella in a room that is freaking awesome.   There was this old lady who sang and she had a booming like opera soprano voice. And like my granddad - he would give her a little nod from the stage and she would just be killing it.   My granddad was you know when he was diagnosed with cancer when I was 10 years old and he did not have long to live and he died about two months later so it was real fast it was terrible you know? And I had to grow up really fast because right after that I mean my parents got a divorce and it was me and my two sisters and my mother. And we were real broke. I would say that I was - I chose more of a rough past due to having to grow up so soon at a young age. Once I learned how to really drink beer and whiskey I really did it with a meaning so - and smoking pot and everything else - everything under the sun. Well what happened was I got caught with weed got put on probation partied got caught with some drug charges. They gave me the sentence that I am going to have to do six months. My mom was freaking the hell out right before I went in there you know? I mean she was like saying do not be scared. And she is crying and I was like how am I supposed to not be scared when you are crying? Then they handcuffed me and put me in jail. Buttoned up and taken to the pumpkin patch out on Highway 69 - wearing my orange jumpsuit onesie you know.   You have 35  now.  There is three tanks. Three tanks could hold probably about 15 to 25 people in each tank. First tank I look in is all white people second tank all Mexican and Asian third tank all black people. And so I was like wow what in the hell have I stepped into? Now I am seeing real-life segregation and all this stuff going on you know. So there is only room in the African-American tank. I mean they are bringing me in real late. These guys all wake up at 30 in the morning to go out to work. So the most annoying thing is when somebody's coming into their bunk and having - just waking everybody up you know? I go to the very back corner. And they said OK take that and the officer shines the light into that top bunk in that corner. And I walk over there. And I am a big guy so it is tough for me to just hop on a top bunk. So I use the foot of the bottom bunk which was this guy Tony this guy with a gold grill. And that guy said hey boy. That'ill be the last time you step on my bed. And I was like all right I am sorry sir. And I get no sleep that night. I was just kind of paranoid more than anything. You could possibly be killed or shanked or hurt or beat up or raped or whatever goes to anybody's head in jail. You know yeah those things can eat you up or you can be like you have got to be cool. You have got to not pissed off anybody cannot get too close to anybody. I mean if all else failed you know I was going to keep to myself.   I started going out to the county road and bridge department that next morning. It is chain gang work where you are hooked up. And you go out in vans and go fix the county roads and bridges around East Texas. When you are moved from the jail in transport you are chained to the next person next to you. And then when you go out there is guys with guns.   Breaking rocks down singing  along the highway. It went like that. You know it is not Oh Brother Where Art Thou - close you know? I would walk behind an asphalt truck pick out the rocks big rocks out of the black tar. It is real hot as hell you know. It was me Old-school Reverend Al Tony Costanera  - never forget this guy - in and out of jail for nine years got it four different times never got out for more than three days. Well he said man I have not had a burger in like seven years man. And I was like yeah well tomorrow I will try to figure out how we do this. He said no way man. How are you going to get it passed Sarge? And I was like dude I will figure out a way. And I would find out where we are going the next day. And I called my dad and I called my mom. I was like OK tomorrow morning 10 a.m. you need to drop off a bunch of Whataburger cheeseburgers and a bunch of fries over here 'ecause I am going to feed the whole crew. And I told my sergeant I know that you are going to have to go all the way back to the other side of town Highway 69 and I-20 to get some food and bring us back bologna sandwiches. Or you can let these bags of cheeseburgers that I just had my mom and dad drop off behind that building right there and you can look at those. And you can have one yourself. There is a bacon cheeseburger in there with your name on it. And he said all right. All these guys have not had real food in years. It was like eating a burger for the first time. It felt like that time on that movie Shawshank Redemption on that roof - when they are tar the roof. And all those guys get to drink those beers. It was like oh my God. I feel like Andy Dufresne.  We did not eat all the burgers 'ecause I mean our stomachs have not been eating real food. And when you just start grubbing on something greasy you know it is just like your stomach. So we tried to smuggle the burgers back in into the jail. We are walking in and we each have two burgers in our little onesie. And they pat us down and they find all these burgers. And they say all right we are giving you 10 minutes - 10 minutes to eat all that. And so we sat there and we were still full but we just said this is for the guys inside. So Tony later he said so tell me why you are in here and you know asked me all these questions. That kind of made it to where OK I am sorry for stepping on your bed and now we are friends. Let us smoke cigarettes or should the . Well we started singing gospel songs. Well we start freaking - got the pens you know. Do that kind of stuff you know? And we would get Styrofoam cups and cut out the bottom of the cup and make our own little microphone you know?   One two - ooh I got you.  We would all sing this three-part harmony - old hymns that my granddad taught me.    Well I am so tired and so weary but I must go along 'til the Lord...  By about the fourth or fifth Sunday there was standing room only in that cell.    There will be peace in the valley for me someday. There will be peace...  When you can - for some reason music and singing and singing with somebody brings you close you know? And you feel - you get a warm sensation over you. You feel good. The people that do not talk much or kind of you to themselves for some reason that Sunday they would come out and you would hear them singing. Or they would have something to say or something to offer to talk about - not talk about the Bible or anything. They would talk about life you know and that was one thing - it was probably one of the best churches I would been to - shoot. I do remember one time when we did sing Peace In The Valley our buddy Reverend Al is what we would call him. And he kind of choked up a little bit 'ecause you know it was one of the songs they sang at his grandmother's funeral or something. And then he talked about that. It was just real talk. All of sudden it was me and five black guys that became my best friends. We hug like kin. We are family. We have a bond that is beyond - you know we have been at the lowest point of our lives together. Singing together with some folks from jail brought joy and brought some light at the end of the tunnel for me because I knew - I knew what I had to do when I got out. And I guess the recognition of being able to just put together a little singing group in the jailhouse kind of let me realize I could put together a group anywhere.    To whom do you belong? To love you sweetly to love you strong. Tonight I am lonesome. To whom do you belong?  Paul Cauthen now heads the band Sons of Fathers. They just put out their new album called Burning Days. Check it out. They are on tour across the USA. That piece was produced by Stephanie Foo. 