 OK so we are going to get just a little bit loose today on the SNAP JUDGMENT show. Do things a little bit differently because I got to counting and figuring and calculating and sleeping and drinking - 'tis the season - and as hard as it is to believe thanks to you SNAP actually has some history at this point. And its a history written in narrative. So today as a celebration of story we are going back - way back in some cases - to dig into just some of the stories that have rocked our world over the past few years. And Mark did you hear that? I said years. Today from PRX and NPR we proudly present the SNAP JUDGMENT 2014 Look Way Back Special.   Amazing stories from amazing people whom we have had the good fortune to cross paths with. My name is Glynn Washington. Please tell someone who does not know it how much you love them. Why - because this is SNAP JUDGMENT.   We are going to start off with a story that generated a tremendous response for us a little while back. It comes from the other side of the bay - Oakland's little brother. That quaint little village by the sea - San Francisco.   So the first time that I met John I did not know who he was. And I was new on the job and I was fresh out of college. He walked into the mailroom and I thought he was just like some other guy who worked there because he was just like hey how is it going. What is your name? How are you? I thought this cannot be an executive director because he is just so down to earth. And then you know when I walked into the staff meeting the next day there he was at the head of the table and just commanded the presence of the room like nobody else that I would ever seen. I work at a small nonprofit and after the financial crisis in 2008 the organization grew threefold. And it was a real source of pride for John. He had built up this organization to be this juggernaut. He was above all an amazing leader. There was certainly such a strong devotion to this man and his leadership that it was borderline holy. He drew comparisons to Jesus. At our work we would all be in these staff meetings. And in times that were particularly difficult he would always end the meetings by reminding us to take care of your job take care of yourself and take care of each other. When it really comes crunch time that phrase kept coming back. And it is so stupid how something so simple like that could really resonate. A handful of people from work were out at a bar one day just blowing off steam from another 16-hour day. We were at a karaoke bar and John got up on stage and started to sing Radiohead's Creep.   Just belts it out. It was a very emotional performance. Everybody fell silent when he went up on stage. It was this side to him that nobody had seen. But then when he was done the place just exploded. We learned very quickly that John really liked karaoke. So he had me institute this yearly karaoke night that we would do at work. They were so much fun. I would host it. John would give me song requests weeks in advance. He loved Anarchy in the U.K. and Squeeze Cool for Cats. And mine was 99 Problems by Jay-Z. Am I under arrest or should I guess some more? Well you was doing 55 in the 54. Half a mil' for bail 'ecause I am African. Do not laugh at that. And we did that for about three years. About eight months ago it was about a week after we had had one of those karaoke parties we found out that John had terminal cancer. And it was not going to be long before he was gone. And he had known while we were all at this party and did not want to tell any of us because he just wanted to see us have a good time. So he spent the last three months of his life kind of just trying to make sure that we would all be OK once he was gone. And then he died. I did not really process his death right away. I put up a lot of walls. And so I kept on working kept on doing my job as everybody else did. We all just kind of tried to keep their organization afloat. So we went for a couple months leaderless and then we got a new executive director. His name was William. He was the polar opposite of John. The first day when we had our first meeting with him he said I am not a yeller. We learned very quickly that that was absolutely not true. William made grown men and women who had worked there for 15-plus years break down in tears. About two months in he was on vacation and had a stroke and died. And once again we were leaderless. All of the optimism that we would had at first the we can carry on we can do this was gone 'ecause it seemed like we were cursed. And once again we are coming up to that time of the year when we would be having that regular karaoke party. Everybody was still really anticipating it.People were looking for something to be happy about and something to look forward to. It is my job to host karaoke night. So I said OK you know we will do it but it is going to be the last one. And people asked why. You know and I told them that karaoke was played out. Like let us do something different. But the truth of the matter is that it did not make sense to do karaoke without John. So I have crossed out Creep in the songbooks just to let everybody knows it is off-limits. This song's retired. We have all had a few drinks and inevitably somebody comes up and asks for Creep. And I say no we are not going to do it. And they ask again. And I say no we are not going to do it at all. And I see his daughter across the room who has been around a lot since his passing. And I go up to her and I ask her they want to sing Creep. Should we do this? So she thought for a moment and then said I think he would like that. So I head back to my karaoke station and put on Creep. A dozen people come up and grab the microphone. And some people are belting it out. Other people are just kind of swaying in the back. Everybody knows its significance. And it was a really joyful moment for them and you could see everyone having this catharsis that I just could not reach myself that I wanted to avoid that I would crossed out so that it would not happen. And as soon as the song was done I just slammed my laptop shut said it is over and went and just bawled my face out in the corner. And I do not cry but for some reason it all just came flooding out of me then. I am not an emotional guy and when a non-emotional person gets emotional people can get really weirded out. But instead of leaving me by myself people started to come up and console me and just sit with me. And all I could think about was John saying to take care of our jobs and take care of ourselves and take care of each other. We were all still taking care of each other. The organization is still standing today and it is doing better than ever. And that is the only reason that the place keeps on going because we are all taking care of each other.    You are all I need. You are all I need. I am in the middle of your picture.  Much love Thom. Thanks so much for sharing. That piece was produced by our own Stephanie - everybody has to come and sing karaoke on my birthday - Foo. We will miss you Steph. 