 From NPR and PRX SNAP JUDGMENT live at LA's historic Nokia Theater continues.   Now there is this game that storytellers sometimes play. It is called Can You Top This? There is one guy I can never ever beat - an amazing storyteller an amazing guy. Please put your hands together for Mr. Shannon Cason.   I lost 1200 on the blackjack table and overdrew my checking account another thousand chasing that original 1200. But being that I was chasing I lost that thousand fast. The ride home is always the worst - the regret the names I call myself - idiot. I lived with my sister at the time. She could always tell if I had lost all my money. I would come in the house late or early depending on how you looked at it. And I had this depressed look and a bag of Ramen noodles to make it through to the next pay. But this time the next direct deposit would be eaten up by the negative balance in my checking account. I looked at it early. I had to be to work in a few hours. I worked at a bank. One of these grocery store banks I managed and I had to be there on time to open the doors for the tellers get their drawers out of the vault. I put on my suit. I always felt like an ass wearing a suit managing a grocery store bank. It is too much. They need to loosen up the dress code. I love suits but come on man. This as not Wall Street. It is a grocery store. I would never noticed the bank's money. I lose all my money put 20000 in 20s in the ATM the next day. No temptation. But that day I noticed. I noticed the 20000 in 20s. I noticed the 30000 in 100s. I noticed we never followed the dual vault control procedure. I noticed the tellers could go days without having to borrow money from the vault 'ecause we were not a busy branch. I did not notice my morals my sense of right and wrong the consequences. There was this overwhelming temptation inside of me that was frightening. You cannot lose - a voice from inside of my head. If you want just 10 percent of that amount that would be like five grand. Then you could just put it back. It was like borrowing. I agreed. I took the whole 50000. I told the tellers I was going to lunch and to do some prospecting. Managers were expected to do that and they were used to my three-hour lunches. The money hung heavy in my pockets even in my belt strap. I felt like a drug runner going through customs. The casino was a 10 minute drive. Motor City Casino this is in Detroit. The girls there - the waitresses they wear these tight little leotards. I went out with a couple of them - really nice girls. But when I gambled I wanted to be anonymous. I did not want to know the dealer the waitresses the Asian guy sitting next to you. I hated to leave a table and hear - sorry about that Shannon. What you sorry for? For what? I am the one that is sorry. I sat down at the blackjack table. I bought in for 10000 in 20s. It takes a little time to count 10000 in 20s. It brings a small which I do not care for but - well whatever. That 10000 goes up and it goes down. It goes up and it goes down. And then down. And then it is gone. The crowd lets out a sigh. I set another 10000 on the table. I am chasing. It goes fast. I get up from the table and the crowd is showing remorse. That voice - you got to get away from these losers. I go up to the highroller room on the top floor. My pockets are lighter but still 30000 heavy. That voice - I just got to change my strategy change my game up - Bakra. I set the whole 30000 on the table. It takes him a long time to count 30000. It brings out some guys who have to wear suits like me. I win. I win close to the 50000 back. Then I get a call from work. I do not answer it of course. Then I get another call. I listen to the voicemail. They need me back at work for something. I am short just a little bit. I could leave with what I have and deal with it or I can go for it. I feel good about this next bet. Go for it. Go for it. I put the biggest bet I had played yet enough to win the money back and leave happy. Now Bakra is a card game - three possible outcomes - player wins banker wins or tie which is a push. My money is on banker. The dealer deals the cards. I lose. And then I chase till I lose the whole 50000. I get up from the table and the dealer says better luck Shannon. I look at him look at the table but I do not say anything. I just walk away. I walked through the lights the sounds the people the smoke and out the door to fresher air. It feels surreal like when I went skydiving like when I was shot at like I am watching this on TV. I sit quiet in my car. Idiot. I called my best friend. He had done time years ago for what is really not my place to say. He said non-violent crime first-time offender. I cannot see you doing more than a year. A year? I just went to the movies at the mall. I just ate riblets at Applebee's. It is funny the simple luxuries you think of when you think of losing a year or more. He said I cannot see more than a year in a city like Detroit. In Detroit there is no room in the jails for losing chumps like you. Humor always makes me feel better. At least for a little while it gives me a perspective. But I still had to deal with what I would done. That was a lot of money. I call my job and by now they know that the money is gone. I am talking to the regional president and I tell him I am sorry. I will be in tomorrow to turn myself in. What he says is surprising. He says Shannon do not do anything stupid. It is only money. It is not the end of the world son. You do not know how much I appreciate him for saying that. He did not have to say that. The next day I keep my word. I go to work at the grocery store bank in my crumpled up suit and two officers take me away in handcuffs. Now this is going to sound bad but thank God Detroit did have much worse problems than a grocery store bank embezzlement idiot like myself. I got one day five years' probation. It is been hard but I paid all the money back.   I still hear that voice when I drive by an Indian reservation - go for it when I get an extra 500 that my wife does not know about. She is a former VIP cocktail waitress by the way. I met her at the casino. Those tight black leotards - I am trying to tell you. Even when I play cards with our daughter you cannot lose. I still hear that voice. I started going to the meetings. Lady at the meetings said addiction is insidious. Now I am being real with you. I had to look it up. I looked it up. Insidious that is a good word.   Grand slam winner - Shannon Cason. 