 Now then it has been far too long since SNAP regular contributor Joel Ben Izzy stopped by the place. He wandered into SNAP studios recently and he recalled for us visiting Japan for the very first time. Joel he had performed at a Jewish community center in Tokyo when the Rabbi asked him to come help clean the Jewish graveyard. Joel he thought about it for a while but of course in the end he agreed.   So we got to the graveyard in Yokohama and set to work. The grass was overgrown. And the gravestones were dirty and some needed dirt carved out of the letters. And it is what you do for the dead because they cannot do it themselves. And as we were cleaning the rabbi came up to me and said see that man over there? That is Joseph Shimkin. Go up and talk to him. I think he has a story to tell. I went up and introduced myself. I said are you Mr. Shimkin? He said yeah who are you? I said I am a storyteller. I am looking for stories. A storyteller? He spoke English with a thick Yiddish accent and threw in an occasional Japanese phrase. And even the Japanese phrases had a thick Yiddish accent. . And he said if you are a storyteller you tell the story of Sempo Sugihara? And I said no I do not know who - what this Sempo Sugihara is. He said you should tell his story because he saved my life. He had my attention. He said you know I am not from around here. This much I gathered. And he told me a story that went back to the late 1930s. He would been from Poland and he was living in Kaunas Lithuania. And as the war approached as Jews were being rounded up he began to realize he was trapped. And he told me a story of going from embassy to embassy to embassy looking for visas anywhere. The United States Australia Great Britain - all said the same thing. We have enough Jews no thank you. He said so in desperation I went to knock on the door of the Japanese Embassy. He said of course it was crazy. Japan was entering an alliance with Nazi Germany. There was no way they would provide safe passage. He told me about going in and seeing a kindly man sitting behind a desk. He told him his story. And the man nodded very politely and said you want a visa but my government will not grant it not even a transit visa to go through Japan. He said but I will ask. And so this man Chiune Sempo Sugihara wired to headquarters in Japan. And they wired back absolutely no. Mr. Sugihara looked at Mr. Shimkin a long time and finally said and what will happen if you do not receive visas? And Mr. Shimkin said if we do not receive visas we will be taken off in trains and we will be killed. He looked at a big box in the corner of the room and said come back tomorrow. The next day Mr. Shimkin explained he went in and saw that Sempo Sugihara had spent the entire night writing visas by hand. In those days visas had to be done by hand stamped officially. And he had done 300. And then he continued. And he continued with his wife working day and night. He did not stop to eat for the next three weeks writing visas by hand - hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of them. Word of this went to the Japanese government. Outraged they demanded he return. They pulled his credentials. And he told me that the last he had seen of Sempo Sugihara was on a train being taken back to Japan writing visas and passing them out the window. Mr. Shimkin told me Sempo Sugihara had written 6000 visas. And so we escaped. And we all came here to Tokyo. Some went on to the United States from Tokyo. So went on to Great Britain after the war. Some went to Australia. He said of all those Jews who came here to Japan I am the last one left. He said I like it here. It feels like home. The people are kind. And then he said to me Mr. Storyteller you should tell his story - the story of Sempo Sugihara. When I got back I did some research on Sempo Sugihara. And exactly how many visas he wrote is hard to say. Estimates range from 1600 to 6000. The visas were transit visas. So a single visa might serve an entire family. Because of that it is hard to know exactly how many Jews he got out of Lithuania. But the Simon Wiesenthal Center estimates that there are 40000 Jews alive today because of Sempo Sugihara's action. What is clear though is what happened to Sugihara and his family. He was transferred to another post then another and another and eventually stripped of diplomatic immunity. So that when the war ended he and his family spent 21 months of forced labor in a Soviet prison camp. When they finally did return to Japan he was a shamed man. No more work in diplomatic corps and he made his living any way he could. For a time he sold light bulbs door-to-door. Later he found work as a translator. But during his lifetime the Japanese government never forgave him for what he did. He died in shame. It was some years later I went back to Japan. I told stories again at the Jewish community center. And afterwards the rabbi came up to me and I said hey how is Joseph Shimkin. And he smiled and said well two things happened last week. One was that Joseph Shimkin passed away. We buried him in that very graveyard you helped clean up. The other was just before that the Japanese Ministry of Education changed their official position on Sempo Sugihara. They decided his story should be told in textbooks. And now every Japanese schoolchild will hear the story of Sempo Sugihara.   Joel Ben Izzy. Thank you Joel for making sure the world does not forget. Joel Ben Izzy's memoir The Beggar King And The Secret Of Happiness is available right now from his website storypage.com. That piece was produced by Stephanie Foo.   Now when SNAP JUDGMENT continues we are going to get locked up. We are going to meet pure evil and we are going to be thankful anyway when atitude Episode continues. Stay tuned. 