 Welcome back to the SNAP the Behind The Curtain episode. Today on the show we are going backstage to find out who is pulling the levers. And since he was a kid our next guest Tahir Shah has had an obsession with magic. His uncles from India would visit him in England and show him tricks and illusions. Young Tahir was transfixed.  I vowed that when I was older one day long long in the future I would go to India and I would learn magic for myself. It is kind of a crazy story. What happened was when I was in my early 20s I did not think about it very much I just did it. I got a one-way ticket from Britain and I arrived in Kolkata. And I went in search of this Hakim Feroze the greatest illusionist and stage magician in Indian history really. I had no contact details for this guy. I did not have a cell phone number I did not have anything. I just had his name. Just by an incredible coincidence I bumped into him in a cafe in Kolkata. The first thing that struck me was everything about him was immaculate. His hair was oyster-gray like his mustache perfectly sculpted-back with lavender-smelling brilliantine. A tweed jacket despite the heat and in the little pocket of the waistcoat the left side a silver pocket watch. After a lot of cajoling he agreed to take me on as a pupil. Hakim Feroze said to me if I become his pupil I have to do everything exactly as he says as he ordered me. And if I refused to do something I would be thrown out on my ear immediately. So I decided right there and then I would do anything he wanted. So the great magician Hakim Feroze said that I had to come and live in his mansion on the outskirts of Kolkata in a very beautiful suburb called Alipore where the very very most beautiful houses were built. From the street you could not really get a sense of what was behind the wall but as I came in the first day it was rather like Hakim Feroze himself - it was immaculate. It had an exquisite veranda on the back and in the central courtyard there were frangipani trees with this incredibly intoxicating scent. As I was walking through the gate up to the villa I was absolutely terrified out of my mind. Really from the outset of arriving there was no moment that Feroze shook me by the hand and said welcome and we are going to learn allusions. Hakim Feroze subjected me to a horrific catalog of almost debauched tests and trials and tribulations. The first - very first one was to dig a hole using a dessert spoon. The hole had to be two feet square and two feet deep. And I realized OK he is taking this seriously so I will take it seriously because I do not want him to have a reason to kick me out. I started digging the soil which was kind of sandy soil in this courtyard. And I had to put each dessert spoon into a bucket. I had to do it with my left hand as I remember which was really difficult at first. And I was sweating and sweating and sweating. I spent - digging holes I spent I think three or four days. But then there were all kinds of others. I had to jog backwards in laps around the courtyard carrying a gigantically cold and heavy block of ice. The worst of all the one that drove me absolutely mad was to stand in the courtyard with my arms outstretched hour after hour with - it was like 10 grains of rice on my left hand and a peeled grape on my right hand and I had to hold them outstretched like a scale. He delighted in the fact that I was almost in tears. I did think about quitting like a thousand times. And I would look at myself from a great height and I would think what the hell are you doing? Something in me said give up give up. But then another part of me kept saying no - endure it a little longer. I learned a bizarre catalog of tricks from how to eat glass to how to stop my pulse how to make the rain stop or how to make the rain start all kinds of illusions. You can take a bite of a glass light bulb and you can chew it up without really getting any bleeding of your gums or your tongue or anything. But the secret is if you eat a banana beforehand the glass - the tiny fragments of glass will get - will go down into your stomach and they will get embedded in the banana and will just go through your intestines normally. I was beginning to think I was making good progress. I had learned to put up with Feroze and I had learned some of the basics of magic. With Feroze he hated it if you were getting comfortable. So he could see I was getting quite used to being at his villa. Before I went to bed one night Feroze said to me you are to go on a journey a journey of observation a journey around India - you have to leave. And I said when? And he said at dawn. I was deeply upset. I thought well what am I going to do? Where am I going to go? He said the journey could last a day a week a year the rest of my life. Suddenly something hit me and I thought to myself instead of doing some pathetic weak little journey go on a grand adventure around India the greatest journey of observation ever done. My obsession at the time was about godmen - Indian godmen. A godman is as close as India has to what a snake oil salesman must have been in the Wild West. He was part healer part entertainer part magician. And they go from village to village doing magic tricks OK? Some of them do it use it as a huge kind of medium for deception and some of them are multi multi-multimillionaires. And Hakim Feroze   he frowned at the misuse of illusion as a medium a matrix to deceive people. He did not approve of that at all. I was taken by a rickshaw wallah you know one of these guys running with a kind of hand rickshaw cart to the Howrah train station - the old train station. I was on the platform waiting for the train to turn up. A few hours in I saw a street boy Baloo and he had a kind of you know it was a kind of routine that he was doing. You know tricks and different things. And I kind of knew at that moment that we would be great friends. He liked to be called the trickster. He could do amazing magic tricks. Yes he could also pick pockets like I would never seen anyone do. Or he could seduce women far older than him - because he was only 12 so - but he was charming and I never really expected him to come with me on my journey or even leave Kolkata with me but he said that he was coming too. I think at the time I kept brushing him off and cursing him thinking he was going to rob me. But secretly deep down I was electrified delighted that I would have such a wise and charismatic young man with me. I traveled around with him on this zig-zag trip around India. We passed through Orissa which is a very very very poor state in India and there had been a drought. And we heard that in a village not too far away a witch had been caught. I said to Baloo let us go and see. So we went there. It was a few villages away and it was a hot - really hot afternoon baking afternoon. And as we approached the village where she was from we saw terrible drought. We saw a lot of dead animals and you know dead cows. We got to a village and the headman said yes yes - we have caught a witch and she is evil and we have locked her up. And I said we have come from far away. And after quite a lot of cajoling we were taken to where the witch was and she had been locked in a kind of - in a shed in a shack. And they pulled her out and it was blinding sunlight in the afternoon and she was blinking and she was frightened so frightened - the poor poor woman. And she was an old old woman. I was very very moved but also incredibly upset because I could see that there is someone in front of me here on the ground with people ready to kick her face in again. I knew I had to get involved. I said that we have been sent to adjudicate and get to the bottom of the story. I showed my driving license - my British driving license - I pulled it out and I said this was my document. And I said what did she do? And she had been accused of a number of things. So for example she had made the water in the water tower go poisonous turn poison. And we investigated and it turned out that there were two or three dead rats in there and that had poisoned the water tower. And we fished them out - Baloo fished them out very bravely. It is very difficult for us sitting here in our nice clean clothes we ate a nice breakfast ate a nice lunch today whatever. If you can picture an Indian village - a few adobe houses drought terrible drought. Thirst terrible shocking thirst. There is this fear and you see it in everyone's eyes. You see it on their lips even - because everyone's kind of wrinkled because they have not drunk enough water - a hysteria because someone has been caught who - the witch - who all their problems in the village have been leveled on. There was no chance of ever explaining this is not the way to get someone off the hook. And when we were walking through the village Baloo and I I was very very concerned. And I said look this is a serious situation. This woman could lose her life. And he said to me let us do it from the inside out. And I said what do you mean? And he said if they want magic we will give them magic. And I said to everyone you know crowded around if I can do something mesmerizing and inexplicable to you will you let this woman go? And eventually they said all right all right - if you do real magic for us then we will let her go. What would Feroze have thought about me using magic passing myself off as a godman to have an effect? I had a chance to save you know maybe save someone's life. So do I save their life? You bet I tried to save their life you know? And then I said well I can levitate. Hakim Feroze had taught me how to levitate in the way that a lot of godmen do. And it is very very simple and if I tell you the trick you will say well that is not real levitation. I asked Baloo to get us a blanket and he also got me a couple of bamboo rods. He diverted their attention for a little - a few minutes - and when they came back - he brought them back to where I was - I was lying under the blanket with my head back tilted back almost like I was trying to float in a swimming pool. And under the blanket I had these two bamboo rods. Very very slowly I lifted the rods under the blanket arched my body - my torso - upwards and threw my head back. And it might not seem very convincing on radio but I can bet you it looked damn convincing. After a few seconds I came down again and that I actually did a couple of other tricks. I burnt a fire on my tongue which is camphor which I had some with me. The villagers brought out some very rotten eggs. What I did was I managed to change - I mean it is what every stage magician has done you know since time immemorial - I managed to change the line of sight. So I had an egg in my hand and all of a sudden I got everyone to look for a fraction of a second somewhere else and I opened my hand and egg was not there because the egg was down my back crushed and slippery. And then they were a bit irritated because they could see that they had lost their witch. So we left the village in the late afternoon the three of us Baloo the old lady and I and we walked you know down the track towards the horizon. It was almost like a Western movie. And we walked two or three villages along the track and deposited the witch - the supposed witch the old lady - at her relative's house and Baloo and I went on our way. I just remembered the coolness of the air you know it takes quite a long time for the air to really cool down and you can breathe. It feels as if you know almost that you can breathe for the first time in your life. And it is the most delicious feeling alive.  Tahir Shah wrote a book about his journey through India. It is called The Sorcerer's Apprentice and SNAPers - trust me it is an amazing magical stupendous read. I loved it. We will have a link on our website snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Anna Sussman and sound design by Leon Morimoto. In just a moment SNAP JUDGMENT returns with a story of missed connections you have got to hear to believe. It is all true. When we continue Behind The Curtain episode. Stay tuned. 