 Now then we live in a technological age a world where it is becoming increasingly impossible to hide. There are cameras on every corner facial recognition technology credit card records optic scanners Internet fingerprints. Ask yourself - if you wanted to disappear to hide your identity so that no one you ever knew would be able to find you could you do it? Could you find a place in our America where nobody knows your name? SNAP JUDGMENTS's Nick van der Kolk has the story.  I was found naked behind a dumpster at a Burger King in Richmond Hill Georgia that is a suburb of Savannah. I have no idea how I got there. The cleaning woman at the Burger King she was taking out the trash in the morning. She called the police. The police and the ambulance took me to the hospital. I really do not remember that part. They asked me my name. I told them it was Benjaman. They asked me a last name. I told him I did not know.  Benjaman could only remember little scraps of information. He could not remember anything about his friends or his family. He had three wounds on his head caused by some kind of blunt object. There was no ID nearby and he was almost totally blind. The whole world was in a yellow fog.  The ward clerks at the hospital they would had come in every shift change and they would demand to know a last name - I want your last name. I wanted them to leave me the hell alone. They were calling me BK Doe because I was found behind a Burger King. The only name I could think of that began with a K was Kyle so I became Benjaman Kyle then. They asked me in a hospital what my birthday was. I told them it was August 29 1948. They said how do you know that? I said because I was born 10 years before Michael Jackson to the day. Michael Jackson was born August 29 1958.  If you found yourself in Benjaman's situation this is the part of the story where your friends or family would show up. They would have gone around to various hospitals in the area looking for you in a panic but no one came forward to claim Benjaman that day. He was totally alone at the hospital and broke.  When you go into the hospital and if you do not have insurance if someone's not paying for this everyone there knows it and they treat you like excrement. I was in three different hospitals and two clinics plus a homeless clinic in a period of three months. They kept shifting me around. Everyone was trying to get rid of me because they could not bill Medicaid or Medicare anyone because I could not give my Social Security number.  While Benjaman bounced around different hospitals and homeless shelters his vision problems meant he could not read or watch TV.  I could make out large shapes. I could not see well enough to cross the street. I would not see a car coming up on me until was like you know four or five feet away from me.  So he kept his mind occupied by cleaning the floors of the shelter he was living at. He could not see much more than the outline of the mop so he just moved it across every bit of floor space again and again until he figured it was clean. It was not until a year later when he was finally diagnosed with cataracts.  When I had the cataract surgery about a week after that surgery I was getting ready to shave. And I looked at myself in the mirror and I just could not believe that that was me that I was looking at. I was so old. I felt like I should be in my 40s and here I am looking at an old man in the mirror. I have said all along ever since I was found that my brain's not working right. I have always had a problem with numbers remembering numbers. I am thinking that my brain should be like 40 years old and operate like it is 40 years old. But instead what it is is my brain is actually working normal it is just that it is a 60-year-old brain now. And actually when that hit I really think I started feeling older then.  Usually in amnesia cases like this some memories do eventually return. And this was no exception.  Some of my memories started coming back. Like I remembered being in Denver.  If Benjaman could remember a key detail about his life before the accident maybe it would lead him to someone - anyone - who could tell him who he was.  My memories of Denver seem to have been in the middle '80s because there was talk about building the light rail system. But it was kind of a pie-in-the-sky and they never had it. And they have it now. I am pretty well convinced that I was raised in Indianapolis and that I went to a Catholic school. I am always examining my reactions to certain things. So when I think of Catholic schools - you normally think of nuns and the picture of all those Disney movies that had you know these happy-go-lucky nuns and everything in it - that is not my feeling of nuns. I get the distinct impression that they are not nice people.  He could not remember anything about the specific people from his past life. The only thing he could remember were about places and skills. Eventually when he started a new job at a restaurant it was like he had been there before.  I walked into that dish room. I just knew what to do. I knew how to operate the machine. I know how to store the pans how to clean. I just knew everything. I did not have to think about it. I just did it. It is just like the skills are there and that when I need them they are there and I use them. I have said all along that I worked in the restaurant industry and in fact actually I think I have managed restaurants. Despite all my other problems I have to work. I have to live. I have to figure out a way to live. I need a social security number so I can become legal. Obviously I paid into the Social Security Administration somewhere. So I have got retirement benefits. Medicare and Medicaid. I have no government benefits whatsoever. Social Security says the presumption is since I am an American citizen they cannot issue me another social security number. The owner of the restaurant he says he does not give a damn. He will just tell them he is paying me out of his pocket. He does not care who knows it.  The restaurant owner who had hired him had heard about Benjaman's story in the local paper. Another good Samaritan also gave him a place to live in Florida. By 2008 his story was getting picked up by bigger and bigger media outlets.  Every single reporter or news organization that I talked to has sworn up and down yes. We are going to solve this. Our audience is so great. So super.   Today on Dr. Phil imagine having your memory totally erased. Could you hold the key to his past and possibly his future?  Dr. Phil is probably the biggest audience Benjaman has ever spoken to - over three million people. And after this segment aired the floodgates opened. People recognized Benjaman and got in touch. Unfortunately most of them went  something like this.  There is a woman. She is in California. She swears up and down that I am her father. The man living in her father's house is not her father. Someone did plastic surgery and everything and they had him substituted for her father. She was so insistent upon this she bought a paternity test from Walgreens mailed it to me. So I took this paternity test hoping that she would become unfixiated on me.  The test came back negative.  So now she says that our brains were transplanted - switched. I am still getting emails from her. I am ignoring them now. We certainly did not get anything useful to speak of from the Dr. Phil show.  The rest of his media appearances have not been helpful either.  I think maybe there is a little bit of hubris involved there and with the media overrating their reach.  He is had his fingerprints compared with military and government personnel databases and the FBI criminal database. He is had DNA tests facial recognition comparisons with the Indiana DMV private investigators hypnosis. And even though Benjaman does not believe in things like clairvoyance he even visited a psychic out of desperation. Nothing has worked.  There is some people out there that will say that I am insane and I am just making this up. But no one can produce any reason as to why I am doing it. I am certainly not getting rich over it. You know what? If I won the lottery - and of course there is a question upon how I am going to collect from it. But if I won the lottery I would never do another interview again with anyone. I am doing this one right now because I feel that I need to. Maybe someone will hear it and give me some sort of clue other than being kidnapped by aliens or something.  This is like setting an awkward question but I wonder if you think about friends and family who are out there. Just did you ever think like Jesus - like no one cares?  I guess so. I think mostly I just - I blocked that part out. And I just do not think about that. You know you have got to remember that you know I have to earn a living. So I spend a lot of my time just thinking about work. I do not even think about the situation that I am in.  So what is your hope and your plan moving forward?  Long-term?  Yeah.  I am going to die.  People hate it when I say that. They do. But long term I am going to die. I am 65. In another 10 15 years I am going to be dead. That is my long-term plan. You know most people are looking forward to retirement. I am not going to retire. What happens if I become physically disabled and I cannot work? Well I do not know and I do not think about it because there is not a damn thing I can do about it.  Benjaman Kyle - or whoever this man really is - lives in Jacksonville Beach Florida. He still does not have a social security number. And he is still unable to recollect his own past. We will have Benjaman's picture and current information on our website snapjudgment.org. Maybe you can help him out. You are listening to dentity Crisis episode. When the program returns we want to discover a very very bad thing. We are going to have an emotional breakdown at the worst possible place. And we are going to witness a miracle for real when dentity Crisis episode continues. Stay tuned.    Why do I need ID to get ID?  I do not know. Beats me. Beats me.  If I had ID I would not need ID. Man I do not know. I do not know.  It is the questions. What? It is the questions boy. It is the questions. It is just my questions boy. Come on. Some questions. It is the questions you all. It is the questions. What? It is the questions. Come on. Talkin' 'bout the questions. It is the questions girl. It is the questions. Yeah. It is the questions. Come on. 