 Welcome back to o Perfect Love episode. Today we are pushing all the nonsense out of the way and digging into the heart of the relationship. Now you might like your relationships at the gym. Some like it on the mountain tops. Our next storyteller Tim he is a guy that knows to take his life wherever he finds it. SNAP JUDGMENT.  I was born in Scarborough Maine. Specifically I was born in the grandstand at Scarborough Downs it was a racetrack. My dad was a jockey and my grandfather was a trainer. And so I started at the racetrack at a real early age. Horses have been my whole life. The racetrack's a pretty rough place. It is a hard life you know? I broke my tailbone. I broke my neck. Actually I am crippled right now from horses. I love my horses. I like being outdoors. I do not believe I could work in a building. Like this building I am in right now I could not - I do not believe I could deal with it being inside. I am an outdoors person always have been. Well the first time I met Lisa was I ran over her  believe it or not with a horse. I was on a runaway horse. Well the horse he would break - he would break off with you and just take off at a dead run. And I hollered up ahead to Lisa. I did not even know her name was Lisa at the time. She fell to the wall. Her horse got loose. And my horse ran out of the barn up in - across the street and then ran up into another barn. I went back across the street to make sure Lisa was all right 'ecause the horse did knock her down. And she was fine. I guess it was about a week after that we were kind of like inseparable. It was pretty wild. We got married a year later we decided to get married. Lisa was very attractive very outgoing would do anything for anybody. She was just an unbelievable person. She was just - I could never - I never found a fault in her you know? She was a great person. Now Lisa loved horses would do anything - she could do anything. Some of the worst horses I have had that were real rough houses she would just get along with them. She could have a horse eating right out of her hand in a couple of days you know? She could - she could really change a horse. A lot of people always used to say what - I do not know what she sees in you Tim. It is hard to meet somebody like that you know think the same do the same - you know what I mean? - have the same ideas. Lisa and I were in business together with the racehorses man-and-wife team. I hauled horses throughout the country. She more or less did the training when I was out of town. Lisa wanted to keep every horse that I bought. You had to buy them. You had to sell them. You could not get attached to them. I have had probably four or five hundred horses we have bought and sold. I used to have to take my horses to other farms and never let her see the ones that I would buy because she wanted to keep them all. We were married about - yeah were married 10 years. We were in Columbus Ohio at a Beulah Park racetrack. And she got a real bad pain in her back. She had expressions on her face that I have never seen before and I knew it was serious. And I just told her look Lisa we are going home tonight. She had cancer. It is a miserable disease I will tell you.   Late stages when she was sick - towards the end - she used to always comfort her mother and me that she would - do not worry - that she was going to be back - and she was coming back as a horse. It is kind of crazy how all of this happened but she said I am going to be back - I am coming back as a horse - I will be back. After my wife passed away I sold all my horses. I traveled the whole country. I was kind of like - kind of lost you know? I do not know if I was running from it or whatever. And then I eventually went back to Finger Lakes. I had it in the back of my mind to buy a horse and get back into training again. I got a phone call from a guy that I had not talked to in four years. He said jeez I think I got a horse here you might be interested in.   I had a couple thousand dollars in my boot and off I went in my station wagon and - I went to see the horse. I was like wow - she had a problem with her foot. And she had one eye. She was not named. She would never beat a horse in her life never had finished a work out in front of one - or galloped in front of one. That is why they sold her. And then she had the one eye and then she had the clubfoot. And she had a lot of faults against her and they totally - totally gave up on her. And I told them I said look I got 2000 in my boot. I will give you 2000 now and 2500 when she wins. If she wins you get paid. If she do not you do not. Actually how Lisa got her name - or Lisa's Booby Trap got her name - I was at my boss the guy I was working for Johnson - he said let us go to the Booby Trap. I said all right what is it? And he said it is a gentleman's club. They have got a nice big sandwich you get a lunch and you throw the girls a few bucks - and that is how she got her name. I named it after Lisa. And I named it after the bar - Lisa's Booby Trap. She went right in training - I had to make some changes with her. Her feet were - needed some corrective shoeing. I trained her every day. I exercised her every day I galloped her myself. It took some time - it took some time for her to develop into what she turned out to be. Different things struck me about her you know? The look she would give me and it sounds kind of - you know everybody says about reincarnation and all that - it is kind of crazy. But this horse would actually - I can think something and she would do it. It is - that is kind of the relationship we had you know? And then Lisa my wife was the same way you know? I could be thinking something and she would do what I was thinking. It was really really crazy but a lot of people picked up on it. I mean she is like - she is like being Lisa. You want to know the truth it is like Lisa's still here actually. Lisa never let nothing ever get her down - my wife. And Lisa the horse overcome - she had one eye and she was handicapped - could not see but it did not bother her. She would set pain aside to do her job you know? And it takes quite a horse to do that. The first time I ever raced her I drove by the cemetery on the way in and stopped and seen Lisa and I told Lisa I said we are going to win one today.   This horse was just like out of her - out of her mind feeling good you know what I mean?  And there they go.  They said go and she went right to the front.  Out for the lead race is Lisa's Booby Trap from the outside.  Every stride was - she opened up.  Lisa's Booby Trap getting away.  She was a race horse. No doubt about it.  Lisa's Booby Trap has a big lead. She is all alone. Sandy Castles in the second. Check out this debut-er Lisa's Booby Trap very impressive in her first look. She is an authoritative winner.  She won by 17 lengths almost an eighth of a mile. There was not a horse in the picture. It was amazing. It was a real rush and a real thrill you know? The purse was probably about 20000. She won her first three races at Finger Lakes. It is called Finger Lakes Racetrack. And then Saratoga opened up. And the purses at Saratoga are 100000 and at Finger Lakes they are 20000. That is the difference. I was looking at a Saratoga book one day and I said to myself - I said well I think she is earned her way to go to Saratoga. I think the odds started out at 10 to 1 at Saratoga. The four horses that was in the race with me they spent a million dollars on. I spent 4500.  Horses have reached the starting line.   And they are off. Zermont ....  She was last from the start from the beginning.  ...Lisa's Booby Trap is the last of five...  It was a real - very fast race a lot of speed.  ...Turn. Here's Lisa's Booby Trap who is on the march fourth on the far outside and Funny Feeling is fifth.  And she just kind of circled around them. And he hit her two or three times and she just took off and ran right on by them like they were tied to the fence.  Lisa's Booby Trap has made a run from last on to the lead and...  They were all out. They would ran hard all the way.  Here's Lisa's Booby Trap under the wire by a half-a-dozen lengths.  I had to fight my way through the crowd to get to the winner's circle. I will tell you I could not go to the donut shop without having a cup coffee and they would say hey that is the trainer of Lisa's Booby Trap  you know? Every lady that named Lisa or every lady that had cancer or anybody that had one eye they were at my barn to meet Lisa's Booby Trap. I met people - I had to have a guard dog guard my horse. The horse was just fantastic with the cameras. She loved people. She would nuzzle up to people. She did not bite or nothing. She would love you up. When I got to Finger Lakes the first guy came up to me offered me 60000. Then I had another guy offer me a quarter-million dollars in cash. Then I had a guy come from - was from Kentucky he offered me half a million dollars for the horse. Broke as I was I could have - I probably could have used a half a million dollars. Money's dirty as far as I am concerned.   I did not want to sell the horse period. I do not think I would sleep right at night if I sold her you know? She was the star of Saratoga that year and I mean she did not win a million-dollar race or nothing but she was a horse of the year. She was 3-year-old filly of the year. She was best allowance horse male and female of the year at Finger Lakes.   I was working her just one day I just got just a feeling that that is not the right thing to do. I backed up and I took her home. I took her home and retired her. I did not want her to be crippled. See a lot of horses can break down. People get greedy and they want more. You know what I mean? And they will - they push them right to the end. I have done it with a lot of horses - push them you know right on through. But I did not want to do that with her and this is the only horse in my whole career that I have not sold. Everybody said well what the ? Why would you not want to run her? And I said well what if she broke her leg? It was a tough call. There was plenty of races for her. I could have run her nine months of the year. I quit while I was ahead and she was ahead of the game you know? She is out in my barn. I see her every day. I brush her every day. I pick her feet every day. I feed her every day. I get an inkling or a - if something in my stomach tells me to go to the barn I go to the barn. I sleep a lot better at night.   She is the biggest thing in my life right now. I do not know if that sounds a little strange but it is about the biggest thing in my life. I love her to death yeah. I certainly do. I get two Lisas you know?  And you want to know the best part? When we talked to Tim Lisa's Booby Trap was being bred to the Kentucky Derby winner Big Brown. So stay tuned to hear about Lisa's little Booby Trap coming into the world ha. Big thanks for sharing your story Tim Snyder. You can find out more in Tim's book The Ghost Horse. We will have a link on our site snapjudgment.org. That story was produced by Anna Sussman with sound design by Renzo Gorrio.   When SNAP JUDGMENT returns someone puts everything on the line without thinking it through when SNAP JUDGMENT the No Perfect Love episode continues. Stay tuned. 