 Welcome back to elling with a beat The Omen episode. Snappers my name is Glynn Washington and I am going to ask you to use your imaginations. Close your eyes and imagine pretend that it was your job to see into the future. Now what if you could not do that anymore? Keep those eyes closed unless you are driving or juggling babies. SNAP JUDGMENT.   Futurology Inc. Please hold.  It is my 657th day at Futurology Inc. It is the future. It is been the future for a while. Today I will sit in my cubicle and stare at my computer as some arbitrary neuron far in the recesses of my gray matter triggers visions upon visions. It is like going down a sucking spiral ears plugged up a feeling like a big pillow stuffed over my face and finally that humdrum future moment - a perfectly round packed snowball whizzing right through an open window. It will happen at the morning of the last snow - two winters from now.  .  A daughter will giggle her hand frozen and red.  Get over here.  Her mother will yell through the shattered glass.   Tomorrow an elderly man will miss his bus because he is too busy with the morning crossword. The word he will not be able to find is amygdala.   So the earthquake is going to hit LA on Monday the 13 not on Tuesday.  OK - daytime? Evening?  I do not have a read on that yet. But I will let CHP know as soon as I do and then they can schedule the freeway shut down.  Cool. And the next royal baby - boy or girl?  Oh the one three years from now? That is a girl.  I do not see any of those things at least I have not for a while. Instead another flash.   A rush to the head.   I see a younger man waking up alone staring at the indent on the pillow next to him. He will pick up a long stray brown hair. He will press his face into the down puff and he will smell her - fresh grass orange pith and starched mothy linen. I need coffee.   Hey man how are those cancer cures coming along?  I - uhm...   I see a man not young not old. He is wearing a brown corduroy jacket. He walks out of an office building holding an electric blue box. Is that from our copy room? Huh. He pulls his red cap over his ears and slips into the sidewalk traffic. A bird swoops fast from overhead nearly hits him. The man ducks then looks up. The bird's gone but it does not matter. The man's looking at the sun as it breaks through the overhanging bruise-colored clouds. He closes his eyes and feels warmth on his face.  You seem fried today. You need to go home or something?  Oh do I? I guess I just need some coffee probably. I do not know.  Cool. See you at the staff meeting.  Damn. I forgot I lied about the cancer cures. I am still waiting for the big important visions to come back. Instead my head plays a slideshow of worthless happenings day in day out.   A blonde woman buys an expensive long black skirt to impress her mother in law.   A woman with gray hair runs the faucet and looks blankly out the window.   A teenage boy hits a squirrel with his new bicycle on the way home sometime next month its spine bent under the wheel.   A woman cuts off the anklet she is worn for four years without a thought.   A fruit fly lands on a lemon stumbles into a divot on its gold rind.  Hey. Do you have a minute to talk about the cancer cures?  Oh hey did not see you sorry.  What are you working on exactly?  Insect population futures.  I did not know that was something we did here.  In a month this man will fire me. I saw it a week ago not like I needed a prediction to tell me this would happen. I did not see the whole scene.   Just my stress ball tearing open as I squeezed it.   Tiny spheres spilling across the floor - pink plastic.  We will see you at the staff meeting - 20 minutes OK? Conference room B.  Yeah. Sure. OK. Thanks.   I find one of the electric blue paper boxes in the copy room. I dump the reams onto the floor and take the empty box to my desk. I do not have much to pack up - no papers no pictures. I pull on my brown corduroy jacket pick up the box and leave this place for the last time. It is cold. I pull my red cap over my ears slip into the sidewalk traffic. So I never see anything that matters at least nothing of consequence to Futurology Inc. But these visions these moments I have been seeing - not big but still important somehow. Little bits of the in between - faces and places and sadness and joy and beginnings and endings.   And then a bird swoops fast from overhead nearly hits me. I duck then look up. The bird's gone. But those clouds - gray full almost bruise-colored. The sun breaks through. I close my eyes. This light this warmth.   Men and women pass by hunched and cold looking at their feet as they hurry to the next thing and the next and the next. I will stand here just a little longer. I do not want this moment to end at least not yet not until I see another.   Now Snappers let us all take a moment just to be in the moment. You can read more of Kristen Steenbeeke's work on our website snapjudgment.org. That story was produced by Eliza Smith with sound design by Leon Morimoto.   Oh yes. It is that time Snappers. We are off to release from you from the clutches of SNAP's underground studios here in Oakland Calif. But know this - if you have got to have your fix hours of SNAP JUDGMENT storytelling await free for the asking. Subscribe to the podcast while you still can. We do not know how long we can hold off the forces of evil. Snapjudgment.org - find movies pictures stuff subscribe. I will wait. No I am not going to wait. SNAP JUDGMENT.   Now did you ever heard of an omen that bad news and evil tidings might befall the country unless SNAP JUDGMENT starts calling the shots? Well if you do call the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Let them know. Many thanks to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange will gladly exchange your public radio for three magic beans. Take them up on it - prx.org. WBEZ in Chicago does not feel the cold. And this of course it is not the news. No way this is the news. In fact you could have a vision of a dark and stormy night you want to tell the neighbors get picked up by the police for trespassing get beaten with sticks and kicked repeatedly in the head and in the face only to have them realize hey this is not a black guy - our bad. And you would still still not be as far away from the news as this is but this is NPR. 