 Now so many of our stories for some reason they all come from the town of Detroit Michigan so many. This one is special. SNAP JUDGMENT's Mark Ristich recalls some time spent with a very very dear partner in crime.  One night I come home from work and I have a message on my answering machine. Marky it is Grandpa Jordan. Come-ski . I drive over to my grandpa's around 10 oclock at night and that is when we start dinner - zelnik which is Macedonian for spinach pie manja which is lamb stew and waffles. At 86 my grandfather is an insomniac and at 26 I am a night owl. So I eat. He berates me for not making enough money. And then he says do not listen to me. Marky do not listen. I am an old man. And then we go into the living room. We throw on some Macedonian music and that night he tells me the story about needles. Marky World War II at the bar it is lunchtime 1944 Detroit at the corner of Grand River and Fenkell right where the trolley car turns around. And there is Jordan's on the River. There is no river just the street Grand River. But that is my Grandpa Jordan's bar. It is a busy place and on this day he is short-staffed. He is back behind the bar serving up drinks dishing lunch making soup at the same time. And right as he is chopping chicken lunch is interrupted with a wartime announcement.  I am telling you today about the liberation of Paris. It was indescribably dramatic. Fighting yet the people frantic with the joy of liberation.  My grandfather goes oh my God oh my God but not for the French. No he is just sliced open his hand. Blood is pouring all over the counter and he starts to stagger. One fella drinking coffee at the end of the bar he takes notice. He hops down off his stool. He slips behind the bar. He grabs a clean towel and applies pressure to the wound. The bleeding slows but the cut is deep. And then he says Mr. Jordan you got to get to a doctor. My grandpa shakes his head - no no doctor. You have got to stitch it up believe me I know. It will not close. How you know? I am a medical student at Bowling Green. OK you stitch him up. No Mr. Jordan. See I am not a doctor yet but - I will give you free lunch for a week. OK Mr. Jordan. So the guy goes over to his stool and out of his bag he pulls this little tin. It is got iodine bandages sutures scissors and a needle. So right there behind the bar he stitches up my grandfather right in front of all the regulars. At the end of it they are all slapping him on the back calling him Needles. My grandpa one-handed he serves him up a massive lunch with a nice slice of pie. Then as the lunch rush dies down he says to my grandpa Mr. Jordan do you have any work that needs to be done? Grandpa says Needles can you tend bar? I will try Mr. Jordan. I will try give it a shot. OK. One thing no drinking. Not a problem Mr. Jordan. I never had a taste for this stuff anyway. So he hands him an apron and Needles begins tending bar. He drinks coffee to stay alert. On break he reads. It is a good arrangement until one day at happy hour an argument between a couple of guys it escalates into a shouting match and then a fistfight. Tables get upturned bottles break glasses shatter. Grandpa has to step in separate them and kick them out. And then he looks around the room no Needles. So grandpa checks behind the bar and Needles is on the floor quivering. Grandpa pulls him up. Needles shake it off. Needles says I am OK Mr. Jordan. Really I am fine. But then moments later when Needles thinks no one is looking my grandpa spies him pouring some whiskey into his coffee. Grandpa does nothing and then he says Needles take out the trash. And when Needles leaves he takes a salt shaker opens it up and empties it into Needles's coffee. And he says to the crowd sshh. Needles comes back in serves a couple of drinks and then he takes a strong pull on the coffee. His face sours. He spits it up in the sink and it is all good fun for the regulars. But at closing time grandpa calls him over. Needles knows what is coming. And before he can even start he begs him Mr. Jordan look I know I should not be drinking. I got a nervous condition and I cannot lose this job. I need money for medical school please. I will do anything. Grandpa says look Needles I like you. Come. So he strikes a deal with him. He has 30 gallons of white paint in the basement. Needles can go door to door painting houses until the paint runs out. And Needles he is true to his word. He goes out painting and he comes back with a load of cash. And they split it up. Then he says you know Mr. Jordan if we had a truck I could do bigger jobs. So they go downtown and grandpa buys an old pickup truck. The next day Needles goes off to paint. And that night Needles does not come back. He is gone. Vamoose. No more Needles. Instead a few days later two military police show up at the bar - white hats white belts white armbands that say MP. They say they are looking for a guy - a guy who is passed himself off as a medical student. Have you seen this guy? Sure Needles. Used to work here but I fired him for drinking. Grandpa pours them some coffee gives them some pie and in between bites they tell him Needles was an Army medic. He could handle the death but not the shelling and so he deserted. And now the military police were looking for him. Do you have any idea where he is? And my grandpa knows what everybody knows - for desertion the ultimate penalty is death. Do you know where he might have gone how he might get there? My grandpa pauses. And I say Grandpa did you tell him Needles took your truck? He says no Marky no. And then he holds open his hands. Listen to me Marks how many lives how many lives he saved Marks? You do not shoot the doctor Marky. You do not shoot him. You do not shoot him.  All right it is about that time partners. But do not despair. Do not scream. Do not smack someone you love upside the back of the head no 'ecause full SNAP episodes are available right now for your listening pleasure - snapjudgment.org. If you tweet me then I will tweet you back. Our Twitter handle is SnapJudgmentORG. And Facebook does not even make any sense without SNAP JUDGMENT. Stitcher SoundCloud iTunes - however you want it that is how we make it. SNAP was produced by myself and the most desperate band of desperados the world has ever known. Now have you ever felt sorry for beating up the neighbor kid invited him over to apologize and when he knocked on the door you stole his lunch money. Well that is no way to treat the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. And I for one will not stand for it. Many thanks to the CPB PRX the Public Radio Exchange putting the public in public media and the public likes that are not - PRX.org. And now this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you and your best buddy could come up with a scheme to take Las Vegas's Bellagio Hotel out of millions of dollars by supplying them secretly coded decks of cards designed specially by you. And when you sit down at the blackjack table you know exactly which cards the dealer is holding. And right when you are about to make your big score the pit boss comes over puts his hand on your shoulder and says he wants to know something. Why is your face on every single joker card? You could do all that and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 