 Welcome back to the SNAP. Now today our next couple Henry and Jane they know a little something about the struggle. SNAP favorite Lea Thau has the story.  This is Jane Evans. She and her husband Henry have been married 26 years. They have four kids. And they used to have the kind of marriage where he was a CFO and she was a stay-at-home mom. And this took a toll in the typical ways.  We had two different worlds. He would come home and there would be toys all over the floor because we were playing games or whatever. And then he would come in and say how can you stand this? And I was like all right hang on here pal. You are walking through the door and just seeing this.  This used to be their biggest issue. Now they have a different kind of problem.  Henry I am going to move your legs this way. I am going to rock you a little bit OK. One two three. OK ready Henry? Here we go. Scoot him in here. That is it.  That is Jane transferring Henry from his bed to his wheelchair. Eleven years ago he suffered a brain stem stroke which left him paralyzed and mute. He could blink with one eye. That was the only movement he had left. Their kids were 6 8 12 and 13. And the doctors told Jane she had to put Henry in a facility. There was no way she could care for him at home. She disagreed. Jane is tiny. She is 5'2. Henry is 6'4 and almost double her weight but she moves him by herself twice a day.  Well you know what? The first time I brought him home I dropped him. And thank God the therapist showed me what to do if you drop somebody. You fall with them. You do not just drop them like a hot potato.  At the time of the stroke Henry was your all-American businessman and dad - tall handsome do-it-yourself kind of guy with a fast-paced Silicon Valley job. He was 40 years old when he suddenly became trapped in his body. He had what is called locked-in syndrome meaning his mental capacities were fully intact but he had lost all movement and speech. And his only way to communicate was through eye blinks going through the entire alphabet.  He got to the point where he was begging me to kill him. Begging me just begging me to shoot him in the backyard.  Jane's life was also turned upside down.  Taking care of Henry being by his side going through all his therapy it is like I have lived this nightmare as the caregiver but as a wife. And you are exhausted. Tell me what you need Henry. Do you want your head back? No. I could put him in a nursing home or put him in a corner but that is not how I would want to be treated.  The kids had to help out too.  We were helping him go to the bathroom one night. We had him on the toilet and I said Steven I need you to bend down and just make sure that he is perfectly aligned with that toilet. And I was dealing with a spasm or something so that is why I could not do it.  Steven is the oldest kid. He was 13 at the time.  And he looked at me and said you wanted me to look at my Dad's butt? And I said Steven we are beyond that point right now. Just tell me that he is aimed right and let us just go. I was just on overdrive. He bends down and you could see his face get all red. And Henry's kind of tense sitting there too. And Steven says geez Dad. I never thought we would be cheek-to-cheek like this. And Henry started laughing Stephen started laughing. And it broke up that awkward moment.  Slowly Henry began to regain some control of his body.  In the beginning he literally was like a Raggedy Ann doll. He could not even sit in a wheelchair. But I will tell you the big marker with him improving. A James Bond movie came out about that time. Halle Berry was in it and he wanted to go see that movie so badly. I mean Halle Berry should know the effect that she had on this man. And they said you are not allowed to go to a movie unless you can sit in the chair for four hours. So he worked and worked and worked on it. He went to the movie. I mean he did it.  Another big breakthrough came when they started using a letter board to communicate.  M U - much B much B-I-G bigger.  This is Jane doing the letter board with Henry. He wanted me to know how extraordinary it is that Jane is able to move him.  M-E-N. Much bigger men. C-A-N - cannot. D - do that.  The board is a plexiglass square with the letters in groups. A B C is one group and so on. Henry looks at a group of letters which Jane reads to him. And when she gets to the right letter he nods 'ecause he is also learned to nod again. This is much faster of course than going through the entire alphabet for each letter especially because Jane is very good at filling in the blanks. Most of the time she can guess a word from just a few letters.  Board again? I-A - Am. A-M - amazed. After almost 10 years you are still amazed?  What is even more amazing is that they can do the letter board without the actual board. One day they would accidentally left it at home and they discovered that they can do what they call virtual board.  Now virtual board what happens is this letter board becomes impregnated into your brain. You just see it. I would watch his eyes in the air and I know the group of letters that he is looking at.  A combination of ingenuity and the ability to laugh in the face of tragedy seems to have helped this family. And for all the things Henry lost he always had laughter. This could actually be a problem at times especially in the early days after the stroke when the emotional centers of his brain were heavily affected.  T-E - tell Leah about - S-T-A-R - oh gosh Henry this was terrible. We were at a talent show and this little girl gets up and she could not sing OK. He lost it. I mean he was laughing - he was crying. He was laughing so hard. The whole audience turned to us. I mean this poor girl was supposed be the show. OK Henry was a show. I even put the towel in his mouth for him to bight down on. I am wheeling him out of the theater as fast as I could run with him. And I mean unless you understand a stroke victim it was so cruel what happened. But it is like he cannot fake it OK?  A few years ago Henry got a program to help him speak through a computer. And he sometimes chimes in with a robotic voice. But it is still much faster for him to do the letter board with Jane. He is also been doing speech therapy to try to learn to actually speak again. But it is not easy.  We were in the van and he broke down crying because he was trying to mouth I love you and it did not sound like it. I knew what he was saying. But he got so overwhelmed with emotion and frustrated that he asked for the board and said I cannot even tell my wife I love her. And I said you just did. And I am going to start crying. We are basically one person. We just cannot decide if we are a boy or a girl.  Despite how fused they seem at times Henry has a private inner world where he gets totally lost.  Henry there are times when you literally do not hear me. I would - I would go mad if I did not day dream. And so he and I were 20 in this world. You run in this world right? Yeah.  He is daydreaming of you two together at 20. That is kind of neat.  Well that is what he says anyway. I do not know if Halle Berry's in that one. G. H. I-A-M-N-O - I am not - S-T-U - I am not stupid he says.  Henry and Jane seem able to laugh about anything. And it was almost hard to believe that they could be so cheerful. I wanted to talk to each of them alone to see what they might reveal about their inner sorrows and woes. Of course talking to Henry alone is a challenge because he cannot talk. But he is regained movement in two fingers which allows him to type. So we corresponded on email and he sent me this which took him half a day to write. Days took forever in the beginning. I just focused on the secondhand and each minute was a lifetime. I was painfully bored. This only went away with time - months and years. Now when I count my blessings lovely family beautiful view the fact that I am alive and surrounded by friends I am happy. When I focus too much on what was or what could have been I am sad. Jane is amazing. She is the true hero of this story. Has there ever been a moment where you thought...  Oh yeah.  ...Cannot do it?  Absolutely. I would be lying here to you if I told you that it was all a piece of cake and everything. No are you kidding me? But you know what? I had a friend say to me the other day you and your husband talk more than most people I know that can talk because you have all the time in the world. That is the one thing Henry has. Henry has time.  And time is the one thing they never had before the stroke when they were in their separate worlds with their separate stresses and neither had the energy to hear the complaints of the other.  I wanted him to listen to the frustrations I had during the day. And he did not want to hear about it because his job was so fast-paced. And I did not learn this until after the stroke. And we were going through our entire marriage and I said oh my gosh Henry. I looked at you as so self-centered because I was so ignorant to his world. Yeah. And so it definitely has brought us closer definitely. Not to say it was all rosy no. Could I do this for just anybody? No. Could not pay me to do this job. Could I do it for him? Absolutely. But I look back when the kids were so little and I actually ask myself how did I do it? I do not know. But that is what marriage is about.  But if you are exhausted like you need a hug he cannot even give you a hug right?  Yes he can.  I mean that - he can?  Yes he can. I can place his arms around me and then he can pull in a little bit. It is actually a really really special hug because you feel it coming from the heart.  How often do you do that?  Not often enough. But no I have to say last night I did that.  Wow. Big love to Henry and Jane Evans. That story it came to us from the amazing Leah Thau. Check out a link to her podcast the wonderful podcast Strangers at KCRW.comstrangers. And we will link to it on our website snapjudgment.org. 