 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR the You Do not Know Me episode. My name is Glynn Washington and today on the show we are exploring situations where things are not quite as they seem. You know a lot of us we think that we have this parenting thing down. We have the mothers the grandmothers the books the education the videos. And we think we can give advice to other people on how to do their thing. Well our next guest she describes how she was forced into an unorthodox parenting style not of her own choosing. Producers Hana Baba and SNAP JUDGMENT's Stephanie Foo have the story.   Samina Ali's doctors reassured her all through her pregnancy that everything was just fine. But she had headaches throughout the pregnancy and suspected something was off.  My son was delivered. And 20 minutes after he was delivered I had a seizure and then I went into a coma. They wheeled me into the - to get an MRI of my head. And they found that I had two brain hemorrhages. The next few days my liver stopped functioning my kidneys stopped functioning. I had pulmonary edema. I mean I had multiple organ failure and the doctors told my family and my husband at the time if you are lucky she will just die. My son's father was told to be prepared because he was not bringing home the woman that he brought to the hospital. I had severe aphasia which means that if I am thinking one word a different word would come out. So I was having difficulty speaking. I was having difficulty walking.  Incredibly she could not even remember her husband.  I remember I kept looking at him and thinking OK you are my husband. OK I am told that we got married. OK I am told that my son is your son. And I just remember being - looking at him constantly and thinking I guess this means I should feel something for you and I guess this means I am in love with you. But he was a stranger to me. I came back almost - you know I came back like my son.  Samina's son was named Ishmael and when he was a toddler she found herself bonding with him not as a son but as a peer.  I would say OK today my goal is to get up from bed walk to the bedroom door. . I mean there are definitely times when I would fall on the ground right smack next to him and we would be on the ground together. And you know there are times when I was on the floor crawling because I just did not have it in me to take another step. I was watching him do the same thing learning to walk learning to crawl. Sometimes more -  he had more functions than I did at times. We were out and every time he would pick up a leaf or stop and admire bark on a tree I remember being stopped in my tracks. He would have his fingers on the grooves of the bark and I would have my fingers on the grooves right next to him. I was seeing nature and I was seeing this bark for the first time just like he was. And he would say mama this is so beautiful and I would say yeah it is really beautiful is not it? I was his buddy and I was growing with him.  Just a few months into Samina's recovery her husband also suffered from a debilitating brain lesion. This meant that both of Ishmael's parents were sort of out of commission as parents. They were both so focused on their own recovery that they did not really discipline him at a young age.  I allowed him to make his own decisions even when he was 2 years old or 3 years old - oh you do not want to go to bed yet? That is fine we do not need to go to bed yet. You can stay up. Or you do not want to eat that? That is fine I understand. You know whatever. If he did not want to go to school that day oh OK that is your decision. That is fine.  Wow.  Yeah. I was his friend.  But being a friend can be harder than being a son because we depend on our friends. Friends have responsibilities especially when things go badly like when Samina and her husband began to fight.  There was just a lot of tension in the house. There was a lot of sickness in the house. His father and I were fighting so much that he would physically push his dad out the door and say go to work daddy go to work enough enough enough. And then when I moved out I just - I kind of moved out overnight and so over the next week or so I would have to return to the house to pick up more and more things and he would say I am just going to sit in the car while you go in and he was only 3.  After Samina and her husband both recovered from their brain injuries they divorced. Ishmael split his time between his mother and his father's houses and Ishmael's father began to finally lay down the law.  His dad is definitely the one who puts limits and boundaries you know not being able to watch TV not having video games did you practice your saxophone today?  But Samina she found she still could not do that.  My God his dad and I have fought about this. I mean this is where we get into constant arguments. His dad is not respecting Isham  in the way that I feel like he should because I do not believe that Isham needs the kind of strict limits that his dad places on him. So I allow him to govern his life because I respect the decisions he makes.  Ishmael was always his mother's confidant. When he was 8 Samina made sure she had his permission before she married her new husband. She got his permission before choosing a house a custody arrangement. Ishmael's 13 now and he knows his relationship with his mother is special that he had a lot more power growing up than his friends did. And perhaps because he always had such an impact on his mother's life in some ways Ishmael began to feel responsible for her.  He has a very strong and unusual sense of protection. You know like we were visiting my mother over the summer and you know as mothers and daughters will do we would have arguments. And Isham he just became so upset and he just immediately started telling his grandma you know this is my mother and no one talks to my mother this way and she is doing the best she can. And maybe he is overly protective of me.  Like he is protecting you from your own mom. That is huge.  Yeah.  Like you know Grandma's grandma.  Yes.  Samina's family and friends always worried that Ishmael would turn out to be this wild child because of the freedom she gave him - still gives him. But Ishmael's constantly on the honor roll now. He is mature polite sweet. And does he ever talk back?  No.  Never?  No.  Never yelled?  No my God no he would never yell.  Never raised his voice in any way? I want this or I do not want that or what is going on nothing none of that teenager stuff?  No no I mean I think that you know his dad has talked about oh my gosh you know Isham is showing me all this attitude recently he is definitely a teenager. And...  And you do not see any of that?  And I do not see it. You know my husband says it all the time - he says you know Isham is a different child when he is with you and he is a different child when he is with his dad and you have to just accept that.  But this does not mean that Samina thinks everyone should parent their children this way to avoid teenage meltdowns on the contrary actually because four years ago Samina had a child with her new husband and...  Oh my God I am screaming. I am yelling . I am putting my foot down and you know I am telling her it is time for bed it is this it is that. I mean I am just - I am constantly setting limits. I am constantly - I am constantly curbing her and you know helping her and guiding her.  Over doing it maybe to compensate?  Maybe. When I am disciplining her or when I lose my temper with her he is taken aback you know because he has not seen that side of me.  But Ishmael he still sleeps when he wants to studies when he wants to at his mother's house. Samina believes that relationship will never change.  I look at him and that sense of kinship is still so strong and I still see it. It is so impossible for me to separate him out from me and he has become what I think I have asked of him.   Much love to Samina Ali and her entire family. That piece was produced by Hana Baba and Stephanie Foo.   Now then it is about that time about that time but not to worry Snappers not to fear full SNAP JUDGMENT episodes podcasts movies pictures stuff available right now at snapjudgment.org. Facebook the SNAP. Our Twitter handle - snapjudgment.org. Feed SNAP to your tiny babies not too much not too much. Even mix a dab of SNAP with your toothpaste and watch the world smile back at you all day long. Now did you ever see that person learning to juggle past an age when it is OK to learn to juggle? Do not worry. It is just the Corporation for Public Broadcasting trying keep it real at the park - just snatch those beanbags away give them a stern look. Much love to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange exchanges more than just public radios if you know what I mean. Do you know what I mean? I am not quite sure what I mean prx.org. And this is not the news no way is this the news. In fact you could be born into a musical family. You could play violin before you are 5 master the piano by 10 sing in Carnegie Hall before the age of 13 only to discover that you were accidentally switched at birth and your birth parents are now insisting that you learn accounting. All that and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is but this is NPR. 