 Now then you can even ask singer-songwriter Sean Hayes every artist hits their lean moments on the way to fame and fortune. Our next story - it starts with Corbett Redford. He is about to hit a new low and he is not sure he is going to survive.  I am a notoriously unlucky person. I do not gamble because when I gamble I always lose big. I do not win contests. I have had some waves of really bad luck in my life. Fifteen years ago one particularly horrible - probably the worst wave of bad luck I have ever had I was fired after coming home from tour with my band. And my friends who I run a record label with they all let me stay on a couch. It was in a warehouse in the city. A couple weeks later I was dumped on Valentine's Day and while leaving my girlfriend's house and heading home I got robbed at gunpoint. So it was a pretty bad day. I thought it could not get any worse and then I went and I opened the door of the warehouse space. A sewage line had broke. My belongings were covered in filth. So I was like I cannot be here. I just have to get out of here. And I went to the communal space in the warehouse. And I saw this strange package that had just been delivered. I picked it up and I looked at the name. And it was not anybody who lived there. I knew that there had been a lot of people who lived there over the years so maybe it was somebody that used to live there. I looked at the address and the address was not the address that I was at. It was a different address. The next day I picked it up and I gave it back to the postman. A few days later it came back. So at this point it stayed around there for a few weeks. People would come home drunk from shows and stuff and kicking it around like a football just for fun. And I remember a few times people kicking it so hard that it started to split. It was just beaten. So here I am no job no girlfriend a lot of time on my hands. I look at the address. I am like that is just a street over. I am going to go put this in the mailbox of whoever's house that it belongs at. I am walking down the street and I do not see the numbers. The street ends and it turns out this addresses just does not exist. So now I know why the postman was confused. I bring it back. I toss it back into the pile of mail. And one day I see it laying in the hallway by itself all dusty and beaten. I am just going to open it. I went over. I picked it up and I opened it. And inside was this magazine that was in a different language. And the edges of the magazine were stapled shut. It was bulging too. The magazine was holding something inside of it. It felt like a T-shirt when I squeezed it. I cracked the top staples and I saw a bunch a purple gift paper. I parted that paper. And there was a huge stack of money. I think I said like whoa. My friend who was working on the computer for like the record label in the back room heard me making this noise. I think he just sensed an urgency. Grabs his keys and goes come on dude. Let us go. I am like what are you talking about man? This is stupid. This is crazy. He goes and parks at a park. He cranks his seat back and kind of hunches over grabs the envelope from me takes the whole stack of money out. And he starts counting it on the floor underneath the steering wheel. I think every thousand he would count he would say like 2000 3000. There is 10000 in it. I am frozen. So much is going through my mind. I made a decision. I said I am going to keep this money. There is the fear somebody's going to come for me but I thought immediately right there I was like you know what? If you spend it if you give this to people you pay off your debts if you put these records out it will be gone. First thing I did looked over to my friend. I was like I owe you money. He said yeah. I said how much? Take that and take 500 more. Let us just do this. He takes it and gives me back the envelope. He is like what do you want to do now dude? You just found 10000. Go to the record store. So I went to the record store. I went and bought 200 records paid a bunch of debts to a bunch of people who had been helping me. The next thing I did was put the money aside to put out four records for a record label. And I feel like that put so much steam behind us. It helped us carve even who we are today - put our mark on the world if you will. Before I knew it 10000 that was not mine had been spent in less than a week. So a few months later my friends and I were sitting on the stoop of the warehouse. And this English guy comes up on a bicycle with one handlebar. He is wearing a tweed jacket and he stops. And he is very whimsical. And he says hi my name is Blue. I conceived my seventh child on the middle stone at Stonehenge and I am an empath. I am a seer. Bit of a psychic he says. And he starts giving readings to a few of us that were sitting there. He was pretty spot on. He got to me and he said you are the dreamer. You are a bright and loving man with a dark cloud that follows you and you recently had a good fortune. And a bunch of my friends kind of laugh. He says I am on my way to gamble. And a friend of mine recently had a bunch of money go missing. And all the blood fell from my face. And I was like that is a shame that that happened. He says well if you hear anything about it I hang out at that card house down the block. And he rode his bicycle off. So he leaves and now I have this idea in my head that I know where this money came from. I had a lot of fear like you know somebody is going to come break my legs. I am telling the story now and I kind of still have that fear. But I feel like it changed everything. I mean that money it changed my life in the best possible way. It could even be said that it saved me and made me who I am. I know people win the lottery but nobody finds a bag full of money. It actually happened to me. I am not always that unlucky.   Corbett continues to tour the U.S. with his band Bobby Joe Ebola. That was their music you just heard. You can hear more of it and watch their videos that the mysterious package helped pay for at snapjudgment.org. That peace was produced by Jamie DeWolfe and Mark Ristich. You have found yourself at the end of the Found episode of SNAP JUDGMENT. Get it? You found yourself at the end of the Found. If you did not find the whole thing not to worry. Full episodes pictures movies all that available right now for your pleasure at snapjudgment.org. And do we have Facebook? Facebook does not work without SNAP JUDGMENT. That goes double for Twitter. Our handle is SnapJudgmentOrg. SNAP was produced by myself and an inveterate team of story trackers who have never been lost only found. If you ever see yourself cruising down the road top speed top down only to suddenly see flashing lights behind you? Well do not worry. That is just the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. They do not have the authority to make traffic stops. Petal to the metal baby. Many thanks to the CPB. PRX - the Public Radio Exchange rolling the public in chocolate and peanut butter until the public taste delicious. PRX.org. And finally this is not the news. No way is this news. In fact you can be chilling in your little home under the hill and have a bunch of strange people come knock on your door with a ridiculous story about some dragon. And you could follow these people. And just when you lose track of where they went you could find a magic ring in a dark cave - my precious - and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 