 Now then I want you to meet somebody. His name is Nasson Smith. He grew up the son of a bookie. And when his dad took bets Nasson he had to find a way to pass the time.  You know I had a father who was a bookmaker you know. So his gambling was just like you know every Tuesday night the house was a casino. We had a pool table and so I played pool from 00 00 you know on. And I played every day. I mean I played pool. And I remember going to a place - 12 years old - this is explained that we were just going to this place to look at a camera. And so - so we got to this guy's house and I just remember it being packed with electronics - although at that age I am not even sure if I knew the word electronics - but things your neighborhood junkie brought you. And so they were I guess negotiating some sort of a deal. And I remember he was saying to the guy like do you want to play pool against my kid for everything in his house. And the guy like looked and was like what do you mean by everything in this house? And the guy said like what is your kid like one of these hustler kids or something? I remember the old man saying he is 11 years old. He is a cripple. He limps. And then he said walk across the room for this man. And I just assumed that I probably needed to limp. And I limped. I limped across the room. And - I do not know - the guy had a few cocktails down him. And this is how this stuff goes is that you know eventually he is like you know I can beat an 11-year-old. You cannot. It is a hustle. I mean I was pretty good and I was going to get to Taco Quickie after we got out of there and get three or four tacos or something for 35 cents apiece - whatever they went for those days. So this to me was the big payoff. And this is not a lot of pressure to an 11-year-old. And when you are playing an 11-year-old and you realize you are playing for everything in the house and the 11-year-old's playing for three tacos there is a whole different set of rules. The balls get smaller. They just - the 8's becomes the size of - I do not know - a little kernel of corn or something. Well of course I won. I was good until I was in my 20s. And then I remember being in this bar in Lancaster. I was living out in Lancaster and working on a ranch. And I was shoveling  and we would go to this bar after and drink beers. There was  here and there. There was a 14-year-old girl in there playing pool. Her dad brought her in there. And I drank a bunch of beers or something. And one thing led to another and the next thing I knew I am playing this 14-year-old girl for - I think it is 50 75 bucks a game one or the other. And she just wiped the bar up with me because the balls got smaller.  Thanks to Nasson and our boy David Weinberg for producing that story for SNAP. Now you have invested a full hour into SNAP goodness and that - well these days that and 30 maybe - is that what it is - can get you a cup of coffee. But rest assured there is plenty more SNAP where this came from - movies pictures stuff right now on snapjudgment.org. Join the SNAP JUDGMENT nation on the Facebook. Get behind the scenes and all up into the action on some of the stories you are hearing right now. Our Twitter is SnapJudgmentORG. 