 OK so in high school I had a high school counselor and one day a few months before graduation he called me into his office. I would been doing pretty well you know so I was kind of excited. I sat down. Mr. Counselor asked if I had any plans. I told him you know not really nothing concrete yet but I would like to maybe you know continue my education going to college. Mr. Counselor shook his head you know kind of sadly. He said well for you I am not so sure that is really going to be in the cards. Really? Well I do have an option that can put some money in your pocket right away. For real? He slid over a shiny brochure. It was for a toilet repair informational session. Now you would not be a plumber or anything. That involves a lot of learning that might fall outside your aptitude and abilities. But you would be working directly under a licensed and fully-bonded plumber and you would gain some skills and skills that are always going to be in demand. He smiled a great big high school counselor smile. So what do you say? What do you say? What do you say? I wanted to say did all the white kids get the same advice? But then of course we both knew the answer to that. I slid his brochure back over to him. I got up. I walked out. I closed his door. I did not slam it. I closed it like a regular person who had just had a meeting with his high school counselor. I saw my friend Julie Hayden  and she asked me what he said and I was like  you know we are just trying to narrow it down between Harvard and Yale. Great. Great. When I looked down at my hands they were shaking trembling in rage. And I thought he does not know me. He does not know me. He cannot know me. But in truth I wondered if he did know me.   Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR we proudly present You Do not Know Me amazing stories from real people trying to explain themselves. My name is Glynn Washington. Tell everyone to either go away or make you a sandwich. Better still - tell them to go away and make you a sandwich because you are busy listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. 