 Welcome back to uick Fix episode. Today we are delving into very uncomplicated solutions to very complicated problems. SNAP JUDGMENT's Joe Rosenberg spoke to Ghazi Albuliwi the guy for who things never stay very simple.   Before 911 my biggest problem was women finding out that my astrological sign was a Gemini. That was like a big thing. And if you are a Gemini you might as well have every venereal disease in the book. No woman is going to want to have anything to do with you.  This is Ghazi.  My name is Ghazi Albuliwi. I was born in a refugee camp so I am - background-wise I am a Jordanian-Palestinian.  Ghazi's parents moved with him to Brooklyn when he was just a baby. And as a young man in the '90s he says his race and background were not a huge problem.  Just - I think I had a little bit more confidence as a person because I did not have anything that told me you cannot date this woman because of where you were from.  But of course like he says that was before 911. On 911 his ethnicity kind of took over his life immediately.   So from my window you could see the twin towers. So I could see the smoke coming out of one of them. You know of course the word terrorist - immediately in my mind I am going you know holy crap. I hope it is not what I think it is. Like at around 30 a.m. I left the house. Before I left the house I had this Puerto Rican medallion because I had gone to the Puerto Rican Day parade. I threw it on as kind of a let them think I am Puerto Rican because I have no idea what is going to happen once I venture outside this house. I had pictured it - they are going to round up all the Arabs. They are going to dock ships. These tanks are going to come out and there is going to be soldiers marching up and down pulling Arabs out of their homes and stores and stuff. So I was afraid and I went and I started running into people from my neighborhood who knew me. You know one guy who I knew really really well said oh you guys really did it this time. I said this is just not good. So I had a fellow friend who happened to be Muslim. He goes Ghazi let us - it is really messed up. Let us go. Let us go to the . Let us go to the mosque and pray together. We all need to be really strong together as people. And I am like are you out of your mind? The last place I want to be is in a grouping of other Muslims right now. I am wearing a Puerto Rican medallion. I am already kind of going in a different direction here. I am undercover at this point and you are breaking my cover. I knew right then and there you cannot be - you cannot be a Muslim. For a really long time I am struggling with the fact that I am a ghost in New York City. I would walk past these bars with these American flags and the wanted poster of Osama bin Laden with a big target on his head. And I would always look at Osama and I would say you know if he shaved his beard he probably looks like me.  Ghazi did not go out or socialize for months and when he finally did it was not good.  Yeah the dating did not go too well because eventually it would just - the women would say Ghazi oh that is such an interesting name. Where are you from? And then you know now I got to say Middle East right? What am I going to say? There is no way around it. You cannot like mess with that name. I could see that moment. It was just literally like the lights went out in the eyes. And for me - and then at that point I started to feel that my sex life was being  by Osama bin Laden in a cave somewhere in Afghanistan in Tora Bora.  So Ghazi thought I cannot be this guy anymore if I ever want to find love. I need to be someone else someone different. So he started searching and in New York you do not have to search very hard to find different.  It was like - Union Square you would always have the Scientology tent. You had an atheist tent that was always there. You had Buddhists always chanting around. I am walking - walking down in Union Square Park and I am stopped by a guy who I did not know and I look up. He goes oh you are from Brooklyn right? I say yeah yeah yeah I am Brooklyn. He goes I knew it. You are a Brooklyn Jew. I can hear it in your accent. I said well I am definitely from Brooklyn. He goes oh you want to come - why do not you come with me? Why do not you come with me? And I look and there is this - I thought it was a menorah mobile because there was a menorah on top of this van. And it looked like you know any kind of van that was used for like blood donation. You know the doors are open. You can go in.   And I peeked my head inside and I saw another guy in there. And what was happening was some sort of kind of rituals of prayer or whatnot. He says repeat after me and then I - and he starts to do this Jewish prayer. You know I am just like saying stuff. And I just told him look I am not really religious and I feel that I am being judged for my religion and it is been a really rough time for me. And I think people just hate me. He goes you are supposed to suffer. You are supposed to feel this way and you are suffering because you are the chosen - you are one of the chosen people. And he goes - and you know you are Jewish. It made complete sense to me. And I do not know if it is because Islam and Judaism are very close but the transition between being a Muslim to now going to being a Jew worked so well. He kind of gave me the reason that everything I had gone through including 911 was because I was you know it was my plight as a Jew you know? I was like yeah OK Ghazi has been suffering because he is a Jew you know? And like - he gave me this plastic bag that had like - he had a dreidel in there. There was a plastic menorah. Ghazi was now reborn coming out of that mitzvah mobile.   In my mind as I was walking like people were a lot more nicer to me. People were making eye contact with me. I mean I know I am like projecting all this but I literally felt that now New Yorkers were looking at me you know and were oh hey it is Ghazi. Ghazi's a Jew you know it is like OK he is cool. He is all right you know?  To be clear Ghazi did not convert. The guy in the menorah mobile thought Ghazi was already a Jew. Converting to Judaism is a lengthy process involving a ton of Torah study. But he has this idea. He went to his computer that night.  I typed in Jewish singles dating - I remember typing that in - and I got JDate.  And if you do not know what JDate is do not worry. Ghazi did not either but basically it is like the Jewish Match.com.  Then and there I remember seeing these smiling faces of these Jewish women. I was just so happy. I was like if I can get one of these girls I would be so happy. I called myself Jwriter718  - J of course standing for Jew. I picked like this really interesting photo that did not really like reveal my whole face.  But just like that he got messaged by a nice Jewish girl.  We went out and I tried my best to kind of put on my shtick. All I had to go on was like you know stuff that I would seen in movies. And I think I was neurotic enough that she bought the whole thing that I was a Jew you know? I know things are working on this date with who I will call my JDate girl because with JDate girl she started to smile and laugh and you know at some point she even played with her hair so I was like oh. And this girl was so open-minded and so nice. And I am drunk. I am totally drunk.  At which point Ghazi made the mistake that all drunk people make when they see that their shtick is working - he doubled down.  And then we are walking past a falafel cart and I just mentioned something about like that guy has a lot of nerve you know to be selling falafels you know after what happened in 911. I said - I said the nerve of these people. And she kind of goes well you know he is just trying to make a living for his family.  But Ghazi was not listening to her. He was on a roll.  In pretending to be a Jew I became a right-wing you know pro-Israeli you know let us have more settlements. Build a wall to the moon. The Arabs should never get over this wall kind of thing  you know? If my parents could hear me they would hand me over to Hamas smiling you know? Not one moment entered my mind that I was Ghazi the Arab Muslim the son of Palestinian refugees.  The girl got turned off and they had an awkward silent train ride home. She never messaged him again but he was determined. He tried to learn Hebrew at the 92nd Street Y. He went to some Jewish mixers - struck out there too. But then he went to a temple with a friend one Friday night. It was an ornate old temple and immediately Ghazi was struck by the whole scene.  Beautiful layout - I remember walking into the synagogue. It was festive. There were some festive lights.  Music began to play and people started to dance a traditional dance Ghazi did not know.  All of a sudden this whole synagogue became of a few circles of festive dancing. I kind of just happened to look and this girl is really - she is really staring at me. I came around again and this time I looked at her. She kind of looked at me and she shyly looked the way. As we kept passing I kind of started going around this dance thinking you could talk to her but this is such a lie that it is not going to work man. And she was so nice that I felt guilt about pretending to be Jewish. For me it was a moment where I really kind of caught myself because it was an honest moment. And at that moment I was not pretending to be Jewish. I really was Ghazi Albuliwi when I was looking at this girl.   At the end of the day you are still a Muslim. What are you doing here? You are dancing around temples. You know it is a circle that brought me right back to where I started which was Ghazi the Muslim.  So he reeled back the Jewish act. He hung up his yarmulke and of course as soon as he stopped trying to be someone else...  I was not expecting anything and it just happened you know? I meet this girl and she was really really funny got my sense of humor. She goes you know I am Jewish but I am not you know running around telling people I am Jewish. I say oh yeah I am definitely not running around telling people I am Muslim. I think we had a good laugh about that. I remember like walking away and I remember skipping in the street. I smiled and it was a really cool moment. I mean it was a watershed moment for me.  They dated for a while - no lies no gimmicks just dating. And Ghazi was just Ghazi.  I had like met someone who is Jewish who is cool who accepted me who did not judge me. Let me tell you. That for me was like discovering penicillin or curing polio.  But like a lot of relationships it ended. And Ghazi says that when he goes on dates today he is still tempted sometimes to omit the fact that he is Arab.  Like the current thing that I have - I am not proud to say this - is pretending to be a Brazilian heart surgeon. So that is like...  You are doing that now.  Yeah I kind of do it now yeah. I do...  But wait - why? I thought I was talking to the new and improved Ghazi Albuliwi.  Yeah you know you think I would learn my lesson but it is like my crutch. It is easier for me to lie in my mind about who I am than to tell the truth. That is what it comes down to. You know you sit on the train and you look at these white guys and you go you do not know how good you got it you know? You are just - you are totally accepted just for being born looking this way and being that way whereas I am trying to transition and I can never get that you know? There are a certain type of women that'ill never want to date me. So in some ways you know it is a tough pill to swallow.   Thanks again Ghazi Albuliwi. And I know you are going to find this hard to believe ladies but Ghazi is still single. Check your local synagogue for more information. Ghazi's a playwright and filmmaker who still hangs his hat in New York. He is currently working on a play Highly Suspect a comedy about race and gentrification in modern-day Brooklyn. You can find links to Ghazi's work including his most recent film Peace After Marriage on our website snapjudgment.org. Leon Morimoto rocked that original score. The story was produced Anna Sussman Shoshi Shmuluvitz and Joe Rosenberg. Now when SNAP JUDGMENT continues our hero gets the job that nobody wants and he knows exactly what to. When the SNAP JUDGMENT the Quick Fix episode returns stay tuned. 