 From PRX and NPR you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT Live - the Breakout Special. My name is Glenn Washington and this next story does mention a house of ill repute. You should know that - just in case you care - I am jealous of you regardless because SNAP is about to drop a bomb. Here at the SNAP we call it the closer. Please put your hands together for Mr. James Judd.   Well nobody said do not come on stage with a martini and a tambourine.   The late 1990s - like the year 2000 - the height of the first great dotcom boom and San Francisco was its epicenter. So I thought I have got to get in on this. People were becoming millionaires overnight. Money was just falling from the sky. People were going to work in their pajamas. They were bringing their dogs. They were playing ping-pong. It was an amazing time like we will never experience again except for like right now.   So I thought I got to get in on this. But what can I do? Well I look in the want-ads and I find an ad for this big fancy technology magazine that is looking for someone with legal and technology knowledge. I think well this is perfect. I have some legal knowledge and I use technology so how hard can it be to write about?   I send in my resume and immediately the editor-in-chief calls me in. And he looks at my resume and he says well this is a very impressive resume but I do not actually see here that you have any experience in the technology sector. We are the biggest technology magazine out there. We cover all the major players and issues. Do you know anything about technology? And I say no.   He said well can you start Tuesday?   And just like that I am hired. And they start sending me out immediately in all these exotic places like Cupertino...   ...And Los Gatos - the cats - and the Milpitas and Fremont. It is very exotic and I am loving it. And one day my boss says pack your bags. You are going to China . Well there is one little twist to the story. A couple days earlier this spy plane was forced to land off the coast of China. Anyone remember that? So the Chinese government has said there is going to be no more visas for U.S. journalists. It is not going to happen - no way no how. So my boss wants me to sneak into China as a tourist interview these five guys he is got picked out and get home without getting caught. Well it seems like kind of a bad time to be trying to pull a fast one on the Chinese government.   But you know what? I weigh my options. I think well I could refuse to go on moral grounds but possibly lose my job and lose my house and lose my boyfriend or I could go to China and risk getting caught and I wind up in a Chinese prison and I wake up one day missing my kidneys.   I am going to China.   And I am going to go because I am going to be there on my 36th birthday and I think it will be great great luck to celebrate my 36th birthday by standing on the Great Wall of China - at least this is what I tell the people at the embassy near the Kabuki hot springs which by the way is fabulous. You should definitely go there if you can. And while they - you know they kind of have a little qualm but then they stamp my passport and I am off. And I get on the plane then I fade to black.   And when I wake I am in China.   Well I put on my blue pinstripe suit. I put on my red tie my shiny black shoes. I rush out of the hotel to find a limousine waiting for me. And next to the limousine is a very tall guy in a black hat mirrored sunglasses black tie black suit. He says call me Mr. Goo . And I get into the back of the limousine and the five guys that I have come to interview are already seated around this limousine. We are going to drive around Beijing because they do not want to be seen with a U.S. journalist. Now these five guys were all born in China but they made - they were educated in the United States and they made millions of dollars on Wall Street - maybe billions of dollars. And now they have all moved back to China where together they have a plan to make China the leader in the world's technology race. And they are talking about - I do not know.   I do not know. But here's what I do - when I do not know what people are saying which is most of the time - I do not know what these people are talking about. I mean I cannot even spell the words that are coming out of their mouths. I bring out a little tape recorder and I say I am not going to take notes. Instead I am here to listen to you.   So we are driving around Beijing and all the sudden somebody pulls out a bottle of mysterious Chinese liquor. And everyone goes hooray.   And then shot glasses come out. And they pass it around the limousine and everyone goes hooray. And then I take a sip of it. It tastes like a combination of black licorice and gasoline.   I dub it lic-oline .   And it goes around and around and around. Everyone goes hooray. And pretty soon everyone is really drunk. And then one of the guys turns to one of the other guys and goes hey why do not we take James with us and show him how deals are really closed in China?   And Mr. Goo speeds up. And when we stop and we step out we are in the shadow of giant neon hula girl. And her eyes are blinking and her hips are shaking and she is playing ukulele beneath two giant pink blinking naked breasts. And I think OK well a night of giant naked breasts would be my second choice.   Well somebody rings the doorbell and a woman with a beehive and a riding crop answers the door. And she goes hooray. And all the guys go hooray. Well Madam Riding Crop leads us through a maze of corridors of doors with little windows. And finally she opens the door and we step inside one of them. And it is kind of a small room with green shag carpeting and wood paneling a couch a coffee table and a TV set. And we stand there awkwardly in silence for a few moments. And then Mr. Goo opens the door and in marches a line of girl. And they are kind of tall and they have big hair and like sparkly tube tops and those very shiny too-much-information Celine Dion pants except for one small girl at the end in a black cocktail dress and a side pony - really very chic. And one of the guys turns to me and he says pick one.   I say ...   ...I am here to listen to you.   He says custom dictates that you have got to choose before we can choose so you got to pick one. All the guys start going pick one pick one pick one pick one pick one. I say OK her. And I pointed to the girl at the end in the little black cocktail dress because I think that'ill look the nicest next to my blue pinstripe suit.   And she comes over and she says my name is Lisa  but I know it is the only thing she can say in English. And all the guys go hooray and they pick their girls. And everyone goes hooray. And then we all sit on the couch and Madam Riding Crop brings out another bottle of lic-oline and everyone goes hooray. And pretty soon everyone is taking shots of lic-oline and singing Desperado.   That TV comes to life as a karaoke machine. The guys start getting up and singing. Well first of all conversation between me and Lisa is strained at best.   And my little laminated Chinese handy expressions card in my wallet does not include anything I care about like is it hard to find good skincare products in China?   Or do you have a brother nearby?   Awkward. Well Madam Riding Crop takes the couple at the end of the couch and she leads them out. They are gone for about a half an hour and they came back. No one says a word about it. And then she takes the next couple and they leave - and the next one and the next until pretty soon Lisa and I are the last ones left in line. Well I see Madam Riding Crop coming toward me. And she is got that look in her eye like OK gringo. It is your turn to see the big round bed in the back. I panic. I get up. I grab the microphone from whoever has it. I say oh it is - it is my turn to sing. And I press through the list of songs. I press play.  If I could turn back time.   . Now Lisa has an expression on her face that needs no translation because that expression means the same thing in every language of every country on the planet.   There is something just not right about this guy.   Am I going to get a tip? Well Madam Riding Crop keeps coming toward me and now I am really panicked. But suddenly just as she approaches me one of the guys gets up and he whispers something in her ear and she claps her hands. And all the girls including Lisa get up and they run out of the room. And one of the guys turns to me and he says we have got a surprise for you. OK so here's a funny thing about me - I am normally not the type of person who is ever at a loss for words but usually it happens whenever I am in the presence of my four Mormon aunts from Utah. Now all the people on my father's side of the family are Mormon. And they all live in Utah and they are deeply devout Mormons and deeply devout Republicans. I am not.   So we have always had a very cordial never seeing speaking or referring to each other sort of relations. But once a year all the aunts will fly in from Utah to go shopping - usually at Christmas. And somehow I get roped into taking them around. I take them around Union Square and then I take them to the Cheesecake Factory. Mormons love the Cheesecake Factory.   And I look up and Aunt Mimi  the most religious and politically fanatic of the group is giving me this look. What? I just feel really bad for you. Why?  Because of your lifestyle. Because of your lifestyle you will never get to experience God's greatest miracle to heterosexuals. I said what are you talking about? I am in the Cheesecake Factory are not I?   When are you going to have a baby?   I do not know what to say anymore. I do not know what to say. I mean how many times can you answer the same question over and over and over again? I wish - I wish I had some sort of saucy snappy comeback something Noel Coward or Oscar Wilde or even Charles Nelson Reilly...   ...Something like I guess when my boyfriend grows a giant vagina.   Aunt Mimi says do not you and your Spanish friend want to raise a child? Now my Spanish friend is Eric my then-California-state-registered domestic partner of many many years and now my legally wedded spouse. And of course they know it.   Oh thank you. Oh my gosh. Hey listen if want to get us a gift we are still registered on Craigslist.   And Eric is a native of Puerto Rico and a native Spanish speaker and they all know it because we have been together now like 10 years or - well 10 or 12 years depending on how you do the math because I stalked him for two years so...   ...He is been with me for 10. I have been with him for 12.   And the fact is no. No I do not want a baby. Look if I wanted a baby I would get a baby. Being gay has never been any barrier to getting a child. Are you kidding me? If I had a dollar for every single woman over 35 that tried to get sperm out of me to make a baby I would have 3.   . Eric and I would consider adopting an older child but only if he or she completed some sort of course in bookkeeping.   We have troubles with our taxes but I digress. Back at the whorehouse...   ...Madam Riding Crop is coming toward me and she is got that look that says you ready to see the big round bed in the back? And I am starting to panic. I think what am I going to do? I have got to get out of this. And then one of the guys gets up and he whispers something into her ear and she claps her hands and all the girls including Lisa get up and they run out of the room. And I think - the guy turns to me and he says we have got a surprise for you. I am thinking I am trapped. I am trapped. What am I going to do? Even if I get out of here I do not know my way around Beijing . It is panic. It is panic. And just before I get up and I make a break for it the door flies open. But instead of the Red Army in marches Mr. Goo. And behind him come each of the girls and they are waving lighted sparklers in their hands. And behind him comes Madam Riding Crop and she is got a birthday cake that says happy birthday James in Chinese and English. And the five Chinese billionaires the 6 Chinese hookers the one madam with the riding crop and Mr. Goo sing Happy Birthday to me at 3 a.m. inside of a Beijing whorehouse.   So tell me how can the Great Wall of China top that?   SNAP JUDGMENT Live - the Breakout special. See it for yourself right now. Watch and share these stories with your world for free - snapjudgment.org. Subscribe to the free podcast while you are there. And all the music for this show including this music was composed by the amazingly magical Alex Mandel  performed by Alex and the SNAP players Tim Fricke  and dangerous David Brandt . Thanks as well to Ana Alderstein Jazmin Aguilera Davey Kim Matt Ducot  our own mixologist Pat Mesiti-Miller. Show some love for the uber producer Mark Ristich because even though this is not the news - no way is the news - this is NPR.  