 Now when ampfire Tales II episode returns it is not easy to scare a fifth-degree black belt and professional martial arts instructor SNAPers. It is not easy but it can be done. Stay tuned.   Welcome back to ampfire Tales special. We are featuring some of our favorite stories for telling under a full moon. And you got to know that people in our home base of Oakland Calif. they hang out from all over the world. And we have discovered that when you move in you do not just settle with your family and your stuff. People bring their ghosts with them. Our next story was produced and lived by Stephanie Foo.  It is a dark and lonely road somewhere around Santa Clara Calif. My father's in his car driving his friend Lee home from a dinner party. His friend Lee is quiet staring out the window.  All of a sudden he said do not look back do not look back now - out of nowhere. And his eyes were big big like lanterns. And I said why not? And he said there is a ghost in the backseat.  Now hearing this would send shivers down anyone's spine but my father has always been a rational man. Why did you tell me that the tooth fairy was not real when I was 4?  I thought as a 4-year-old you should know that all these things are inventions just to keep kids happy.  And at this point in his life Lee was not the most reliable of sources. He was really going through a tough time.  He lost his job. He is psychotic. What it means is he hears voices. He sees things that are not there. He is mentally unstable.  The things he saw and heard would usually come out late at night around 2 in the morning. He said the ghosts live in the chimney.  He just said I hear voices. I hear things. I hear knocking knocking knocking.  My dad tried to convince him to see somebody but Lee refused. And there just comes a point where your friends have to help themselves. But one day on a business trip to China he brings up his friend to some colleagues and they mention...  A seer.  What is a seer? Is it like a psychic?  I guess it is a psychic - a Buddhist priest. He is a friend of a friend. And I say hey I do not want to pay money for a bunch of hocus-pocus right? And my friend said no no no no he does not charge at all. He will not take a penny. As a matter of fact if he takes money he will lose his power.  So my dad says what the hell it is free. He is already in China. Let us just see how it goes. They meet in a restaurant. The seer is this totally normal guy. He is wearing a T-shirt he is a construction worker and he is completely uneducated.  He knows zero English and he knows nothing about Internet. I am sure he does not. I am not even sure he is very literate this guy.  Which made his abilities all the more strange.  Actually all I had to do was say well I have a problem with my friend. And he already basically started to talk like he knew what I was talking about. He says yes I see him and I see what his problem is. He looked away for an instant and then he says I see his house. I asked him you know you do not even know where the house is. He says oh I know where the house is exactly. So he starts describing the house. OK the house is bright in one spot facing this direction. However that does not prove anything OK?  But just as my dad is getting skeptical the seer gets more and more specific. He goes through what the floors are made of where their hot tub is the color of the couch the shape of the coffee table. And each time he is right. And then he uses his hands to illustrate the limbs of a strange gnarled tree in Lee's backyard.  And when I went back to the house I looked at the tree - my God the directions the branches were pointing is exactly the way his arms moved. He is like a spiritual Google map. By then you know my goose pimples are starting to grow on my arms. This is really eerie.  Then the seer says that Lee was not even supposed to live in this house. He would bought another house 10 years ago but moved into this one instead because his wife wanted to. My father had not known any of this.  And there was absolutely no reason why the seer would know.  But later he finds out...  It is true. The history is true. He can see across oceans and he can see back in time.  OK so the guy can see stuff - cool. But so what? What does this have to do with Lee's visions?  And this guy said there are two ghosts in this house who is bothering your friend. One of the ghosts he described was an old white woman who is all hunched over and she hops around like a bird. The other ghost he described was an old man. And the old white man had a big gash - a big bloody gash right across his chest. And they hang out right next to the chimney. I asked him how do you see things? He said you know as I talk to you now someone over there is seeing for me.  The seer tells my dad that the ghost world is kind of like a bureaucracy. Areas in the world divided up like cities are ruled by deities who see everything that happens there and they monitor the actions of ghosts. Ghosts are souls that do not have enough energy or qi to re-enter the cycle of reincarnation so they loiter around the world like it is a 7-11 parking lot. But if a ghost claims that you did something to him horrible in a past life or maybe if he just does not like you he can submit a request to the deities to take revenge on you.  So I did ask him you know OK are there spirits around all the time? And he looked around. He was in the restaurant. He said oh over there next to the door are two of them hanging around. And I said oh my God.  But the ghosts cannot get to you unless you are low on qi.  OK your energy level is like an immune system. If you are happy and if you are a strong person no ghost can come anywhere near you.  But if you are depressed and low on energy?   Oh you are in deep . So I asked him what can you do? What can we do to help him?  And the seer says that since he is thousands of miles away he is afraid to send a spirit to chase off the ghost because he does not want to get them even more angry. But there is a really easy solution - Lee should just make tea from leaves of a Pomelo tree. In Chinese culture Pomelo leaves are supposed to ward off bad luck. There is only one problem.  I do not know. There are no Pomelo trees not in California.  So my dad's like OK I will smuggle some in through customs.  And this seer says no you do not need to. There is a Pomelo tree in the back of his house. I said no there are no Pomelos in California. And he says no no no no - there is one. On the way back I am really thinking holy smoke if there is a tree really a Pomelo tree I would not know what to think.  So he gets back and he goes to Lee's house. He does not tell him about the bloody gash and all that because Lee's already unstable and he does not want him to flip his lid. So he just sort of glosses over the seer's visit and says so what does it take for a guy to get some Pomelo leaves around this joint?  And Lee's wife says...  ...Of course there is a Pomelo tree! When I heard that I almost freaked out. I mean absolutely freaked out. How the heck do you explain that? I do not know how to explain that. I am not a - whatever - unreal being type of guy. In my own life there is never been any evidence of ghosts. Man this is as close as - to physical evidence that I can think of.  Nine months go by but Lee is not getting any better. Since he does not really know the whole story about the creepy couple in his house he is not drinking the Pomelo tea. Late one night he gets up and starts to pound on the walls of his house with a hammer while screaming the entire time. Lee is starting to go completely insane. They are desperate so my father takes Lee to China with him to go see the seer in person. This time the seer knows exactly what to do.  The ceremony. You know the Chinese burn gifts to the spirits. We burned a car .  . You burned a car?  Well not a real car - a paper car. The 3-D models - very elaborate. So you burn all this stuff - of course lots of cash...    House real big cars real big belly real big everything real big.  ... A passport with a big American visa in it.   Piles and piles of cash and the paper Mercedes-Benz.    I am rich  I am a real big-timer.  A Mercedes costs 10 the Volkswagen cost 8. So what the hell? You . He went and chanted all these things for a full hour. At the end of it they said OK as long as you live in this house nothing great will happen to you. But for now the ghost will not bother you anymore.  For now? He does not see ghosts anymore?  Not that I know of.  Have you seen him recently?  I saw him a few months ago. He does not have that panicked look around him anymore. Well you know he never - he did not see things anymore.  Maybe I should go and try to see if there were really an old lady and an old man - look up the history of what happened there.  Well that is not a very good idea. First of all you probably will not see anything and if you did see something you are totally screwed.  Why?   Because they might come home with you. Why would you want to screw around with things you absolutely have no understanding with? That is not a good idea.  How are they going to come home with me? In the backseat of a car?  They will come home with you any way they can.  I was raised to be a rational person. But now when I am driving home late at night I keep an eye on the backseat.  