 Welcome back to SNAP LIVE in Ann Arbor. We join the show in progress.  OK so our next guest in just a couple months is going to be recording a comedy album with the same group that produced Richard Pryor's first comedy album.   Now you did not hear that here but it is my distinct pleasure to introduce Mr. Joe Klocek.  I am a standup comic. And I get an email for a gig in the Northern California town of Redding. If you do not know Redding California I think the best way to describe it is it is where 1972 went.   The email starts out with this disclaimer quote please be advised this venue prominently displays a Confederate flag. It is not indicative of their philosophy there. I have booked many diverse shows at this venue. Have fun. How could I not take that gig? I get up there and I am standing outside the place. There is a doorman. I have never met him. He is never met me. First words out of his mouth to me are you know I can always tell when black people are around. Whoa. Yeah so can I. They are black. Are you a psychic racist?   And I walk into the place and I look up and yes there is a Confederate flag. But above it is the biggest American flag I have ever seen in my life. I want you to think like Chevy truck commercial halftime at the Super Bowl America big. And then under it is the Confederate flag. And hanging on either side of it are those naked women mudflap silhouettes. Classy right? Hanging at the bottom of the Confederate - disco ball. This is the most confused dream catcher ever. Does it come together in some way? Is there a meaning you know? America - if you are different we do not want you. Women are objects gays are OK.   I do not think that is what it meant. Right before I come on stage the owner comes up to me and says do not make fun of the Confederate flag. Let me tell you guys something maybe you know. If you want a comedian to not make fun of something do not tell him to not make fun of it. Ten minutes into the show I look out at the crowd I look up at the flag and then I go what is up Dukes of Hazard fans? That is when everything changed.   This low mean sound came out of the crowd. They hated what I had just said. And I was too busy worrying about that because out of the darkness objects started coming at me. At first it was just a fry basket and then some fries and then there was like a fork. And then there was a rock - a rock? Someone brought a rock in here? Why is there a rock? More stuff is coming at me. They are yelling stuff at me - you suck. Get off the stage. Your family tree probably looks like a pretzel. More stuff is coming at me. I am dodging a boot a belt buckle - a belt buckle? And they are getting me. They are getting me and I am backing up and then I remember I am a comic. I am a comic. These are my words. This is truth. I am not going to back down. There is no way I am going to back down. And then they all come together to chant. We are number one. We are number one. We are number one. We are number one. Really? 'ecause that flag means you are number two.   After all the tables got put back right and the cops left and I got paid somehow I walked out of the building. And I am headed towards my car. And like somebody who had just been in an accident all the adrenaline drains out of me. And I suddenly realized I almost got killed back there. Those guys wanted to kill me for jokes and words. And I could feel my body shake. And I silently resolved to never put myself in that position again. I am almost at my car when this guy gets directly in front of me. I call him a tether drunk. You know what a tether drunk is? They look like this. It looks like they are going to fall but they never quite do. Yeah. I am getting dizzy just trying to keep eye contact. And he gets in my face and he goes I do not like what you said about the flag boy. And I can feel that comic rage rise again. And I am just like why are you so proud of it? I do not take people back to my house and show them my collage of losing lottery tickets. Take it down.   Yes but you were not there that night were you? And I could see in his eyes he is going to throw a punch. And he starts to but he is so slow and so drunk that all I have to do to avoid the punch is literally just go - his fist goes past my head. He pulls it back and I straighten up. And what makes this amazing is what this guy said next. He just looks at me and goes all right you are pretty fast matrix.  