 Now then people want to be saved. They want to be rescued from whatever it is they find themselves in. But what if you are fine? What if you have got it together but you stumble across an injustice? Do you walk on by? Or do you make it your problem? SNAP JUDGMENT regular contributor Katie Mingle tells us her story.  I stole a dog once. He was a little curly-haired mutt a small pathetic creature. I would been walking by him for years and he was always there on the same three-foot length of chain. Shivering in the shadow of the dingy yellow house where his owners lived. I would never seen anyone touch him or walk him or throw a stick for him. I once saw a woman open the door of the house and throw a handful of food at him which he pecked out of the dirt like a starving chicken. The sun beat down on his head in the summer and snowflakes gathered in his curly black hair in the winter. The days and years passed over him and he ticked off time like a dog shaped sundial. My friend Sonya  and I fantasized about liberating the little black dog from his chain. She said she wanted to give him a better life. I do not think she thought we would ever really do it. But one day when the owners' cars were gone from the driveway I approached the dog. I just wanted to see what he would do. And he wagged his tail so I got a little closer and he stood on his hind legs hopping expectantly his front legs like arms reaching up for me. And before I knew it I was unhooking his chain gathering him into my arms and running. We ran down the street together my chin bouncing on the top of his head. And I whispered in his ear you are free now little dog you are free. I took the dog to Sonya's house. She bathed him and fleas fell off of him and dotted the water like poppy seeds. She fluffed him up with a towel and we cut the mats out of his hair. He had an under bite and cloudy eyes. We named him Frankie . I think it was Aris  who got bit by him first. Since she was only six we blamed it on her. You know kids they do not know the right way to handle dogs. But it was not long before everyone in the house had been bitten. And one by one they turned against him saying I am sorry you have had such a hard life little dog but I still hate you. Sonya did her best to love him but looking back on it it was a chaotic environment for convalescence. People wandered in and out of the house with dogs in tow. Sometimes there were punk shows the living room. And after he established his bad reputation people mostly stepped around him. Even as he looked expectantly up at them. Or begging for attention stood up on his hind legs putting on his very cutest act. They avoided him saying oh no I have heard about you. One day I came in to find Sonya making flyers that displayed a picture of Frankie. And below the picture a caption that read I am looking for a new home. I have issues but I could be a great dog for a patient person. In the picture his head was cocked and he smiled dumbly as if the caption below him might have read I have no idea what kind of  is about to befall me. Like all flyers with dog's pictures on them it was heartbreaking. You said you wanted him I said. And Sonya said he is really hard Katie. I have really tried. And so for the second time this time lacking in any heroic spirit at all I picked up the tiny dog and took him away. I brought him back to my own house. For the first year of our lives together Frankie and I got into the most bitter arguments. Most other dogs I would known would retreat when yelled at tail between their legs. Frankie was different. He escalated the argument like a smart-mouth teenager. I would say no Frankie! And he would say grrr baring his teeth and scowling up at me. And then I would say bad dog Frankie!  And he would say grrr! This time looking more rabid and advancing on me like I will take you down you tall skinny bitch. Finally I would be forced to get the broom in an effort to whisk him out of the room. But he fought the broom too biting and thrashing little pieces of broom in his mouth. And so it went for the first year. He had his sweet moments his fun moments. But inevitably just when I would think I would won his trust he would bite me again. His bites hurt but worse were the hurt feelings. I would look at him surprised and betrayed my hand throbbing. And sometimes I would yell  you Frankie! And slammed the doors in our apartment. Even in play Frankie sounded like a maniac. Here's the only recording I have of him happily wrestling with my other dog Memphis.    Get him!  You get the idea. If this is him happy try to imagine him mad. Frankie and I battled it out for alpha status for far too long and I often let my 14 pound curly-haired jerk of a dog get the better of me. And yet little by little Frankie became a new dog. One that was less like a wild animal and more like a pet. I figured out what set him off what made him bite. He had rules essentially which included never touching him while he was eating and never ever attempting to move him when he appeared to be comfortable. And I learned that if you obeyed his rules Frankie was tolerable. Even good. Frankie in time learned my rules too and we stopped getting in fights. We moved to the country and he spent his days lounging in the driveway and barking at the few cars that passed. He was happy. I feel like this part should be about how Frankie taught me how to love unconditionally. How he taught me patience and forgiveness. That I could love something that was prone to fits of rage that bit me that bit my mom. But mostly Frankie taught me about rules - figuring out what yours are what other people's are and learning to accept them. It turned out that what Frankie actually wanted more than anything more than freedom was a rules. It is no wonder the punk house was the wrong place for him. Frankie needed order after all those years of having none. Of not knowing when food would come when affection would come he needed some sort of dependable reliable routine. Being able to count on a walk in the morning and food at the same time every day. These were the things that made him the happiest that allowed him to enjoy his days in the summer sun rolling in the grass as he sometimes did. On his back like a beetle that got flipped over. Like the happiest dog in the world.  Thank you so much Katie Mingle for you have done the world a good deed. And we here at SNAP JUDGMENT certainly hope that you will learn from this to leave well enough alone next time. That piece it was produced by Nick van der Kolk. We are going to take a short break as mandated by nameless government entities. But when SNAP returns we are going to go and hang out with a cat lady. And does she have a story! When aved episode continues. Stay tuned. 