 OK so ever since the firecrackers started I would been wanting to take him. See SNAP studios are right on the edge of Chinatown and as soon as you start hearing that pop pop pop pop pop you know it is just about time. It opens Chinatown every year. There is a massive Chinese New Year celebration. And my little man when he was 2 years old I told him to get ready 'ecause we are going to the festival all right?   It is a beautiful Saturday. We start early. Thousands upon thousands of people start packing downtown. I kind of push my way through the crowd to find a spot on the curb where a little boy can actually see what is happening. He claps when the procession starts with all these drummers. They are followed by a kids dancing troupe all in white. It is angelic and I watch him seeing all this for the first time. It is awesome. Men stroll by on giant stilts for legs then hundreds of old ladies holding yellow and blue lanterns puppets on strings a twirling flower show - it is so much color. Then the crowd starts pressing in tight and I know it is just about time and there it is. Gorgeous red and orange black 25 feet long leaping shimmying animated by six separate dancers the dragon tail whipping from side to side. The head spins directly towards us and it opens wide its huge mouth.   My little boy looks up at the monster and takes off...   Top speed into a wall of people. Hey hey hey hey - I run after him but I am a grown man fighting a sea of people. Look for a little boy. Ten seconds 20 seconds. Who sees a little boy? Sixty seconds. I am starting to panic. Nobody move nobody move. I am like a crazy person. People back away from me best they can. Look down everybody look down now. Two minutes go by three. I see two police officers. I need a perimeter. We were right there. He is gone. He is 2. He is 2 years old. Do not let these people leave. Call - call somebody. And I am running again. I am screaming. Boy boy. And then I see him.   Sitting on the stairs of somebody's shop eating an ice cream cone. Where did he get an ice cream cone? Probably pulled it out of the garbage or something and I am weeping running up to him hugging him kissing him. Boy boy where did you go? Why'd you do that? Why'd you do that? And he looks up at me like I am simple like he has to explain stuff to me slowly. The dragon - I run away fast. He takes a bite of his ice cream cone nods like he is confident in that decision and I am still out of my mind. I want to holler some more tell him not to run away from dragons but that does not even make any sense but think about it and I tell him listen next time you run away from a dragon take Daddy with you.   Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR Quick Fix amazing stories from real people trying to find the simple solution. My name is Glynn Washington. Please enjoy the festivals in your life 'ecause you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. 