 Welcome back to triker episode. Now in sports you hear incessantly about the legendary players that defined the game. This hero worship is supported by a rapid base of fans but you have got to be a pretty hard-core fan to become a legend in your own right.  I love football which is American soccer to you guys. It is our national game. I fell in love with the game when I was about 6 7 years old. I left school take a ball take it up the road play in the garages with my mates pretending I was scoring the winning goal at Wembley which is every schoolboy's dream.  I remember in 1975 I watched the Cup final on the TV it was a game between West Ham United and Fulham and West Ham went on to win 2-0. From that day on I decided I was going to follow West Ham. It became a bit massive love affair. I went to every game home and away. I have a tattoo on my right arm it is a massive West Ham emblem with West Ham 'Till I Die written on it. It was July in 1994. I am 22 years old. I am a self-employed courier. And it is the pre-season fixtures for West Ham. And my mate Chunk  he called me up and he said  Steve do you fancy going over to watch the game tonight? Yeah why not? You know any chance you are going to watch the Hammers?  I am bringing Kelly - which is his missus - and - not a problem I will bring Kelly which is my missus too which is quite funny because Chunk's real name is Steve. And I am Steve too. So we got into the car got a carton of little cans with us picked up a package of cigarettes and off we went to Oxford City.  We arrived at the game and then we found ourselves a little spot right next to the dugout where the managers sit. And the the team were warming up and a manager at the time Harry Redknapp he was on the sidelines directing a few bits. It is at times like that when you look at them - you think aw I wish I was out there with them. You know they are tanned highly paid. You wish you were a professional footballer then. But sometimes you know you have to think back and say you know the only reason why I am not playing out there 'ecause I was not good enough. So you have to settle for that really. Then the team went down to get their full kit on for the game. It is traditional while West Ham supporters that we sing our famous song I am Forever Blowing Bubbles. Then they come along with Oxford City. They all come out together and they all set up to kickoff. West Ham started off quite well and we went winding up in the match quite early on. And even though it was a preseason game the players do go in hard as it were and they tackle hard and they fight for every ball. We had an attack and our left winger went down the left wing and he crossed the ball. Lee Chapman was going up for it - Lee Chapman's our striker for West Ham - and he ran up to about the six-foot mark. And he went up against the defender probably about five foot four. The defender beat him in the air and as Lee Chapman came down he fell on his knees. And this happened probably twice to three times in the first half. I think after about the second time is when I decided I must tell Lee how he is playing football - come on Chapman get off your backside. Chapman why you falling over so much? Get up Chapman you  donkey. . You are useless. There you go. And then I did catch the eye of our manager Harry Redknapp he caught my eye and I said what we playing him for mate? Come on get him off the pitch you know. I as not coming again next season if he is playing. He is rubbish Harry.  I would just give him a hard time. Even when he went near the ball I booed him - do not touch the ball it is not for you. I personally did not think he was trying and if a player does not try on a football pitch he deserves the wrath of a football fan I think. Then the first half ended and the team went off into the dressing room for refreshments and a pep talk. Chunk ran back to the car and grabbed a couple of cans of beer that was left for us four our refreshments for half time. And all of a sudden the team started coming out for the second half. We did about two minutes and Chapman went in for the ball - he actually went in for a tackle. I was quite surprised. And he came off second best and he had a nasty bang onto his shin. He was hobbling off and it was at that point I gave a big cheer - yea see you later donkey. And as I do it I look out the of the corner of my eye and he ran up turned around and started walking over to me. And he goes  do you bet you can play as good as you talk? What do you mean?  Do you want to play? You think you can play better than Chapman? Come on. And I thought he was calling my bluff. Yeah no problem I will do it. But no he dragged me over to the barrier sent me down to the changing rooms to go and get changed. My friend Chunk could not believe it and a few other West Ham fans around there were like all open-mouthed going what the hell's going on?  I went down there with the kick man got my full kit on and he said what size boots are you? I said size nine. So he took some boots out of this big basket. Put my boots on put my shin pads on. And I thought no this cannot be happening. I am not going to be playing for West Ham. I have got West Ham tattoos all my life and everything I do I lived and breathed West Ham. Is this going to happen? Am I going to play for West Ham? We came out of the dressing room to quite a big cheer from a lot of the West Ham people. My friends are all laughing because they have seen me play football before. But even then even then when me and the kit man came out of the dressing room I did not think I was going to go out and play football for my team. I walked up to where Harry Redknapp was and he said where did you play? I normally play defense. Right-back defender. I said well I will play striker. He said right your on then. And that was it he called the ref the ref was Roger Milford a famous referee in England at the time. He signaled to the ref and the ref said come on in he patted me on the back on you go son do your best. As I went on we got radio reporters for Oxford city football club and they did the announcing and this guy ran up to Harry Redknapp and said who is the lad you just put on? And Harry Redknapp turned around and said to him as not you been watching the World Cup? That is the Bulgarian Tittyshev. And this Oxford chaps said oh I thought it was him and off he went. Striker. The Bulgarian Tittyshev. And as I stepped out onto the pitch the crowd noise disappeared. It true what the players say when they day did you hear the crowd chanting your name they say will know you do not. It is really weird I did not hear any of my friends at all after that. All I kept thinking to myself was do not  up Steve just do not  up. The play started and I went in for a tackle. I did not win the tackle he a defended on me. Then Lee Chapman missed the ball up a dozen times in the first half so I think we are quite equal on that. And now I think there is was about 10 minutes into the game it was a big six-foot bloke he struck a ball - probably went about 50 - 60 yards. And then it came at me like a rocket four - five foot up in the air. As it got to me and all I kept thinking I have got to got to trap this - all at a a split second. And I did I trapped underneath my foot and then I passed it on to Trevor Morle the striker - he shot wide. Imagine playing flag football with your friends on a Saturday morning in America. Then on a Sunday evening you go out and play professional football with Miami Dolphins. That is exactly how it was for me. It was then a kind of hit me that I was actually playing for my beloved West Ham. I thought I am only going to do this once let us go and enjoy it. And yeah I did considering I had been smoking and drinking before the game I thought I was doing okay. I played a couple of passes to my partner at the time Trevor Morle received a pass from Joey Beauchamp. It is not everyday you get that is it? And yeah. I started to get into the swing of things and then a big moment appeared. My left winger ran on the left wing and kicked the ball into the penalty area which went close to the goalkeeper. It kind of seemed a bit slow motion to me but I thought this is my chance. And I ran on ran between the two defenders and suddenly found myself in front of the goal is a goalkeeper in front of me. The ball landed right in front of me and I thought this is my moment this is my moment to score for West Ham. There is only one place this ball is for going top left-hand corner. I pulled my right leg back my calf tensed up my foot connected sweetly with the ball and boy have I never hit a ball so hard put it straight into the top corner. And they said this is probably the only time I did hear the crowd. Who did cheer and I was gone. I was up at a corner flag which was right near were my friends my partner was standing and I ran after them arms aloft and I done a little jig jumped up in the air punch the the air. It was just all surreal. I just scored a goal. I could not believe it. That was probably the best feeling in the world. As it is for football you restart the game and crack on. West Ham went on to win 5-2. The full-time whistle went. I started shaking players' hands for the opposition. And a got into the dressing room with the players and was a bit surreal. Some of the players especially this guy he would come up and smacked me on the head affectionately saying well done Steve for most of them were quite surprised I actually scored a goal. Harry Redknapp patted me on the back said well done son. I said am I going to get a contract? He laughed at me. I took my boots off and threw them in the basket. Can I have my top? He said no we need it for the next game. So got my shirt I had on before the game and put it over my West Ham shirt and kept it. And I left in a hurry. Yeah I said goodbyes the thank yous and walked up beside the pitch where my friends were. Chunk gives me the biggest man-hug cuddle I have ever had. He was buzzing I have just played for West. I got back into the car and drove back home got in went to bed went to work the next day and that is the reality of being a professional football for just one half.  And that is the legend of Steve Davies. Next on SNAP - wait no. Just a moment. Just a moment.  Actually that is not how the legend goes. But the truth of the matter is when I ran away to celebrate my goal I looked over and saw a linesman put the flag in the air and the referee signaling it was not a goal. I was actually two yards offside when I scored that goal. I ran over to the referee. I put my arm around him. I said that was my moment you . And he gave me a big smile. And off we went to kick off again. That is the true legend of Steve Davies extraordinaire.  Thank you Steve Davies for sharing your story with the SNAP. A special thanks to Jeff for bringing us that story. For more on the halftime hero I have a link to Jeff's story of Howard Magazine honors website snapjudgment.org That story was produced by Davie Kim. When we return our guest has a voice so smooth that you almost do not mind that he is pounding you in the face. When triker episode continues. Stay tuned. 