 Today from PRX and NPR The Breakout Special. Performed live in San Francisco you get the very best seat in the house because it is about to be on. SNAP JUDGMENT Live.   OK so...   I was a young lad living in Detroit Mich. enjoying myself until my parents said no no no no no we are taking you all out to the country middle of nowhere going to be farmers. I did not appreciate it but they bribed me. And as a little kid I got a Trapper Keeper you know had a Scooby Doo lunchbox yo. I had one of those hats with the propeller on top of it. I was ready to go. It was the first day of school. They said go ahead go on to school. And I went down the driveway to wait for the school bus. This was a new thing for me - school bus. So I was out there and I saw it coming down the road. You could hear the kids screaming hollering and yelling and shouting. The school bus pulls up - go on in here. I step in and it goes silent. See there were not any black families in rural Michigan for about 100 square miles. No one had gotten the memo that one had arrived.   So I just wanted to go sit down in the first seat I saw next to this little towheaded boy and he spit in the seat. I kept walking - spit spit. And I am getting near the end of the bus - sit yourself down please. We have got to go. Everyone's shouting they are yelling now. You know what they are calling me. And I get - I get all the way to the back of the bus and I cannot turn around. They are shouting they are screaming they are yelling. I cannot turn around. There is a little girl. She has her backpack on a seat. She moves it and I sit down and we ride. I do not say a word to her. I do not say anything to her. We ride go to school. The next day the shouting the screaming the hollering I go right back to the back of the bus. And Mary Jo  - I know her name is Mary Jo now - Mary Jo moves her backpack and I sit down. We do not speak. We just ride. And that is how it goes every single day until the middle of the school year they switch things up. And instead of being the last one on the bus now I am the first. But force of habit I go right back to my regular seat. Now in rural Michigan nobody's rich. But some of us are really really poor - poor farm families where you do not have enough insulation on your water makes your pipe freeze in the middle of the winter. But you still have to do your chores - you still have to clean the barn you still have to get chicken filth all over you. And when that happens on a cold Michigan winter you have one of two choices. You can either go to school covered in filth or you can try to hide it with some cologne.   This day Mary Jo went the cologne route. And when she got on that bus it smelled like a skunk wrapped in rotten flowers. And the kids screamed and shouted and hollered. And Mary Jo she looked right back at me. I looked away. I would had enough. I have had enough. I was hoping she would find - I just hoped she would find somewhere else to sit. When she walked back - she walked back the hollering the screaming the shouting - she walked back and there I was with my backpack on the seat. I waited and I moved it. She sat down and I was so ashamed. The hollering screaming the shouting - I did not care. I just wanted to tell her - I wanted to tell her I was sorry. So I said hey my name is Glynn. I do not know your name. What are you talking about? And so we talked. All the screaming and the hollering they just went away. We talked like two little kids in the back of the bus.   Now then I cannot tell you all how to be here today. I am thrilled to come to this stage one more time with some of the best storytellers in all the land. And you might not know this but - but I brought some friends. Please say hello if you would give a warm welcome Mr. Alex Mandel.   David Brandt on the sticks. David Brandt on the sticks.   You got Tim Frick Tim Frick Tim Tim Tim Frick. Tim Frick Tim Frick Tim Frick. We will call this one - we are calling this show The Breakout Special.  