 Now our first story on today's Contents Unknown episode comes from a guy with real secrets. He is a covert operative named Mike Ramsdell. And our story starts when Mike was assigned to go into Soviet Russia and extract a high-level target.  I really do think I had a death wish. I was just going through some very very difficult times. And so when states contacted me and asked me consider this mission I just thought you know bring it on. I am your man bring it on. No matter what happens I can live with it. If I make it back that is fine. If I do not who is going to care? It truly was escapism. I wanted just to get out. It was very important for us to find some informants and we did find three individuals what we call in the spy world assets. And these three Russian individuals worked for the target - the man that we were after. But when it was all said and done just as the mission was to conclude and we were going to extract the target out of the country one of the informants betrayed us and told the target who we were and what we were about to do. And that is when the mission went bad. My orders were to sanitize the mission. And what that means in spook lingo is to get rid of anything and everything so if the KGB or the Soviet secret police came into our apartments they would not be able to find anything. I was instructed you will not have your weapon you will not have your communication device. I threw away my weapon and my radio into the river in the middle of the night. I was definitely on my own. I would have to use all my training and resources to survive. My orders were clean those apartments do my work and then get out of town as quick as possible. The last apartment that I was to sterilize was on the sixth floor. There was something that told me to look outside. And I walked across the hallway to the kitchen pulled back the drapes I looked down and there I saw two mafia goons waiting for me. People think that you know 007 he never shows his true emotions but that is not true at all. I knew I was in big trouble because I would already disposed of my weapon and my communication device. I could not confront them I had nothing. And suddenly I heard the crowbar break the front door of the apartment. The fear and the panic was just - even retelling the story right now my heart's beating. I heard the crowbar start to break the front door and all I could do was - I had no other choice I had to confront them. I pulled on my gloves I zipped up my jacket I walked towards the front door and said a prayer. And then the splinters and the door came apart. There the Mafia goon was standing there. I had a maneuver worked out with a certain blow to his temple. I had nothing and he had a pair of brass knuckles. Within a short time I looked like a big red wedge of Swiss cheese. Somehow we ended up in this stairwell. In one hand he has these bloody brass knuckles. In the other he pulled out a stiletto knife and was jousting where the first cuts were going to go. Just as he was ready to carve me up by the grace of God there was the building drunk on the stairwell underneath us and he reached up through the stairwell and grabbed the Mafia goon's pant leg and pulled on it. And in that saving moment when that mafia goon looked down I flew around him and over him down those stairs I bounded. I told myself Mike get to the train station. I would lost so much blood from the beating. I stopped by a vacant building and turned around to see how close they were behind me and the only movement on the street that night was the falling snow - the very first snow of the oncoming Russian winter. Why did I choose to do this? I did not have to accept this assignment.   Headquarters had directed me that I would catch a local train and I would be on that train for several days until I got to the village of Potevka where indeed we did have a safe house. I am so thankful to be on the train and to be alive. At the same time I am constantly looking over my shoulder thinking that the Mafia or the KGB are on the train with me. I am in terrible terrible condition. The only sustenance I had in those five days was the awful Russian black tea that was available to everyone on the train. I cannot tell you how hungry and starved I was but I knew if I could hang on long enough it is policy that every safe house is equipped with seven days MREs - meals ready to eat. It was late at night it was dark blizzards snowy. I got to this dilapidated train station. I made my way trudging through the heavy snow about a mile to the cabin. I walked to the cupboard open the doors - there are no boxes of MREs. Went to the back of the cabin to the closet looked in the floorboards up in the rafters of the cabin and again no MREs. I was so spent I pulled probably a dozen blankets over me and crawled in a straw bed fully dressed. In the morning trudged into the village to the marketplace and I convinced myself there you lucky cuss you will be able to get some cabbage whoopee - some potatoes. And strange as it sounds as I walked I saw - I saw no one I saw no tracks in the snow. When I finally approached the marketplace and pushed open the big oak doors - and that is when I realized the village had basically been abandoned. I was hoping to see a light on or a candle burning and to find someone - and I did. I was able to talk to two old couples. And I took out a fistful of rubles for exchange for a potato and they would not do it. The conditions in Russia were awful. I had more rubles than those old couples would ever have seen in their life and yet keeping food for themselves to survive was more important. That is when the first thoughts came to my mind that Mike you might not make it. How am I going to survive? Where is the food going to come from? Get back to the cabin. I was almost obsessed with the idea of dying and I thought there I am isolated in this little village in the middle of Russia and that is how I was going to die. Why cannot it be a gun battle on the streets of Moscow so that the people can read about this hero? I had been in the cabin possibly three days. It was midmorning - sorry but I get a little emotional in this part. I am at a table writing letters of goodbye because I am not going to make it. And when any one of us writes a letter the first thing we do is put a date on it. I had totally lost touch with reality and especially date and time. But when I pulled out my calendar that is the moment when I first realized that it is Thanksgiving in America. I heard this loud thump or bang. I thought it could be an explosive. And that is when I heard the sound of a vehicle. I hustled to the window but there was so much snow I could not identify the vehicle but it sounded like the engine of a jeep. Knowing about one or two of our agents losing their hands or their face I panicked waiting for the explosion to happen. I ran to the back of the cabin probably waited 15-20 minutes and nothing happened. I pulled the cabin door open 6-8-10 inches and there on the stone steps of the cabin was a package about the size of a normal shoebox. There is no turning back now. I grabbed the package my heart is pounding and I pulled the string off the package. There the first thing a box of macaroni and cheese a little small box of Frosted Flakes a jar of artichoke hearts and there I see a Thanksgiving card and I recognize the handwriting of my sister Karen and then I prepared my Thanksgiving meal. There was a little package - I remember when I fixed the meal around the outside of the plate I put all of these little colorful gummy bears. They had made their way from Torrance California to the American Embassy and Helsinki Finland and somehow from Helsinki Finland to the safe house in Potevka Russia. Over the years I made a concentrated effort to find out how the package could have gotten to Potevka and how - who brought it there and why. But in our line of work in intelligence there is a clich that is called the need to know. And I am not privileged to ask any questions about it because Mike do you have a need to know? When you work in the covert world there are so many unanswered questions you have. I still do not have a definitive answer as to how the package got to me.  Thanks so much to Mike Ramsdell. Now Mike wrote a book about this experience. If you would like a copy he promises to hand scribe it in English or Russian whichever you prefer. We are going to have a link on our website snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Ana Sussman with sound design by Renzo Gorrio. And when SNAP returns we are going to steal from a preacher. We are going to accept a package from someone we do not know and we are going to become an entirely different entity for love. For real when ontents Unknown episode continues. Stay tuned. 