 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT - the Caught Up episode. Today we are exploring what happens when circumstances seem to run you over. Like did you ever wonder how you ended up in your job or your city your life? Have you ever looked around and thought how did this happen? Well you are going to want to listen to our next story.  It was Friday night and Efraim asked me if I wanted to go to a rabbi's house for dinner. We were just going you know for the free food and free drinks and to meet good-looking girls.  David Packouz and Efraim Diveroli were old friends from synagogue. They had actually left the Jewish faith but free food was free food. So they got into Efraim's old black Mercedes and drove through the streets of Miami Beach.  And while on the way he was talking about his business. He said that he could introduce me to a business that would be much much more lucrative than what I was doing now and that he could prove that he was making a huge amount of money and he could teach me how to make it. And so I asked him well how much money are you making? And he said well this is top-secret information. And I said well you would expect me to join you in business and you will not even tell me how much money you are making? I need to know what the potential is. And right then we had arrived at the rabbi's house and he turned off the car and he looked to me and he is like I am only telling you this to inspire you not because I am bragging. I have 1.8 million in the bank. And he was 18-years-old.  David was a part-time massage therapist putting himself through college. So almost 2 million in the bank was both totally alien and completely captivating. Their group of friends passed their time sneaking into hotel pools. To David Efraim was an unlikely owner of a multimillion dollar business.  He just seemed like a total clown and you know just like another stoner. He was constantly scheming about different ways of making money. So I knew he was making money I mean he said he was making money but I had no idea how much. Well when he told me he had 1.8 million dollars in the bank I said holy .  I could not believe it.  When Efraim told David about how much money he made David had only one question.  So what is it exactly - what is it that you do? And he said well the government is always looking to buy things. For example handguns or various common ammunition. They do not really care who they get it from as long as they get the best price and from someone who is reliable who will actually deliver it. So they put it out for open bid.  Most of the contracts Efraim won were military contracts. Basically he was an arms dealer.  You know my mind was swimming. I could not believe that he actually had made that much money. He definitely did not live like a millionaire. And we had some drinks and pretty much I was quiet the whole time just thinking about it. And by the end I told him you know I will give it a shot. My plan was to make a few million dollars and then get out and do what I like doing in order to live the life I always wanted.  Efraim took David to his office which was actually just his apartment opened up his laptop and said.  Let me show you how it works.  Efraim was getting contracts to sell arms and ammo from a website -  fedbizopps.gov. On Fed Biz Opps he would scan the listings for contracts he thought he could win. The listings read almost like a Craigslist ad except instead of asking for help mowing the lawn these ads ask for large quantities of military supplies. You can find ads for everything - from guided missiles to Black Hawk helicopter landing gear to strangely corn cob grounds.  My first contract that I actually won was for 50000 gallons of propane.  Well I would have no idea where to find that much propane. I mean how did you know where to go?  Google. That is it. Really.  OK but can I Google where to find like 50000 grenades or AK47s?  Absolutely of course you can. Who makes grenades who makes AK47s? A range of companies do it and those companies are looking to sell as long as they think you will buy and that you are legally allowed to do so. Most companies dealing with government contracts are large companies. You have your Lockheed Martins your Boeings General Dynamics - these are Fortune 500 companies with tens of thousands of employees and we were just two guys in a living room smoking weed and bidding on contracts. It is kind of like the local lemonade stand going against Tropicana. We actually won a fair amount and we started winning more and more as we kind of learned how to work the system. We were working at his desk - he had a big desk in his living room that we had two laptops on - old laptops - and piles of paper everywhere. This was 2005 2006 - there is these two huge wars Iraq and Afghanistan raging and the government was looking to buy massive quantities of things. They were looking to buy huge amounts of bed sheets and body armor and bullets and air conditioners and trucks and pretty much anything you could think of they were looking to buy. But because he had a lot of experience in military equipment he focused on that. Eighty to 90 percent of the business was weapons and ammunition. On a typical day we would work around 18 hours and that is pretty much from when we would wake up until when we would fall asleep. And we would order delivery so we would not have to leave to get food so we could eat while we worked. I would never worked so hard in my life.  So they would be eating Chinese noodles from a carton and sleeping on the floor and delivering weapons to Colombia and Germany. They would been on contracts for Nepal Niger and Chad.  But most of the business was in Iraq and later in Afghanistan.  As they bid on these contracts David saw the promise of really big money flash on the screen before him. If everything went well he could be making millions.  There were many moments I considered backing out but then I would see the money. you know coming in and I just told myself I could put up with it for a little bit longer. I just need to make some money and then I will quit. So I was planning on retiring after that and traveling the world and buying a yacht and living the good life. That was the plan. Who was it? I forgot who it was - it was some - one of the robber barons - the guy who cornered the silver market in the 1800s. A reporter asked him how much money would be enough? And he said more .  Then David got a call that promised all the money he wanted and then some. It was the call to step up into the high-stakes arena of the big-time arms dealers.  I was driving to see my girlfriend and have dinner with her. And Efraim called me and he said I just saw one of the biggest solicitations requests for a quotation I have ever seen on Fed Biz Opps which is bigger than anything I have ever seen and you have to come to the office right now. We got to discuss it. And I told him I am on the way to dinner with my girlfriend. And he said - he is like well bleep that  you want to like hang out with your girl or do you want to get rich?  David and Efraim pored over the contract. It was a deal to supply all the munitions for the new Afghan Army and police force. So they got to work.  We looked at the request for a quote. And it was huge I mean it was like 100 million rounds of AK47 ammo 100000 grenades antiaircraft rockets - it was enormous.  David spent two months working around the clock. He called every contact in the world he thought might be able to supply the stuff for the contract scouring the planet for lots and lots of bullets.  I was calling Russia I was calling Ukraine I was calling Bulgaria I was calling Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan Korea. Calling most of these countries they usually do not speak English very well so I would just say.. English English English. I want to buy I want to buy. We would say oh yeah I will get my sales team working on that or I will have my accountant contact you or... We will get our procurement division on that right away Sir. We would act like we had like a whole staff. But of course it was just us two. We lied all the time.  David and Efraim put in a bid for the Afghan ammo at 300 million and they won. They were the lowest bidder by far. Partly because two guys in an apartment have a lot less overhead than a company with tens of thousands of employees.  It was - how do I put it? It was surreal. It was very odd. I was  myself on a constant basis . It was a constant state of panic. Without us the Afghan Army had no ammunition. They would not be able to fight the Taliban.  It does not stop there. Do not go anywhere. The stunning conclusion of Accidental Arms Dealer in just a moment when SNAP JUDGMENT - the Caught Up episode - continues. Stay tuned.   Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR the Caught Up episode. My name is Glynn Washington and when last we left David Packouz and his partner Efraim were in quite a fix. And David he is got a habit of going from the frying pan into the fire.  Without us the Afghan Army had no ammunition and they would not be able to fight the Taliban.  The hard part now was that David and Efraim actually had to find the ammo and the weapons to fulfill the contract.  In Abu Dhabi every year there is a - one of the biggest arms exhibitions in the world. I went there by myself to try to source ammunition for the Afghan contract. It was like the Cantina scene in Star Wars. Pretty much every degenerate in the world was there or at least in my mind. You would see generals in full military gear you know sleazy looking businessmen government officials pretty much every single country was represented - Chinese generals Africans Europeans. Everyone was just having cocktails together. And it was just incredible to me because I knew some of these people are mortal enemies and they are fighting each other. And here they are and they are just you know schmoozing over cocktails. Rumors were flying around of you know who was going to go to war next where the best countries were to get the best prostitutes. During the day you are in the exhibition halls. They had very expensive bottles of wine and champagne and you know caviar and hors d'oeuvres and you know really good-looking women to serve it all. They spared no expense. Outside they had live-fire weapons drills where they would have like tanks jumping sand dunes and like blowing things up and helicopter gunships. And it was like live military drills that you could watch. There were bleachers where everyone would stand and you know drinks and hors d'oeuvres being passed around. And it was like being at a big football game where you know the sport was military maneuvers. I was by far the youngest person there of course because everyone in this business is military or ex-military so they are all like men in their middle ages. And they just looked at me as if I was you know some kid and they were wondering what I was doing there which is why I always had copies of our contract in my briefcase to prove that you know I was the real deal and actually had real business deals to do.  Was the arms business in your experience kind of more morally dubious than other industries? Was it shadier?  The arms business by its nature is definitely shadier and more dubious because arms could be used for great evil. And the people that you are dealing with sometimes sell to people who use them for great evil. But at the time did it stop me? No it did not.  David kept working to get the guns and the bullets but as they worked these wayward kids from Miami Beach that snuck into the halls of power started to get some unwanted attention.  Because we were winning so many contracts we were upsetting a lot of our competitors. You know they worked real hard on these contracts and they kept on losing them to us. They started slandering us to various people in Iraq. They started telling people that we were coke dealers and that is how we got the money to fund the contract.  David was sending planeloads of ammo all over the globe for the Afghan arms contract. At one point he had over 5000 tons of bullets waiting to be loaded into cargo planes in Albania. And it was there that the two-man operation began to crumble against the powerful tectonic plates of the international arms trade.  Albania is famous for - how do you put it? Let us put it this way - the State Department guy told us you know most Third World countries are Third World but Albania is kind of like the fifth world. They need to be supervised.  He sent a friend over to Albania to check on the deal make sure the ammo was not faulty and to repackage it so it would cost less in air freight. But when their friend walked into the underground Albanian bunker and saw the piles of bullets he immediately called David.  When he went over there he told us hey you know there is Chinese letters all over the boxes and we had no idea. We were like oh well uh-oh. This could be a problem.  Here's the thing about Chinese ammo it was illegal. Their contract said it explicitly. And while technically this ammo had not been bought directly from the Chinese they knew this mountain of Chinese ammo was a really big problem.  We discovered that it was Chinese ammunition and then we figured well it is better not to tell the Army about this. What they do not know will not hurt them. The ammunition is excellent quality and that is all that really matters. It is not enriching the Chinese government in any way and that is all that the anti-Chinese ban was meant to be about it will be fine. So we took the ammunition out of the wooden crates that they were packed in and out of the metal sardine cans and we packaged it in plastic bags and in cardboard boxes. We were very careful not to include any papers that had Chinese letters in the boxes. So there was no more Chinese words on the packaging once we had repackaged it. And so we delivered - started delivering and we delivered I think by the end close to 70 aircraft loads of ammunition each holding around 45 tons.  He says anybody would have done that. He says shenanigans like this happen every day in the arms trade. The big boys do not get caught. But David and Efraim were not the big boys. A rival competitor an Albanian businessman who had been cut out of a deal started his whisper campaign against David and Efraim. He told a Pentagon official to check them out. And soon David and Efraim's office was raided by the Feds.  And the government eventually decided that that constituted fraud. As they say it was a conspiracy to defraud the United States of America. Well I felt like my life was over because they said OK you have 71 aircraft loads that you delivered to Afghanistan each one with a certificate saying that the point of origin is Albania. And you signed off on that and really the origin was China. And therefore each aircraft load delivery each document you signed is one count of fraud. And each count of fraud has a maximum of five years in prison so 71 counts of fraud for 71 aircraft loads is around 350 years in prison.  And did you ever - I do not know - I mean I feel like all of us in our dark moments of shame feel like I do not know there is some kind of like celestial checks and balances. Like did you ever feel like you were caught because of greed - because you had been being greedy?  I did think that. When I got caught and I realized that I was facing possibly a lifetime in prison a lot of things go through your head. And you evaluate your entire life and how you got up to this point and how you could be so stupid and all the mistakes that you have made. And one of the big ones I was constantly thinking about was getting involved in the business in the first place. And I wondered why I did it. Of course I knew but I thought that it was a certain yeah - it was almost like a punishment for kind of turning a blind eye towards certain things. And I wish I had never gotten involved in it in the first place that is for sure.  In fact David never saw any of the money he dreamed of. So now he was broke and a federal criminal.  Like any sane person caught up in the system I pled guilty and they reduced my charges down to - you know from 71 counts of fraud to one count of fraud. Eventually the judge had mercy on me and gave me just seven months of house arrest and seven months' probation.  He had to reset. There would be no more drinking cocktails and watching rocket launches with African warlords. Instead after serving his house arrest David walked out of his apartment armed with a backpack full of scented candles and soothing music.  Well I went back to doing massage you know to make ends meet. I would have my massage table on a cart and you know a little bag with all my equipment such as essential oils and massage oil and you know music. But it was strange it was definitely strange. After I went back into massage I you know informed all of my former clients that I was doing massage again. And the vast majority of them were very thrilled to hear that. And they asked me so what have you been doing the last year or two?  And I would say yeah it is a long story it is been interesting.  Big thanks to David Packouz for sharing your story. If you want to find out the dirty dirty gritty gritty behind this piece check out the book written by Guy Lawson out in stores right now it is called Arms And The Dudes. Find a link on our website snapjudgment.org. The piece was produced by Anna Sussman and Julia DeWitt in collaboration with Guy Lawson. The original score and sound design by our own Renzo Gorrio. All right it is about that time. But Glynn I missed some of the episode. Glynn I need more stories give me some more stories man. Hey player it is going to be all right. I have got exactly what you need. Subscribe to the SNAP JUDGMENT storytelling podcast and get your fix today - snapjudgment.org. Available on iTunes Stitcher SoundCloud we deliver your way. Do not miss out on the snap-nation conversation - Twitter Facebook. Tell the world what you think. Today's SNAP JUDGMENT episode was brought to you by myself letter R and the finest group of audio magicians the world has ever known. Please let them take a bow - the uber producer Mark Ristich the beat of the beat Pat Mesiti-Miller. Anna Sussman blows off jury duty Julia DeWitt carries a lighter Davey too-fast-too-furious Kim cannot take the bus Joe Rosenberg found a rack of suits just laying in the street he can give you a good deal. Nancy Lopez uses her knife for purposes other than cooking.  Eliza Smith bites the bullet. Ana Adlerstein bites. Leon Morimoto wears his sunglasses at night. Matt the enforcer Ducat and Jazmin Aguilera is here to see you now. Did you ever push things off the side of a tall building just to see what would happen? Well next time I promise not to push things belonging to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. I honestly did not know computers could just splinter like that. Much love though to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange is now exchanging things other than public radios. Stop by their offices with some of your old junk they will take it. Tell them Glynn sent you prx.org. And this is not the news - no way is this the news. In fact you could hear the tornado sirens blowing ask your girlfriend to marry you right then and there only to realize that you do not have a girlfriend and your mother's friends are all looking at you funny and you would still even then not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 