 Now then sometimes we call SNAP JUDGEMENT's Jamie DeWolf the love doctor and you are about to find out why.  When I first met Jamie I was really closed off to a lot of people. I had seen that all the relationships that I had before took away from my sense of self and took away from my purpose. And when I met Jamie was really wary of that but also very interested in him.  I was incredibly cynical when I met Natasha but she was a filmmaker and an artist who had this huge big heart. And I started to believe that there was maybe hope - maybe. Maybe love could work.  The whole first year went by so quick. I worked on this project to give to him on our one year anniversary in secret and in my room and I hid it under the bed.  And our first-year anniversary and she gives me this huge book that she is made by hand.  And as soon as he looks at it seemed like he lost his breath.  Just completely speechless.  The front opens in the middle. It is got two doors that close in.  It had its own padlock on the front of it.  And each page is textured with painted papier-mch and there is hidden pockets.  So that was of our entire relationship. It was amazing. Nobody had ever given me anything like that before. So I am flipping through this book. I get to the last page and she has a special surprise - four envelopes. Her idea is that we are going to write a letter to ourselves and then a letter to each other that is going to be opened in exactly one year on that day.  I write a letter to myself. My letter was pretty encouraging but also a little threatening.  It is like you are coaching the future you.  The letter I wrote to him was very thankful. It was full of gratitude.  And then I have to write my letter to her. So I decided to take the biggest gamble that I have ever taken in my life and try to be really hopeful that my future self would agree with me otherwise I was going to have a problem.  The deal is that we padlock it set it aside and we will not open it up for a year.  Our second year was harder than our first year and over the entire year I kept thinking of the letter. I never forgot what I wrote. It was this countdown to the day when the me of the past is now going to have to reconcile with the me of the future.  A year from that day we are in the same room at the same place.  We have the key we unlock it and then we unseal the envelopes. First we read the letters that we wrote to ourselves.  I kind of felt sorry for him a little bit because it seemed like the Jamie from a year before was being a jerk.  I was like you had better get your act together. You know this long sort of fatherly checklist of all the things I should have done by this time.  When I read the one to myself it was almost as if like my best friend time traveled. It was inspiring but also kind of frantic and pushy.  And then we get to the letter that we wrote each other.  I was thanking him for the whole year. I was thanking him for all the changes we have made together.  And then she opened up her letter.  Break the seal take out the piece of paper - for a split second I am a bit disappointed because it is a really short note and it was not even a full page. It was like a ripped up half a page. It says close your eyes and count to ten. And I did and I am thinking alright well it better be a bigger note. But then I am counting down...  ...And when she opened her eyes...  ...He is on one knee and he is got a ring and asks if I will marry him. I say yes. He knew he wanted to marry me a year ago. That is very flattering.  I have had male friends of mine say how did you know you were going to be together in a year? I did not. You know I wanted to be brave and take a leap. I am just glad we landed where we did.  Jamie DeWolf and Natasha DeWolf still make art for each other and are partners in shows and films all over the bay area. That piece was produced by Mark Ristich. It is about that time. You have been listening to SNAP JUDGEMENT - a love supreme. And what? You want to play it for somebody special right now? No worries - full episodes pictures stuff - all available right now at snapjudgement.org. And how can you be on Facebook and SNAP be on Facebook and we are not even friends on Facebook? It does not even make any sense. Twitter - snapjudgment.org. SNAP was produced by the lovers. 