 Now Snappers when you were a kid did you have a favorite pet? 'ecause if you did you know just how special a pet can be to a youngster. SNAP JUDGMENT producer Pat Mesiti-Miller he had a pet right during those tender years a youngster will never forget.  When I was a little kid I used to have a pet fish. Now I am not talking about your little goldfish in a bowl named Bubbles or Skipper or Goldie. No. My fish was named Dojo. Dojo was an aquatic samurai a warrior of the water world a ninja with gills. And he was the baddest coolest most awesome-ist fish of them all. And when I would get up in the morning I would run over to the fish tank. I would shake in some little fish flakes to feed him and then I would watch as Dojo would hide in the shadows and then strike taking each one of the unsuspecting food flakes as his victims. One day my dad woke me up and he was screaming and shaking me saying Pat Pat wake up. Wake up. Pat wake up. And I popped up out of bed all scared and startled saying what? What is going on? What? What? And my dad looks at me and he says Pat the dojo your fish he is dead. What? He is dead? Yeah. I do not know what to tell you but I went over to his tank this morning and he was dead. Sorry son. And then he left the room. I was crushed devastated. And I started crying saying no. Oh my Dojo. No. Dojo you died. My sidekick my man my favorite friend was gone never to fight another day. So I got out of bed mustered up enough will just to barely drag my sad little feet out to the kitchen for breakfast and I sat down and started poking at the Eggo. I could not eat. The syrup soaking into it till it was soggy. My mom looks at me and says Pat what is the matter? You look so sad. What is going on? And I would tell her Mom you did not hear? The Dojo - Dojo is dead. And she does what? And my mom looks at my dad like he died? And then my dad kicks in oh yeah April fools. What? I did not even really know what that meant - April fools. So they broke it down like it is a day where you can lie and pull pranks on people. And then you say April fools and everything goes back to normal. Yeah April fools son. Your Dojo's not dead. It was a joke. I go well that is not funny. That is mean. And my mom says yeah honey that is mean. So my Dojo is not dead? No no. He is fine. Go look for yourself. I wiped the tears from my eyes and ran over to the tank as fast as I could. And there was my Dojo darting around the tank like he always did. Hey Dojo. I knew you would not die on me. And I went outside to play and after a few hours I came back in to say hi to Dojo. I got up to the tank I looked in and dojo was not swimming. He was floating belly up at the surface. Dojo was dead like for real. No April fools. No joke. Dojo had actually died. I do not know what kind of sick coincidence that was but when I saw that he was dead I could not cry anymore. I was already cried out. So I left the tank and walked over to my dad and said hey Dad Dojo is dead. Ha ha good one son. I already got you with that. April fools right? No Dad. Dojo really died. I would never joke about Dojo.  Big thanks to Pat Mesiti-Miller for that piece. And fear not Pat 'ecause I know the spirit of the Dojo is strong in you. Pat Mesiti-Miller. 