 From PRX and NPR welcome back to verthrow episode. My name is Glynn Washington and today on the show we are examining real cases where the old guard meets the new world order. Now for this next story we traveled to the island nation of Iceland. And back in the day if I said Iceland you might think hot springs prosperity Bjork but a few years back this little paradise gained a much more somber type of fame.   In 2008 the people of Iceland took to the streets banging pots and pans as the prime minister addressed the nation.  And then at the end of his speech he said God bless Iceland. And I would never heard that before or after a politician asking God to bless us. You have it  but we do not have it that much. .  Jon Gnarr grew up in a suburb outside of the capital Reykjavik. And when he was young he had a hard time in school. When he was 10 he still could not write his three-lettered name.  And there was a big problem for me you know I could not figure out which way the J turned. Nobody really knew what was wrong with me but everybody feared you know that I was just you know stupid. I was - I feared that they were all right.   I kind of adopted this way of being the class fool because making people laugh of something that you said or did was better than having them laughing at you for not doing anything . From early age comedy was a kind of lifesaver for me because their came something that you know was mine. That was something that I created.  So when the banks collapsed and Jon lost his job he returned to comedy.   .   I made up this politician character and I called him the Simpleton. He was like a simple happy-go-lucky liar - fast-talking fast-thinking and always you know with a smirky smile. He just promised whatever and bluntly.   Free entrance and free towels at the swimming pools and a polar bear for the zoo and we can get them for free because sometimes polar bears will swim to the coast of Iceland from Greenland and they are just shut outside. So I suggested - or he suggested - or I do not know it became - yeah I created this character but slowly this character kind of changed into me back again .  Jon found himself getting pretty consistent feedback after his performances.  People would come up to me and thank me for the show I really liked it. And I remember I was kind of cornered by a group of very intelligent people and they were saying seriously you should start your own political party and just run you know. And I was saying well explaining to them well it is a part of my program you know it is just an idea. Yes we know but it is a great idea. You should do it.   It felt ridiculous and it felt very funny but at the same time it felt so right you know? I mean what is politics and political representatives? I mean they are just people and some of them make a mess. Why do not more people like me go into politics? Why do not more creative people get politically involved? And everything in me said kind of yes you are probably the only man  only person who can step into this and have a positive effect on it. So I decided that I would run for prime minister.   I went down to the National Registry and I said is it complicated to register a political party? No it is just you know you have to fill out this form and it costs almost nothing. And I called it the Best Party.   Prior to that I had been thinking about calling it the Cool Party and we would only promise to do cool things and not uncool things and absolutely nothing corny. So - but I went for best. It sounded more stupid.  Next Jon needed to recruit party members. He randomly messaged people he thought could be good for the job. When they asked if this was going to take a lot of their time...  No not at all I would say. No I just need a name and your photo and I will just crop a photo of Facebook so do not bother - you do not have to send me a photo and they were all glad to help.  And the Best Party became official.   We announced the birth of the Best Party in a shopping mall and it was at that meeting when I realized that I was running for mayor. I thought I was running for minister.  Wait so you really did not know you had signed up to run for mayor?  Not in the beginning no.  Jon took his campaign to the streets. He stayed true to his sketch character and threw promises around like confetti. He traveled to nursing homes and promised the residents that his speeches would never put them to sleep. He would tell classrooms of kindergartners that he was going to build a Disneyland in Reykjavik.  I like to go on stage unprepared. I like the tension of it. I would just go to some address and there would be some people and I would do my best from there. I was not - I was never sure what they thought.   When the first polls started to come out - it is like eight weeks prior to the election - it was a small percentage not even a whole percentage of people that intended to vote for the Best Party. It was like 0.5 or 0.7 percent people.  In typical Jon Gnarr fashion he declared the polls a landslide victory. He was having fun.  I was a guest in an Icelandic talk show. And in the makeup there was this woman who greeted me and said hello and hi and is it right you know what I hear that you have started your own political party? And yeah yeah that is correct. And she said OK that is great news good luck with it. Oh thank you I said. And then she left and I asked the makeup artist there who was that? And she said you really do not know who this is? No. That is the mayor of Reykjavik . That is the person you are running up against and I did not know.  But then in the next polls the Best Party came in at 10 percent of the vote and all of a sudden he was a serious contender. Jon was invited to televised debates with the other candidates. And during one such debate they were all asked about what was then a very important issue in Reykjavik whether or not the airport should be moved.   I had not prepared for this. I had not really thought about it and I said...   Well I have never moved an airport. I do not know how you go about moving an airport. I will look into it.   And after this I felt awful. I felt so bad and I was you know thinking to myself who do you think you are? Why are you getting yourself into this? I mean these are clever people. You know nothing. You have no idea what you are doing. Now everybody sees how stupid you are.  But after the debate aired people that Jon knew and even strangers on the street came up to him and thanked him for his honesty. It was the first time they had heard a candidate admit that they were uninformed on an issue. And then the Best Party polled at 20 percent.  I changed my methods a bit after this. I allowed myself to be more serious and I tried to do it without becoming dull and I studied different topics that were being discussed in debates. Two weeks before the elections there was a poll that showed like everybody was just going to more or less vote for us.  But naturally as Jon's popularity grew his opponents started taking him more seriously and ramping up their attacks.  And instead of you know having fun and saying nonsense things I was suddenly in the position where I had to defend myself. I had to start explaining things. And I mean that is a method. That is something that you can do with a jester you know get him to explain himself explain the jokes and immediately he will cease to be funny. You kill the magic you know with explanation and that is what politicians are great quite good at doing .  Jon knew his opponent saw him as a threat and that is when he started having second thoughts.   Am I really going to get myself into city council and become the mayor? So I had to sit down with my wife and children and we had to discuss this and my doubts. And they said it is not about you it is about something bigger than just you. And you are inspired - I mean just the idea is inspiring people. It is giving people hope that it is not all lost and we are not all losers and you know we can actually make a difference.  Still the prospect of actually becoming mayor gave him nightmares.  This is just getting too brutal you know? It is too aggressive. I cannot - I do not think I can handle this you know? I want to back out you know. I do not want to be - you know I do not want to have to spend many years with these people . Then I decided to to withdraw.   And the day after there was a big rally in the university in Reykjavik and one after the other they went up to the podium and had a speech. And when it was my turn I told people about my doubts and my second thoughts about the whole thing and I was not really sure. And as I was speaking I was also thinking of what I should do and it was one of those moments when I feel myself getting unprepared on stage and I said the last days I felt everything had been getting so serious. I have actually decided to withdraw from the election.   But behind me there were the other politicians . They could not hide their genuine happiness for my absence. And as I said it I focused on people's faces and people's eyes. It was like no no you cannot no. And I think I just decided there on the spot when I saw people's reaction. And it is like with theater I mean there are certain rules that you cannot really break. You cannot break the relationship with the audience because then everything's lost. And then I waited a few seconds and then I said...   Joke.   I am not.   .  On June 15 2010 Jon Gnarr was sworn in as the mayor of Reykjavik or to quote one of his greatest fans Lady Gaga the mayor of Iceland.   Jon entered Parliament surrounded by six of his dearest Facebook friends and the Best Party now accounted for almost half of city council. But after the victory parties were through Jon found himself in charge of a city reeling from financial collapse.   The seriousness of the financial situation had been kept a secret and politicians were reluctant to admit how serious it was but I did not have any interest at stake and they could not sack me. I would have to resign.  When Jon got to office the only promise he kept was his promise to break all of his promises.   So instead of free enters to swimming pools and a free towel I raised the entrance fee  to the swimming pools and to the buses and electricity and hot water and that was not popular.  Jon did not stop there. He merged schools to cut costs. He refused to dine with the leaders of NATO and he involved Reykjavik citizens in government decisions. And it worked almost all of it. And then after four years - the longest he would ever kept a job - his term was up and he decided not to run again.   The Best Party was kind of like a surprise party. You were just minding your own business and then suddenly the lights are on and everybody is happy and all your friends are there. And that was the Best Party. Surprise parties do not stay surprised all evening. They become a regular party sooner or later and you cannot do the surprise again. We cannot turn off the light turn on the light and everybody goes oh surprise. It does not work you know because the magic is gone.   Now he is proved to himself to Iceland and to the world that he is not joking. With a track record to back him up he could now run as an accomplished politician.  I go out in the store and there is an old man there you know and he sees me and he starts talking with me. And you know are you going to run for president? Many people are asking me about it.  So are you ready for that? Are you ready to present yourself to the world without this protection of comedy?  That is exactly what I am not sure of. The comfort of comedy is very good. Some part of me wants to do it and another part of me cannot think of it you know?   Bad news snappers Jon just announced he is not going to run in the upcoming elections but no worries. We are rooting for you anyway Jon. Thanks so much for sharing your story. If you want to find out more pick up copy of Jon's memoir Gnarr or just watch the documentary by the same name. We will have links on our website snapjudgment.org. That story was produced by Ana Alderstein with sound design by Leon Morimoto.   It is that time but understand it is never over. Get full episodes hours of amazing storytelling delivered - subscribe to the free SNAP JUDGMENT podcast snapjudgment.org. The SNAP nation conversation - catch us on Twitter Facebook. Now did you ever break into the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and rifle through their secret documents? Well here's a tip. The password is password. Many thanks to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange did not find your credit card number on the Internet and use it to purchase vintage Atari videogame consoles no. Prx.org. And even thought this is not the news - no way is this the news - in fact you could look up your house on Google Earth stick your hand outside the window only to see that same hand appear right there on your computer screen and you would still still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 