 And now snappers you know that times sure have changed. Nowadays you have got the young folk acting like old folk the old folk acting like young folk what with the nudity on the TV - people just do not know how to act. But we here at 't stand for it. We are going to go back to a different time 'ecause back in the 1950s a man named Alan Abel had more than just a few things to say about the moral state of this country.  I studied music and I played the drums. I played professionally during the late '50s and early '60s and I was playing at the Radio City Music Hall with the orchestra there. But then after a while I realized that it is a dead end with music. I did not want to just pound the drums all my life. No no no I wanted to do something different. I wanted to you know be funny and maybe write. One day while I was driving along the highway I rounded the bend and all of a sudden traffic was backed up three or four rows and I was actually second or third from a herd of cows. And they seemed to have formed a circle around a cow and a bull mating in the middle of the highway. And I watched people's expressions and I saw a couple of salesmen - they were laughing hysterically. And I saw the two nuns - their heads were buried so they could not see it. And there was another woman who just looked so chagrined and angry at what was going on. All these different expressions - for heaven's sake how could these animals do that? And I thought it is because the whole world is their bedroom. You know they do not have any sense of morality. And I thought I want to write a satire about clothing all these naked animals. And thus was born my idea called SINA - S-I-N-A - the Society for Indecency to Naked Animals whereby all pets should wear clothing. Any animal that stands higher than 4 inches or longer than 6. And how do you explain to a 4-year-old why mommy and daddy are dressed but Rover the dog is naked? You cannot do that. So they grow up with a double standard of living. And remember my motto - a nude horse is a rude horse. I wrote this up and sent in the article - at that time The Saturday Evening Post and this was the late '50s. And it was rejected angrily by the editor who said this is a deplorable organization we want nothing to do with it in this magazine. And I thought they believe it they think it is for real. So I printed up leaflets about clothing your pets and left them everywhere. And before I knew it I was going on the television and radio.   I work for a society against indecency to naked animals and we have millions of dollars in our private foundation but we want to educate people about the need to clothe all animals. My props included a half slip for a cow Bermuda shorts for horses and you know burlap sack for a deer. I had all these crazy garments.   There are more highway accidents due to the fact people take their eyes off the highway to look at a naked cow and bull and they run into a truck or a tree. I would like to warn people out there to keep away from the Jersey Turnpike with all the nudity. We declared that highway a moral disaster. It was outrageous - the people around the country really seriously believe that this campaign to clothe naked animals was justified and then it spread - at least literally millions.   We have over 50000 members of SINA in the United States and we are bring in about 400 members every week. People got together floats joined parades took clothed animals and they would have a mock barnyard on the float showing the animals wearing clothing.   We have a lab in New Jersey that does nothing but take clothes on and off cows all day long. Somebody had a private plane and they painted S-I-N-A our organization's initialed underneath their wings and then they would drop clothing for animals on a cow pasture on a big farm there so that they could put the clothing on the animals.   Now these are pantaloons for a nice kangaroo or if you have a pet deer you could use those. One woman in Santa Barbara offered a 40000 check to help the cause but I had no interest in making money because I knew it would be fraudulent. I did not ever cross that line.   Our motto is decency today means morality tomorrow. And remember a nude horse is a rude horse. Newspapers began to pick it up - The Daily News The New York Times than Playboy magazine San Francisco Chronicle. They had a headline on the first page - Animal Nudity in San Francisco is Sinful The Zoo is a Peep Show for Children. And they were all on this offbeat organization that they believed was real.   G. Clifford Prout Jr. is president SINA - the Society for Indecent to Naked Animals. The entire proud dynasty had clothed horses that went into battle. The Today Show said we want to have your president of the organization appear. So I got my friend Buck Henry who had a great sense of humor and he wrote The Graduate subsequently and Get Smart and you know Saturday Night Live - he was on that show for a long time with John Belushi. But Buck who at that time was unemployed he agreed. He said OK I will go out and pose as G. Clifford Prout the president of this nonexistent organization. And then Walter Cronkite he interviewed Buck Henry.   I am Walter Cronkite in for the CBS Evening News here on TV 12.  Buck went on to fool CBS network playing his role as the president.   Well during the days of the ancient Vikings and the great drinking halls where they held their feasts they had huge dogs with long hair that were used as napkins.  And Walter kept a straight face all along because he again believed it because the news you know is serious you do not want to play around. He really thought that this guy is a certified nut of course and this is his campaign.   Well at first it was a joy ride then it became a roller coaster and then a slippery slide not knowing how I was going to land. And after six years I was really tired of it. Buck Henry got tired of it and he called me and he said I am surrounded by reporters there is at least a dozen of them here. They are really angry and they want to know the truth and I cannot leave the room I cannot get dinner. What should I do? I said OK Buck we have had a great ride a great romp - tell them the truth. And so he did. He went out and got photographed. And it was a feature story in Time magazine I think it was around 1963 or '64. It was just one great big hoax. I think it just absolutely captured the imagination of people that there is some crazy guy out there and his team who wants to put clothes on naked animals. They never stopped and thought well it could be a joke. No because nobody would do something like that as a joke - I would and I did.   Thank you Alan Abel for sharing that story. Some of the music you have just heard was made by Alan Abel himself. And I will tell you what snappers - this man's antics do not stop here. Alan has perpetrated countless hoaxes. And check out the hilarious documentary Abel raises Cain created by Alan's daughter Jenny Abel along with Jeff Hockett. Special thanks to both of them. And Jeff and Jenny - they are working on a screenplay for a feature film based on Alan Abel's life story. To learn more we are going to have a link on our site snapjudgment.org. The piece was produced by Pat Mesiti-Miller.   You are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT's Original Prankster episode. And let me assure you no one is safe. In fact coming up next someone's even messing with Santa for real when riginal Prankster episode continues.  