 OK so in high school I went out with this girl Kerry right? And Kerry was real pretty and sweet and everything but Kerry had a rebel's heart. She started fights and she smoked cigarettes. She had books and movies and music that were all strictly forboden for the likes of me - the crazy church boy. But I like everyone else in school really dug her. Of course I was too shy to say anything so I figured I would go the buddy route bide my time and wait to see what might go down. And we were tight. One day lying on the carpet in her living room she reached out took my hand and she told me I was the best friend she ever had. I did not want to be her best friend but I figured it was something to build on. The next day I saw Kerry and she was furious. Did you see it? Did you see it? Did you see it? What? It turned out the school administration had sent out an informational flyer addressed to all the parents in the high school. It read does your teenager act tired or lethargic? Do they eat massive quantities of food one day and refuse to eat anything the next? Mood swings? Well if you answered yes to any of these questions your child is likely on the drugs but help is only a phone call away. Now you have got to understand this flyer thing they sent out would have made zero impact in my house. If it was not about Jesus or the church my parents were not interested. We never checked the mail except to dump it all in the trash. There were bills in there. A school brochure please. So no I did not see anything about the flyer but Kerry was not having any of it. They are bullying us and it is wrong. And the more she talked about it the more she got everyone including herself riled up. I say we have a walkout. If we all stick together we will send a message that this is not the way we are going to be treated. Who is with me? Shoot I am with you fine Kerry. They cannot send pieces of paper to our house. So the plan was at 45 p.m. precisely during fourth hour everyone was going to get up and walk out. So there we were sitting in history class with Mr. Perkins. And he is going on about how some things are worth defending some things are worth dying for. Then he stops and he says I hear there is going to be a walkout in a few minutes. Now the teachers know? And you know what? I am not going to tell you what to do. You have to make that decision for yourself. But if you do do something like this right before you graduate you better know it can mark you. It can go on your permanent record and in the end you have to ask yourself was it worth it? So take a stand if you need to but make sure it is the stand you want to take. Everyone kind of looks over at everyone else. Mr. Perkins gives his teacher nod and goes back to history. Five minutes 'til show time three minutes two - 45. Kerry stands up slams her books to the floor and walks out - alone - all by herself. Everyone's just looking straight ahead possibly thinking what I am thinking which is yeah we are with you in spirit Kerry but I do not know if it is really worth this fuss with the permanent record and all but know that we are applauding you the whole way. Kerry disappears from view and I see her return to the doorframe waiting for us - waiting for me - looking baffled and lost and small. And I remember when she reached out and took my hand and told me that I was her best friend. I stand up I place my books gently upon the chair. I wave to the class to Mr. Perkins and I walk out into the hallway with Kerry - the super empty hallway. We are still hopeful like maybe everyone's watches were not quite synced up to the right time but the halls remain empty. Crickets. So we walk out to the parking lot stand around kick rocks not talking about it. And finally I brave up. Hey you think you and I could ever be boyfriend and girlfriend? Is that why you followed me out here? No. Maybe. I do not think so. When she reached out and held my hand that time I knew it was a consolation prize like we are still friends right? And I thought you know what? We are friends. Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR we proudly present The Pact. Amazing stories from real people who have got a promise to keep. My name is Glynn Washington. Buckle up 'ecause you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. 