 OK so I have an uncle. He likes to tinker fix stuff invent things. And like the rest of my extended family he knows that conventional wisdom is nothing but a trick from the man designed to turn us into sheep. We all know this. We also know that our job as a family is to fight the power. So when I was 12 years old one day my uncle pulled out a long tube that was hanging in the back of my grandmother's front closet. And from the tube he drew out this big sheet of drafting paper. And first he shut the door and the windows to make sure no secret white agents were running around before he told me  look here the man is running out of power. He is just polluting the earth in search of energy - billions of dollars wasted every day just to keep stuff going. But this is going to change everything. And he unfurled his drafting paper on my grandmother's dining room table. And on the top left corner it read perpetual motion machine.  Now they going to kill me if they catch wind of this project. I just want you to know in case of such a eventuality - who is going to kill - see this machine will run forever with no resources providing an abundant source of energy. They do not want that to happen. So we got to throw the man off my trail while I hook up the prototype. We? Should not we just send it to a scientist - make sure everything checks out?  Boy did you hear what I said? Of course it checks out. I checked it. Do you want somebody to steal all the money we going to get? Now help me hide this where the man cannot find it. And that is just what I did. I hid the plans somewhere safe. And time went on and on. And neighborhoods changed. My uncle moved on to other projects - became forgetful in his older years. And then just two days ago with talk of climate change and global warming it occurred to me that it could be I hid the one idea that could save us from ourselves. But I had no idea where I put it. So then I figured that even if I were to find the plans of the savior free energy source blueprint I would probably need one more thing - proof. Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR we proudly present Proof - amazing stories where someone irrefutably connects point A with point B. My name is Glynn Washington. Do remember to ask the old folks where they hid the silver because this is SNAP JUDGMENT. 