 Now we are going to kick off today's SNAP episode way way south of the border. Christian Dunn  played in a 16-piece party band in Colombia. He played for fun and to make some extra money but one night after rocking out the countryside he and his band mates piled onto a bus for the long ride home through the mountains. But instead of making it straight home they were going to have a much longer night than they thought.  So I was in a bus late at night - about 2 a.m. I guess. We were tired from performing. I thought the night was over when the bus stopped. I looked up to see three guys in camouflage uniforms and big guns. So they said  - get off the bus we are going to have to search you. We know that that area is a red zone. It is dangerous in there because we know it is dominated from groups like guerrillas and we were used to getting stopped by different forces - sometimes the police sometimes paramilitaries sometimes guerrillas. But they all let us go as soon as they find out we are just musicians. And they would ask us to get out of the bus. So we get off the bus. We were leaning against the bus hands up and I was trying to figure out what did we do wrong? They could not take us for ransom because we were just struggling musicians. No one could tell we have any money that was obvious. After they search us and find out that we were right - we were just musicians - I thought what is next? What is going on? Why is it taking too long to let us go when they said you are going to have to come with us. We are taking you. Oh man. That was a time when I started to get sick. I said this is bad. This is serious. I was dizzy. My heart was beating very fast. We knew people who have been taking or even killed by the guerrillas. So they told us you have to come with us and we were blindfolded. And we drive maybe like about three minutes I guess with the bus inside the jungle. We got out of the bus. We already took off the blindfold. And they said OK we are going to have to work. So we were hiking in this place. It is dark. It is cold. We have no light just guiding from a guy with a flashlight. And we were walking probably like 20 minutes and suddenly we start hearing the music far away. The closer we get we could hear the music louder and we could see like more light. We finally found the camp. It was like a farm that we called pinka . They had a few bulb lights - light bulbs hanging in the wires. In the clearing they have like some speakers with a few microphones and they have a mixer. And they said their commander was having a birthday party and he wanted a band to play at the party. We were just like nervous and also trying to follow the director. He said OK this is the place. We are going to play. Let us set up our stuff. From the beginning I was trying so hard to avoid to seeing people directly in their eyes because you know you watch all of those movies and like oh that guy saw me we cannot let him go. So I was trying to look down and that is why I guess I remember a lot of details about their clothes because I was not looking at them in their face. I was looking down at their bodies and their boots. Most of the people were actually carrying guns. Most of the people were wearing guerrilla's uniforms. A lot of times we were using body language especially like looking at each other. And like we tried to not talk too much because we did not want to bring any attention. Suddenly we start seeing the people like really enjoying the music and having fun. And everybody was just happy and dancing. And I guess it was the first time for a minute we all kind of forgot where we were and with who we were with and started kind of like smiling and laughing a little bit for real without me pretending to be nice to them. We were enjoying the music. We were just playing good. And as a musician that always makes you feel good makes you feel happy. And then - gunshots. Pop pop pop pop pop. One of those guys very close to us start firing his gun up in the air. All the fun we were having all the rock and roll mood changed. My first reaction in the moment was like I really wanted to run but I could not. It is like when you are having a dream those kind of dreams that you see somebody is going to kill you and you try to run and you cannot. Your body feels like very slow. And we remember how messed up and how fragile that situation was. Anytime even they can kill you 'ecause they just can. They have the power. They can do it. The later it got the drunker they got the got the more worried we were the more we felt like we needed to get out of there. Our band leader was trying his best to get us out but it was hard because they really did not want us to go. One of the guerrilla guys came and said hey do you guys want to eat some food? We have a lot of food. Come down and eat. When we were eating we talked about hey so what is going on? When are we going back home? They did not tell you anything. We were asking the director. We were doing this quietly definitely. We were like hey so what is going on? Oh yeah yeah yeah. Do not worry. They already told me that they just want us to play a little bit more for the second set and then we can go. And it was a hey we should play some kind of like a slow song that they can make them like feel like sleepy or tired - they want to finish the party. It worked. We were playing like the slow song. And for some reason they were like just like coming down. One of those drunk guys like were trying to like walk around with the bar. And they would show up and like I think I need to sit down or something. We would see like people like spreading out more like going to chairs and tables. At some point the guerrilla guy came and did a sign to the band leader and the band leader told us OK cut. We can stop. Let us take off. I was happy but not as much happy as when we were walking out in the forest again like breathing. I am alive. By this time the sky was turning that orange-pink color of the early morning before sunrise. We could see enough to find our way. I remember it was very quiet. We were silent just making our way down the mountain listening to the hundreds of birds that were waking up the forest. We promised each other that we would not talk about that with anybody else - never - not even our parents not even our girlfriends not because our fear of the guerrillas but because the paramilitaries who were the enemies of the guerrillas who were controlling our hometown. And we knew that if they could get any information about we been playing for the guerrillas it could be the end. They could kill us. I was feeling like I needed to talk about this a little bit at least with my father. I was in the middle of this decision. I was thinking yes and I was thinking also the danger it could bring. But when I was thinking about it after two weeks a neighbor that I knew from a long time ago he got killed and thrown to the Magdalena River with a message in his T-shirt in his belly saying  - this happened to you because you were a snitch. This changed all my thoughts about sharing this with my father because I knew if I could open my mouth that could happen to me. And I could not be here telling the story.  We are so thankful that after recent changes in Colombia Christian Dunn was finally able to share that story. Stay safe and please keep playing the guitar. That peace was produced by Jennifer Dunn and Nancy Lopez with sound design by Renzo Gorrio. Now when SNAP JUDGMENT continues a guy makes a promise of epic proportions to himself and a mother's child tries to fulfill her final wish when SNAP JUDGMENT The Pact continues. Stay tuned.  