 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT. Today we are exploring the power of a promise the limits of a vow. Do people mean what they say? Should they? For our next story we are cashing in all of our frequent flyer miles in order to head off to London. SNAP favorite Johnathan Grubert has the story.  Stuart Sharp and his wife Jo ran a pub in the English countryside where he lived with his mom and daughter. On the eve of the birth of his first son Stuart and his wife already had a name for the baby picked out - Ben. But things went badly during Ben's delivery.  And when we got to the hospital she was in labor and the doctor was there. It was - in those days it was a very cold frugal room. And she was lying on a slab like a lamb to the slaughter. It was a very strange environment. And the doctor was there and suddenly he rushed past me out of the room called the ambulance for the big center in Leicester. Eventually we managed to get her to the hospital in Leicester. And we did not know at that point that Ben was already dead. Jo...  Inside of her?  Yeah. She would had a uterus rupture. When they did deliver Ben they actually caused so much damage to her she nearly died as well. So my wife was nearly dead Ben was dead. It was devastating.  Wow. What'd you do?  I did not know what to do.  Stuart buried Ben in a shoebox-sized grave. The night of the funeral he went to bed and had a dream a dream that would change his life.  And I was back at the gravesite with Ben in the dream. I saw Ben rise from the coffin and sort of travel up towards the skies. And suddenly I started hearing this wonderful angelic music. And then I heard these angels came down and spoke to me. And one of the angels said to me Ben is safe now. And in these circumstances we always leave somebody a gift and the gift for you is you will remember everything. And I could hear every single note of this piece of music. I heard everything.  Now can I just quickly stop you here and ask you? Are you religious Stuart?  No.  Do you believe in God?  No no no no no.  What did you think was going on?  I just thought there was some great spiritual power that was going to guide me to do what I was meant to do from Ben's death.  The music in Stuart's mind was so persistent so urgent that he decided to do something dramatic. He decided he had to devote the rest of his life to getting this music written and recorded no matter what the cost. That meant leaving his wife and daughter and moving to London despite having no formal musical training or musical talent. He waited a year to break the news to his wife and mother. It did not go well.  She said look you need therapy after what you have gone through. I understand. You need to go and talk to someone. And I said I will give you six months' notice and in six months to the day I am going to leave for London. Of course they both thought sure and they just shrugged it off. Yes six months. Every month I would say five months to go four months to go a month to go. They still thought it was a joke. And I said listen I am serious. And when it came to the day of going and I got my little old Ford car and my squash bag and I said I am going. And my wife was like what? I was absolutely...  Because there is a lot of people listening to this right now who are saying to themselves you just abandoned your family man.  Absolutely I know that. I know that. I said to her through this dream I will make you extremely happy. We will travel the world together. The girls will go to places and see things and get an education they could not have dreamed of. That actually made it worse.  Yeah because it sounds like the things you have to say to yourself to do something like leave your family.  Yeah.  It sounds like an excuse.  Yeah oh absolutely. And I left for London on that day.  What did it feel like when you got into that car and started driving towards London?  I felt that I was going to do what I was destined to do. I expected that the voices - the angels would tell me exactly what to do. So I had never been to London before. It was very miserable weather. I drove along this road. I just kept going round in circles. The traffic was very heavy. I pulled off the road and found a car park. And I just stopped in the car park said well I will stay here. And it was a huge car park with garbage bins in the corner. So I popped in between the garbage bins and stayed there waiting for my next instruction.  And?  I did not get one.  Stuart lived in his car and Jo gave up waiting for him after six months. She divorced him. He stayed in London waiting for the voices to tell him what to do. He sold his car he moved onto the streets but the voices said nothing. Stuart fell into despair and moved into a hostel for the homeless. He would lost everything everything except the angelic music in his head. And then he walked by the window of a secondhand shop and saw a guitar.  And I would only got a few pounds whatever it was in my pocket and I said this is all I have got. Is it possible you could drop the price? The very nice lady said not really. What do you want it for anyway? I said well look I am going to compose a symphony and I need it to get the notes out so I can give it to someone else. And she eventually said OK you can have it.  What'd you do with it?  I took it back to the hostel. I used to sit in this little - tiny little room which was full of cockroaches next to the kitchen. Cockroaches crawl over me every night just trying to figure out this guitar. So while I am fiddling around with these notes I start being able to pick out some of the melody line on the guitar. I thought yeah yeah I can do this I can do this. Yeah I could not write the notes down but what I did - I went back to the Towsnsend's  shop and I bought from them for a very few pence a very old tape recorder. And I took it back and started playing all the melodies and stuff into this tape recorder until I would filled two hours of this tape - everything I could hear. And so I thought well now I have got something I can work with.  One day Stuart took his guitar and recorder and sat himself in front of the BBC Studios close to the homeless shelter to try his luck at getting noticed.  And while I was sitting there quite a few people walked by and thought I was begging but I was not. And one gentleman came by and he just looked at me and did not say anything. He walked on. And he stopped 50 meters later and turned around and came back and said what are you doing? The guitar? Are you a buscar? I said no no I am writing a symphony. Oh you are a composer? I said well sort of. He said well have you got school? I said no I cannot write music. And he went how are you going to write a symphony then? I said because I have got it on tape and I can play little bits of it. He said where are you living? And I said well I am living rough actually. And I am living in a hostel for the homeless and just bumming around really. I am looking for the next stage in my development of this great story. He said I am a jazz musician. Look why do not you come and stay with me for a couple of hours? I will take you back to my house. I have got a piano. Let me hear your melodies and I will see what I can do on the piano see if I can extemporize it for you. So I said well that is really kind of you. And he took me back to his house. His wife was absolutely furious. She said to him are you going completely crazy? This guy could be a murderer. We have got a child - got a baby and you are bringing him - well he was not to stay long just for a few hours. Just kindly make him a bit of soup or something. And I stayed there for six weeks. The first night I started playing the melody and he started feeling it on the piano. And in a couple of hours what he would done on this piano - and I am telling you Johnathan - was phenomenal.  The jazz musician was Anthony Wade. And yes this is actually audio from those original recordings in his house back in 1982.   By the end of those six weeks Stuart and Anthony had pretty well scored the entire symphony. Anthony said it was so good it could make Stuart rich and famous and should be played by the London Philharmonia Orchestra. That was the good news.  My only advice to you is go out and make a fortune 'ecause you will have to pay for it all yourself.  And how much?  Well I mean we are talking about over a million pounds.  A million pounds?  Because it is not just going to the Philharmonia Orchestra - as explained to me. You are going to need orchestrators you are going to need arrangers you are going to need the best studios in the world. You will need a rehearsal orchestra. You will need this you will need that you will need the other. And before you do all that we would have to work on it together to make an electronic version of it. And for that you will need to hire a studio you will need to hire computers and me - will be very expensive. So on and so forth.  So here you were at the cusp of realizing your dream. Oh and by the way mister homeless man you are going to have to pay a million pounds to do it. What'd you think when he said that to you?  I was excited. You ask me to make a million pounds and I will go and make a million pounds.  He started off by getting a job at the homeless center. Then he got various sales jobs working exclusively on commission something for which he showed an uncanny ability. He spent years flipping houses for the local council and then he started doing it for himself. Many houses and 15 years later he had saved one million pounds.  Then I tracked Anthony Wade down and I said to him are you ready to go? He said go where? The project. He could not quite work out what was going on. So I took my bank statement with me. I said right you gave me the answer of what to do here is the money. Let us go.  And how long did it take to complete?  It took five years working every single day to do an electronic version of the whole symphony. Once I got all that done then I presented it to the conductor of the Philharmonia with the tape with a score please listen to this.  And?  He was not too impressed because how could a homeless person with no musical ability write a score that will be good enough for the London Philharmonia Orchestra? And he said to me it is not a question of money Stuart. It is a question of credibility. The London Philharmonia Orchestra are not going to record basically rubbish.  He had not even listened to it.  He had not listened to it no. And then a few weeks later I got a call from him at midnight and he was crying on the phone. He said Stuart I have just listened to your tape. I have been blubbering for the last five minutes. It is wonderful. I cannot believe it. I am so sorry I did not listen to it before. The reason I did not listen to it before was because I thought how can I break the bad news to you after all you have gone through? But now I can see with the London Philharmonia recording it this will be one of the most magnificent things we have ever done.  Stuart needed to find even more money. It needed to be scored again. The orchestra had to be booked years in advance. And then one day the conductor of one of the greatest orchestras in the world turned to Stuart and said...  Now it is right for the London Philharmonia Orchestra.  OK so the day comes of the recording. Describe the room to me.  It was a very big room to enclose 80 musicians. It was a big recording studio in London - massive. Oh my God is this really going to happen?  It is the sound. They were all tuning their instruments?  They were all tuning their instruments and the hairs on the back of my neck began standing up 'ecause I do not know what to expect. I do not know if it is going to be what I heard in my head or something else.  When the moment came when the conductor stood before them...  When the wand came down and as they started playing it was exactly what I heard in my head - the trumpet call for the angels the voices the choir 'ecause it had to be a choir as well. A massive choir it was not just an orchestra. It was a big choir joining in it. It was exactly going in sync and I am thinking wait a minute is that the orchestra doing it or is that what is in my head? It was so strange. And when they would finished suddenly I heard this noise. It was like applause. And the conductor said Stuart come over here. This ovation is for you. For me?  It is hard to know if the musicians of the London Philharmonia were applauding for the music or Stuart's journey or both. Nevertheless they gave him a standing ovation. Allan Wilson the conductor of the London Philharmonia is quoted as saying I had to admit I was stunned. I have never seen any orchestra anywhere in the world give any composer an ovation like that before. Stuart's symphony has never been performed. It is never been distributed by a major record label but he had achieved his goal. Stuart had gotten the music out of his head and recorded by one of the greatest orchestras in the world. What is the first thought that went through your head?  The first thought went through my head - I cannot wait to send this to my ex-wife. I cannot wait to send it to her 'ecause it is so beautiful. I am sure it will not hurt her because - and she knew the journey I would had. And I sent the CD to her and I got a call from her the next day. I did not know what she was going to say. And she said Stuart - uh oh - I played your Angeli Symphony and I have had the windows open and I have played it full blast. I have to tell you it is magnificent. And I cried.  Let me ask you you created a lovely family. You had a terrible tragedy but your family was still intact. Then you had this dream that came to you - that frankly could have been psychosis for all we know. If you had to do this all over again would you do it the same way?  I did not have any choice. You have been given a gift go and use it. So there is no choice for me.  Was it worth it?  I do not know.  Thanks for sharing your story Stuart. That piece was produced by Johnathan Grubert. He is the host of the amazing podcast The State We are In distributed by WBEZ. I highly recommend it. That piece was edited by Anna Sussman with sound design by Pat Mesiti-Miller. Now there are some promises you never want to make - never ever. Find out what they are when SNAP JUDGMENT The Pact episode continues. Stay tuned.  