 We are going to kick off today's SNAP JUDGEMENT episode across the pond and sensitive listeners should know that while the story is not graphic it does allude to dark events.  I wake up by myself in a hospital bed. Everything around me is strange. And the next thing that happens is an hysterical woman who is running around the bed screaming and shouting - getting very over-excited - and is saying do you remember me? Do you remember me? It is me. It is me it - I have no idea who she is - never seen her before. So I get quite distressed by her actions and they have to ask her to leave the room.  Alex Lewis has just woken up from a weeklong coma from a terrible motorcycle accident. A.  I see one person and I immediately recognize that he is my twin brother. So at that point I am feeling quite calm and I say hello Marcus to him. And he says hi back to me. And then Marcus keeps saying to me do not you know who that is? That is your mother. And I said no I do not know who she is. And he said well do you know who you are? And I say no. He now realizes I do not know anything at all or even who I am - how to walk ride a bicycle my work my girlfriend my family - everything is gone. I did not even know my name.  The first 18 years of Alex's life have vanished. He can barely walk or talk. At first this was terrifying. A.  But with having the confidence of having my twin brother with me did not worry me. I had that massive security. I start asking him what did we used to do? What was our childhood like? He would tell me we used to have great dinner parties at home. We would eat with our parents all the time lots of people would come around - going on family holidays in the south of France. These were the start of him filling me in on my idyllic childhood. My mother and my brother eventually come to take me home. We arrive. It is quite a large house - two hours outside of London. As I enter the house I meet this much older gentleman who turns out to be my stepfather who is incredibly formal and just shakes my hand and introduces himself - no hugging no nothing. My mother seems to be completely opposite and just very very loud - very very out-there. So I took that on board. I then meet my younger siblings Amanda and Oliver who at this point are only three and five.  Alex learns to adapt to his family and tries to pick up where he left off prior to the accident being an 18-year-old teenager. Marcus is there every step of the way. He teaches Alex how to drive takes him to parties and acts as his wing man. A.  We would always go out together. If we went to a new person's house we would get to the door and then I would repeatedly ask him what are their names? How do I know this person? Have I gone out with this person - with this girl - or have not I? Everything - so we would have a quick little chat and then bang we would go in and then start talking to people. I learned very quickly how to just adjust without people realizing that I had really no idea who they were but they knew me very well. And I could continue - just flow on in a conversation.  He was able to cope without having a memory but he still wanted the keys to his past. A.  I did spend quite a lot of time going to see all sorts of people from hypnotherapists to doctors to memory specialists. Nothing ever worked. I never ever got anything back. So as I have my brothers - he gave me back my memory. So I gave up and I just stopped asking questions. So I did not really search. After a while the amnesia - that did not define me as a person but I still had a niggling feeling inside of something - of not being evil to connect a hundred percent with people. I would always knew that there was something amiss but I could never work out what it was.  12 years go by and while Alex's memory never returned his brother always stood by his side. A.  Which coming up for my 30th birthday - and our mom traditionally would always take us out on our birthday. So we were waiting for her to take us to a fancy restaurant in London. She is late. My brother then has a premonition at this point which is a very strange thing to do - well it was for me - and said he felt that something was wrong and that she was collapsed and she was lying at the bottom of the stairs in her house. And I said how could you possibly know that? So we called the doctor and they saw her car open outside the door - front door open. And they went and found her and sure enough she was lying at the bottom of the stairs. Turns out that she would had a brain hemorrhage and she would had a fit and she was lying at the bottom of the stairs. And then they basically told us that she would live for 12 months and she lived for 12 months pretty much exactly as they said. We were all present when she died and I was very upset that she would gone. I had an overwhelming feeling even though I was never that close to her. Maybe I just learned that that is what you did. So I just felt emotionally upset to the point of crying and everything else that she had gone. And it is only at this point that I notice that everyone else in the room my siblings were not. They were not crying over her death. They had - what I could clearly see was a relief that she had died. And I am thinking hang on a sec our mother has just died. Is nobody bothered about that? And they just said no we are not. That was a shock. Something was not right. That is when I started to question the whole of our life really - the whole of our house the whole of our family. From there some time went on so I just basically pushed that strange thought to the back of my mind.  After the funeral Alex and his siblings start going through their mother's belongings. A.  We would come down every weekend and start sorting it out which in a way was like a treasure hunt. We would just open drawers and find things. We were finding 50 notes you know under floorboards and stacked in drawers and so the hunt was on. We then open another drawer and then it contained all of our birthday cards with all of the money that had ever been given to us throughout our childhood. Another cupboard had every single Easter egg we would ever been given but had never been given to us. She had kept them all. And I am thinking this is all beginning a bit odd. Then we get into her bedroom. And then in the back of the wardrobe there is another secret wardrobe and we find a key and we open it. And we look inside and there is just loads of - I do not know how to describe it really - it was basically sex toys and stuff that you just - at that age - you just - from your - it is your mother's. You really do not want to deal with that. And then we get into her writing desk and we start finding letters - love letters from lots of people - from all sorts of different men - not from our father. And then that is when we find the naked picture of me and my twin brother aged 12 with our heads cut off. My mind is going round in whirls and I am starting to question what the hell is going on. There must be secrets within this family that I do not know about and that I have not been given the full story. And that is the first time that I started challenging my siblings to what everything was about. Why were we never given a front door key to our own house? Why were we never let in unless we were allowed to be there? And no one would say anything - complete silence. I start questioning my brother about it and he just puts it all down to it is not a big deal. She - OK - she might have - maybe she was a little bit crazy and let us just move on. We have got other things to deal with. So he just belittled all of it to the point of me stop thinking about that it was strange. So once we finish the house and everything - soon after that my younger brother announces that he is going into therapy. And for me that is like well why would we do that? We have had quite an idyllic life and our parents were a bit you know - a bit eccentric. Then my twin brother then announces he is also going into therapy. Which I thought was strange and I thought OK we have lost both our parents we are all quite young - I could see why they would need to do that. So I decided to go myself as well.  Individually they all go to the same therapist. But Alex did not get much out of it. While he could sense something was wrong his siblings never talked about family problems and his therapist could not reveal confidential information. So Alex turns to another therapist named Vivian who invites him to one of her group sessions. A.  We spent the whole weekend talking about everyone's problems. I did not really see where we - where this was going at all. And then we started talking about our childhood. Of course I was not contributing much to that because I did not have any and then something snapped. I am crying uncontrollably. I have no idea why am doing that. Something was triggered to me - completely just snapped. I sit down and then in a flash of an instant second I then just pass out and leave my body. And I will never forget this. I had this experience of arriving on the other side of the room and watching my lifeless body on the floor and all the people are going like - running around. And then Vivian came in and took control of the situation and then just sat down and put her hands along me and said you are going to come back and you are going to come back now. And she pulled me back into my body and I looked at her and I said what was that about? And then she said there is a bit more to your life than you knew and you have been sexually abused by your family. And I just could not believe it. And I was like no no no no. You have got this wrong. This has not happened. I said you are making a mistake. You cannot just say a statement like that. She said I am making that statement and it is true and it is your mother. I said no no no no. That is wrong. She said you need to go home and you need to talk to your siblings seriously about this problem. I said I will be doing that but I still do not believe you. The next day I went and - to my twin brother's house and my brother was in the kitchen.  I was standing in my house and Alex came in. And I would had a perfectly nice day and I was feeling rather happy and chirpy. A.  I said to him I have just been on this workshop. I said this is what Vivian said. She said this extraordinary statement to me. How can this be true? Tell me it is not. And he had a cup of tea in his hand he looked me in the eye and he just went white as a ghost. M.  The blood drained out of me. I mean it was the one thing that I never really thought was ever going to happen. A.  And I said is it true - yes or no? I got quite cross with him. And he just said... M.  Well Alex I really do not know how to describe it but - I am really sorry to say but it is true yes. And then I left - I had to leave the room and go outside 'ecause I was freaking out. A.  I am just now - I am just thinking this is crazy.  This - my whole life has just suddenly changed in one day. I have gone from fairly normal to thinking there is something strange going on to absolute turmoil. I am starting to question the rest of my life and everything Marcus has told me and what is true and what is not true. The holidays we went on - did they happen? The people coming around for dinner parties - did that happen? And I am just thinking is everything a lie? M.  I found myself standing in the garden trying to work out whether I would done the right thing - whether I should have told him years before. I am feeling waves of guilt that maybe I had done the wrong thing. And I never really anticipated that he would ever find out. A.  I then challenge my twin brother again. I said Marcus is it - this is crazy - how? All this time you have been lying to me and you have not told me this. Why would you do that? And he just said... M.  Okay Alex I did not - I know that you are angry with me I know that you are confused and I know that you feel that I have betrayed you and lied to you but I did it to protect you. I had a choice and I wanted to give you a better childhood. I wanted to - you to have a normal teenage life. And the only way I could do that was to give you a different childhood. And I did it for you and I did it out of love and I would do it again if I had been in the same situation. A.  After the initial shock of finding all this out my mind has calmed down. And then I just come to the realization that he has done this out of love and I do not have any animosity to him.  Alex put yourself in your brother's shoes - what do you think those reasons were? A.  Interesting you ask that - I think he did it for two reasons. One it was just too much information to give me at that time when I was not capable of learning it. And secondly I think it gave him a route out of the craziness that was happening around him - some way for him to actually put that in a box and leave it there so that he could also almost believe the life he would given me and have it himself. M.  I think the point is that I mean if we had gone through that without this accident and without Alex losing his memory we would have been focusing a lot more on the abuse and what had happened to us and being negative and really we had to be positive the whole time. So you know we would go to my mom's birthday party and we would make everything fun and make everything nice purely for Alex. Which in a way implicated the situation for me as well.  Marcus you were hiding the truth to protect your brother. What did you think would happen if he found out? M.  Yeah I played it out that he would never forgive me that we would lose our connection we would lose our love for each other. And it did for a very very quick period of time. But I guess that I had not really estimated quite how to strong our brotherly love and our twinship is. It is almost as if we are one person in that sense. A.  That is pretty good. I do not know what I could add to that really.  Thank you so much Alex and Marcus Lewis for sharing your story. To hear more about their experience they have got a book Tell Me Who I Am. We have a link at snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Davey Kim. When SNAP JUDGEMENT returns we are lost at home and lost in the woods. And we are going to need someone to help us find our way. Welcome to SNAP JUDGEMENT. The guide episode continues. Stay tuned. 