 OK so you submit a paper to a scientific journal detailing a breakthrough advance that leap frogs everything you ever thought of of modern medicine. Do they give you a medal? Maybe stick your picture on the front of their publication? They do not. They do not. First they ask you where did your Ph.D. come from? And when you say well I do not got any Ph.D. they send your paper back to you unread - they do not even read it. And you know I cannot stand coffee but Coca-Cola made of noxious chemicals and these energy drinks - who would put that stuff in their body? Still I wake up so tired. But wake up might be a bit of an exaggeration 'ecause I never go to sleep but you know what I am saying. Day after day after day awake - always awake enough to make some people crazy but not me of course I am fine. I just figured there is got to be something I can drink something to make the spinning go away. You do not need a Ph.D. to make spinning go away. I read books Internets. So I mix stuff up mix it in the blender to see if it will make the voices settle down. I know I did not mention the voices 'ecause you will think it is important - it is not and that is why I did not say it. But I mix the stuff up you know in my smoothies. I make smoothies blueberry smoothies banana smoothies passion fruit mango smoothies lots of smoothies out there you know. I sip the new one the one I just mixed up and it tastes like something I have not had since I was 8 years old. This smoothie it tastes like a nap. Like drinking the longest most luxurious Saturday afternoon peanut butter chocolate chip cookie with bananas afternoon nap I had back before my brain got better. Well I remember. I remember and I think the world has got to know about this for the benefit of all before the Ph.D.s steal it. So I go down to the University I tell them I need to speak to the dean again. They say no please go home but I wait outside for several hours and I know that I have to try something different because people they do not understand. So when the dean comes out I remember mother's angry dog. She would rub his belly rub it to make him feel better. So I go to the dean ask him not to run away and I start to rub the dean's belly to make him feel better. And I tell him about the smoothie I made and I brought him some so he could taste it himself. And I pat the dean on the head and I tell the dean that he is a very good boy that he is a very good boy. But the dean does not feel better he gets angry. And I understand he is angry. And I know he will feel better if he will just taste the smoothie. I try to pour some of it in his mouth but he moves his head back and forth he sputters he does not drink the liquid I am trying to funnel into him - it is very frustrating. And the officers try to tase me of course that does not work. And they hit me with their sticks until they get tired and they tell me that I am not allowed to ever come near the university again. And I know I know if I had a Ph.D. I could come to the university and maybe too if I was better at the speaking stuff. I see the people they are talking to each other. One speaks and the other speaks and they take turns - it is the timing I see it is in the timing. And I try to run up to the women and tell them about my credit that is due me. I move my face in front of their face and I shout to make sure they understand. More people come they hit me with their sticks until they too get tired. The talking it just does not work so I think maybe I could make a smoothie to help with the timing so I say things and people do not run away. I think maybe just a little something so - it was not that I meant to create another person no just a little something for the timing. I mix and I mix and I stir and I mix and put it all in a blender with some frozen mangos and bananas and I drink it right down. And sure it feels strange like someone else is inside me riding me - some other fella - and this guy he does not much like smoothie. He runs straight to the store I run straight to the store grab some whiskey and drink the whole bottle right there in the Safeway aisle nine quick as you please. I grab another bottle for the road and start racing down the street. Then we are in one of those night club establishments. He spots two women talking to each other then saddles up and starts speaking to them both. He asks them what your interests are? Who you be with? I got some things that make you smile what number should I dial? You gon' be here for a while? I am gon' call my crew you can call your crew we can rendezvous and do the dodayoulado . His timing the timing's unbelievable. One of them mentions she has a hot tub and then we are in the hot tub finishing off his whiskey and the laughing - and then it is all me without that other guy. And I have to answer the woman asking questions. I tell her I am not familiar with the concept of skinny-dipping and I have got to leave at once to continue my work. At home I mix up some more smoothie and that other guy comes back and he is angry and he shouting where are the girls? What am I doing in this stupid apartment? And all of this he starts knocking things over and he wants to punch me like everyone else does but he is I and I am him. And I feel him thinking thinking thoughts I never thought before. He calls the university which I know is a very bad idea but people answer and they laugh and he says he will e-mail them and he does. Then he has an appointment. Some researchers have already examined my work and are blown away by the implications could I please come in to discuss my findings? We go to the office I am waiting for their security team but instead a very attractive fat woman in a pantsuit comes out smiling. She looks down at her notes looks up at me and says Dr. Jekyll I presume? I take a little sip of smoothie I carry it in a flask now. Then he smiles at her. Wrong on two counts he says. I am not a doctor 'ecause I do not have a Ph.D. And he breathes but the timing always with the timing this guy - looks her up and down. Jekyll that is my middle name. Instead please called me Mr. - Mr. Hyde. Well today from PRX and NPR SNAP JUDGMENT proudly presents All in your Head. Amazing stories from real people discovering that what they see and what everyone else sees are not the same thing. My name is Glynn Washington buckle up 'ecause this is SNAP JUDGMENT. 