 Now then we are going to start off today's Second Skin episode with a story from a man forced to assume a role that he never saw coming.  Per Gullestrup was the CEO of a Danish shipping firm called the Clipper Group. And on November 8 2008 he received the kind of news that no CEO of a shipping firm wants to receive.  And it was as I recall early afternoon on a Friday and one of my colleagues came to my office and said that we have just had an alarm go off from the CEC Future. And then because we could track the vessel we could see that the ship was starting to move erratically. And at that point we knew that something terrible was amiss.  The CEC Future was a cargo vessel that had been passing through the Gulf of Aden off the Somali coast. And Per soon learned that it had been hijacked successfully by pirates.  You get the first initial shock and you kind of take that in. And then it was just utter disbelief and frustration because as a ship owner you find out very very quickly that you are absolutely alone with this because the cavalry's not coming to the rescue here. You cannot call 911 and then say hey my ship was hijacked. Come and help me.  Right. So this is not Captain Phillips.  No. No. I wish I could have called the American Navy when it happened believe me.  But still Per knew that did not make him any less responsible for the lives of the hostages. There were 13 crewmembers mostly Russian who were now being held ransom. They had never met Per but he was their boss. And it was his job to get them home.  Because we - we are not sitting there frontline and taking this. It is the crewmembers that are paying the price here. And yeah we can go home and eat our dinner and turn on the television and go to bed again but we are not sitting out there taking what they have been taking - because you need to put yourself in the shoes of a seafarer who is being held hostage by 15-year-old Somalis who are crazed on khat with Kalashnikovs who do not sleep for days on end who are threatening the crews with all sort of things sometime even physical abuse. And this psychological trauma that they experience the longer that goes on the bigger the chances that they will not be able to go back to have a normal life.  Per's goal was to get his crew back safe and sound as fast as possible so he hired an outside consultant. That is what most shipping companies do in this kind of situation. And the first thing the consultant did was hire a middleman a dedicated negotiator that would act as a buffer between them and the pirates. In this case it is a person we will only know by his first name Stephen.  Having a person like him in a situation like this is paramount. If you have never dealt with this before you are just not prepared for it because you do not want to get emotionally involved in this situation because there is a great risk that you are going to lose your cool. And also you are going to make mistakes detrimental to the crews that are sitting on the ship.  Per already knew of another CEO who had tried to negotiate with the pirates personally no middleman. And it had dragged out for over two and a half years under terrible conditions which is why Per had no problem using Stephen who would be the only person allowed to talk to the pirates directly.  And he would always do that from his car and I do not know why exactly he did that but that is the way he operated. And then he would have a tape recorder with him and every single conversation would be taped. And then it could be played back to us afterwards.   Hello?  Hello. How are you doing Stephen? This is Ali.  These are the recordings from the actual negotiations. The guy Stephen's speaking to Ali is the pirates' own middleman.   Hello Ali. How are you?  All right. How are you doing?  He was the only person allowed to call or receive calls from Stephen. And he was very well spoken very friendly very polite.   How is the crew?  They are doing great.  They are? OK that is - I am glad to hear that.  And he introduced himself and said that the pirates would demand - they were demanding 7 million in ransom to release the ship. And could we please think about that and then come back to them once we were ready to pay?  And if you are thinking 7 million is a small price to pay for 13 people well you are absolutely right. There is just one problem.  It would be easy as a ship owner to just succumb to the first demand that the pirates may come with but the net result of that would be that they say oh yeah but that was just a down payment we are asking for. And before you know it you have a situation that escalates.  More often than not agreeing to the pirates' initial asking price would just drag things out even longer and make things much worse for the crew because if you could pay 7 million who is to say you could not pay 10 million or 12 million? And once the pirates knew you were willing to pay that much there would be nothing stopping them from hijacking more vessels and ransoming more people for even more money in the future.  So in other words unfortunately you have got to go through the motions and counter that demand with an equally ridiculously low counteroffer.   This is Stephen. Our offer is 400000 U.S.  Almost like buying a used car and give them a feeling that they are actually working for their money.   In regards to the 400000 they say no 400000 is change.  But  million that is a very unrealistic figure.  And it may look strange and it may look ridiculous and it may have come across that the ship owner is out there to try and save money for himself but nothing is further from the truth.  And the strategy worked. Within 48 hours the pirates had already dropped their demand from 7 million to 5 million.  Which is not unusual right. But not having dealt with this before I said wow I mean at least that is a couple million dollars closer to a resolution of the problem. And there was professional pride that the - in a sense that I wanted to bring them home as soon as we could. And we had a goal that we wanted to do it before Christmas but then it kind of stalled there. And we were going back and forth for weeks on end because the pirates really would not come down on their demands. And we were just at a stalemate.  You have this strategy that you have to wait them out it is like kind of a staring contest.  Yes. The ground rule here is you never make two offers in a row. That is one ground rule that went through the whole thing.  But Ali was insisting that Stephen do just that. And the pirates tried a whole bunch of tactics to put pressure on Per's team to get them to make that second offer. They would trash equipment claim that a hostage was having a nervous breakdown or threaten to remove the entire crew to the Somali mainland.   And that is the truth. That is what exactly they want to do. Are you there?  I am there. I fully understand. I read him but we need to go back to this negotiation and it will not do any good to the crew.  No no no no no no no. Listen please. You are mistaken by just dragging your feet.  The worst thing was when they called up and said that one of the crew members had had a heart attack because there you have a situation where you have to ask yourself is this a ploy or is this real? And if it was real what could we do? You realize that you have very few options if any and you are absolutely powerless.  To make matters worse they knew the ship was running out of food and fuel. Food could be brought over from the mainland but once the vessel ran out of fuel it would make it much harder to bring the crew home.  It is a waiting game. And during that waiting game of course all kind of thoughts goes through your head. And there was point where I even toyed with the idea of you know calling the Russian Embassy and then see if they would do a rescue operation you know with a SWAT team. But lying in the bed awake at night that is why these things they come back and they haunt you and you think about it.  And then how did you feel once Christmas rolled around?  I was very sad because we all want to be with our family at Christmas and then still they were sitting out there. And their next of kin was sitting back in Russia and that is - it is a very - it was a bad situation.  But then just before New Year's the pirates had finally made a counter offer 3.2 million. Stephen moved up to one but then Ali misunderstood. He thought Stephen had said two. And things just went downhill from there.   It was 2 million the day before yesterday.  No I did not say that. My boss was offered...  Yes yes you said so.  Well as I see it it is your mistake because you are not paying attention to what I am saying.  It is not my  mistake .  You know our offer OK?   you Stephen  you. You think you screwed me? You did not.  Listen.   you . You are a  white .  And then it was the Friday the 3 of January and I was sitting with my wife in our sitting room. And it was 8 at night and then my mobile phone rings. And I pick it up and I saw it was a Somali prefix. And the minute I saw that I knew what it was. I mean in a split second I knew who was at the other end of that telephone. And I looked at it for a few seconds and that is when I decided to take the call. Then the person on the other line said oh this is Ali Mohammed Ali from the CEC Future. And I think I respond  yes yes I know who you are.  But we just had a conversation about you know other CEOs who made this decision and really screwed things up for the hostages. What triggered you to pick up?  It was a spur of the moment decision. And I felt very strongly on a psychological level that I mean now he finally gotten through to the CEO of the company. And he would do everything in his power not to lose that contact again. So I was very forceful with him that if I was going to spend time on this that he was not going to do any silly stuff. And you know unless you really want to resolve this situation then do not waste my time.  Ali agreed to the new ground rules and he promised no more lies no more fake heart attacks no more silly stuff.  What happened then is Monday as I am in the office with David he does exactly that.   Hello? Ali?  No no no. It is the captain.  He gets the captain on the phone and he has the captain start pleading.  Their offer of 2 million was set from the company - was stealing. But please the pirates do not agree lower than two. They need 2 million and not this Saturday today on the table by fax.  Yeah I hear what you are saying Captain but we...  And also and also please do not break the deal. Do not break the deal. Otherwise it can be really dangerous for everybody. I mean for everybody who is still involved.  And I only saw one way of dealing with it.   Listen Captain. Could I speak to Ali?  He cannot talk to you. He cannot talk to you.  OK.  And there I really blew my gasket because that was so obvious what he was trying to do.   I will not talk to anybody but Ali Captain because what he is doing now is he is trying to use psychological pressure. And I will not accept that. He has one chance to talk to me or we will cut off this line of communication. There will be no more communication with me. Tell him that.  You are not a game. If the psychological pressure is coming to mind it is for me and my crew yes?  That is right exactly. I am sorry Captain but you will have to tell Ali if Ali wants to negotiate he can negotiate with me directly or I will disconnect the phone and he can call Stephen.  Then the line disconnects and then when he calls back...   Hello? ...We are ready for it.   .  I mean Ali let me just make this very very clear. You called me on Friday. You wanted a meaningful conversation. Do not put this kind of crap on me again.  Per nobody's throwing crap on you.  No because I do not appreciate that and you are insulting my intelligence when you are pulling this at me. And the minute he is contrite...   No no no. Nobody's playing games with you.  Then you won the battle right? And then you do not gloat. So let him know hey I mean this is all forgotten. You know you did a silly move. It did not work. Let us get on with business.   We still want to finalize this matter. If it is any help to you we are already at 1 million. We are prepared to send you a fax where we can offer you 1.2 million but I will only do that if you think it is worthwhile.  I will talk to them.  All right. Thank you Ali.  After that negotiations moved quickly. And Per actually employed a whole host of strategies. Instead of just making offers he would made certain demands of his own - that the ship had enough fuel to return home that the crew be kept in good health things Ali had to do to earn Per's trust.  Because I knew he had lived in the states I tried to use American metaphors.   I mean they got a wake up and smell the coffee.  I know.  And also in our analysis of Ali we had a sense that he had high thoughts of himself and that he was you know above the pirates. And so I said we may as well play along.   OK. All right. Thank you.  OK I will leave it to you Ali. I will cross my fingers and hope you can work your magic. Take care.  OK.  Bye-bye.  All right take care.  Then the final negotiation went down 1 oclock in the morning where he calls me up and say OK the pirates are at 1.7. And I kind of go woo.   So he will settle at 1.7.  Yes and that base is going to drop on Wednesday?  Yes.  And those bases on the ship having enough fuel to get away?  Yes.  OK.  I mean this is 70 days in the pressure cooker and then finally it is all over and it is done.   And we are not going to have any nonsense tomorrow morning. This is under control right?  No no no no no. No. No problems here.  OK. All right Ali. Thank you very much. Let us put this behind us.  No problem.  OK. We will talk to you tomorrow. Thank you.  Bye-bye.  Bye-bye.  And that was the end of it. That was the time when I failed.  The negotiations were over and without even meaning to Per had actually broken a lot of the rules. He had negotiated with Ali directly. He had lost his cool and he even made two offers in a row but it had worked. The crew was going home.  I got up early the next morning and I drove into the office. And of course it is one of those things you never forget because we sent a team to the bank and pick up the ransom and we bring that into the room. And I walk in and I just remember that - saw that sitting there.  Can you describe what you felt when you saw the money?  Disgust. That is the only way I can express that because it can never be seen as a victory. How could it? As I said we would been screwed over by a bunch of hoodlums in Somalia that had done you know untold things to our colleagues. But certainly we had an end to the misery for our crew of 71 days and that was the real issue here is that we could tell the master and the crew that now they were coming home.  When did you finally get to meet the crew?  I never met the crew to be honest with you. I met the captain on numerous occasions but I have not met the crew. We had people from the company go and meet the crew but I did not go myself. And that is one of the regrets I have today is I did not go myself. I should have.  Why did not you go?  I do not know. To be honest with you I just always fear of being perceived as being callous or non-emotional. But if you are doing the right thing - you feel you are doing the right thing and you are staying true to yourself then what else? Maybe it is just me. I do not know.  Has any of them ever tried to reach out to you?  A few has yeah. Not that just that - but they were happy that we had done everything in our power to end this matter. And we had left no stone unturned. But our measure of success after all this is said and done was what would they go back to sea? And would they go back to sea with us? And we hit a hundred on both counts. And that was a confirmation from me that we would done the right thing.  Per Gullestrup retired from the Clipper Group in 2013 but he stayed in contact with Ali and tried to help him get out of the hostage negotiation business. Today Per helps run Somali Fair Fishing. That is reviving the Somali fishing industry in order to provide a sustainable alternative to piracy. To find out more about this story and the piracy problem check out two documentaries Stolen Seas on Netflix right now and the British documentary The Trouble with Pirates. That piece was produced by Joe Rosenberg with sound design by Pat Mesiti-Miller.   When SNAP JUDGMENT returns we are going to say vagina on the radio. And we are going to go undercover deep undercover without any backup. When econd Skin episode continues stay tuned. 