 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT the All in your Head episode. Now there is this thing that some people do more than others it is called is it me? Go to a place and everyone's acting a little bit off. There is a clown balancing three infants on spinning plates and no one says a word about it. And you are like is it me or has this place got an odd child care policy. SNAP JUDGMENT's Davey Kim wonders if it is him all the time.  It is eighth grade and I arrive at school. I have been dreading this day all year long 'ecause today's the day that each class has its spelling bee. My best friend John shares my pain because - well let me put it this way I am not trying to say that we are cool or anything but we are both part of the skinny jean skaters crew. John and I even just started a screamo emo band called A Dream Deferred.   Yep that is us.   But secretly we are also really good spellers. And it is not cool to be a good speller but you know what? We cannot resist a good competition so we are going to do this. John heads to his class and I go to mine. We have our spelling bee and guess what? We come out on top. And we are going to regionals. After school we are high-fiving each other and it just so happened that we were the only Asian kids in our grade so we joked between ourselves that our Asian power helped us win. A few weeks later John and I carpooled to the regional level spelling bee. And we are pretty confident that this year one of us is going to take home the first place trophy.   We scope out the competition. In front of us there are four older judges they look grave and serious. I notice that John and I are the only Asian kids here again which does not really matter whatever.  Welcome everyone.  The spelling bee begins.   And students are getting eliminated left and right until there is only a handful of us left. Some of the kids who got cut are waiting in the back with their parents crying. The judges look at the word sheet and then they look at each other. Then they take a look at John and start chuckling to themselves. One of the judges then says...  Do not worry son you will get this word.  The entire room is confused especially John.  Oriental. Your word is oriental.  The judges start laughing to themselves some more and soon the rest of the room starts snickering.  What are the odds?  But I am not. You know what? I get it. How can this Asian kid mess up the word oriental? But still this is embarrassing for John. John's about to start spelling. He is nervous from all the attention his knees are shaking and he is fidgeting with his hands. He begins.  Oriental. O-R-E?   And he stops. He messed up and he knows it. He just turns around and heads over to the back of the room. Man I am furious now but the only way to get back at everyone is to win this thing. Soon it is my turn again I wonder what word I will get. Asiatic Confucius? I walk up to the front of the room. I am a little nervous.  Raconteur. Your word is raconteur.  I have no clue what this word means but I have seen it around so I am pretty sure I know how to spell it. I rehearse it in my head - raconteur - R-A-C-O-N-T - I got it. I ask for the word in a sentence I ask for a definition just to make sure. I am ready to spell it out but right before I do I look back and see John. He is not crying like some of the other kids but you know he just looks really sad. I look at the judges right in the eye and begin spelling my word. Raconteur. R-A-C-I-S-T. Raconteur. I do not turn around. The judges the parents and all the students have their eyes locked on me. I just stand there facing the judges for four very uncomfortable seconds and no one's laughing now. I leave the stage. I go over to my best friend and we walk out of the spelling bee medal-less but victorious.  All right snappers in case you are wondering a raconteur is someone who tells great stories. Thank you Davey for telling us that tale of sweet R-E-V-E-N-G-E. Check out our website snapjudgment.org for other great raconteurs. That story was produced by Davey Kim with sound design by Davey Kim. 