 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT - the Unforgiven episode. Today we are exploring when to extend an olive branch. In our next story it does reference violence against women. And as such listener discretion is advised. It comes from a former rookie cop in the New Orleans Police Department who at first thought he was signing up to be one of the good guys.  I was fresh out the academy. And while you are in the police academy you are taught your basic rules and regulations. You know I had no problem with them but unfortunately at that time there was a lot of officers bent on doing a little criminal acts themselves sometimes you know doing a lot of wrong. It is funny because I went to my commander gave him a letter making an official complaint. He took the letter and he told me - he said let me tell you something. Either I can ignore that you brought me this letter or I can file the charges in which case you will not ever again be safe on the streets. So eventually you know being a young kid at the time I eventually let it go and sort of joined the club. I realized that it was not what it is supposed to be. I guess you might say it was one of those things where if you cannot beat them you join them. And I got to be just very cold with it. Well I will just put it like - I will put it to you this way.   Myself and another partner of mine were riding around one day and they had two females that were from Boston. And they came down rented a car - and I guess they were sightseeing in New Orleans - stopped them and gave them tickets and threatened them with going to jail and so forth. Listen if you want to get out of this you are going to have to have sex with us. Get in the police car. And we put them in the back of the police car and we went to an old warehouse district. We had sex with them and stuff and they were petrified. We took them back to their car and we still wind up arresting them for some bogus charge. And I remember looking at my partner and asking him why did - why - come on. You know let these girls go. And so he told me he said no. He said I always cover your back. This was systemic. It happened you know many times. You know I can think about at least maybe four or five occasions you know that I personally - if it was a male I would shake him down for money. If it was a female it would be sex. Anyway I got a call one day and this day I was alone. This woman she was riding in the stolen car. So immediately I went...   ...You know behind her and turned on my lights - my emergency lights - and so forth and pulled her on the side. She had a whole mound of charges that was going to be placed against her all felony charges - probably 20 years in jail. So I made a deal with her or I tried to make a deal with her. And I said listen you know I can get you out of these charges you know for blah blah blah - for sex. She agreed to it. And later that evening when I was off duty we met. But unbeknown to me she had instantly went to the internal affairs department and told the officers then you know what I had done. The sting operation was set up where she and I was going to meet again and I was arrested.   The word had came down at that time through me through some of the sheriffs that I knew there that the inmates had a special party for me. And  I knew instantly what that meant. Of course today is different. When a law enforcement officer get arrested now there is a separate facility that they put him in. But back in the '70s when this happened - in 1979 - you were just put in general population. I mean just think about it. You know you are going into a facility where you know that there is at least 40 people you have personally arrested and put there for years. And you know - and the word is getting to you that they are going to kill you you know? And what does one do? Do you just go there and die? I have one of those kind of Type A personalities where I just - you know I am not a person that just give up very easily. You know I am going to give you a run for your money so to speak you know? And so I decided to run to be a fugitive.   I knew that the U.S. Marshals Service and probably the FBI would get involved with it because I was a cop. And so you know I mean where do you run? How do you run? And I had figured out that I could never make it in the cities 'ecause I would be too hot. And the only place I could figure I could go at would be in the woods. I would go into the library every day and read stuff on how I could survive how to hunt animals trap them eat them cook them. You know I wanted to learn about weather techniques. I wanted to learn about first aid you know because I knew I would be somewhere you know by myself. Well I was giving up everything. I had a girlfriend at the time that I cared about. I was giving up my home. I was giving up my car. Essentially I was - you know it was going to be a solo trip. I knew I had to cool off and I had to get out the country so I went to Canada. I had my camping gear with me - little small plastic tent canned goods. You know what I had was probably going to only last me for about two weeks. I remember distinctively taking a bottle of vitamins with me a pistol. You know I was going out there for the long haul.   And I remember when I was going off the main highway going back into the woods yeah I was afraid. You have done research but you have not actually applied anything yet. I looked down the highway to the north. Then I turned and looked to the south. And this is an old worn highway. And I remember distinctly you know saying goodbye world. And I began to step into the woods. Every step was a very difficult step because I knew I had to go deep in there. The first night was rough I mean as you can imagine because I was scared to death. I remember lying down in my tent. You know I began to fear the darkness the strange sounds. And I was tucked up underneath the sleeping bag and I thought really that I had - something had touched my leg. I got up with the pistol ready to shoot and I actually found out that I was so scared that it was - I had touched my leg with my other leg. . Now that is what you call scared. I distinctly remember looking up at the sky at night and seeing an airplane headed south and I began to think of my siblings back home. I had a son that was just born during that time. I began to think about home in general. I mean it was just like - it was like traveling to the moon you know? I had nobody that I could call or anything. And I - a couple of times I thought about pulling the trigger you know - just shoot myself and that would be it. Eventually I mean I got better and more comfortable being out there.   It is remarkable what a human mind I sometimes think how it will adjust to certain conditions because throughout the day I had routine things that other people would do too. Like for instance I had moments where I would call go and look at TV. And that essentially meant climbing a tree and looking at the animals at the birds how they hunt. And that was TV to me. I became an expert tracker. I could look at tracks and know what this was whether it was a raccoon whether it was a bear a wolf. About maybe the first year in the woods I was not scared anymore. And you got to keep in mind as the months and years are passing I am leaving what I am used to. Every day I would walk about a mile or two from my camp to go hunting. Usually I did is I trapped them - raccoon possums and dear and all kind of other animals. Actually I camped in every state on the mainland except Vermont. The only reason why I remember Vermont is because I remember thinking about staying there - maybe your listeners do not know right now but I am a black guy OK? . And they did not have no black people there. If they did I did not see any. So it was like - I said you know what? I need to get up out of here . That was one thing I could not improvise on. That is the tactic. I mean you want to keep moving.   Only two things I had missed and it had nothing to do  with conversation women - nothing. I missed coffee and I missed a toenail clipper because my toenails had gotten so long that I had to make myself - you know curl myself up to bite them off.  After five years I was heartless. After 10 years I was a true animal in the true sense of the word. No feelings at all. After 15 years being a fugitive felt normal. Well I was sitting down and I was making some tea. I think at that point I had been out for about 18 years. And I heard something rustling in the woods but this sound was just like just crazy. I will describe it at times. So naturally I got up in a defensive position and hid behind a tree. And I look and this guy comes fumbling in there falling down trying to chase insects off his head while also trying to hold a bag around his shoulder. It was just a person that did not know what they were doing. I could kind of see he was scared. He was frightened. We began to talking I could tell instantly the guy was on the run or that he was wanted. He is coming through there you know and the hardware he has - he almost has like suitcases-type like bags with him. You know like you are going to Disney World or somewhere. I am like man you got to lose all this you know what I mean? I had already had a camp set up where you know everything was good for me. I mean I was living life in the woods. Yeah if you can imagine a person like just you know way out of place. That night we were burning a fire and he was just you know we were sitting at the fire. And he began - I began to tell him what I had been through what he was going to be having to go through also in order to get away permanently. You are going to have - and he had a mom and a dad and he loved them. And he had a son and siblings. And I told him I said you are never going to be able to call them. You are never going to be able to call them especially never call them on holidays. I said you are not going to see your son again. You are done with your wife. She will probably be filing divorce in two years or so forth. I was just letting him know you know prepare yourself. And this guy began to cry and so forth. Oh I was not hard. I thought he was you know I mean he started crying. I mean I know you are not going to make it out here. He was - he lead into it. I mean he was just really upset very very upset. We are talking big sobs. He wound up giving himself up the next - the very next day because he was more afraid of what I was telling him to look forward to than the law enforcement and I always wondered what happened to that little fellow.   I spent a great deal of time out there and I think you know things changed for me. They just changed. I began to regret all that I had did. I had missed my family. So when that 22nd year came I began to test God and I began to question the universe where I am challenging things and they seemingly are responding to me. And I remember distinctively looking at a plant. The bloom would - it would just you know spread out like a rose you know like in the beginning it would be closed like a pod. I said that this plant - if there is a God when I come back from hunting this plant should be closed and it was closed. And then I would do it again and say at a certain time it should open if you are God and it would open. And then lastly what I did was with the rock and the can. And I can see that can now. It is like you know the old 5-pound coffee cans and I remember putting it on the ground and turning it upside down and it was towards the twilight and I remember taking a pebble and putting it on top of the can. And I said if there is a God when I wake up that pebble will be gone. When I woke up the next morning it was gone.   It scared me so. I have never been scared like that my life. I remember urinating on myself and it scared me so bad I left everything. I was so afraid that I just walked out of there. I turned around and just began to walk towards the city. I was going to catch a train. That is what my mode of traveling was was riding trains freight trains and I was going to be down in New Orleans and give myself up.   When I gave myself up to law enforcement going to the district attorney office to give myself up and they are running me through the computers they cannot find me. He says you are not wanted sir. Now keep in mind it is been 22 years. He says you are not wanted. Look I mean this is the district attorney himself and he is telling me you are free to walk out of here because you are not wanted. And I had an instant choice to make. I could have walked out or I could have told him how to prove that I am. Instantly I thought - I said we were not in the computer system then. You are going to have to go down in the basement archives. I even pointed across the street where it is at because I remembered when I was a law enforcement officer I used to walk through there and put files up and get files. And surely we all went over there. They looked at the file. They showed that I was wanted and so at that point he had to put me into custody. They set a court date up real fast.   That particular judge I did not know that she was the toughest judge they had with all the stuff that we had - police officers had done wrongly to females she was not going look too kindly. You know there was a lot of press there news people blah blah blah you know that kind of stuff. And people were in the hallways looking at me and whispering and so forth.   She - the first question she asked me I think was are you guilty of the crime? And I told her not only I was guilty of that crime but many other crimes. I wanted to account for everything everything that I had did wrong. And I remember her saying something like I am going to give you so much time but I heard a word that is just so common a three-letter word that just completely flipped me. And she said but I am going to suspend the sentence because I think that you did enough time when you were out for those 22 years.   I was sitting there stunned because I was expecting to be handcuffed and taken to Angola. And now you are telling me that after all this that I am free? Yeah I certainly deserve much worse you know than I got. After I was freed I think that is where the shame had came in at you know that I had done so many wrong things you know? There is not a day come by that I do not feel sorry about what happened. Because I did not serve time I am still never satisfied in paying back you know what I had done. When I was first freed and was as a free man I still seriously considered going back out into the woods but I cannot do nothing for the community by being in the woods.   I still do some things that are wood-type you know forest-type living. About 80 percent of my meal today is still wild food - coon opossum that kind of stuff. I never eat it out of a plate. I always eat out of the pot I cook in and I do not use utensils unless I am outside I am a guest of somebody. I mean I know how to act . I know how to play it off . But I do not think I will ever quite not being to a point where I miss the woods. I think that'ill always be in my heart.  Now in case you were wondering Robert Davis spends his time now helping police units weed out corruption. And all proceeds from his work go towards supporting survivors of sexual abuse. And find out more about his work on our website snapjudgment.org. That story was produced by Anna Sussman with an original score and sound design by Renzo Gorrio. When SNAP JUDGMENT continues - a relationship closer than any you might ever imagine or might want to imagine when SNAP JUDGMENT the Unforgiven episode continues. Stay tuned. 