 Welcome back to RX and NPR the Second Skin episode. My name is Glynn Washington. And it has been far far too long since we have had this guy on this show. Oh yes SNAP favorite Josh Healy returns. So take the best seat in the house 'ecause he is about to take the Snap LIVE! stage. Get ready.   This guy is a storyteller's storyteller. And I say that because you never know where he is going to go. Please put your hands together. He was with us on our very first episode. Mr. Josh Healy.   When I was in high school I was co-president of my school's drama club and I loved it. I loved the costumes. I loved all 11 people who came to our shows.   And most of all I loved my drama club co-president Sophia Finegold . Oh Sophia Finegold - half Jewish half Puerto Rican. She was the Jewyorican queen of my heart. Sophia was brilliant so brilliant she spent most our senior year taking extra classes over at the local university. And she hung out a lot at the campus women's center there and came back to school one day wearing this T-shirt that read - this is what a feminist looks like. And I thought wow feminists look good. Now Sophia and I we had to pick a show for our drama club's annual spring play. And she told me she had this really exciting idea. She said Josh there is this show. It is blowing up at all the colleges around the country. I really think we should do it. It is called The Vagina Monologues. I said what? What show do you want to do at our high school senior play? She said Josh it is a great show. You are going to love it. It is all about celebrating women's voices our bodies our power. Now normally it is an all-female cast. But we are not going to do with the normal way. I said we are not? She said no. Josh we are going to do the first ever coed Vagina Monologues. And I have got the perfect role for you. It is called My Angry Vagina.   I said whoa Sophia. That sounds like a pretty major role. Not sure I have you know got what it takes. She said if any guy can do it Josh you can. And I was not sure if I was supposed to take that as a compliment but Sophia Finegold was smiling at me so I was like of course of course of course of course I will do it. I mean anything for the drama club. But in the back of my head somewhere I was like could I really pull this off? My Angry Vagina. I was going to have to do some research. So I went right to the record store and bought every Ani DiFranco album I could.   Listened to them all weekend long - rocking that Ani. And when I came into the theater for the first day of rehearsal I saw the rest of the cast - four girls and four very excited totally confused guys each of us with our own monologue on a different issue. A Girl's First Period A Woman Giving birth A Woman Being Raped and of course my monologue which was a rant against the oppression of tampons and douches and every OBGYN tool that could really piss a woman off or so I was learning. This was definitely going to be an educational experience. But there were some people though who did not see it quite that way like every guy on my soccer team. Who every day at practice would ask me questions like hey Josh hey hey hey Josh how is that play going? You get fitted for your panties yet?   No. Meanwhile Sophia's friends her own friends the college feminists they were not too happy either. This one woman came by rehearsal to tell us what is this? This play is about women speaking in our voices which seemed like a decent point to me. But then Sophia said hey if we want to have good men later on then we need to have good boys now which also seemed like a pretty good point especially when she looked over in my direction and winked. So the show was on. And buzz was building and tickets were almost sold out. And then one day the rest of the cast called me and Sophia in for a meeting. They said we need to talk. And this one girl said look guys we have been talking a little bit and maybe those college girls were right. I mean this coed idea is fun and all but these are some serious women's issues. We should be the ones talking on them. Sophia she did not like anyone questioning her vision. She said - she was furious - this is how we are going to do the show right Josh? And she looked over at me. And everybody looked at me. And I looked over at Sophia then walked over and joined the rest of the cast. Sophia did not say a word. She just stormed off. Until one month later one month to the day later I walked back into the theater for the big premiere. And the place was packed. Even the soccer team was there. The lights went down. The curtain went up. And when the first performer finished her monologue every girl in the crowd was on her feet cheering. Every guy in the crowd was sitting in his seat fidgeting uncomfortably. Every parent in the crowd was wishing we had done Hamlet again.   And then came the monologue I would been waiting for - the one I knew all the lines to. And she walks slowly to the middle of the stage. And before she even said a word she just looked out into the audience. And in that look in that one look she gave me I saw more than just anger. I saw her strength. I saw her conviction. I saw a fierce female power that I could only imagine. And I realized that was my co-president up there. That was her role up there on the stage mine here in the audience. And it was all leading up to this. And Sophia Finegold took a step forward and said in the loudest proudest voice I would ever heard my vagina it is angry. It is pissed off. My vagina it is furious and it needs to talk.   Josh Healy from Snap LIVE! at the Nokia Theater at L.A. LIVE in front of the big lights of Los Angeles in conjunction with our station partner in KPCC in LA. The music for that piece was written and performed by Alex Mandel and the Snap Judgment Players David Brandt and Tim Frick. We will have links to the world that is Josh Healy on our website snapjudgment.org.   You have just listened to SNAP JUDGMENT the Second Skin episode. Please remember never forget that even if you missed a moment the full episode podcast pictures movies stuff it is available for you right now - snapjudgment.org. Officially declared to the hottest show ever by scientists with lab coats at SNAP JUDGMENT. Our Facebook is itter is SNAP JUDGMENT. And this is not the news. No way is this a news. In fact you could make a fake you out of stuffing and straw. You could sit the fake you at your desk give it painted eyes with an I am-listening expression and you go to Brazil for six seven months. And when you return you could discover you have gotten two promotions and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 