 OK so in fifth grade in Mt. Pleasant Mich. all my friends - Danny Walters  Cory Nelson  Jimmy Heigel  - they were in the Boy Scouts right? And they were always talking about Boy Scouts and archery and making knots and camping and merit badges and fun Boy Scout stuff. I wanted to be in the Boy Scouts and do that stuff. Every Thursday everyone wore their Boy Scout uniforms to school before going over to Danny Walters's house. So I asked Danny's pop if I could be a Boy Scout too. He said of course you can. All you got to do is go down to the place on University Avenue get your Boy Scout uniform and you are in. So I told my buddies I was a Boy Scout too. And they said it was about time 'ecause it was crazy fun. That Thursday everybody wore their uniforms but I did not have mine yet. And Mr. Walters said it was OK this time but he needed me to go down to University Avenue and pick it up. I promised him I would. But next Thursday I told Mr. Walters they are waiting for a new shipment of uniforms or whatever. All right but you got to get that taken care of. The next week I told him that I had it I just forgot we were supposed to wear it on Thursday. And the way he looked at me I knew my time was running out 'ecause you know I had not asked my parents to buy me a Boy Scouts uniform. I had not asked them to buy me jack. Our house was not in a buying-people-stuff kind of situation. I thought maybe if I waited it out sometimes things got better for a while. If I timed it just right you never know. So after school that day I just walked around - walked around for a long time planning what I was going to say how I was going to say it you know 'ecause I just need the uniform and I do not think it is that expensive. Maybe we can put on layaway. And it is good being in the Boy Scouts 'ecause they do lots of educational stuff with the reading and the museums. And I finally got home. I opened the door and I just listened. It did not take but a few moments before my Spidey  senses told me that this too was a bad day. So the next day I told Mr. Walters I was not going to be able to participate in Boy Scouts that year because I already had a full activity calendar. And he told me to let him know if I change my mind. I promised I would. And that Thursday when everyone showed up with their Boy Scout uniforms on I actually breathed easier 'ecause you know like I said before I really did not want to be in the Boy Scouts anyway.   Today on RX and NPR we proudly present The Weight Of The World stories from real people carrying around more than you know. My name's Glynn Washington. Please award yourself a merit badge. You have earned it 'ecause you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT.  