 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR the All in your Head episode. My name is Glynn Washington and I am thrilled because we have saved a very special treat for the snappers. As much as we love putting on a show from our secret underground hidden fortress even better than that is taking SNAP on the road. Our next story comes from a recent blowout storytelling extravaganza. Go ahead take the best seat in the house for SNAP JUDGMENT Live in Los Angeles. Sensitive listeners should note that this next story does contain some graphic imagery.   Now next up on the SNAP JUDGMENT stage - this lady was with us from very near the beginning. We have chronicled tales in her life for some time. She was a go-to person she was my go-to person but then she disappeared. She left me all alone with no Joyce Lee stories to tell. And now she is back to explain herself tell us where she was. It is my distinct pleasure to introduce SNAP JUDGMENT's Joyce Lee.   I once read of a God named Lakisave  who created women out of a wrinkle on the sole of her divine foot. And this is supposedly why women are so intuitive because we are made from the skin of the sole - in other words the sole which feels everything. I think the women in my family must have been pulled from the callus on Lakisave's foot.   There is no such thing as sick or tired to the women in my family there is only dead or dying. Other than that we feel OK. By the age of 12 I knew how to do everything in a house short of paying rent and bills but I never knew how I felt until I was dying. I have been sick since the first day I became a woman. My menstrual cycle was supposed to last for seven days instead I bled for six months straight. The doctors never said anything about death so according to my family I was alive and well. With time I learned to ignore my body and deal with it only when it became a bother. A little over a year ago I went on a poetry tour throughout Europe and I ended up in a very conservative suburb on the outskirts of Istanbul Turkey called Beykent. Beykent was very different for me. I fell in love with it immediately. The olive skinned people the modern dress women flawlessly made up some wearing scarves some fully covered in all black exposing nothing but the eyes. The dark-haired men the blue-eyed Muslims the ancient architecture - I fell in love with it. I just had to stay. Everywhere I went everyone wanted to know everything about me. I thought it was wonderful until I started looking for an apartment. Well you know the neighbors gossiped about my lover Myrt who was obviously not my husband. And all the noise that me and Myrt made laughing and dancing and doing other things at night but it was great. I lived happily in Beykent before my body began to bother me. I became exhausted because the bleeding would not stop. And I was hoping that Myrt would not notice but for a couple weeks there had been some heavy making out with no follow-through and so he had to ask what was up. I am bleeding. Oh my goodness where?   But last week? I was bleeding. OK hospital - we go now. I told Myrt everything that I was OK that I dealt with it my entire life that it would go away on its own. A week later I am lying in my bed pale faced my legs elevated Myrt's doing all of my housework and spoon feeding me while I am still waiting for my body to get over it. Me and Myrt argued about me going to the hospital every day but I was OK. No I could not walk without my bones burning and without my heart beating like I just escaped a bear's grip but I was OK. My body was just tripping. One day Myrt came in to feed me a meal and he saw my face and I guess he just flipped. Genum  there is death in your face. We are going to the hospital now. If you do not want to go fight me and I know you are strong and we can stay here. I swear poor fella I cursed and cursed and cursed him out. But I was too weak I could not even ball my fist. By the time I got to the hospital I was delirious and completely out of blood. They had to stick needles in my feet to draw blood and I do not even remember how many tries it took them. Myrt held my hand while I was being wheeled and he spoke to me so gently surgery now Genum. Surgery just a little bit it stops the bleeding. And just a few cuts 15 minutes I cannot go with you because we did not marry but I am outside the door Tamum . I was laid on a surgery table and it was not until the first cut in my uterus that I realized that I had not been given any anesthesia. By the third cut I let out a scream that scared the entire room into taking two steps back. Myrt pushed through the doors walking fastly speaking fastly. No medicine Genum no medicine because you have no blood to hold it. Just a few a few more. You know every time they stick the needle in your vein pops. A few more cuts just a few Tamum. He begged them to stay and was escorted out. I laid there exhausted from my scream but I had managed to lock my knees together and I refuse to unlock them no matter how much the doctors begged just one more cut just one more. I knew I could not endure another. Let me die. I told them let me die right here. They began talking amongst themselves and I just laid there thinking but mostly for the first time in my life I laid there feeling I mean really feeling everything in my soul. My body felt like a huge shell holding a small determined noisy pebble. I felt weak. I felt hollow. Every bone burned and ached like it was celebrating finally getting my attention for the first time and I felt it all. I felt it all. And I thought so this is what death feels like like life out of control. I began to cry when a huge Turkish man barged into the room grabbed my lifeless left arm and began hitting and hitting and hitting. And the minute he saw the wink of a vein he shoved the needle in and I felt all types of cookie candy caramel beauty goodness course throughout my entire body. And I looked at him what is this? And I swear he smiled and in perfect English he said good night.   After the surgery the doctor told me that I would feel the same exact pain in my uterus that I felt on the operating table once a month during each of my menstrual cycles. I returned home with feeling monthly pain as my new normal. But everyone they all wanted me to admit that I was still the old normal. My family said well you know God spared you. You are OK which is another way of asking me to continue to live my life like callus on the sole of Lakisave's foot to be functional and unfeeling to live a life just above death. But I tell everybody I am not OK and I crouch in pain and I yell even though it makes people uncomfortable when I feel like it. And guess what? I even have the audacity to pick up the phone and tell my friends and this stage no when I feel like it because one thing that operating table in Turkey has taught me is that it is just fine for me to feel anything. And I feel everything.   Joyce Lee.   Joyce Lee do not get in her way people. Joyce told that story courtesy of our host and friends down there in LA APCC. Thanks so much for having SNAP JUDGMENT down. The music you heard was written by Mr. Alex Mandel and performed live by Alex Mandel and the SNAP JUDGMENT players Tim Frick and David Brandt.   Congratulate yourself you have done it again. But if you have missed even a second of SNAP goodness you have got the antidote right here. Full podcasts episodes movies stuff available for you right now at snapjudgment.org. Friend us on the Facebook us on the Twitter SNAP JUDGMENT. This SNAP was produced by the least duplicitous team in all of radio. If Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers how many peppers would Peter Piper pick? The Corporation for Public Broadcasting has no idea. Please stop asking but much love to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange sells sea shells on the seashore - PRX.org. WBEZ is the place of WBEZ when you be WBEZ-ing. Know what I am saying? And this is not the news no way is this the news. In fact if you knew exactly how much wood a woodchuck could chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood you would still not be as far away from the news as this is but this is NPR. 