 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT - the guide episode. Today we are featuring stories from real people leading other people through the dark woods. Our next story features a real forest and a real guide and at least that much is real.  Can you tell me what you ate for breakfast?  I had four raw eggs and five flap jacks with some espresso with a shot of whiskey in it.  You are one of the most disgusting people I know.  It is what I had for breakfast.  What is your name?  Ben Becker.  Tell me just something about yourself.  I am 29 and living in Boulder Colorado for - going on my third year. And trying to train to withstand anything. This is a weird story. Are you ready?  Yeah. How true is this on a scale of one to 10?  Scale of one to 10? Eight.  OK.  All right? I was living in Pumpkintown South Carolina - a real place. And a fleamarket every Wednesday that everybody called the jockey lot - you could buy assault rifles there. I was living in a cabin with the dirtiest town dog you have ever seen. And I was running this guiding outfitter. And well a really good friend of mine Brett...  Brett.  He lived in Pumpkintown too. But he ran an outfitter store. You know sold camping supplies stuff like that. And it was not doing too good 'ecause of the recession. One time hanging out there in the store and I get this call from my lead guide. He says hey man we are having trouble with this kid. Can you come out tonight and talk to him? I might have to kick this kid off the course. And I would kicked kids off courses and you know always done the right soft skills. Talked to them. But I was just kind of burnt out. So Brett's like let me come with you. And I am like all right. And he goes I got an idea. We get in my work truck. And before we go he goes into his trash can and throws this bag in the back of the truck. I go what is that? And he goes do not worry about it. We run over to his house and we cut out the perfect replica of you know whatever - Bigfoot. We cut out a Sasquatch foot. It was big. It was about three. No not three feet. Probably two and a half. Two and a half feet long. It was big.  That is a big Sasquatch.  It was big.  Even by Sasquatch standards.  So we drive out to - up the mountain. And we drive nine miles in the motor boat out to where they are camped. And we get out there. It is pretty late. And all the kids are asleep but my staff's still up. And he is like man this kid's just been giving me a hard time. Goes on this story. And I go do not worry about it. We got an idea. And so we take the feet and we make these marks all around the kids tent. And then Brett gets the bag he threw in the truck and it is filled with dog . And he pours it out right where the kid's head is on the outside of the tent. And then we camped out. And in the morning we wake up and we are out there. And the kid is awake and he is not freaking out. Like I thought he would be freaking out. Instead he has this look on his face of like sheer awe. He is telling us all these statistics about Sasquatch. He is like oh my God. Look at the size of this foot. I wish I had some plaster of Paris. I could make a mold. Because this is definitely an alpha species. This is definitely alpha. I have never seen it this big. Oh my God. I am freaking out. And he like - for the rest of the trip he is just geeking out on the Sasquatch. They have never been seen this far south. Oh my God. So for every trip they take pictures then they do this big picture DVD. At the end of the trip we are in our pavilion at the base camp. We are showing it. And then Sasquatch feet show up. The kid's freaking out. And the poop - everything. And I look at the kid's dad and he starts geeking out too. And they are just like talking to each other like these little beings. They are just like . His dad goes can you give me a topographical sighting of where this is? I do not need longitude latitude. I just need GPS coordinates. And I also need a place to get gear. And I get this call from Brett later that night. And he goes did you send some guy here to me for the Bigfoot thing? I go yeah it is the kid's dad. The guy spent 1200 on gear. He bought GPS systems. He bought the most powerful scope I have. And I was like great sale. Awesome. Cool. I come over for dinner. He takes me back down into his shop. And he has all these pelts and skins out. His wife Susanna's sewing machine with this huge needle on it. And he goes we are making a Bigfoot costume. He goes you me and Susanna know about this. No one else. So she helps us out 'ecause she is actually quite the seamstress. And we make this thing and it took us about eight hours - all night. Tons of coffee. It had cigar burns on it. It had tobacco juice on it. It was disgusting. And it was tailor-made to me. Up close it was pretty bad.  Like how so? Like what? What was the...  You just saw this seams and like the different colors - the different pelts 'ecause it was like four - made of four different animals. There is like black bear dear elk and something. Like rodents. Like rabbits and . And if you saw me from 30 yards away in the shadows it was Bigfoot. And so the next morning we get up real early and you know we eat breakfast. And he is like let us try it out. So we go to this place called Twin Falls. And it is a beautiful place but the coolest thing about it is you can get - you can access the top. It is about 60 feet tall 70 feet tall. You can access the top and everybody else is down below. So I get up there early in the morning. And I get to the top of the falls. And I kind of stand up and I look over. And it takes about two minutes. And then someone screams and they go oh my God it is Bigfoot. And I make this like surprise motion and I go like this. I was like . And then I vanish. And then Brett picks me up down the road on an access trail. Then we do like two or three more that morning on like different trails. Oh my God. It is Bigfoot.  Can I interrupt you here?  Yeah.  Did you ever worry about getting shot?  We will get to that. So we know a couple other trails where people go early in the morning. And I do a Bigfoot run by. Just like you know run by and I am gone. And we put some tracks out. And then we go hang out in his shop. And some people - there is some words going around. Like people are talking. So Brett's like yeah yeah. I saw him last week here. He has this new map up with some dots. And he gets some blurry pictures of me from like his backyard and stuff like that and we put them up. So a couple of weeks go by and he is making some big sales. And he even takes a group - a family out to go for a Bigfoot sighting and I do a thing.  You are a con artist.  Totally. This whole thing is going down. And our friend Curtis who lives on top of this mountain with the most untrained dog in the world named Motley Crue Jon Bon Jovi. It dug holes everywhere. It peed inside. It was a disgusting dog. Curtis comes in once he hears about it and he is freaking out. He is like oh my God Bigfoot. And Curtis lived off of cigarettes Red Bull ice cream and homemade things he made. After about two weeks he comes in one day with this big box of jars - Mason jars - with this liquid inside and he goes check it out. I am going to make some money on this Sasquatch thing too. And he puts it down on Brett's thing and he goes can I sell this here? And pulls out   one of the jars. And it looks like a milky orange paste with chunks in it. It tasted like if you boiled up milkweed and put chili pepper and mashed carrots - was pretty much how it tasted. It was not that good. It is quatch sauce. The Sasquatch split up and flipped. Quatch sauce. Sauce-quatch. It is hot sauce made from real Sasquatch juice.   Quatch...  Quatch sauce. And no one bought this . Well it started to get really crowded out there. And I thought you know what? Maybe I will do like just a couple more and then it will be over. 'ecause I was afraid that someone was going to put a bear trap out.  Oh.  So I go to the Twin Falls one last time - the like good place to see Bigfoot - early in the morning. And it is like misty and it is beautiful. And the waterfall's going. And I am at the top and I splash in. And there is a bunch of people down there with scopes and lights. And I look over. And it is Bigoot. And I go . And I start backing up. And I am backing up and then I hear up behind me - the shotgun. And I turned and there is  Curtis staring me down with a shotgun. I got Bigfoot. And it is early morning. Bad lighting. And he is like about 15 yards away. And he goes I can kill you you son-of-a-bitch. And right before he fired out of nowhere Motley Crue John Bon Jovi comes out of the woods in the air.  No.  Gets me by the head like full force. This 80 pount dog. And wrestles me to the ground and starts pulling on the top of the mask. And I am like damn it. Get this dog off me Curtis. Motley Crue Jon Bon Jovi like rips off it off. It comes off. Curtis still has his gun pointed at me. And I see the look on his face and it is just sheer disappointment.   It is just really let down - is how he looks. And he goes it was you all the time? . That is pretty smart. Brett's been making a lot of money. And then he kind of helps me up. I look down. Motley Crue Jon Bon Jovi's tearing my mask to shreds. And we hear like all this hubbub down below. And he helps me out of my Bigfoot suit. And we wad it up and put it in my backpack. And start getting out of the way before anyone can hike up there. And he is like got his arm over my shoulder. And he is just chuckling. He is like I am sorry I almost shot you man. Damn that was a good-looking suit. There is no more Bigfoot sightings but the maps are still there. And you know every once in awhile they get together and drink beers and talk about the time they saw Sasquatch. And Curtis - he knows but he has this - he tells this story about how he had me in his sights. Like he tells it Motley Crue got me and I like kicked his dog real hard with my big foot and ran off. He is like I had a shot but then my damn dog got  in the way. And I would have been a millionaire.   Listen I can absolutely verify that Pumpkinhead is a real place. Everything else - I would not cite it in a term paper. That piece was brought to us by Jeff Ipman the guy behind the amazing podcast There Be Monsters. I highly recommend it. Subscribe. Get it on iTunes tunes for free. Get it wherever else you can for free. Just get it. And understand this. When we return we are going to pick our own mother. That is right. Pick a mom. From ide episode continues. Stay tuned. 