 We are going to kick off today's SNAP JUDGMENT Detour episode on the SNAP stage. At Snap Live! one of our favorite storytellers is Kate Ascott-Evans. She dropped a family story from her very special brand of family. SNAP JUDGMENT.   We are standing outside a big gray concrete building in Cape Town. My dad is very excited which is making me nervous. Well Kate just you wait until you see your surprise present. I want it to be a spa day and I am thinking it could be a spa day because my dad and I we are not getting on and he wants us to bond. My mom is having a breakdown and I am back in South Africa taking care of her so my dad and I are living together for the first time since I was a kid when my parents split and it is not going well at all. We do not know how to be father and daughter. Even my mother who is in a psychiatric hospital said do you really think that is the best thing for your sanity?   So the surprise - my dad he opens the door. He struts up to the receptionist and he announces we have an appointment. There are like 100 jars of jam on her counter. Look they have fig jam - your favorite Kate. Buy some fig jam. Well that is very special jam. It is actually the last batch Mrs. Kunradi made before she left us. Left you? Well passed away. Probably not a spa.   I clutch my dead woman's fig jam. He points down the hall. There stand a group of white-haired people playing bingo. This is an old-age home. Well if my dad thinks we are putting my 59-year-old mother in this place he is got another thing coming. It is a tiny tiny room. There is no bed but there is a cot. Well Kate what do you think of your surprise? What do I think of my surprise Pop? I think Mom is not going to like this place. Mom? What? Kate I did not get this for your mother. I got it for you.   Wait - you got me a room in an old-age home? Yes. Pop I am 26. Exactly. You keep saying you want me to treat you like an adult and so I was thinking she probably needs her own space and then we got very lucky Kate. One of my patients just died so this place it is just sitting here fully paid for. I mean it is really great timing. You want to be a writer here's a captive audience.   Pop that is because they cannot go anywhere.   Will you stop getting hung up on that Kate? Really it is just a free apartment where you can live by yourself away from me. Away from him - so that is what this is about. I throw myself onto the cot and say I am your daughter Pop. Why do not you want me to live with you? But I do. Well so then why did you rent me a room here? Well because I thought you do not like living with me. I just seem to make you so unhappy. He sits down on the cot. I watch my father's shoulders slump and I can see he is trying which is more than I have been doing. He is trying to be my dad. A very confused and overeager dad but still that is my dad so I pick up my dead woman's fig jam and I stand up and I say look Pop this is a great place but if I want to live under the same roof as a cranky old guy I want that old guy to be you.   All right Kate if you are sure. Oh I am sure pop. I am very very sure.   Thank you. Thank you.   Thank you so very much Kate. That original score was created by Alex Mandel and performed by Alex Mandel and the SNAP JUDGMENT players David Brandt and Tim Frick.   When SNAP JUDGMENT returns someone goes out to sea someone joins the circus and somebody finally gets what they truly deserve. When etour episode continues. Stay tuned. 