 Today on SNAP we spare no expense. Come with us now to the island of Borneo where Agustin Fuentes - he studies the elusive green leaf monkey. Now Agustin lived in the jungle stayed at an orangutan sanctuary where orangutans that had been trafficked as pets and circus animals were taken and reintroduced into the wild.  Orangutans show up at these rehabilitation centers when police confiscate them. Sometimes you get ones that have been highly trained. So they come wearing clothes and used to living an almost-human life. People teach them to pour drinks wait tables ride bicycles put make-up on them have them smoke cigarettes and drink alcohol. And people think that is funny. And that is the really scary thing is people do not realize how dangerous some of these apes can be. I have to explain to people all the time that all the other primates are not teddy bears. They are wild animals. When we arrived there we were warned to stay away from the big male who was living outside of camp but would come in when they fed every day. And that male would come in out of the jungle for the feeding. And the feeding would be this giant wooden cart filled with fruits. The male would just walk right up to the cart. The young man holding the cart would move away. And that big orangutan male would shove an entire pineapple in his mouth chew it and then take another one. It was a little bit dicey. My fear of the orangutans had two reasons behind it. The first one is they are amazingly strong. Even a small orangutan is stronger than I am. The second thing is these ex-captives these ones who had ventured into their human world and came back to a sort of mixture of human and their own world they are less predictable. So I gave them a wide berth. I was chasing the extremely elusive maroon leaf monkey. It is a reddish-furred leaf monkey that runs around on the top of the trees. After a few weeks at the camp I was a bit frustrated because I had been going out every day and had not been able to find the monkeys. I found plenty of other animals but no monkeys. So today I was determined. I was going to go out and find those monkeys. I spent pretty much all day out in the jungle. It is late afternoon. I figure time to get out to camp. I do not want to get stuck at night. I have a headlamp in case I need it but being out by yourself at night in the jungle is not a good idea. I turn around and start going back and I immediately realize I am not on a trail anymore. And I am noticing a change in the jungle. The sounds start to change. The light starts to change. The jungle starts to wake up in some ways at night. I pulled out my compass and took a sort of general reading. I am lost. I figured that pretty quickly. I am a little nervous and just sort of wandering through in the direction I am hoping is the right direction. I come across an opening. I thought oh well maybe this is a path. And in that opening in the sort of fading rays of light I see this unbelievable shimmering on the ground. And I looked down and it is blue. It is sort of this metallic-blue shimmering. I did not know what it was so I moved out into it. And then out of nowhere it rises off the ground and flows up right - all around me. And it turns out it was hundreds of metallic-blue butterflies and it was one of the most beautiful experiences in my entire life. Then I started to hear noises around me and it got a little less great. I became completely disoriented. I felt defenseless. It is a different kind of world. It is getting darker and I am starting to get extremely concerned. I start to realize that I might have to spend the night out in the forest. I had a little bit of water. I you know - I have a knife on me. Moving along in this area I hear a rustle. But it is not on the ground it is not in front of me and it is not behind me. It could be anything. I hear it again and I can tell it is up in the trees. So I have a headlamp on. I look up and I hear the rustle. I am not sure what it is. And then I catch a glimpse of red red fur. It is an orangutan and I was in trouble. She looks down at me. I look up at her and she just sort of walks down the tree onto the ground approaches me and sticks her hand out. I did not hesitate. For some reason it was so inviting and the moment of communication between us was so powerful that I did not think about it. I just put my hand in hers. She wrapped her fingers around mine. And they were muscular and you could feel the bones and the tensile strength in them. But the skin was really soft which surprised me for a critter who is climbing up and down trees all day. And she was able to hold my hand very almost tenderly. It is very very soft. Even though I knew she could probably break the bones in my hand if she wanted just by curling her fingers she grasps it tenderly. And she immediately turns and starts walking. And I was absolutely shocked at first and then almost immediately I realized what was going on. She was heading into camp and she was taking me with her. The moment was so magical but it was so different from anything. I do not think I had any context in which to place it. And I have spent the last 15 years telling people not to touch the monkey. Here it is my story about me you know holding hands with an orangutan. So after I got back to camp and had this incredible experience I was there for another 10 days maybe two weeks. And I saw the orangutan two maybe three times on the edge of the camp maybe eating. I always sort of tried to position myself so we could make eye contact and I would be somewhere near her. To be honest I sort of wanted her to recognize me to acknowledge this incredible interaction we would had but it was to no avail. She did not really even take much notice of me after that. You feel at first a little slighted. We did not have the connection that I thought we did. This is something that I am going to think about for the rest of my life. Did she want to help me? I think she definitely sensed that I was scared and in need. But she her life. I had mine. She had been there in the moment. I was there in the moment and you know both of us went our separate ways.  Big thanks to Professor Fuentes for sharing that story with SNAP. And remember do not touch the monkey. That piece was produced by Anna Sussman with sound design by Pat Mesiti-Miller. Now when we return SNAP JUDGMENT pals around with the plan. And we hang out with rock stars backstage. Come with us when SNAP JUDGMENT the Unrequited episode continues. Stay tuned. 