 OK so I had a planned layover in Michigan. I was supposed to meet some of my family but there was drama happening and I could not do it. I just could not do it. I am driving down the road and my hands unbidden turn the wheel of the rental car away from all of that and start taking me in a new direction - a whole other highway. I am wondering where we are going when I feel myself relaxing. I think maybe my hands know what they are doing. I am riding up to farm country outside of Marlette Michigan where I lived as a boy. And again that seems like a very good idea. It is kind of end of the summer beautiful outside. I have not seen anybody up there in years way past time. And if I am really lucky I will catch our former neighbors the Paige  family around lunchtime. I used to practically live at their house. It occurs to me to call ahead - hell no. I am not calling ahead. I am showing up. The more I drive the more familiar it is. I remember this place. I remember that farm. It used to have a yellow barn - yellow barn. There used to be a pasture over where that trailer is. The closer I get the bigger my smile. I fell out of that tree - that one right there. Bust my head wide open fun. The few family farms left still go by their old ways which means everyone working eats lunch and dinner. I mean lunch and supper. They eat together prepared by the Misses. I pull up and the smell - I know exactly what Ms. Paige cooked because I used to eat that very same blackberry cobbler as a boy. I have not seen these people in well over a decade but I do not knock. I walk in through the kitchen see everybody sitting around the dining room table and just ask if they mind if I have a little something to eat. Papa Paige does not blink. It is Big City Big City come back out to the farm. I stop Ms. Paige from piling my plate long enough to get a hug. Get a what is-up chest bump from the sons. They introduce me to some of the farmhands - Charlie Ron Hector. We get basic greetings out the way but I hear the farm clock ticking. I realize I have cost them a few minutes. Papa Paige is like you are staying here tonight of course. Me and the boys we are going to finish baling out hay. We will catch up after supper. See you in a few hours City. All the fellows start getting up heading towards the barn. I am like what are you talking about? I am here to work. City you do not know from working out here. I am not even trying to hear this noise. Rule number one you do not just sit around on a farm. It is not done. You understand we are baling hay right? I am . They think I am some lost suburbanite who does not know which end of a barn door to open. You think I forgot how to bale hay? And that takes us to rule number two on the farm. Do not just keep talking once a decision's made. You will never ever meet a chatty farmer. There is no such thing. So we go out to the barn. There is a huge load of hay bales and a conveyor. Once the bale of hay pops off the conveyor you pass it hand to hand to hand until someone stacks it. It is heavy hard manly work. It is been a long time. I cannot wait. I take my place in line. I am ready Jack. It takes me 30 maybe 40 seconds to realize why everyone's looking at me curious. I have made the biggest rookie mistake there is the biggest. I am wearing a T-shirt and shorts. There is a reason everyone's wearing thick jeans and long shirts on one of the hottest days of the year. When you are tossing hay bales from one person to the other they cut as if they are made of broken glass. And we got to empty three entire truckloads stack them in the barn. I have talked a big game - a huge game which brings us to rule number three. Do not say jack to farmers that you cannot back up. So we go and we go and we go until every truck sits empty. And I am broken barely able to walk. But I walk toward the house. I ask Ms. Paige if I can please clean up before supper. The shower stings hot. I look down at the water red with blood and pride and stupidity. Now I put on my jeans. Now I find a long-sleeved shirt. I sit down at the table. I hurt too much to smile. I look too pitiful for them not to. Looks like we should have found some paperwork for you to do Big City. Paperwork. I strain to stab potatoes onto my fork and lift my hand towards my mouth. It hurts it hurts it hurts it hurts. Even as I struggle even as they laugh I know that this is a way better layover than the one I had planned. Today on RX and NPR Layover. Amazing stories of all the things that could happen between point A and point B. My name is Glynn Washington. Please set your tray table to the upright position because this here is SNAP JUDGMENT. You have heard people say that it is not the getting there that matters it is the journey. Well today instead of waiving away the how is and why is of how someone got from here to there we are digging deep. And Jason - Jason was on an around-the-world trip powered by his own body. He was paddling. He was rollerblading. He was circumnavigating the globe using only human power and it took him seven years to get from London to Hawaii. On the way he tangled with pirates in the Caribbean almost drowned in the Atlantic and now he decided to head for a teeny tiny island in the Pacific Tarawa. But apparently between Hawaii and Tarawa there is a stretch of ocean. There is a patch where the water actually flows backwards. It is called the countercurrent.  There are stories of sailors of course going insane going mad because you do not know when you are going to get out.  Sailors nicknamed it the horse latitudes. Their huge ships with their lifeless sails could be caught for months on end. Out of desperation the crew would throw their horses overboard hoping to lighten the load.  This is the dilemma that the sailing ships had in the Golden Age of Sail. They would get stuck in the countercurrent for days weeks months. And there is very little wind so the water is flat calm. It is a very sort of static environment.  Jason would be sailing a small ship he called Moksha. It did not have any sails or a motor only a bike crank that he peddled. Moksha was just a little wider than a bathtub with barely any room to stand. There is a place to sleep a place to pedal and a place to stash limited amounts of food and water and that is it. You can walk the whole boat in about 26 steps. He had to pedal all day if he wanted to get anywhere in a normal current. And if he ran into the countercurrent there was no way of peddling out. If he hit the countercurrent Jason's only hope would be to find something called a back eddy.  Occasionally you will get these little wormholes in the currents.  The back eddy would allow him to break out of the countercurrent but stumbling on one would be sheer luck. With that in mind Jason loaded up his boat with as many supplies as he could fit and he shoved off.  I then pedaled out of Kona on the west side of Hawaii and there was this definite sense of stepping into the void of stepping into a state of not knowing.  All Jason had with him was some food water and a GPS that he used to keep track of his progress. Every morning he checked his coordinates and then marked his location on his map to make sure that he was on track to Tarawa. He ate he paddled he slept and he checked his map. Everything was routine for about a month. Then on the 46th day...  I remember waking up and standing in the hatch with a cup of tea and there was no wind absolute silence. And I thought wow this is going to be an easy bit of water to pedal across today. I switched on the GPS and I thought there was something odd about the figures because the figures were pretty much the figures that I would written down the previous morning. And the dot that I wrote down on the chart was on the same position that I would written down the previous morning. And I thought well maybe there is something wrong with the GPS so I rebooted the GPS. And I suddenly realized that while I was sleeping the boat had actually been going backwards in the countercurrent. And I thought well you know at this point I could be in here an hour. I could be in this countercurrent for I do not know a day?  Jason jumped in the cockpit and pedaled straight through the day. He skipped breaks. He ate fast.  And after a day of pedaling on the spot I was absolutely bored out of my mind and starting to get a bit panicky. And the second morning I remember waking up and pretty tired switching on the GPS and I was back where I had been the previous morning. And it just got progressively worse as the days progressed.  This is what Jason did every single day and every day he was in the exact same spot. Any ground he had gained the day before he lost while he slept.  And when I entered the countercurrent it was just blissful and it is beautiful. I mean the water's clear so you can see straight down for hundreds and hundreds of feet. But then after a few days this sort of flat calm this totally static environment started to sort of work on my nerves after a while and work on my brain because you cannot really tell the difference between where the water ends and the sky begins. I sort of lost a sense of place a sense of kind of cosmic fix as to where I was in the world. After two weeks I was running out of things to sort of keep my spirits up. I could not pedal anymore. I had reached the end of my rope mentally physically and emotionally. And I laid down in the bottom of the boat and I curled up in a ball and I cried. It was without a doubt the most demoralizing point in the entire 13 year circumnavigation. But as I was lying there crying and having a meltdown it occurred to me that actually the boat was going backwards and that as long as it was going backwards in the countercurrent there was a greater chance of the food running out and the water running out. And there was a greater chance of the voyage of failing. After I had my mini breakdown I thought OK I am going to have to find a way to keep pedaling. As long as I could keep pedaling there was just a chance that I would find one of these little wormholes between the different bodies of water and maybe one day I would eventually get out of this countercurrent. It was the next morning and I was just finished my breakfast. I was washing the pan over the side - the sauce pan over the side - and there were lots of fish that would congregate underneath the boat these little black and white striped pilot fish. And one of these fish that would - and they would come out and feed on the food scraps. One of these fishes I would nicknamed Homer after Homer Simpson because it was like the fattest. It was the greediest. And I started talking to this fish just say oh come on Homes here's your porridge. You know you will get any fatter than you are already and you will be feeding the 5000 sort of thing.  At first Jason was just talking to a fish. But as the days passed he soon had an entire cast of companions to talk to even though he was completely alone.  This voice in this broad northern Irish voice from Belfast said to me you got to leave that little guy alone you know. Pick on someone your own size. And then we were joined by this German former U-boat commander this old German sea captain. What are you doing? You do not have any experience of the sea like a German U-boat commander. I had one more that became part of this medley of personalities this Frenchman from the Monty Python series. You ridiculous English fool. Your mother was a hamster and your father smelled of Elderberry. It was more like a comedy show going on in my head than anything.  Jason knew he was talking to himself but at some point he stopped being able to turn it off.  I was just having a bit of fun. But then after a while - because basically I was so lonely and these guys became my friends - they did take on more of an external reality if you like. All of these guys were very very insulting to me. And we would have these ferocious arguments. You know the pedal system broke at one point and you know and I am just fixing the pedal unit. And these guys are just keeping me company. They are just arguing about the best way to do it like guys do right? Guys always argue about the best way to do things. You do not know how to do the mechanics. You know you take off the propeller first. Your propeller shaft's broken here. And then you unscrew the propeller shaft. You - shut up you - you ridiculous English fool. What are you doing? Are you going insane? Guys guys this is - you know this is my boat. I am in charge here. Because there was no one else out there to tell me otherwise it seemed to me just a completely natural way of dealing with this very very extreme situation. And when they did become a little bit more nagging and a little bit more serious and the arguments became a little bit more heated about what were we going to have for dinner that night there was not any awareness on my part of it suddenly going to a different level.  Then finally on the 17th day in the countercurrent...  I would started my day normally. I had my three characters who were keeping me company there in every little decision - how to make lunch. Just small little things always. And then I stood up in the hatch. The ocean was like glass as usual and I felt this breath of air hit my cheek from the South. And then I thought this is strange because it is not dying down like it normally does. And it was just a steady flow of air and it strengthened to this breeze. And I knew that this was wind. This was real wind.  These were the southeast trade winds. This meant he was finally out of the countercurrent.  And I just got back on the pedals again and just started cranking away.  Jason paddled for 11 more days. And after over two months at sea Jason finally spotted the black ribbon of Tarawa on the horizon.  I had been out there on this ocean for 73 days by this point. I would gone a little bit crazy and land means life. It occurred to me that I could not arrive babbling in these different tongues. I could not arrive as Serge  the Frenchman or Heinz  the crazy U-boat commander or the IRA terrorist. So I had his reality check. And so it actually took a pretty conscious decision on my part to - OK guys you have to go now. You have to leave now. And they put up a little bit of resistance. The Irishman was like oh bullocks you know we are not going anywhere. Why do not you leave yourself? And then - and then they were gone. And I was pedaling away in the very bright sunlight just repeating like a mantra - cold beer cold beer cold beer - in time with my pedal rotations. Finally the boat nudged up against the pier and I stood up found myself surrounded by this amphitheater of fisherman. They are like where is the motor? Oh no motor. Where is the sail? No sail. And then I showed them the pedal mechanism. And they are like oh my - and then they started talking and jabbering. And just the sound of people's voices was almost overbearing. And then having to deal with conversation with other people again not just with myself. And part of this also was this sort of sneaking guilt I guess in the back of my mind that I had gone a little bit crazy out there. We live our lives our regular lives in quite a sort of rigid framework in terms of not only where we live but also social ties to our friends and our family. And once you take yourself out of that rigid structure and place yourself in a very sort of alien environment where you do not have any of those reference points then it is quite disconcerting after a while. OK I have done this solo voyage and I thought it was going to be this whole zen-like experience of pedaling off into the mystic but that did not happen. And I got stuck in the countercurrent. And I went a bit doolally instead. I went a bit crazy. It is funny. It is amusing but it is also a bit sort of sad. I just realized how incredibly lonely I was.  Thank you Jason. Now if you want to read more about Jason's 13-year circumnavigation of the globe check out his book The Expedition Dark Waters. We will have a link at SnapJudgment.org. That piece is produced by Jazmine da Costa with assistance from Julia DeWitt. Now when we return somebody's going to do hard time and somebody's going to get dissed hard. ayover episode continues. Stay tuned. 