 Welcome back to SNAP the Unrequited episode where we give love hoping for a little bit in return. For our next story we sent SNAP's own Nick van der Kolk out to the wilds of Maryland to meet Daryl Davis where he told us his story. Fair warning - this piece does use a word that is not appropriate for polite company. Actually the word is not appropriate for any company whatsoever.  1983. Country music had made a resurgence in this country so I joined a country band. I was the only black guy in the band and consequently usually the only black guy in many of the places where we played. Well there was this truck stop in a place called Frederick Maryland. The truck stop had a motel. In the bottom of the motel was this lounge called the Silver Dollar Lounge and it was basically an all-white lounge. Black people did not go in there. First time I played there I came off the bandstand after the first set and I was walking across the dance floor to sit with some of my band mates and this white gentleman probably in his mid to late 40s gets up from his table and walks across the bandstand from behind puts his arm around my shoulder and I stopped and turned around looked to see who was touching me and he says I really like your all's music. This is the first time I ever heard a black man play piano like Jerry Lee Lewis. I had no idea where this guy was coming from and I naively and innocently asked him where did you think Jerry Lee Lewis learned how to play? He says what are you talking about? And I said well Jerry Lee learned how to play that style from black blues and boogie-woogie piano players. That is where rockabilly and rock 'n' roll came from. Oh no no no no no no - Jerry Lee invented that. I as not never heard no black man play like that until you. I even told the guy I know Jerry Lee Lewis personally. He is a good friend of mine. I have known him since I was 13 years old. He is told me himself where he learned how to play. Well the guy did not buy it. But he was fascinated with me and said he wanted to buy me a drink. Now I do not drink but I agreed to go back to his table and have a cranberry juice. He says you know this is the first time I ever sat down had a drink with a black man. And I am thinking you know this guy is really having a night of firsts here. I asked him I said why? And he did not answer me. He stared at the tabletop and his buddy elbowed him in the ribs and said tell him tell him. Now he says I am a member of the Ku Klux Klan. I started laughing. I figured OK this guy thinks I am jerking him around about Jerry Lee Lewis so he is going to jerk me around about the Klan. While I am laughing he goes inside his pocket pulls out his wallet and hands me his Klan card. His looked like it had a Klansman on horseback and then on the other side was this red circle the white cross in the red blood in the center which is the Ku Klux Klan insignia. It is called a MIOAK or blood drop emblem. I stop laughing 'ecause I recognized that stuff you know this is for real. So now I am wondering what the hell am I doing sitting at a table with a Klansman? And I gave him back his card and we talked about some other things. The guy gave me his phone number. He wanted me to call him anytime I was to come back to this bar with this band. Because he wanted to bring his buddies right his Klan buddies to see this black guy play piano like Jerry Lee Lewis. We were on a rotation at the club every six weeks you know with other bands. So I call they guy like on a Wednesday or Thursday. I say hey man I am going to be at the Silver Dollar come on out. He would come and he would bring his Klansmen and Klanswomen friends and they would gather around and watch me play. They get out there on the dance floor and dance. There were some who did not want to meet me you know they were kind of standoffish. Just like you know watched me from afar but I knew it was them. Others you know were curious and once you you know they shook my hand and all that kind of stuff. Well anyway this went on about every six weeks until the end of '83 at which time I quit the clan - I mean quit the clan - I quit the band. Get that right - Freudian slip there. I quit the band and I went back to playing rock 'n roll and blues and you know whatever genre was popular in '84. And so you know I you know I lost contact with the guy. Music is my profession but learning more about racism on all sides of the tracks was my obsession. I began collecting everything I could get my hands on that dealt with white supremacy black supremacy anti-Semitism the Nazis in Germany the neo-Nazis over here the Ku Klux Klan things like that. It was incomprehensible to me that someone who had never seen me before someone who knew absolutely nothing about me would want to inflict pain upon me for no other reason than the color of my skin. They did not know anything about me I had not done anything. And the question that I had back then was how can you hate me when you do not even know me? That question stayed with me. Eight years later I decided I want an answer to my question. So I am going to interview all these racists. I need to write a book. So I chose the Klan because man I could have chose you know the Nazis but I have made some kind of relationship with this Klansman. So I am going to track down this Klansman from the Silver Dollar Lounge. He had moved. He did not have a phone but he had an address. So unannounced I went by his apartment one evening OK. I knock on the door right in this hallway and he opens the door. He says Daryl what are you doing here? And he steps onto the hallway and looks up and down the hallway to see if I brought anybody with me right? Well when he stepped out of his apartment I stepped in. So he turns around he comes back in. He goes what is going on man are you still playing? What is going on? I said yeah yeah yeah I am still playing man but listen I need to talk to you about the Klan. I said you are a member right? He goes well I was. He said he would quit and he went into this long story. Well I said where is all your Klansman stuff? He says well they came and got it. Apparently he had not paid off his robe and hood and they came and repo-ed it. And I said do you know Roger Kelly? Yeah I know Roger. Roger was my Grand Dragon. And their terminology they called the state leader the Grand Dragon. I asked him to hook me up with the Grand Dragon. He said no he could not do that. And I said well wait a minute you are out of the Klan now. He goes it does not matter Daryl. Well I begged and pleaded him to give me Mr. Kelly's information. Well 20 minutes later he finally consented to giving it to me on the condition that I not reveal to Mr. Kelly where I got his home address and his home phone number. He warned me he said Daryl do not go to Roger Kelly's house. Roger Kelly will kill you. I called my secretary who books my band. Mary worked here out of my house. I said here give Roger Kelly a call and tell him you are working for somebody who is writing a book on the Klan would he consent to sitting down for an interview. Do not tell Mr. Kelly that I am black unless he asks. If he asks do not lie to him but do not elude to it do not give him any reason to ask. And so I had her call. And he agreed. We set the meeting for the motel right above the Silver Dollar Lounge and 15 on a Sunday afternoon. Mary and I got there early. I gave Mary some money and I sent her down the hall to get some soda and put it in the ice bucket so I would be to offer my guest a beverage. I had no idea what this man was going to do when he saw me. Was he going to freak and attack me because I am black? Was he going to say I am not talking to you and turn around and leave or was he going to come in and be interviewed like he had agreed to do? I was not armed. My secretary was not armed. Right on time - knock knock knock on the door. Mary hops up runs around the corner and opens the door. In walks the Grand Nighthawk. Nighthawk in Klan terminology means bodyguard. He is wearing military camouflage fatigues the Ku Klux Klan insignia and on his right hip he had a gun. Mr. Kelly is walking directly behind this guy in a dark blue suit. The Nighthawk turns the corner and upon seeing me he freezes instantly. Mr. Kelly bumped into his back and they stumbled around you know trying to regain their balance looking over the room like uh-huh something's wrong here. I get up and I walk over and I said hi Mr. Kelly. I put my hand out. My name is Daryl Davis. He shook my hand. So far so good I said come and come in. The Nighthawk shook my hand. Mr. Kelly sat down. I am like yes - he is going to do it. And the Nighthawk stood at attention to his right. But before I could sit down Mr. Kelly says to me Mr. Davis do you have any form of identification. And I said yes and I reached into my wallet and I pulled out my drivers license and gave it to him. And he says oh you live on Flock Street in Silver Spring. Well now that had me a little concerned. Why is this man reciting my street address? He does not need to know that. I do not need him coming here burning a cross on my lawn. I did not let him know that he had you know slightly unnerved me or rattled me but I wanted to let him know that you know do not screw around. So I said yes Mr. Kelly that is where I live. And you live at and I named his house number and his street. We started doing the interview. And everything you know was going along smooth. I mean every now and then somebody might pound the table with their fist to make a point. Every time Mr. Kelly would say well Mr. Davis the Bible says you know I would reach down into my bag and pull out the Bible and hand to him to show me where. It said blacks and whites had to be separate or my cassette ran out of tape I would reach down into the bag and pull out my cassette and refresh the recorder. Every time I reached down the Nighthawk would reach up to his gun. A little over an hour into this interview there was a strange noise kind of like . I immediately jumped out of my chair and slammed my hands on the table. My mind was racing like you know 90 miles an hour trying to think what did I just say what did I just do to cause him to go off and make some weird? And I could here in the back of my head was that former Klansman saying Daryl do not fool with Roger Kelly. Roger Kelly will kill you. So I did not want to die that day and I am getting ready to come across that table grab the Nighthawk and Mr. Kelly and slam them both down to the ground and disarm to Nighthawk. My eyes locked with Roger Kelly eyes. My eyes were clearly saying what did you just do? And I could read his eyes what did you just do? And the Nighthawk had his hand on his gun looking back and forth between both of us like what did either one of you all just do? Mary she was over here sitting on top of the dresser. She realized what happened. And then it made that same noise again. Some of the ice cubes in the ice container melted in the ice bucket melted and the cans of soda shifted. We all began laughing at how ignorant we were. We continue with the interview and there were no more problems. At the end I shook their hands and thanked them for their time. And Mr. Kelly gave me one of his Klan cards. And he said keep in touch. And I was thinking to myself - I did not say it - but I was thinking to myself what? You know I did not come here to make friends with the Klan. I came here to find out - how can you hate me when you do not know me? And he did not like me he told me as much. On the way back home I said to Mary in my car I said you know I rather like Roger Kelly. I like him as a person. I do not like what Roger Kelly stands for. But I found that we had more in common than we did in contrast. Basically what we had in contrast was how we each felt about race. Other than that we agreed on a lot of things in common we need to get drugs off the street we need better education for kids. Things like that you know we can agree upon. So whenever I had a gig up in his county I would call him and say hey man I am playing here or playing there come on out. He would come. He would bring the Nighthawk with him but he would come. Sometimes I would invite him down here. He would come down here he sat right over there on the couch. Sometimes I would invite over some of my Jewish friends some of my black friends some of my other white friends just to engage Mr. Kelly in conversation with somebody other than me. I did not want him to think I was some exception. I want him to talk to other people. After a while he began coming down here by himself no Nighthawk. He trusted me that much all right. After a couple of years he became Imperial Wizard. He was elevated from state leader to national leader Imperial Wizard. He began inviting me to his house.   Welcome to this final hour of CNN Sunday Morning. Friendship can transcend all kinds of boundaries.  Just look at us. Two men in the Washington area are showing that even an African-American man and a member of the Ku Klux Klan can find common ground. CNN's Carl Rochelle reports.  Davis is one of the few African-Americans you will ever find attending a KKK rally more than attending he is welcome.  I got more respect for that black man than I do for you white niggers out there. We get to know one another and we do different things. You know it has not changed my views about the Klan you know because my views on the Klan have been pretty much cemented in my mind for years. I believe in separation of the races I believe that is in the best interest of all races. I would follow that man to hell and back because I believe in what he says more than he I believe in what I stand for. A lot of times we do not agree with everything but least he respects me to sit down and listen to me. And our respect him and sit down and listen to him.  The strange relationship of a KKK wizard and his black buddy. In Washington I am Carl Rochelle.  If you have an adversary an opponent with an opposing point of view give that person a platform regardless of how extreme it may be. And believe me I have heard something so extreme at these rallies it will cut you to the bone. If you agree with them great - no problem. If you do not agree with them that is fine too. You challenge them but you do not challenge them rudely or violently. You do it politely and intelligently and when you do things that way chances are they will reciprocate and give you a platform. So he and I would sit down and listen to one another. Over a period of time that cement that he talked about that held his ideas together began to get cracks in it and then it began to crumble and then it fell apart. And then a few years ago Roger Kelly quit the Ku Klux Klan. He no longer believes today what he said on that videotape OK and when he quit the Klan he gave me his robe and hood. This is the robe of the Imperial Wizard. When the three Klan leaders here in Maryland - Robert White Roger Kelly and Chester Doles - and I became friends with each one of them - when the three Klan leaders here in Maryland left the Klan and became friends of mine that ended the Ku Klux Klan in the state of Maryland. Today there is no more Ku Klux Klan in the state of Maryland. They have tried to revive it every now and then but it immediately falls apart.  Do you think there is a danger at all that there is some sort of like tacit approval happening that he can sort of point to you and be like hey this black guy we are cool so therefore my separatist beliefs are right?  Some of them might feel that way yeah sure. I know where I stand and I never let it you know let it be questioned. They know that I do not approve of separatism or supremacy or whatever but I have no problem sitting there you know shaking their hands. I maintain my beliefs.  Have ever gotten criticism from black folks?  Of course absolutely. Now black people who are friends of mine who know me understand where I am coming from. Some black people who have not heard me interviewed or who have not read my book some of them jump to conclusions and prejudge me just like the Klan. I have been called an Uncle Tom I have been called an Oreo. I had one guy from a NAACP branch chew me up one side and down the other saying you know we have worked hard to get 10 steps forward and here you are sitting down with the enemy having dinner and you are putting us 20 steps back. I pull out my robes and hoods and say look this is what I have done to put a dent in racism. I have got robes and hoods hanging in my closet by people who have given up that belief because of my conversations of sitting down to dinner and they gave it up. How many robes and hoods have you collected? And then they shut up.  Big thanks to Daryl Davis. Now we love a diversity of opinion on the SNAP but I have to ask you a favor - if you see me on stage with the Klan please please call the authorities at once - I have been kidnapped and beaten and being held against my will. Thank you. Daryl Davis wrote a book about his experiences called Klan-Destine Relationships. He spoke with our own Nick van der Kolk. When SNAP JUDGMENT returns we hang out with the highest social class of all - rock stars. Stay tuned. 