 Sophomore year of high school Honors English class. And I know everyone knows it is Thursday. And like every Thursday I brace myself - 26 27 28 29 30. I look up from my desk the teacher nods and then every single person in the class gets up and walks out - time for The National Honors Society meeting. Yet every single person in Ms.  class gets up walks out every single person but me. See the other kids in Honors English all have something in common - they are Honors everything else too. They are Honors Math Honors Chemistry Honors History - honors this honors that. Goody for them. At least I think I am pretty good at this English stuff - the reading the writing. And you know everyone needs something they can do. This is my thing. Our teacher had said that only the finest young minds could maintain the rigor and depth for her classroom. Shakespeare Beowulf Chaucer - I dig it. And the week prior she told us to write about the storming of the French Bastille. Turns out it is crazy stuff with guillotines treachery let them eat cake. I get into it. And so this morning after everyone leaves I would sit there alone staring at the teacher. She stares back at me and she looks angry. And finally she says we need to have a talk about your assignment. Then she holds up my paper my Bastille paper and there is a big F marked on it. This paper is an obvious plagiarism. What? You copied this out of a book. I wrote that. What book? I do not know which book. But I do know that you did not write it. I have informed the principal you are hereby dismissed from the Honors English class. Go see your counselor for reassignment. But I did not... Get out. I cannot believe it. I go tell my counselor what happened. And he says well you know this is not the type of thing that looks good in your permanent record. I did not do anything. He hands me a slip with a new class assignment on it. It reads creative writing which is what they called English for dummies. No I did not do anything wrong. No more cheating on papers OK? And I can barely speak. Language is the only reason anyone's ever called me smart and now I do not even have that. I get to the class and my new teacher Mrs. Cox  is not happy to see me. Whatever discipline problems that got you sent here let us see that they are not repeated. I sit in the back and hear all the what'd you do what'd you do what'd you do what'd you do? I do not answer. Ms. Cox gives us an assignment to write a poem about something that means something or something or another - screw her. Screw the counselor screw the principal screw everybody - poem. I am going to have my own good time. I imagine this English-accented villain and write. I wake with the madness possessed with the need. 'Tis only one thing on which I must feed. I know where they keep it. Yes there is a place. I care not for title not distinction not grace. I crawl toward the chalice a glowing white bowl. Therein lies my challenge. I seize now my goal. And the madness it is lifted. But in my throat there is a lump for I had reached inside a toilet after teacher took a dump. Ms. Cox rifles through the assignments reads mine allowed rolls her eyes says something about broken meter. And that is it which makes me kind of upset 'ecause that would have got me booted from Honors English class for sure. But she plays us The Bride Of Frankenstein and says that our next assignment is to write a monster story. Now understand - please understand nobody - but nobody knows from monsters like I know monsters. So that night fire in the belly I pen an opus combining horror sci-fi and speculative fiction into a single creature that has big plans for the good-looking hero. When I walk into class with the story Ms. Cox snatches it out of my hand sits down and starts reading before she even says hello. I watch her as she laughs gasps shakes her head and then gets real quiet. I wait for her reaction as she turns the final page with my final surprise. It is all been a trap for just this moment. I wait. She reads. And her mouth drops open. She looks up at me. No way. And that reaction her reaction may be my first moment of pure joy. From then on I write. I write every day to make Mrs. Cox cry to make her laugh to make her mad. I write and I write and I write. And I never make it to The Honors Society. I never make it to Honors English. But if it was not for a bit of an academic detour if it was not for Mrs. Cox I do not know if I would have made it at all. Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR Detour - amazing stories from real people crashing up against that roadblock. My name is Glynn Washington and my teacher's name was Dailyn Cox whom I have never properly thanked before so I could thank her now in front of over 1 million Snappers. Thank you Mrs. Cox. I will always remember. And never forget that you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. 