 Now then for our next story Kirsten she is always been fascinated with a nearby mental hospital. So one day she decides to pay the place a visit. For protection she takes her along her close friend Marsha and an off-duty cop. She also takes along a tape recorder. Now the one thing she knows about this hospital it is the same place where her cousin is confined.  She had never wanted to talk to me about it. And what did she see? What did she feel? What was her life like while she was there? We walk up to the door. We see that it has a glass panel in it. We look through and as soon as we are inside we close it and we test it. We want to make sure that that door is unlocked. We walked down the hallway. We see this labyrinth of patient rooms nurses' stations and we eventually arrive at a huge room that seems to be filled with some kind of cages. As we start walking I am hearing conversation down the hallway. We are all listening to this - people talking. It is very muffled. It is very distant. The officer decides OK he tells us girls you stay here. I am going to go check out and see what is going on down the hallways. So he goes down. He is got his hand on his gun. He gets down to the end of that hallway. He comes back. He says there is nobody there. And the conversation he said stopped as soon as he got a certain point down the hallway. He did not hear anything anymore. We sit down on ground. We get our audio out. Marsha starts asking a few questions to whoever might still be in that room with us. And she is asking how do you feel about not getting out? How do you feel about being trapped in here? And that is when all hell breaks loose.  We hear you. We hear you. Now listen.  The walls start shaking and reverberating.  Look. It is OK. We do not mean any disrespect or anything like that. I know you must be angry from being in a hospital .  I think I might leave. And I feel this burning pain along my lower back. I turn around. I pull up my shirt to see what is happened. And I see this angry red mark across my lower back. The officer jumps to his feet and takes off down the hallway. We grab our stuff. We get it together as quickly as we can and we can tearing off. There are shadows and cold breezes running past us. The banging is moving down the hallway. It looks like we have landed in one of those Escher paintings. Every single time you think you are going to escape you end up back where you started. We come up into this enormous room. And I said holy crap. This is the same room where we started. That is the door with the glass panel. That is the one we came in. We are like this is it. We are getting out. The officer tries the door and its locked. And I said no that is not possible. It cannot be locked because it was open when we came in. So I go and I try the door. And I cannot make it open. Officer Mark tells us to stand back and he starts kicking the door. And he kicks it with all of his force. And he kicks it over and over and over again to the point where I start to get nervous. And I think it is clearly locked. Almost instantaneously the hysteria level goes up. Officer Mark stops kicking the door. We start walking. We end up in this room. Marsha turns around to us and says this is going to end now. She has a look on her face that I do not recognize. She goes over to the corner and she picks up this big hunk of metal. It looks like a crowbar but I do not know what it is. She starts wailing on this window with all of her force and it is making a tremendous racket. And at the same time Mark is running around - literally like going in circles pacing around in circles with his hand on his gun. I do not know what is going on around me anymore. He is not listening to me. And so I just wander up to this window looking over a courtyard. And I hold onto the bars. And I look down there. And I just realize I am never leaving. And this is where it gets difficult to talk about because I am starting not to feel like myself anymore. I was gone. I know there are patients behind me. I know that they are sitting there and they are watching TV. I know they are drugged in the corners. I know they are strapped in their beds. I knew exactly what it felt like to be a patient at that hospital. All I was doing was holding onto these bars looking down at a courtyard that I knew I was never ever ever going to see again. And I remember telling myself this story about my life. And I am a professor at a college. Remember that? Remember that? And I am thinking about my kid. I am thinking about my husband. And everything in my life how much I appreciated it. At the same time somebody was trying to take it away from me. And it was the most hopeless - the saddest - thing I have ever felt in my life. From behind a tree I remember seeing this woman appear who seemed almost more like a vision than an actual person because she is dressed completely in white. And Marsha leans over and says hey. Hey up here. We are trapped. We have to get out of here. We got in and now we cannot get out. Can you please help us? And she is responding to us it is OK. It is OK. Do not panic. So then we grab our stuff. As we are heading back we do not feel anything. There are no dark shadows or shapes. We can still see the lady in white. We wave to her. She waves back. We keep moving down and eventually we find the original door. We can see these dent marks around the bottom where Officer Mark was kicking it with all of his force. And I know the door is locked. And we see her coming down. She literally looks to be glowing. And I see her come up to the door lean down a little bit grab the handle and she opens the door.  Thank you so much Kirsten for sharing that story. Glad to know you were finally able to get out. We will have a link to Kirsten's blog which includes pictures on our website snapjudgment.org. That story was produced by Ana Adlerstein and Davey Kim. When we return please please please please please please always check the fine print before you buy a house when Spooked  Innocence Lost continues. Stay tuned. 