 Welcome back to the SNAP. This is The Return episode. Today we are exploring the urge to go back - to go back in time to go back in place and to go back to the people that matter. We are going to travel to Venezuela where an intrepid young anthropologist went in search of isolation and adventure and he found something else entirely.  When David Good was a little boy his mom was not around. So he had no mom at soccer practice or to help with homework.  Eventually people got curious. They wanted to find out you know where is your mom? I told people that my mom died in a car crash.  The truth was she had left her family her husband and her three kids when David was 5 years old. And as he got older he could not handle his anger. D.  It got to a point where I realized that I cannot keep going on like this you know hating myself on and on. You know you think what am I going to do for the rest of my life? I am going to hide from myself? That is pretty much how it culminated into that decision to go find my mom to reunite with her.  David what was your biggest fear in going to find your mom? D.  My biggest fear - getting shot with a bow and arrow . I was afraid I was going to get caught in a raid or something and you hear all these stories - getting shocked by electric eels or getting attacked by a jaguar. I had a lot of fears to think about.  David's mom is a member of the Yanomami tribe. See David's dad Ken Good is an anthropologist and in 1975 he traveled by canoe through the rapids of the Orinoco River in Venezuela deep into the Amazon jungle trying to find the Yanomami people.  The Yanomami are very very basic in the way they live. They have no clothes. They only count to two. They have no musical instruments. They are just living in a state of nature in the Amazon forest.  Ken's teacher Napoleon Chagnon had written about the Yanomami describing them as fierce and prone to war and violence. After days of traveling by canoe and on foot Ken finally met the Yanomami on the banks of the river. He did not speak any Yanomami. K.  I pulled up in my outboard canoe and of course they hear outboard motor from a mile away and they came running down. And they were all there and excited and they were just there looking and chatting and just talking to me in Yanomami. They had no idea there were other languages. They called me acaborebu which means ghost tongue. They would stand outside my hut to look through the palm slats and laugh and everything about me was funny. I take my socks off and they laughed because my toes were squeezed together from wearing shoes since I was 2 and theirs were more splayed from never wearing shoes.  He was supposed to stay with the Yanomami for 15 months but he started to learn the language. He moved into their communal home. He ended up staying for 12 years. K.  It was just so nice to be there. And I felt so good and happy. There was nothing to ask for.  After a few years some local men had something to ask of him. They wanted him to kind of join their family. K.  One day the headman of the village he came to me and he says you cannot stay here all the time without having a wife. I just laughed you know. He kept insisting that I take his younger sister and I do not know how old she was. I am guessing she was about 12 or 13. Now betrothed is simply what happens when - simply say she is going to be your wife someday. It is sort of like a promise. I said you know no no I cannot do that. So the headman who was insisting her older brother - and he was quite a strong-willed guy so I said OK she is my wife.  Ken figured it was purely a ceremonial engagement a formality until he went back home. K.  I figured I will go home whenever I do and that'ill be the end of that.  So the girl's name was Yarima  and he would go with her family on trips into the jungle. K.  We had fun. We used to go hunting and gathering out on the trail. I was so caring about her in every little regard - if she got a cut on her toe or something - and everything. And I realized I was thinking about her all the time.  Their relationship developed over the course of many years. This is what Yarima said about that time as transcribed by Ken. At dawn and dusk I thought about Kenny. I remembered how he would carry me on his back. She said I brought food to his hammock and he would always smile. She talked about missing him terribly when he would go away. K.  You know how can a Ph.D. candidate from a Western culture marry an Amazonian native woman who has never been out of the jungle and thought the whole world was an Amazon jungle? I could not conceptualize it. That is the way it went. But things changed it was totally unexpected. Sometimes emotions are difficult to describe. I just fell in love with her.  I asked Ken what the age difference was between them when they made their marriage official. K.  I do not like to talk about it. You are the first interview I have done almost 20 years. Why should I have to talk about when I consummated my marriage?  He says he believes she was about 15 or 16 when they first consummated their marriage. He is taken a lot of criticism for this over the years. Ken what is the criticism that bothered you the most? K.  That she was a little girl. That I had married a little girl and it was an abuse. These people only live to be about 45 or so. A 15-year-old girl in their culture is not the same as a 15-year-old - a 15-year-old here is totally immature. She is a little kid still. She would probably chewing gum at the mall and in Yanomami culture she is a woman. She is a full-fledged woman. She is doing all of women's chores and she is probably pregnant or has a baby. Now you say well that is them you know? What do you know? They are Indians. Well I am sorry - this all occurred within the confines of their communal structure.  Ken had lived in their world for many years but he was supposed to be there as a professional anthropologist and his choice was a problem for other anthropologists. K.  You study these people but you do not get involved with them and marry them. I said why not? I said they are human beings like any other people on Earth.  Still there is a lot that is complicated about their marriage not just for anthropologists. Even in the village Ken and Yarima had a lot of problems. When Ken had to leave to deal with his visa or paperwork the others would think he would left forever and Yarima became fair game. She was mistreated. But for the most part it worked. They lived together they hunted together and at night they slept together in Ken's hammock. And before long they became pregnant with their first son David. D.  You know I do remember playing in the creeks you know walking around in the plantain gardens with the kids practicing archery shooting lizards you know with the boys and trying to fine-tune our hunting skills.  David does not remember too much else because he was actually raised in New Jersey. Ken got too worried about Yarima's safety in the village. D.  My father had asked my mom you know why do not you come to my people? Come to my village of New Jersey where we can always be together and you know I do not have to be afraid for you for being alone in the jungle. And she agreed.  So that is what they did. They moved from Hasipuaterry Venezuela to New Jersey. D.  So you can imagine a woman that lived in the jungle her whole life and now she is went through a time machine fast forward like 2000 years in a different cosmos different world. K.  We just had a little fun. I flipped a switch off and on and that just was amazing. It is dark and it is light it is dark and it is light. D.  She had seen a full-length mirror for the first time and she freaked out and she hid behind a bed. My dad had to cover up the mirror you know? K.  Somebody started up a Jeep and she went crazy. I did not see her but I had to go find her in the bushes because she thought it was an animal. D.  And my father once caught my mom just strolling outside without any clothes on and he comes and covers her up tries to tell her you know in my world you have got to wear clothes all the time.  But there were bigger problems too. For the first time Yarima was spending a lot of the day alone. Ken was out working teaching at a nearby college. D.  The man that my father was down in the jungle you know it is not the same man that he was up here in New Jersey. He is working hard try to pay the bills and keep their food on the table. Of course my mom has no concept that. She does not know why he is gone all the time. K.  The thing about living here is nothing made sense. Not only that - in Yanomami culture the most important things to them are their family and not just their kids or their parents but their extended family. And so she was cut off from that. You have got to understand what it was like for her. And I did not like it. I did not bring her back here to make her a little American housewife for God's sake.  They had three kids in New Jersey and all of them would go back together to the village in Venezuela for long visits. David and his brother and sister learned to hunt and how to speak the language. And once Ken and Yarima went back alone and Yarima said she wanted to stay. She and Ken went back and forth about it but when the plane came to the airstrip to take them to New Jersey Yarima actually fled into the jungle. Ken was worried about the kids so he boarded the plane figuring he would come back for Yarima later. But he never did. D.  Then there was sort of like - this realization that set in that - wow you know mom's gone and she is not coming back. K.  Suddenly we became a family of four three kids and me and I was a single father. D.  As I you know got older I sort of went through this phase where I just did not want to be known as a Yanomami and I do not ever want to hear that word. And I never want to hear about mom again. I do not want to be associated with that culture and that tribe. I just wanted to be this typical American kid growing up you know? I played baseball. I was a paperboy. It is embarrassing. All of my friends' moms are picking them up at you know soccer practice or driving them to baseball practice but my mom is you know naked in the jungle eating tarantulas.  Of course all of his dad's pictures were in museums and in textbooks because Ken was a leading anthropologist on the Yanomami. D.  In elementary school we had this periodical that would come out called Scholastic Journal for Kids. You know there was one on my desk and I flipped through the page and - bam - there is a huge picture of me and my uncle in a village in the Amazon and the caption underneath says you know Yanomami boy learning how to shoot a bow and arrow with a relative. And I just started sweating bullets because I am like oh my gosh everyone in my class is going to find out. For the next 15 to 20 years it just kept festering inside me and it kept getting worse and worse and I did you know turn to alcohol to cope with you know a lot of my problems and actually dropped out of high school. So I knew that if I had to you know survive for the rest of my life I am going to have to cope with this. You know I read my dad's book and I got to understand some of the struggles that my mom had when she was up here. And I had this innate yearning to want to go find her.  So David bought a one-way ticket to Venezuela. D.  It was pretty neat to think that I am taking the same trip that my father took decades ago. I remember starting you know feeling a little tense a little anxious that we are getting closer and closer. And when the motor's revving villagers can hear from a mile away and there is this excitement because they do not get visitors too often. And they scream motor motor and then they all start running to the riverbank to see who is coming. We pulled up introduced ourselves and I said I am David the son of Yarima and I am here to find her. And so the villagers of Hasipul  Pogoteri  they said come out of the boat we want to see you and we want to touch you. So I was completely mobbed with Yanomami. I had hands all over my body. They were pulling my ears touching my nose touching my hair and that is when my mom finally arrived. I saw her walk in and she was carrying a basket. And the whole village was immediately quiet and it was hushed. And people were whispering and I could hear them whispering Yarima's name. And I stood up and I approached her. And I realized how do I greet her? What is the Yanomami way of greeting when you do not see somebody for 20 years? I know that they do not hug or anything - and just sort of this awkward moment at first where everything in me just wanted to hug her and hold her but I did not want to make the moment awkward for her either. As we got closer she just started trembling and crying. And I can remember her hands shaking and she was touching me almost as if to see if I was even real. I told her you know I made it it is been so long but I made it. I looked into her eyes and she started crying and then out of nowhere I just started getting flooded with all of these memories of being with her when I was 5. My mother's alive and I found her. And we are together and now I want to develop this relationship and friendship with her.  He wanted to stay for a long time. He did not know exactly how long but he hung up his hammock and settled in. D.  As the months went by she started remembering some English and one time I was sitting in my hammock and she comes up to me and says hey do you want some snake? Just pure perfect English and I am looking at her like where did that come from? You know? She was very patient with me and she knew that I lived in the world of the nava  of the outsider and that I you know have much to learn.  David this is not the soccer mom relationship that you wanted as a kid. D.  No no definitely not. But you know not too many mothers can go out there and kill a boa constrictor for you and come back .  Pretty soon after his arrival David was offered the same opportunity as his dad. D.  I was introduced to two girls in the village so I asked who are these girls? My mom replied oh these are my wives.  David's wives. D.  Yeah my wives. They are two girls. So I thought a wife was just going to be like a sister or a brother but I was wrong. They really really wanted to be my wife and they really wanted me to be their husband. And it became evident after I spent some time in the village that they really really wanted to have kids. And in their mind you know they are probably thinking his father is a nava a complete outsider and he took a Yanomami wife. Surely his son who is half-Yanomami would have no problem taking a Yanomami wife. It is just that I grew up in America and there is this huge cultural barrier where I could not be their husband. I could not be that Yanomami husband. And it actually turned into some conflicts where a couple times at night I had to kick my wife out of the hammock. And then there is times where they ganged up on me saying you know you are my Yanomami husband and we are going to have children together and do not be afraid. That is what my mom would say a lot you know? Do not be afraid it is OK they are your wives because every time they would get close to me I would start getting nervous and I am like OK.  It made him wonder how did his dad manage to do it to cross this divide that felt so wide? So he arranged for a boat downstream to a nearby mission where they had a generator where they had a satellite Internet connection. D.  So I sat my mom down in front of the computer. I Skyped my dad. K.  You know I am sitting there all of a sudden I am on Skype and I am talking to him. And he moves over and there is his mother. I said oh my - I could not believe it. He did not tell me. A little secretive this guy. There I am for the first time in 20 years looking at my wife. D.  And they just started Skyping each other in Yanomami. K.  I was amazed. She still looked so great. She had the sticks in her mouth that young girls - and I start talking Yanomami first time in 20 years and I realized I did not forget it. That was amazing. She looked at me and she said are you married? I said no. I looked at her and I said are you married? She said no. And then we just kind of sat there and looked at each other for about 15 seconds and - boom -  because people think you still love her you should go down there and get her she is waiting for you. D.  As I was watching them interact and talk to each other it just really hit me that they just seemed to get along so well the way they just interacted and I knew right then and there why they fell in love you know? Because they just felt so natural together. K.  What was his motivation? Why did he want me to see and talk to his mother? Was he hoping we would get back together? I do not know. I do not know but that is the only reason - what do you think? I still love her and should go get her down there?  I think you still love her but I do not think you should go down there and get her. I think you tried that. K.  Yeah.  We have got huge appreciation for Kenneth Good and his son David for sharing their story with SNAP. David Good is now doing remarkable work with the Yanomami. Check out Project Good on our website snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Anna Sussman with assistance from Beth Morgan and sound design by Renzo Gorio. That was tight right? Well when SNAP JUDGMENT comes back we are chasing a whoopin'. Yep. When The Return episode returns. Stay tuned. 