 From PRX and NPR welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT the Presto episode. Today we are calling on mysterious forces and we are going to strap on the SNAP JUDGMENT time machine. Our own Eliza Smith takes the controls and spins the dial back 100 years into the past.  California 1904. In the fields oranges dry in their rinds. In the 'burbs lawns yellow. Poppies wilt on the hillsides. Meanwhile Charles Hatfield sits at a desk in his father's Los Angeles sewing machine business. His dad wants him to take over someday but Charlie does not want to spend the rest of his life knocking on doors and convincing housewives to buy his bobbins and thread. Charlie does not look like the kind of guy who changes the world. He is impossibly thin with a vanishing patch of mousy hair. He always wears the same drab tweed suit. But he thinks to himself just maybe he can quench the Southland's thirst. So when he punches out his timecard he does not go home for dinner. Instead he sneaks off to the Los Angeles Public Library and pores over stacks of books. He reads about shamans who believed that fumes from a pyre of herbs and alcohols could force rain from the sky. He reads modern texts too about the pseudoscience of pluvo culture - rainmaking the theory that explosives and pyrotechnics could crack the clouds. Charlie conducts his first weather experiment on his family ranch just northeast of Los Angeles in the city of Pasadena. One night he pulls his youngest brother Paul out of bed to keep watch with a shotgun as he climbs atop a windmill pours a cocktail of chemicals into a shallow pan and then waits. He does not have a burner or a fan or some hybrid no - he just waits for the chemicals to evaporate into the clouds. Paul slumped into a slumber long ago and is now leaning against the foundation of the windmill when the first droplet hits Charlie's cheek. Then another. And another. Charlie pulls out his rain gauge and measures .65 inches. It is enough to convince him he can make rain. That is right Charlie has the power. Word spreads in local papers and one by one small towns Hemet Volta Gustine Newman Crows Landing Patterson come to him begging for rain. And wherever Charlie goes rain seems to follow. After he gives their town seven more inches of water than his contract stipulated the Hemet News raves Mr. Hatfield is proving beyond doubt that rain can be produced. Within weeks he is signing contracts with towns from the Pacific Coast to the Mississippi. Of course there are doubters who claim that he tracks the weather who claim he is a fool chasing his luck. But then Charlie gets an invitation to prove himself. San Diego a major city is starting to talk water rations and they call on him. Of course most of the city councilmen are dubious of Charlie's charlatan claims. But still cows are keeling over in their pastures and farmers are worrying over dying crops. It will not hurt to hire him. They reason if Charlie Hatfield can fill San Diego's biggest reservoir Morena Dam with 10 billion gallons of water he will earn himself 10000. If he cannot well then he will just walk away and the city will laugh the whole thing off. One councilman jokes...  It is heads - the city wins. Tails - Hatfield loses.  Charlie and Paul set up camp in the remote hills surrounding the Morena Reservoir. This time they work for weeks building several towers. This is to be Charlie's biggest rain yet. When visitors come to observe his experiments Charlie turns his back to them hiding his notebooks and chemicals and Paul fingers the trigger on his trusty rifle. And soon enough it is pouring. Winds reach record speeds of over 60 miles per hour. But that is not good enough - Charlie needs the legitimacy a satisfied San Diego can grant him. And so he works non-stop dodging lightning bolts relishing thunderclaps. He does not care that he is soaked to the bone - he can wield weather. The water downs power lines floods streets rips up rail tracks. A Mission Valley man who had to be rescued by a row boat as he clung to a scrap of lumber wraps himself in a towel and shivers as he suggests...  Let us pay Hatfield 100000 to quit.  But Charlie is not quitting. The rain comes down harder and harder. Dams and reservoirs across the county explode and the flood devastates every farm every house in its wake. One winemaker is surfacing from the protection of his cellar when he spies a wave twice the height of a telephone pole tearing down his street. He grabs his wife and they run as fast as they can only to turn and watch their house washed downstream. And yet Charlie smiles as he surveys his success. The Morena Reservoir is full. He grabs Paul and the two leave their camp to march the 50 odd miles to City Hall. He expects the indebted populist to kiss his mud-covered shoes. Instead he is met with glares and threats. By the time Charlie and Paul reach San Diego's city center they have stopped answering to the name Hatfield. They call themselves Benson to avoid bodily harm. Still when he stands before the city councilman Charlie declares his operations successful and demands his payment. The men glower at him. San Diego is in ruins and worst of all - they have got blood on their hands. The flood drowned more than 50 people. It also destroyed homes farms telephone lines railroads streets highways and bridges. San Diegans file millions of dollars in claims but Charlie does not budge. He folds his arms across his chest holds his head high and proclaims the time is coming when drought will overtake this portion of the state. It will be then that you call for my services again. So the city councilman tells Charlie that if he is sure he made it rain they will give him his 10000 - he will just have to take full responsibility for the flood. Charlie grits his teeth and tells them it was coincidence. It rained because Mother Nature made it so. I am no rainmaker. And then Charlie disappears. He goes on selling sewing machines and keeping quiet.  I will tell you what California these days could use a little Charlie Hatfield. Big thanks to Eliza Smith for sharing that story and thanks as well to Leon Morimoto for sound design. Mischief managed - you have just gotten to the other side by means of other ways. If you missed any part of this show no need for a rampage - head on over to snapjudgment.org. There you will find the award-winning podcast - Mark what award did we win? Movies pictures stuff. Amazing stories await. Get in on the conversation. SNAP JUDGMENT's on Facebook Twitter snapjudgment. Did you ever wind up in the slithering sitting room when you are supposed to be in Gryffindor's parlor? Well me neither but I am sure it is nothing like wandering the halls of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Completely different but many thanks to them. PRX Public Radio Exchange hosts a similar annual Quidditch championships but instead of brooms they ride radios. Not quite the same visual effect but it is good clean fun all the same - prx.org. WBEZ in Chicago has tricks up their sleeve and you may have reckoned that this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact if you would just thrown that book with Voldemort trapped in it thrown it in the fire been done with the nonsense - and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 