 OK so I did not know why my parents were acting so weird - hopping around hovering. I did not know why but they told me that a man - a man's going to be stopping by soon and I was to act normal towards this man. Act normally - I was to open the door ask him to have a seat see if he wanted anything to drink. Why would not I act normal? Who is the guy? What is the big deal? Do we owe him money? Does he know a secret? Are we in his will? Why do not they just open the door themselves? But I will wait and I will wait and finally there is a knock on the door. I open it and standing in front of me is a man a tall man in a gray suit with dark holes where his eyes should have been. And I scream at the top of my 10-year-old lungs and I slam the door hard. Glynn? Glynn what'd you do? My mother rushes out opens the door. Mr. Gully  I am so sorry. I see the man in the gray suit trying to shove sunglasses on his face. Oh no no no - it is my fault entirely. I still hear myself screaming and I see the man move his cane back and forth back and forth as he enters our home and I shut up. What had I just done? What was wrong with me? How could I treat somebody like that? Glynn will you please get Mr. Gully something to drink and maybe you have something you want to say to him now? I place a glass of cold orange juice in front of Mr. Gully. I am sorry about that. I thought you were somebody else. Really? Whom did you think I was? And I do not have an answer I do not. I cannot tell him that I feel - I feel like I have been waiting for a long time for something from under the bed from out of the shadow from inside the mirror. I would just realized I had been waiting for a very long time for someone and that moment I figured that he was him. Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR we proudly present Mystery Man amazing stories from real people wrapped in an enigma sealed with a riddle and hidden inside a conundrum. My name is Glynn Washington. Pull up your trench coat and wait under the awning because you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. 