 Welcome back to resto episode. Today we are talking to people in possession of strange and wondrous powers. And our next story is about the time that comes in every young man's life when he discovers that magic contrary to everything he is ever been led to believe is not cool.  When I was a kid I did magic and when I say a kid I do not mean 8 years old I did magic you know the way you did magic when you are a kid with that plastic magic set your parents got you for Christmas with the thumb tip and the little box that broke the pencil into three pieces and then turned it back into a whole pencil. I am talking about I was doing birthday parties when I was a freshman in high school. Full-on 15-year-old magic dork with a fancy magic table and a kid's tuxedo jacket with secret pockets and a cane that turned into flowers and a pet dove named Priscilla. I had business cards. Mystical act of magic they said and next to my name was Ed's name. Ed was a junior. He was my magic mentor. I met Ed at my best friend Stuart's house after Stuart's big brother was doing some coin tricks for the other kids. You should meet Ed. He is a real magician. The suggestion that somehow I was not a real magician offended me but Stuart assured me that his brother was not messing around. Ed's no joke man. He made an orange appear in this box right in front of me. I mean it just appeared. I have no clue how he did it. I knew how you did it. Stuart was describing a trick called The Crystal Casket. A simple clear plastic box about six inches tall yet objects seemed to just materialize inside the clear box right before your eyes. The secret was simple one of the sides of the box was a mirror. The object was hidden behind it. The mirror was spring-loaded. It could drop so fast you would not even notice it. All you noticed was the load or the object appearing inside the box. Stuart was right. Ed was no joke. Crystal Casket must have cost 60 bucks. Who was this older magician with 60? I had to meet him. Ed and I hit it off right away. He was frenetic talkative nervous weird. He was always trying to be funny to make people laugh - either with him or at him - it did not matter which. He lived to entertain others. Ed never left home without a huge leather bag filled with tricks. He was always prepared for a magic show at any given moment. And wherever Ed went people were happy to see him. Do a trick Ed. Hey Ed Magic show us a trick. Ed loved the attention and I loved watching him perform. Ed was happy to take me under his wing. He told me he tried to teach other kids magic in the past but none of them were very serious about it. None of them had the discipline required to get good at magic. They merely wanted to learn the secrets. I was different he said. I had what it took. I told my parents my new plan was to become a professional magician. My father rolled his eyes. My mom said well you better start making some money then. She introduced me to Bobby the leader of a local biker gang. He was also a pimp. Some of the girls he would hire out for parties and whatnot just to dance - nothing hard-core. She had heard he was in the market to just go legit you know get some clowns and jugglers and whatnot. My boy and his weird friend can do magic she told him. Can they drive? Yeah the weird one can. Tell him to call me. I got a job for him. And just like that Ed and I went to work for Bobby the pimp. He got us some birthday party gigs and eventually he scored us a job doing magic at the local Pizza Hut every Tuesday night for kids' night. The manager would pay us each 25 and gave us free pizza at the end of the night to take home. I do not know what Bobby the pimp's cut was but I am sure it was a lot more. It was not glamorous but it was a chance to try out new tricks and routines and patterns on a new audience every week. Sometimes we would even bring some stuff that was pretty fancy for a bunch of kids at Pizza Hut. We would set things on fire. We would produce and vanish a dove. Once Ed even brought The Crystal Casket. Here examine the box. Make sure there is no trap doors or anything Ed instructed some kid. The kid stuck his hand in the box so hard he cracked the mirror. He ruined Ed's Crystal Casket. Ed shrugged it off and moved to the next trick. I was devastated for him. A few months later Bobby went to prison on a kidnapping charge. And soon after that - in what I am sure was a complete coincidence - the manager at Pizza Hut decided that she did not like magic at least not for 50 a week. At the end of our show she is paying us our money and she said I will tell you all what - I will let you all keep doing a little magic show but I am not paying you any more money. I am just paying in pizza from now on. How much pizza I asked. No way Dave Ed admonished me. We do not work for pizza. Well you all can do next week since it is the Christmas party but after that we are done. On the way home Ed was dejected. I did not really think you liked that job anyway I said. I did not but I needed the money - it is Christmas. That weekend my dad drove me to Little Rock. He would asked me what I wanted for Christmas that year and I told him I wanted something from Colonel Seymour's. Colonel Seymour's was the only magic shop in all of central Arkansas. And more than a magic shop it was just a huge mess of magic props and effects piled up in the garage of a man who was probably mentally ill who called himself Colonel Seymour. His house was decorated with manikins and yard animals and hand-painted signs. He greeted us that Saturday morning during a rare Arkansas snowfall wearing nothing but a bathrobe and slippers. He offered my dad his hand and introduced himself as the Colonel. My dad a Vietnam veteran infantrymen who suffered no fools gladly grimaced. Then he looked at the panic look on my face and begrudgingly took the Colonel's hand and shook it. The Colonel took us to the garage to look for the trick we had come for my Christmas gift from my dad - The Crystal Casket. That next Tuesday Ed picked me up to take me to our final Pizza Hut show. I gave him The Crystal Casket. Merry Christmas Ed. He was shocked. I - I - I did not get you anything. Well that is OK we will use it in our act. It is for both of us. Yeah - Ed was relieved - cool. The scene at Pizza Hut that night was a horror show. The place was not filled with the usual 7- and 8-year-old crumb snatchers. No there was an entire boys' peewee football team awards banquet happening at the same time as the kids night Christmas party. And all the 12- and 13-year-old boys wanted to watch the magic show - 12- and 13-year-old boys the worst kind of boy there is gangly and hairy and stinky. Worst of all these boys were not all that much younger then I was. The worst thing about doing magic for 13-year-old boy is that he does not like to be fooled. He only wants one thing - for you to screw up. Ed and I's act was basically a handoff between the two of us. He would do a routine a few tricks in a row with some powder then I did a routine. And then he would come out and do a big routine to finish off the show. Now I was not half the magician Ed was and my portion of the show mostly consisted of easier effects less impressive stuff self-contained tricks that fooled most little kids but really had no effect at all on older kids or adults. Where Ed would deliver his lines like a professional stage comic I stammered through my act every week as if it was my first time ever speaking in public. Ed was more than just a talented magician he was a showman. He had no fear on stage and he commanded respect. I had none of that. And on this night our final night I did not find my voice. I bombed hard. I was doing a trick called The Zombie where a silver ball floats mysteriously underneath a silk scarf. One of the boys ran up on stage and he yanked the scarf from my hands exposing the rod that connected the floating ball to my thumb. Everyone roared with laughter.   You suck one yelled. Nice zit another said. I looked up at Ed with fear on my face but Ed was mad. It was one thing that they were teasing me but I should be able to handle that if I am going to make it in showbiz I am sure he thought. But an audience member coming on stage uninvited snatching away a prop? This was a mortal transgression. Ed Magic did not get down like that. Ed came to the front of the stage and he said OK who wants to come up here and help me with a trick? Every boy shot his hand up. Ed brought one kid up on stage a big jockish one with a mullet and an expensive pair of Gerbeau jeans. He handed the boy a spongy red ball. Here close this up tightly in your fist he instructed and hold your arms out like this. Ed held both the boy's fists out to each side. Now would you be amazed if when I counted to three that ball jumped out of this hand and into this one? Yeah that would be amazing the kid puffed. One two three - Ed told the kid to open his hands. The ball was still in its original hand. Nothing had happened. The kids cracked up. Ed scratched his head. I screwed up. Here let me try someone else. So Ed brought another boy up from the football team. Again he gave the kid the ball held out his fist to either side counted to three and poof - nothing.   The ball stayed in the same hand. Ed looked genuinely perplexed. He did it a third time with a third boy - one two three - nothing. By now even the gross coaches were laughing and slapping each other high fives in celebration of Ed's failure. I could not understand it. What was he doing? What even was this trick? I shot Ed a look. He looked back at me and just shrugged his shoulders. Eventually Ed tried the trick on every boy on the team failing each and every time each time getting a bigger and bigger reaction from the crowd. Expecting a big payoff at the end they all hushed and quieted down. But Ed just said well I guess I need more practice sorry. Merry Christmas everybody. And with that he packed up our stuff and he headed for the door. Julie said what was that? Do not worry about it Ed said abruptly. Well what kind of pizza do you all want? Keep the pizza. And out the door we went. We spent the first few minutes of the drive home sitting in stunned silence Ed driving faster than he normally does. I eventually broke the silence. What happened back there? I figured out what to get you for Christmas Ed smiled. Yeah what? He rolled down the car window. The cold winter air filled the car as Ed sped down Central Avenue. He rolled his short sleeve up on his left arm. From his wrist to his elbow were maybe eight or nine kids' watches. He took the first one off a digital with a bright red band and he handed it to me. Merry Christmas Dave. He took the second one off and he flung it out the window then the next one and the next one. We laughed and laughed as he flung those watches out the window into the cold winter night.  That story was told by David Hill with help from Cameron Fleming . David is a contributor at Grantland and a writer at the Upright Citizens Brigade. His work can be seen on davidhillonline.com. And many thanks to Jon Solomon's 25-hour holiday radio show on WPRB which is where we found this story. For more stories from Jon's show visit keepingscoreathome.com. 