 Welcome back to ed  Innocence Lost. I need you to stay close keep the lights turned on because today we are taking you on a semi-guided tour of the dark side. Our next story comes to us from the city of fake ghosts - Los Angeles. But hold on do not worry you are about to meet a real one.  I had gotten a camera from my father for Christmas and - I do not know. I took some pictures with it and it was cool to have a Polaroid camera. But I did not really think about it. And then I was sitting in the house one afternoon. It was just an average day. And the bathroom door opened and no one was home. So I sensed that the door was opening by itself. I took the camera and I took a picture. Nothing showed up in the picture and of course I felt kind of silly at the time. And I just went back to working. And then I remember sensing something and I looked up. And the bathroom door opened in front of me and it seemed so demonstrative. So I got up and I was actually nervous because something just felt like it was there. Something was in the air. Something was in the room with me tingling kind of sensation. And I started shaking and I picked up the camera to take a picture. And I actually took a picture of - like I was shaking so bad I took a picture of like the top of the television set or something. And then I was like OK OK calm down calm down . And then I took another picture and that is when I got the first photograph of this experience. They are Polaroid photographs so you basically sit and watch them develop. And as it was developing I just saw this - almost this stereotypical version of a ghost. It looked so you know - the eyes - the big eyes and the screaming mouth and the sort of weird wispy you know quality of it floating in the air. It is like going boo or something at you. And I remember like being really nervous about it and then suddenly I thought you know this is - my dad messed with the camera or something. That is what this was about. And then I took another picture. It was almost like a similar image but it was like the thing in the first photograph had moved closer to me. And it was more like - it was larger. And then I started getting like nervous again . You know I just kept going back and forth between incredulous and denial. And then when Matkowsky got home I said I have something I want to show you. What do you think about this? And I showed him the pictures.  So he shows me these photos and I am like wow these are really cool. How did you do this? He goes I just took these pictures. I did not do it. It just was. No you made this up. He says here take a picture.  And I went over and stood in the - in  what is now known as the vortex but it is the area right in front of the bathroom. And he took the picture of me and over top of me was this similar-type shape. But it was like larger and more strange. I felt out of control like I did not know what was happening. And I did not know where to put it in my mind. Then we ran out of film. After like a month of just sort of sitting with these photographs we decided to go out and get some more film. We just thought OK well here's the moment we find out whether this is real or not. We try to take pictures when we would sense something or feel something. We kind of describe it as like when you have like goose bumps or like a little bit of a sunburn. You kind of sense this tingly thing and then that is when you take the picture. Half the time we would not get anything but sometimes we would. And that encouraged us to keep getting more film. This was - what? - three or four months of this. It was too strange and we were afraid people would think we were nuts. But then it just got to be too much to not tell anybody about it.  I mean how do you share this? Why would you  - you know people would think we are insane.  Finally we decided to invite a bunch of friends over and show them the photographs. We said we have something to tell you guys and it is a little strange. But we want to share it with you. So we started showing them the pictures and they are asking you know a thousand questions a mile a minute.  One of our friends he asked if he is here now - if whatever it was was here now. And he says well let us take a picture.   Snapped a picture and they were all watching it. Someone said oh my God. I think this is a word.  You can see the word yes and that was the beginning of the communication.  It is one thing to get like you know ectoplasmic fluffy white things and it is another to get communication like an answer to our question. And then someone grabbed a camera and went are you a - what was it? - are you a friend or...  Are you a good ghost or a bad ghost?  That is what it was.  The photo came out - a single word in the middle of the room. It said friend. It was clear not on the photo in the photo.  In the photo yeah.  They are actually in the photograph.  They are like in the room but it is like written in light and clouds kind of...  Clear letters you could easily read. Like when you asked him his name you can clearly see it says Wright. W-R-I-G-H-T.  So we asked where do you go when you are not here? And we took a picture and the photograph said flux. So we thought oh I guess he is in the flux whatever that is. MATKOWSKY There is one really interesting Polaroid. The question was are you a ghost or spirit? Show us what you look like. And his answer was - he says in the Polaroid not ready. So that was pretty interesting.  When that happened I was thinking is he not ready or does he think that we are not ready?  With all the people there it kind of validated us because we were not insane and this was happening in front of other people. We are not manipulating the camera or the film in any way. It was just...  I think it changed a lot of people on a profound level permanently. I remember for like a week just kind of walking around in a daze going OK what is this again? How do I fit this into the way I thought the world worked? We really had never intended to I guess go public with it. It was nothing we really thought about. And there was a new show on TV called Sightings and John was watching it. And they had this ghost thing on there and they had a picture of some stuff. And John goes that is not a ghost picture. This is a ghost picture. So he sent a copy in to the Sightings people. They called us up and next thing you know they want to do an hour-long satellite live show from the house. After we did the Sightings episode it seemed like suddenly we had offers to do quite a few different shows. They took the camera. They examined the camera. They took it to Polaroid. They examined it. They examined all the photographs. Yeah through the years there is been so many theories on how it is being done how we do it how we create the ghost images. One of my favorite theories someone said that how the photographs are done is that there is a little person in the basement and what happens is - is when you ask a question to the air they type in in a computer and it is projected out through lasers in the house that writes on the photograph instantly. When you start going on about like you know like well they - it is real easy to just take a pen and write on the back of the Polaroid and it will come through. Has anybody ever tried that? 'ecause if you do - 'ecause we tried it we actually tried it. We took a pen and it leaves marks. And it does not look like anything. It looks like someone took a pen and wrote on a Polaroid. I do not know what - how that theory has gone around and round and round. I appreciated all the things the scientists and the FBI agent and everybody did - and the photographic expert - to try to disprove it. They even did like voice analysis of us to find out if we were like - it was sort of a lie detector test kind of thing. He is here for us. He is not here to like exploit.  We are not out to make anybody believe anything. This is what is happening to us.  Pretty much we stopped all the interviews especially 'ecause there is always backlash to it.  How we are charlatans and how it can be done and all this other stuff that we are just - just trying to make a buck off this thing. And really none of that is true. We are not making any money off this thing. It is a personal thing that we just happened to want to share a little bit off.  There have been people who say well you know we will give you a hundred bucks if you let us come take a picture at your house. And that is something we would never do 'ecause it is not about that.  One of the most meaningful things for me and John we are struggling writers. And we would get messages that tell us to persevere to keep going and just continue what we are doing and something good will happen.  As creative people we faced a lot of self-doubt and it can be crippling. At some point we ask Wright should we keep pursuing what we love even if it is hard? And he came back with a photograph. He said dreams and destiny merge. And we thought you know it is not about like being successful at the moment. It is about dreaming things and allowing your destiny to present itself. It changed our perspective. The house has a way of letting you know that it is OK to be insecure but to not ever give up.  There is something - something special happening in my house. And it just makes you feel like small and just insignificant when it comes the whole world. You know there is something bigger something better something grander.  Big thanks to John Huckert and John Matkowsky for sharing their story. Check out our website snapjudgment.org to see the actual Polaroid ghost photos and link to more information about the Polaroid ghost. Even find out with John and John are up to now. You are going to want to see this snapjudgment.org. That story was produced by Anna Sussman with sound design by Pat Mesiti-Miller. 