 Now then - it is all well and good to fight the chain of command when it is just yourself on the line but what if - what if you have a bunch of people depending on every single decision you make? Our first story today on the Chain of Command episode occurs on the streets of Iraq. Sensitive listeners should be aware all of these scenes occur during a war zone and as such it does contain some violence.  For 13 months Matt Cook managed to stay alive as an infantry soldier in Iraq.  My platoon was hit by - we kind of lost count but - maybe 15 to 18 IEDs. It soured me on Iraqis and I think that is kind of an inevitable reaction to something like that when you know you lose really good friends. So the last bullet I fired from my rifle - we were I think about a month from going home. I think we were all really really cautious because we have just survived 12 13 months. You know you do not want to take too many risks this close to making it through. It was afternoon just before it gets dark. We are in Humvees. We are all in our gear our vests our body armor. We would stopped traffic in both ways. We had our chem-lights out we had some cones out. Everything possibly that we could signal traffic to stop was out. And in the middle of it one of my soldiers who is in a Humvee screams there is a car coming. I turned to look and I see this sedan and it is just flying at us. It picks up speed as it comes towards us. You know you do not have but a few seconds to decide what to do. I have been in this situation you know many many times with my platoon and I think is this going to be another situation where we shoot a civilian? Or is this a situation where if I do not do anything is this a car bomb and it is going to get inside our circle and blow us all up? I do not have time to really think this through 'ecause things are happening so quickly. So I look to my weapon and I was watching him you know watching the car come at us through my Acog which is the scope of my rifle. I flip my safety to fire and I have got my finger on the trigger. Pulled the trigger shot several times. I see my rounds enter this guy and the Acog on our weapons magnify really well. So he was wearing a white man-dress and I could just see my rounds going into him and polka-dotting his white man-dress with blood. And then you know he just stops - the car stops and he slumps over. I turn my back to it thinking it is going to blow up and kill us all to be perfectly honest. And then after a second or two nothing happens. And I slowly turn around and I see this old man leaning against his door motionless. He was dead. I circle around the car. The glass is all broken and there is several bullet holes in his vehicle - his car's smoking. And I pull him out onto the street and his eyes are wide open and I immediately notice that they are just gray and they are covered with cataracts and that he is probably damn-near blind which is why he came at us. And while I am searching the car you know I look at his glove box and inside his glove box he has his wallet. And that is where I find a picture of him with a young man. He is got his arm around this young man and I am only assuming that it was his son.  And at that moment Matt what did you feel if anything?  It is hard to describe something like that. I am in the middle of a really complicated place where people are out to kill us. And so I think I have done what I had to do to protect myself and to protect my soldiers.  And is there any guilt in there?  Well I think it is hard to feel guilty in a moment like that when you have spent a year in a place where you genuinely felt like everyone is trying to kill you. And it does - if you feel too guilty then you began to hesitate. What if that old man had actually been driving a bomb-laden vehicle? I knew I had to bury it and then deal with it later.  And when you went home - did you think about that old man when you went home?  I would say I knew that I should feel guilty but I did not. You know my morals and everything I was ever taught about humanity you know is questioned because I know what we - you know what I did but I did not feel overwhelmingly guilty about it. What really wrecked me I think was this sort of survivor's guilt that - you know I had a few friends and a soldier who I would lost and the lingering sort of sorrow I felt for their loss it was something I had to deal with in a much more difficult way then say the old man for instance. When I got back from my first deployment I felt very unfulfilled. I felt like there was a lot of unfinished business in Iraq and in Afghanistan and I really had a real desire to return. I knew I wanted to a story and I wanted to write about it. And then I contacted my old battalion commander chatted with him about the possibility of doing it. Maybe it is extreme but I felt like going back and embedding with my old unit was what I was really looking for. It all happened very quickly a once I fully committed and kind of bought my ticket a sort of peace came over me about it. And it turned - I went from nervous to being just very very excited. It was almost like getting ready for another deployment. When I got to the airport in Kabul this one was incredibly different. You know you are on your own - completely on my own and I did not have the support of 25 26 well-armed men you know ready to jump on a grenade for me if I needed. I had no weapon I just had my camera and my pack. I generally started second-guessing myself in that moment. I was thinking about - I mean I would be lying if I said I did not think about just getting a return ticket and going back home but Sayid my driver finally calls and tells me that he is outside. I just sort of took a deep breath and just stepped out and we took off. So I rolled down my window and I was just smelling the city looking at everything. And I had my cell phone and I did type in a message to my wife in case anything were to happen I was just going to hit send. I think the message that I had typed was need help call embassy or something like that. We were on our way to Bagram. He is driven this road how many times? So he knows the road. And we are just - he is weaving in and out of traffic. Well we are cruising down this road and we are going really fast and we kind of turn this bend and I see this Afghan police unit or army unit checkpoint and they are stopping traffic. And Sayid's just paying no attention whatsoever he is just flying at this checkpoint. And then I look at the Afghan soldiers and I see them see us. And I see them really tense up and posture up. I mean I had seen it so many times from the other end I hit the imaginary break below me and you know I screamed at Sayid to stop. That is when he kind of jolts and he finally sees this Afghan unit on the street. They immediately raise their rifles at us. The dishka on the truck turns and - I could not - you know maybe half a second a second away from shooting at us. He slams on the break and we slide onto the shoulder of the road. They run at the car and they have got their AKs at our heads and I was frozen. It was probably the scariest few moments of my life. We were really lucky to be alive 'ecause if I had been them I think I would have pulled the trigger and I probably would have done it much sooner. There is no way I would have risked myself or any of my soldiers for a moment of hesitation.  So why do you think they did not shoot? Why were they so slow on that trigger where maybe you would not have been?  That is a good question. I have thought about that but the truth is you just cannot compare them to the U.S. forces. They know the culture and they know the dangers more than we do. When you are a soldier in a foreign country everybody seems dangerous everybody seems out to kill you. There is a term called pseudo-speciation which is when a soldier identifies the entire race of a country as an enemy because he is under attack. I was in a state of shock to be honest with you. I had not had a rifle pointed at me in a long time. One of the first things I thought of was that old man that I would killed in Iraq. I think for the first time it really hit me. And this old man I remember so specifically I think because when you are in combat a lot of times everybody's shooting their weapons so you do not really know if it is your round hitting someone. And with the old man I could see my rounds hitting him through my Acog he would gotten so close to us. The weight of those consequences really really sunk in. And I think I - thinking about this old man really kind of turned me inside out to be honest with you.  What do you mean?  I always knew that what happened was a horrible thing but I never really felt. I felt it for the first time in a way that I had never felt before but kind of knew that I should have. Does that make sense? It made me kind of realize how maddening the whole thing this.  We would like to thank Matt Cook for sharing his experience with SNAP. That piece was produced by Anna Sussman with sound design by Renzo Gorio. And when SNAP JUDGMENT the Chain of Command episode continues we find out just how far exactly how far a little kid can push his grandmother - for real - when elling with a beat continues after the break. Stay tuned. 