 From the outside carnivals beckon with flashing lights and corn dogs and roller coasters. But our own Julia DeWitt comes to us with a story from the inside.   This is Rocky. Rocky grew up in Shiprock N.M.  Yeah hi. I am Rocky. Rocky is a nickname that my grandfather gave me when my mom was giving birth to me. I gave her a fight so - after Rocky Marciano.  Rocky had to fight early in his life. From the time he was 12 he was on his own. His dad was out of the picture and his mom...  My mom died. And I was just like a dude by himself. No one was like buying me school supplies or taking me to movies.  Rocky bounced around between family members but money started to get tight so friend of his had a suggestion.  He was like dude you need to get some money for school clothes. And he said join a carnival so I said all right.   Rocky finally caught up with the carnival in Arizona and he quickly got a job selling corn dogs on the bustling midway.  There was just something about it - the smell. They are making the popcorn and the corn dogs and the oil and the beer and then the cigarettes towards the end. It just gets - it turns into like this big old open party at the end of the night.  Rocky quickly made friends with some of the younger guys and the older carnies watched out for them.  Losing my mom was like a big part of it. I felt kind of vulnerable. So I let these people into my life and then they were cool. They took care of me. They were my family. And once you are in there you are in.  Together they traveled up and down the West hawking carnival snacks and sleeping on overinflated inner tubes.  We would meet like traveling circuses freak shows. We would all get together and have like a big carnival circus everything. And then like we would all just disperse and see each other next year.  Every carnival season for three years Rocky left his small town in New Mexico and struck out again on the open road.  Free range baby. We had a good thing going. All the years before that were great.  That year was the year that Rocky was 15. He and some friends were running a ride called the Himalaya a sort of roller-coaster-meets-a-carousel. It does not look like much but it goes really fast. One hot day in July they rolled into Taos N.M. They were tired and they were looking forward to some time off.  And then the supervisor was like nah dude. You guys are going to have to get out there and like set it up. We are going to open tonight.  So the crew unloaded the Himalaya from its truck.  I just remember my friend - he is like this is a bad moon. We should not be working. It is a bad moon. He is saying that all night.  But they switched on the strobe lights and cranked up the Foghat anyway. The Himalaya was open. At midnight three girls approached the ride and they were buckled into car number 10.   Three Chicano girls wearing like black T-shirts with Old English on the back of their shirts - three girls just being themselves.  Once their lap bar was secured the ride was off. The Himalaya started slowly sped up and slowed again.    Slow ride take it easy.  They put their arms up. We told them they cannot do that. They did it again. And we are like if you do it one more time we are going to kick you off the ride.   Rocky and the Himalaya crew repeatedly yelled their warnings to the girls over the blaring music. And then the ride sped up one last time.  And then they did it again and...   The girls were thrown from the ride. It was too late by the time the crew cut the power and hit the emergency switch. The police and paramedics arrived on the scene to find that two of the girls were severely injured. The third was announced dead upon arrival at the hospital.  The ride was deemed a crime scene and the investigation into the cause of the accident continued on into the early morning. Physically and emotionally exhausted the boys were finally allowed to go to bed. They went back to their semi-trailer and tried to get some rest but their long night was not over yet.  I was laying there and I heard this - boom boom boom - like someone hitting the side of the trailer. But then I saw these like speckles of like wood and light. Then another went...   That is when Rocky realized he was in the middle of a drive-by shooting and he was the target.  I was like they are shooting at us. I jumped out and I like hid behind a tire on the other side of the trailer.  Turns out that one of the girls that was injured on the ride was a gang member's girlfriend. That gang heard about what happened and they were back at the carnival looking for revenge. The shooters were long gone when the police showed up again and Rocky says they were not happy to be back.  They said just get the hell out of town. It was like a small-town mentality - almost defending them you know like we were the riffraff. We were the troublemakers you know? If it were not for us she would not have died.  It was clear that Taos was not a safe place for them anymore so Rocky and his friends moved on to the next stop in Grand Junction Colo. But just moving on was not enough. Rocky could not stop thinking about the accident.  It was just too much man. The next morning we woke up we cleaned up and I was like I am done. And that is when I quit the carnival.  Rocky went back to Shiprock and finished high school but he found it hard to fit in.  When I was done working the carnival I did not feel like a kid. I was not doing what kids were doing. I could not. I tried. It did not seem as fun as it used to be.  Later investigation would show that the seatbelt on car number 10 had loosened while the ride was moving and the lap bar unlatched when the ride sped up. With their hands in the air the girls had no way to brace themselves. It was a simple ride malfunction the result of poor ride maintenance not of negligent ride operators. But 17 years later Rocky still carries the memory of that night with him.  I just still have this sense of guilt that she was someone's kid and I was the last person she looked at.   I was pretty desensitized after my mom died.  But after the accident...  It made me have a stronger appreciation for life. She was only three years older than me. I was like I want to do a lot more than that.  So Rocky grew up to get a culinary degree and is now the owner of a wildly successful street food business in San Francisco. He has learned to appreciate when life is good - for the girl in Taos who never had a chance to.   Thank you very much to Rocky for sharing that story with SNAP. Now if you see Rocky in the streets of San Francisco selling his delicious fry bread be sure to ask him about that SNAP JUDGMENT discount. He will hook you up. That piece was produced by SNAP JUDGMENT's own Julia DeWitt.   When we return I get to tell you about a circus that you - you sitting right there - you can join for real when ircus Circus episode continues. 