 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT. My name is Glynn Washington and today we are featuring stories from people who go for the big prize. And now we have saved you the very best seat in the house. We transport you to SNAP JUDGMENT Live! in San Francisco. My dear friend and favorite of this show Ms. Joyce Lee.   Avery is a tall handsome athletic young black kid. He is going to go to the NBA he is going to be a big star and he will be the first in his entire family to go to college. My only job as an educator is to get him there. The course I have taught for the past two summers is called issues and choices which is just a fancy way of saying critical thinking. My class motto is work hard think harder. Now when I met Avery I began each day like most teachers - hopped up on coffee my best possible face on praying to everything holy that these kids do not test my patience. When I spoke to my students every eye in the room stayed on me except for Avery's. So I walk over to him. You OK honey? I as not get enough sleep last night. OK. I let him lay there 'ecause I know what it is like to need a mental health day. But after class I pulled him to the side and I say hey that was your one and only golden ticket. And you used yours today. I want you here tomorrow ready to work. Do you understand me? Yes madam Avery answers me so sweet and I think what a sweet little pumpkin.   The next day I was ready. The students walked into the classroom and I was slapping These  As not Loyal by Lil Wayne and Chris Brown.   And occasionally I paused the music and I addressed the class. Hey what you all think this song is really saying? Hey Avery what do you think this music is about? Avery rolls his eyes at me. What that mean Avery? It mean can I go to the bathroom? Can I get some water? I do not want to be here. My temper  my temper shot up like a rocket. So I said yes Avery I think you should leave. Avery walks past me and rolls his eyes and I roll mine back at him. So I talked to some of the other teachers. I said hey he spaces out in class. I have never seen his handwriting. He does not turn in any of his work. I do not know what to do. And the other teachers say you mean he comes to your class?   That is progress. Wow. Turns out none of these teachers have seen Avery's handwriting. Come on Joyce it is just the way he is. He is just lazy. You cannot win them all. You cannot win them all. You cannot win them all. That phrase it echoed in my head until it annoyed me. You know what is the process of elimination for you cannot win them all? What decides what students are worth saving and throwing away? Grades? Tests? The self-motivation of a teenager?   I decided hey the only way I am going to get through to Avery is to talk to Avery about Avery. So the next day just like clockwork Avery sat in the class as usual staring into his own world. And as soon as the bell rang - hey Avery let me holler at you for a minute. Avery lets out a deep frustrated sigh. What? And it just made me want to...   But I was ready for him. I said you know what? What is a good beginning? What you going to do with your life Avery? What you want? What you here for? What is going on? Avery said yo I am going to be an NBA player. Ms. Joyce you do not know. I am good. I am really going to go. You just do not know. This was the first time I would ever seen Avery passionate about anything. Avery nobody's saying you cannot go to the NBA. I just want to know how you are going to get there. They do not draft out of high school anymore. You got to go to college. Your attitude about your education is completely self-destructive. How can we change it together? Avery looks at me like I got 10 heads. And then his face went back to resting. I as not got to listen to you. I as not got to listen to nobody. I do not care. I just do not care. But I did and I was not giving up. I called Avery's parents. We came up with positive incentives if Avery finished all his work. I even geared some of my lesson plans around the NBA. Nothing. Avery would not participate. And that gave me a feeling of helplessness. And I began to dislike Avery because of it. So I stopped mentioning the positive incentives and I stopped calling home. And I stopped calling on Avery in class. In fact I stopped talking to Avery altogether. I mean he was not in my class if he was not in my class. So after a couple of weeks of only paying attention to the children who paid attention I did not see Avery at all. But I did see his best friend Steven in the hallway in passing. Hey yo Steven where is Avery? Oh yeah he gone. He said he as not coming back to school no more. But he told me to give you this. Steven takes out a small T-shirt with a picture of Avery on it as a baby with a note attached to it from Avery in rushed handwriting that said keep this shirt. I am going to buy it back from you with my first NBA check. Steven could see my heart drop through my face. Hey do not trip Ms. Joyce. We all saw it coming. Steven's words echoed down the hall with him and I just stand there stuck replaying every class I ever had with Avery over and over again in my mind. I thought about Avery all the time especially on graduation. When I signed up to be an educator I signed up to witness all of my children graduate. But when it came to Avery I dropped out. When I saw that he was not learning the way I wanted him to learn I dropped out. When he became too much of a challenge I did not work hard and think harder like my class motto. I did not even show maturity by not taking Avery personally. Instead I gradually but surely threw in the towel just like he did. It is been almost a year since I have been inside of a classroom and a lot of my friends co-workers are saying yo you coming back? When you coming back? And a lot of the times I just think of Avery. I wonder if any of my lessons any of the residues of them are still kind of echoing between his ears. I wonder what he is doing where he is. As far as me and teaching I do not know. I guess I am still trying to find my way back to school. I hope Avery is too.   Ms. Joyce Lee.  The magic of Joyce Lee. Original score composed by Alex Mandel and performed by Alex and the Snap Players Tim Frick and David Brandt. It is that time. I know I know - but not to fear. A world of SNAP awaits your listening pleasure. Full episodes. Get the podcast right now at snapjudgment.org iTunes Stitcher SoundCloud - we make it your way. And this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you work night and day day and night pushing pulling for your own brass ring only to realize that there it is in your nose a brass ring. And what is this? You are a donkey? And even as all that sets in you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 