 Rural Michigan I am five years old my brother's four. We are headed back from church and on the radio they are going on about the big storm coming. So we head over to the IGA grocery store in Bay City to stock up. The place is frenzied everyone's been through this drill before. And you have to understand normally my parents are all crazy health food people - black rural afro-Jesus hippies. We got the shredded wheat the pickled sandwiches on Stone Ground bread molasses on celery with that oily natural peanut butter  you know all that crap. But today moms starts reaching for the Cap'n Crunch cereal grabbing the Toll House cookies off the shelf. Me and my brother we cannot believe it. What? Reese's peanut butter cups Wonder bread Turkey Roll? Who are these people? When my brother and I shove something in the cart a Little Debbie fruit pie or a box of cosmopolitan ice cream instead of smacking us upside the head they just hurried to the next aisle. Pops grabbed four Hungry Man salisbury steak dinners with the apple pie dessert then grabs a couple more for good measure yes. We can already see the snow starting to fall - big wet heavy flakes. We know we do not have much time. The cold darkness it is dropping quick. In the cashier line behind everyone else we throw in a couple Hershey chocolate bars for good measure. We pack up the Country Squire station wagon - wood panelin' yo - and we are out. I can tell by the look on my dad's face as we turn off the main highway to the service road to the side road and he is scared we are not going to make it. We do not make it. The car thuds into a snow bank about half a mile from our house. He tries to push through. But finally we all just wrap up and go out into the blizzard. Pops carries me in one arm and my brother in the other. Sometimes my mother carries one of us but mostly him. The snow falls in huge bricks. He carries us all the way back to our house. We turn on the lights and the heat - and it is blazing. Pops goes back out into the cold for groceries. He had to make two trips but when he gets back with the second load even as he is putting logs into the wood stove the power goes out. Country darkness. But we do not care. My mom - my mother - she starts passing out mugs of hot chocolate with the marshmallows and me and my brother we cannot believe our luck. It tastes so good. I stir a chocolate bar into the cocoa and I pray to white Jesus that we can spend every night in the darkness. Well today on SNAP JUDGMENT from udly present Blackout. Amazing stories from real people sitting in the dark. My name is Glynn Washington please make sure your woodpile is properly stacked because you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. 