 Welcome back to an On A Mission episode from PRX and NPR. My name is Glynn Washington and today we are exploring stories from people who truly believe they know exactly what to do. And no one knows confidence like SNAP producer Davey Kim. His story starts off in a high school cafeteria.  So I am on my acoustic guitar writing songs for this band I am in. Me I have got long hair and yellow highlights which I straighten three times a day skinny girl jeans torn up Vans and I play guitar - lead guitar. That is when these sophomore girls walk by. They stop in front of me. One of them asks...  Hey are you...?  Is she talking to me?  Nah.  Just like that she walks away giggling with her friends. I think I heard her say...  That guy thinks he is a shredder or something.  Wait what? That is when I get a text. It says we got the gig. It is from my drummer. And by gig he is talking about headlining our first big show at the No Future Cafe. Now normally I would be pumped for this show but two problems. Problem number one - the rhythm guitarist just quit the band 'ecause...  I just - I want to focus on my future man. By future he is talking about his girlfriend and cross-country. That is lame man. Problem number two - the bassist has been pissing me off lately. He keeps on saying...  Dude the solo on that new song is - it is way too long. Honestly I think he is just jealous 'ecause bassists do not get solos. So I say listen here I started the band and I wrote all the songs right?  Yeah so? So we are going to do it my way and my way ends with that solo. And that solo as not going to play itself if we do not have a rhythm guitarist backing me up so chill.   All right man. After school I recruit this guy named J.J. to teach him the rhythm guitar parts. Now J.J. certainly fits the look I will give you that. He is got nice long hair and a pretty face but...  OK so like this?   No no no no like this.  Oh OK.  Yeah?      J.J. can barely manage a basic riff. Every time he tries he fumbles the pick.  Sorry sorry.   As the leader of the band I force everyone to stay and practice until midnight. I make sure our hair flips the right way and we squat like crabs and heave our back into it. We do this over and over and over until finally it is the day of the show. We got the lights sound check merch table and most importantly our hair looks great. We are on stage and the place looks packed. We have got fans over there. It looks like those sophomore girls are here too. Now we just wait for J.J. to tune his guitar for like the fifth time. And with the cue of the drums we start the show.   Warning hardcore music ahead.   From the stage I see my friends throwing it down in the mosh pit. Everything is practice perfect.   Just last month I was dreaming of playing up here and here I am. Our set is coming to an end. It is time for our last song and the solo. I tap the guitar pedal for a solo boost. Then I climb on top of a stage monitor. I can feel the heat of the spotlight. I am ready.   Then I blank the  out. Why is this happening to me? All that time practicing for this - I feel another rush of panic as I scan the crowd at the fans the friends the sophomore girls everyone that I hope to impress. I beg my fingers one last time to move. But they will not listen. Then from the other side of the stage I hear a familiar melody.   I turn my head and see J.J.   He is on both knees head tilted back and from his amp wails my solo line.   Note for note and he is crushing it.   Quickly I back him up with the rhythm guitar parts a part I have never played on stage before. And with that the set comes to a close.   I try to slip off stage but that is when I hear...  Hey you are that guy from the cafeteria the guitarist right?  I...  That solo - I liked how you and J.J. shared it.  I just nod. I am still in shock. Before I leave I go to J.J. He is loading his gear in his mom's minivan. I ask him how did you do that?  Well I really liked the solo and I just practiced it by myself. Sorry it was not perfect. It - I just...  J.J. it is fine man. You were incredible. And maybe next time you should take that solo.  Is not it your solo?  Yeah I guess it is. But it is OK. You can have it.  What if we split it?  Yeah  let us do that.  Hey Davey J.J. the guitar solo - still too long.  Nah.  Nah.   That summer Davey's high school band dropped an EP which was critically unacclaimed. They toured around their area code and that solo song was eventually called Long March To Perfection which it certainly was. Thank you Davey for sharing a story. Sound design production and story by the triple threat himself Davey Kim.   Glynn I need more stories. I hear you. Listen to what I am telling you. Subscribe right now for the SNAP JUDGMENT podcast. Take SNAP wherever you may go snapjudgment.org. This is not the news. In fact you could go straight out of Compton start a headphones company sell it to Apple for a billion dollars and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. This is NPR. 