 OK so when I was growing up there was not any cursing allowed. You could not say the S word. You could not say the A word. None of the words. We got around it. What the heck is going on? You mother duck clucker. Spit no I did not slap her on the ba-donka-donk. Heck if you did it right it was almost better than cussing. Fun. Until one day at church Pastor hit the pulpit fire in his eyes. Brethren today's topic is euphemism. People started looking around and stuff like what is a euphemism? What is that supposed to mean? A euphemism is when you use one word in place of another. Huh? Like when you say holy crack we know from the world the common expression is not crack. There is another word. It rhymes with fit. Happens when you sit. And goes easier for you if you have some grit in your diet. Brethren of the Lord knows what that word is. And there is nothing holy about it. You might as well say what you mean and mean what you say. I was recently thinking about that because in this modern antiseptic sterile NPR ivory tower clean hands rubberized playground organic vantage point people do not say what they mean. Is that what we have become? Or are there people left in the world who when they say they are going to kick your ass they are not speaking metaphorically. Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR we set out to answer that question. SNAP JUDGMENT proudly presents Striker. Amazing stories from real people who are not playing around. Lace up your boxing gloves big talker or go sit in the bleachers because this is SNAP JUDGMENT. Now then different people want different things. And I will be honest I am a lover not a fighter. But Mark Sayer - Mark had a different set of priorities.  Mark Sayer does not remember a time when he was not fighting. As a little kid he watched Jean-Claude Van Damme movies. He tried out all kinds of martial arts like Tae Kwon Do. But then he found his real calling - Thai boxing Muay Thai.  You know not taking anything away from Tae Kwon Do but Muay Thai you know it is basically like a sanctioned street fight. I am not trying to say it is like the same realm as having a sword or a gun and going to kill someone. But it is in the ballpark.  This is what Mark liked about it. It was low on rules and high on danger. So if you won in Muay Thai it meant you won for real. And so when he discovered it he went hard to work getting good at it. He fought his first adult fight when he was 15 against a guy 10 years older. And he won.  You know my coach was really proud. He was saying he is only 15 he is only 15 after I had won the fight. And you know the referee Pong  was raising my hands. And he said someday you know when you are 18 I take you to Thailand and we make money. And I just remember like being pretty happy to hear him say that. You know to have him offer me that kind of respect meant a lot.  For Mark Thailand was the magic word. It was where you went when you were done fighting in the bush leagues and you wanted to compete against the greatest fighters on earth.  It just - it seems like a self-evident thing. Like of course you want to fight in Thailand you know. If someone was like hey do you want to go climb Mt. Everest? I am like of course I want to climb Mt. Everest. Let us go do it. It just grants you this certain level of legitimacy as a martial artist that no other endeavor does.  There was just one problem.  Kickboxing does not pay the bills. Even the guys you see on TV most of them are working one or two more jobs in addition to fighting.  So Mark did not go to Thailand when he was 18. Instead after graduating from high school he joined the Merchant Marines. And he found he was good at that too. Soon he was making great money. But it left him less and less time for training and fighting. And after a while he was not the youngest guy at the gym anymore. He was 30.  And then it was just around like 2012 when I was like you know I am not getting any younger. I want to go and just do at least one fight over in Thailand before I am you know too old - and go just live my dream.  After passing his chief mate's exam Mark told his employer that he would not be renewing his contract. Instead he got on a flight to Bangkok. Once there he spent two months looking for the perfect trainer and the perfect gym - one that he knew would book him in a reputable fight.  Because more and more these days there is a lot of bogus fights. And there are certain stadiums that are just kind of synonymous with a foreigner knocking out a taxi driver. And then they go back to their home country and they say like I won a fight in Thailand. But they have some of the biggest travesties like honor.  Eventually though he found a great gym on the outskirts of the city. It was near a big park that was perfect for cardio - a rarity in Bangkok. But it also had a reputation for booking evenly matched fights at respective venues. Mark told them he would be ready to fight in six weeks. The gym's managers would take care of the rest.  So about a week away from when I had my fight scheduled I still did not have any real set details on where it was going to be or who I was going to fight which is pretty typical for a low-level pro fight in Thailand. But what was not typical was after my morning training session that day one of the assistant managers a woman came up to me and told me that there would be a little press conference for the fight I was going to be in. And this seemed kind of strange to everybody I told at breakfast. And some of the more experienced fighters they definitely had a look on their faces like that seems really odd. And then I asked the assistant manager on the drive over there several times so where are we going? What kind of place is this? And she was kind of - she never really flat-out lied but she did kind of a typical - in Southeast Asia - sort of misdirection if someone has news they think that might upset you and just sort of said like I am not really sure. It is near Don Muang airport. It is near the University which you know really still gave no details on like where we were actually going. Once we got to the building it looks like it just could be a university building or something like that. And she told me to go ahead and go talk to the promoter and that she was going to go park the car. And it was not until I saw the huge wrought iron gate once I saw her driving away and then you know I started piecing things together when I saw the guards coming up to me smiling with nightsticks like patting me on the shoulder like oh you know here's our foreign fighter for the fight. And I asked the fight promoter - I am like where are we? Like what is this place? And he is like this is a prison. And I am like you know oh I am going to fight just another foreigner? He was like no no no. And he kind of like made like a handcuff kind of sign with his hands. He is like you fight prisoner.  The prison Mark was entering was called Klong Prem. It was Bangkok's maximum-security penitentiary. Most of the inmates were serving sentences of over 10 years.  And I actually read years before a book that is about Klong Prem called Welcome To Hell. So I was like this is pretty serious business. And the whole edifice of the prison kind of has an element of intimidation to it that I am sure is intentional by design. I mean you walk about 100 meters to where the courtyard is where we were going to have the press conference through this like chain-link tunnel where there is a whole row of about 100 new arrivals who are kind of being broken in who were in kind of a squat position and manacled who were not allowed to take their eyes off the concrete. And so I am walking by this row of prisoners. And then just one guy with a full face of gang tattoos breaks from staring at the concrete and kind of looks up at me and stares daggers at me with his eyes. And that definitely you know contributed to the ambience.  The press conference in the courtyard was mostly in Thai but there was a Western press contingent there too. So Mark was finally able to piece together what was going on. Apparently this was the brainchild of an Estonian promoter who wanted to leverage the prisons long tradition of intramural boxing by filming the matches for DVD. The only difference now is that the prisoners were to be pitted against foreign fighters like Mark.  You know then I started to think about my opponent. And I - normally I am not the kind of guys who usually gets the softballs you know or like easy fights. So just whenever I figured out that we were going to fight these prisoners you know they were kind of like sort of checking us out from like way across the other end of the yard. And I just sort of like picked out the biggest toughest looking one. He is even taller - a little bit taller than me. And I am just like OK just plan on I am going to fight that guy. And then like you know sure enough like yeah that is who I am fighting.  Mark's opponent was Thub Hong-Mo. He was 30 years old a former semi-professional fighter and currently serving his fourth year of a 35-year sentence. We will get to his crime a bit later. He had expected to serve every one of those 35 years. But then the prison officials made him an offer - fight a Westerner in a film boxing match. Fight well and he could get his sentence reduced. Fight really well they hinted and he could be released. This is what made the spectacle of the prison fight so appealing to the promoters but even more so to Thub Hong-Mo. It is why every morning he was marched from his tiny bedless cell to a prison gym to train and spar for six hours a day every day for the past year. It is why his four cellmates had seen him transform from the typically apathetic prisoner into the prison's toughest and most determined fighter. And it is why when Thub Hong-Mo looked at Mark in addition to seeing a fellow fighter he saw something much more important - a chance at freedom. At the press conference though Mark only had a short time to process all of this.  I definitely was uncomfortable. And I think I deserve an Oscar for how I was able to play off that like I knew the whole time. That I was like of course you know I am going to go fight in a prison. But you know if I had known ahead of time I probably would not have just because I am not really certain I support the whole concept. And you know if they do help these guys get freedom I do not necessarily see them opening up a noodle shop if they get out. But earlier I said that having fought in Thailand grants you a certain level of legitimacy that nothing else does. And I knew that if I went back to the states and I said you know I fought and won in a fight in Thai prison no one's going to doubt the legitimacy of that. So the week leading up to the fight I am having the dialogue in my head about it. And one day at breakfast I was talking to some of the guys. And you know it was about two or three days away from the actual fight. And my friend Jay  who is a successful professional fighter from New York said hey man at the end of the day it is still just a fight. And that made a lot of sense to me that you know at the end of the day all these other factors are involved. But it is still just you and him getting in a fist fight.  After that Mark stopped worrying in part because he would already made another decision - this one about his opponent.  I did not want to pursue finding out what he did to be put in prison. I could have found out. But the crime he committed or was accused of committing had no relevance on the fight itself. And at that moment that is all I was focused on.  That next week went by fast. Mark trained nonstop. And before he knew it he was back at the wrought iron gate in front of the prison on fight day.  I spent a lot of hours in the preceding week visualizing this moment - going back into the prison passing through the metal detectors and then going through the chain-link tunnel again what I would do where I would warm up how I would warm up getting my hands wrapped which you know in Thailand in pro fight they go ahead and they put tape over the knuckles. And you know that is really when you kind of start focusing. Like I mean you are always slowly bringing your focus to a crescendo. But that is you know the moment when like you really - you feel the wraps and like the gauze going over your fist. And you feel your fist even becoming more of this weapon. And then you go ahead and you do the walk to the ring. It had a really weird carnival-esque atmosphere. I mean like there was like bands playing like a six-foot tall transvestite ring girl. And then this time there was really no segregation between us and the prisoners once we got in there. And there was a couple of people who I recognized from the press conference. But other than that the crowd was entirely prisoners maybe 300 350 of them. And I am fairly certain that they were not there to root for me. And I definitely did get the sense that my opponent was kind of their go-to like number one guy. And when he got to my corner he stomped his foot as a symbol of challenge. And I heard the prisoner spectators I heard them cheer. And I remember my Thai trainer. When he saw my opponent I could tell he was visibly concerned. Usually his English is really good but then he just started speaking in kind of block phrases like you punch - you punch - you low-kick - you punch - you low-kick. And I was like - I remember kind of looking at him like hey you really do not have much of a poker face do you? And I got over to my opponent's corner and I looked his trainer in the eye. And then I stomped as hard as I could - twice as loud on his corner than he did on mine. And then I heard the prisoners cheer even louder. I knew that he knew at that moment he was in a real fight.  That did not mean though that the odds were in Mark's favor. There was a rule an unspoken one that when a foreigner fought a local if the foreigner could not knock him out by the end of the match the decision would almost always go to the Thai fighter. And unlike the normal five rounds this fight was only going to be three. Three rounds - that is how long Mark had to knock out Thub Hong-Mo.  The fight began. And I saw him look at me. And he landed an elbow strike right to my lip. And I remember pressing my tongue up to the top of my lip 'ecause my whole area there had gone numb and looking at him and just smiling. I pivoted and I threw a really solid kick. I thought my shinbone was just going to come outside the other side of his leg. And I just saw him wince in pain. And for all I know the crowd could have been roaring. But at that moment in time I was completely focused on the fight. And I mean it really is true like whatever he said in that movie Fight Club where he is like when you are fighting like everything else in life just gets the volume turned down on it.  Mark was in the zone. And this obviously went over really well with his trainer.  After the first round was over like I saw like that concerned look on his face was gone. And he was just like OK man you punch more man. Like you know boxing is doing good. And I remember like hitting him with like really solid punches and seeing his head snap back. But I knew that if I did not knock him out I would not get the win. And then late in the third he was draped over the ropes. And I thought that was my chance.  Holding Thub Hong-Mo against the ropes Mark delivered one final devastating punch to his head.  These are thin gloves - just you know 10 ounces. I could feel the thudding of my knuckles going into his skull and just like you know - I knew that like a good chance I could put him away. And then I saw the referee come and then - to break us up. And I was like oh man I am going to win because it was only three rounds you are going to have to give it to me. And then I saw the referee just kind of brushed him off and made sure he was OK and then put him back in there. Then maybe like 10 or 15 seconds later the fight was over.  And just as Mark suspected even though he knew he had fought the better fight the referee held up Thub Hong-Mo's hand and to the cheers of his fellow inmates the judges unanimously declared him the victor.  I knew I was not going to get a decision but I would fought what I thought was a great fight. And I felt like we had earned each other's respect in a lot of ways. And I was going to go have some ice cream and call my parents and watch TV. And he was going to have to go back to prison. So maybe if it was a close fight maybe he needed that decision a little bit more than I did.  Thub Hong-Mo could not disagree. After the fight he was surrounded by cheering inmates - king for a day. But it is not like he was going to be released on the spot. Instead he was going to be marched back to his cell where he would have to sit and wait for sentencing hearing. And when that would be was anyone's guess.  But you know I looked at him. I was like hey man. I hope you get your freedom someday. And he said you know thank you thank you so much. And we you know kind of hugged and took a picture for the camera. And then I went back and thought about it. I am like did I really mean that? And I am like is this somebody I really want to see on the street? And for all I knew you know he like was a murderer or you know a rapist or you know who knows what. And at that point I just wanted to get my paycheck and get out.  Did you ever find out what he did to be put in prison?  Yes I did months months later.  What did he do?  He killed somebody in a fight in a nightclub which he said was self-defense. And before that he was working as a hired muscle for organized crime in the red light district of Bangkok. And you know apparently he had been using the same skills he would used as a professional fighter as a mafia enforcer.  Would you have still said I hope you get your freedom if you had known?  I do not know. That is an interesting question. I am not sure I would have. You are still taking violent people who are in there for being violent and you are going to reward them by putting them back into a society for how well they are able to act violently?  If his paperwork kind of manages to make its way through and you were - you know by providing him the opportunity to fight and get the technical decision - you are responsible for letting this guy loose how would you feel about that?  I do not know. I mean I just cannot say that I really take ownership of his fate either way. You know at the end of the day a fight's still just a fight.  Mark actually fought one more fight in Thailand after that this time in a real stadium. And he won. Even though he would lost the technical decision at Klong Prem he lived his dream. And Thub Hong-Mo the man who won that same technical decision - he did not. Do to the recent coup in Thailand his promised sentence reduction has been invalidated. He is still in prison waiting for hearing.  Mark Sayer currently lives in the Gulf of Mexico. And that story was informed by Matt Sayer's article on Thai prison fights in Men's Journal. We will have a link at snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Joe Rosenberg with sound design by Renzo Gorrio. Now did you just fight your way out of a Thai prison and are looking for something to do? Well come to Snap Judgment Live August 1 and 2. Information tickets available right now at snapjudgment.org. When we return the birth of a modern-day legend and what to do if you are bigger and stronger than all the rest of the boys when riker episode continues. Stay tuned. 