 Welcome back to SNAP the Blackout episode. Today we are featuring stories where darkness falls in some very strange ways. Now there are songs that'ill bring you to ecstasy make you feel real joy. But there are songs of melody so intense they inspire the most melancholy of emotions. A brief warning this next story alludes to some mature content so sensitive kiddies may want to sit this one out. Davey Kim has the story.  I remember when I was 5 my dad was playing the piano in the next room from my bed and I heard that beautiful melody that just touched me immediately. The next morning I asked what was that song that you were playing yesterday? And he said you are still a little one so please do not even think about - forget it. When you will be adult it will be OK but now it is not.  That is Laszlo Marosi a Hungarian music conductor. He is talking about a song composed by Rezso Seress in the early 1930s.  Rezso Seress was growing up in a very poor Jewish family in Hungary. But he did not go to school to learn the piano. He himself just was sitting in front of the piano and would write and started to discover the keyboard what kind of sound is coming from what note.  There is not much known about Seress' early life except that he aspired to become a famous songwriter. So he did what other aspiring songwriters did - he moved to Paris.  Paintings arts theater - everything - Paris was the center. He had his girlfriend with him so he thought that the doors of life are opening for him.  In Paris Seress composed many songs many of them now unheard of. He was trying to live the life of a big-time composer. But there was one problem - he was not a big-time composer.  Everyone thought who is this amateur? He did not really succeed in Paris. He did not succeed at all.  His girlfriend nagged him constantly telling him to give up his dream get a 9-to-5 job but he would not have it. Either he would become a successful songwriter and change the world or he would live out on the streets.  When she saw that he did not become famous he did not get money he did not succeed the way how they expected so she just said OK bye-bye.  And bye-bye went the love of his life. The day after their breakup which happened to be a Sunday Seress found himself alone in his apartment. Like the many fruitless times before he started tapping away at the piano trying to capture the emotions from the fresh breakup.  In that moment in that gloomy afternoon on that Sunday a sad and mysterious melody started to appear in the mind of Seress.  Inspired by the melody his poet friend helped him write the lyrics. They would call the song Szomoru Vasarnap - or Gloomy Sunday.  The beginning of the song - a beautiful inviting dark sound with this ascending aperture of the minor chord.   .  Altogether the melody the phrasings the text that he uses to describe his pain and his sadness is just so lovely. And it is a very sympathetic way he stated everything - no complaining still offering the love. I know that she left me I know this all but please know that I love you forever and my love cannot be stopped even if I am dead. Do not close my eyes because my love will still go through my dead eyes.  beautiful.  Seress went to many different publishers to try to get his song recorded. They all turned him down saying that his song was just too emo. But finally he got his break and it was recorded by the top Hungarian pop singer Pal Kalmar and many others. The rest is history.   .  The lowest level of society to the top everyone loved that song everyone was singing it. The radio played it in the '30s almost every day everywhere where we went. There was no one social gathering that the Gloomy Sunday was not the song.  Gloomy Sunday resonated all around the world. People in England Germany France America - they were all singing it.  You will forget all your pain and you will be just sad very sad but it is a beautiful sadness and you can cry and those tears will clear your mind. It is beautiful. I love that.  Seress' dream of becoming famous had finally come true and perhaps now he could win back his girlfriend's love. But that is when it started to happen.  People started committing suicide.  There is a story of a Hungarian shoemaker who left a note at the scene his suicide quoting some of the Gloomy Sunday lyrics.  In Vienna a teenage girl drowned herself while clutching a piece of the song's sheet music.  One man shot himself after telling relatives he could not get that song out of his head.  A woman in London overdosed listening to her records of the song skip over and over and over and over.  A young shopkeeper in Berlin hung herself in her apartment the sheet music to Gloomy Sunday in her bedroom.  We do not even know the exact number because not everyone was discovered.  At least 19 suicides have been linked to the song although many claim hundreds - we will never know. Others say the Great Depression had a role in the deaths as well. Soon the song became widely known as the Hungarian Suicide Song and was banned on BBC Radio. When asked about his infamous song Seress said...  I stand in the midst of this deadly success as an accused man. This fate of fame hurts me. I cried all my disappointments of my heart into this song and it seems that others with feelings like mine have found their own hurt in it.  So the story goes Seress tried finding his ex-lover who had inspired him to write Gloomy Sunday. But to his horror she too had taken her own life with poison.  And she had the music of Gloomy Sunday with her. Basically he the composer says that I am ready to die for you because I love you so much. Even if you do not love me I have to tell you that I love you more than you can imagine because I am ready to die for you. And I think the girl killed herself. She demonstrated that she is the same as he stated in the text. It is a very very good Shakespearean topic.  Many years later after World War II and disappearing from the spotlight a heartbroken Seress finally surrendered to the curse of his song. As proclaimed in the climax...  My heart and I have decided to end it all. He jumped out of his window of his apartment. But he survived. But while recovering in the hospital he choked himself to death.  Was that really necessary?  Why do you think did he have a choice? If he wrote that song this was the only way how he could demonstrate that he was serious. He would not be faithful to himself if he would not have done that. He needed to do that. And he knew that and he did.  Seress may now be dead but his song's haunting legacy lives on. Gloomy Sunday has been recorded over 80 times - covered by Billie Holiday to Elvis Costello to Bjork.    Death is no dream for in death I am caressing you.    With the last breath of my heart I will be blessing you.    Gloomy Sunday.  Although they have tacked on an extra verse to make the song PG. Apparently the death mentioned in its lyrics was just a dream.    I was only dreaming.  Oh no. It is cheating. You cannot say after Romeo and Juliet oh sorry I was just kidding. Wait a second. You were not kidding. It is part of the human life. You cannot have everything happy. And he should come back and just tear those pages to pieces.    I hope that my dream has not haunted you.  What about you? You I mean you are a Hungarian musician. What does this song mean for you?  So what it meant for me - something beautiful. This is that came to my mind - not the sadness not the drama but beautiful - beautifully sad. If I would have the chance to die I would do that - commit suicide with this song put it on. And I just have not decided which day - not yet.   Thanks so much to Lazslo Marosi for sharing that story. It was produced by our own Davey Kim.   Now when SNAP JUDGMENT the Blackout episode returns someone's goose is about to be cooked. Do not go anywhere. SNAP JUDGMENT. 