 At first I could not really see anything. I could only hear. I could hear the woodcarver kind of walking around picking up stuff. He painted eyes on my face and I could see.   And I looked right at him. And he is like whoa are you alive? You are made out of wood. And I said figure it out brother. And I jump up and I am out of the door. And it is fabulous the stink and the pretty girls and the flashing signs and this bright sunlight. And I start staring back at the people staring at me and I see I am the only one made out of wood. And I wonder if that is going to be a problem. And next to a big tent I see a sign. It says come see the greatest show in the land. I sneak in the back of the tent. And right on a stage I see a bunch of other people made out of wood. And I say hey what is up? But they are quiet. Then the curtain lifts and bright lights shine down on us. Then strings lift the wooden people up and make them start hopping around - strings. I do not need no stupid strings. So I push the wooden people aside and I start dancing right?  Hit me.   I give the crowd a little James Brown and they love it.  Moving doing it you know.   Then I throw in some M.J. and they lose their minds.   Backstage Mr. Big Top wants to talk to me with a quickness says we can split the take 50-50. And I am like how am I going to do all the dancing and you get 50 percent? How about 70-30? It is a done deal. An hour later he announces the next show. In the center ring the amazing puppet with no strings.   This time I do a moonwalk. Ladies are throwing flowers on stage. I leave them wanting more and walk off feeling like a star.   After the show while Mr. Big Top congratulates me the blue woman appears in a cloud of dust.   My child what are you doing here? What I am getting ready for the next show. But do not you want to be a real boy? No. I want to be in the circus. And she spits it like it is a bad word. Do not say this word circus. Circus circus I want to be in the circus. Never say this word again. Listen to me circus understand? The blue woman pulls out her wand and aims it and zaps me right between the eyes. My face starts itching. What the - and my nose it starts growing all crazy - magic. And she is winding up to shoot me again and I scram out of the back. And I am running as fast as my little wooden legs would carry me.   I get back to the man's house. I am like hey hey look at my nose Mr. Woodcarver man courtesy of your little blue lady friend. How did you get with her anyway? And he is like well you know that blue lady she is a fine woman. And when you get a little older you going to understand that. No forget about all that. What you going to do about my nose? And then I see him coming at my face with some kind of cleaver. Hold on now son. I am your son now? And he  chops. And it hurts but it does fix my nose. I am too angry to say thanks and I just leave. And I get back to the circus where I am appreciated. And I love everything about this circus. I love the lions. I love the elephants. I love the clowns. I love the cotton candy. I love the hairy lady. I love the flying trapeze. And I love that Mr. Big Top saved me for last. Prepare to be astounded by the amazing puppet with no strings.   It is awesome. It would been a crazy first day of life and even little wooden boys get tired. So after the last show I climbed into the fat man's trailer laid my head on a bag of cotton candy and I thought about how happy I was to have found the circus.   When I woke up right away I know something's wrong. I jump to my feet. What is going on? What is going on? What is going on? I look down at my fingers and I cannot believe it. My hands my arms my legs no everything is made out of meat. I am a real boy. And then I see her in the corner clapping her hands together. Is not it wonderful? Are not I a good mommy? It took most of the magic I had but I did it. And I know I cannot be in the circus like this. Turn me back right now. You are welcome. You are welcome dear son. Turn me back. And she disappears. I know I have got to go talk to Mr. Big Top. We have got to work something out. No no no no no no I need a dancing puppet not a dancing little boy. They will throw me in the slammer and I am not going back in there. It is over. No more circus for you. Please Mr. Big Top. No more circus. The blue lady ruined everything. And since that dark time - since that very dark time I have not been able to go back to the circus. I could never go back until today.   On SNAP JUDGMENT right here from PRX and NPR we proudly present Circus Circus. 