 We are kicking off today's SNAP JUDGMENT episode in the middle of a rescue mission. SNAP joins award-winning author producer journalist Jake Halpern and his new companions Josh and Lisa in real-time right as they set off to save someone's life.  I cannot believe this.  It is surreal.  Were doing this this is happening.  Yep. Yep. We are good.  This is happening .8 eight-miles. 30 years - 30 years I had all these visions. I will go up there I will knock on the door I will tell him what is what I will ask him where he was. I just want to see him before he is gone you know it is like oh my God I am going to puke it.  My hands are sweating so much. .  This is Josh Flanagan and his sister Lisa Prowdy . They are at the tail end of  a nine-hour road trip from Buffalo New York to Bloomington Indiana. And they are about to see their dad Michael for the first time in decades.  I do not like it.  Can we turn around? This is his road. I am turning on his road. I am turning onto my father's road. 32-years I am turning onto his road.  My hands are so sweaty it is horrible.  Oh my God is this it. That looks like it from the pictures.  I do not feel so well.  Forty feet.  Oh God he is sitting outside  He is sitting outside. Oh my God that is my father.  Lisa has not seen her father in about 20 years. Josh has not seen him since he was five. A few years ago Josh did track down his phone number they even talked a few times but not in person. Then just recently Josh had a feeling he started to get worrying that his dad might pass away or disappear and Josh would never get to see him face-to-face. So he tracked him down again he could not get his dad on the phone but eventually he managed to reach a neighbor and the neighbor had some shocking news. His dad Michael was living in his house without water or power and he was on the verge of death. There was no one there to take care of him. Josh called his sister Lisa they got into the car drove all the way to Bloomington and arrived in the middle of a rainstorm.  Aw yeah he looks like he is dying. He looks like he is done.  Josh that does not even look like him.  Flanagan.  Oh my God. Yeah. Yeah I am recording this I want to record it. All right bring it in. Hi.  Hi. I love you.  Wow.  This is wonderful. Hi.  I cannot believe I am standing in front of you.  Yeah I know me neither.  Well I feel the same way.  And you look different than I thought.  You look really different yeah.  I do not know. You are smaller than I thought.  Yeah.  In my memories you were much taller than me.  Well in your memories I wore boots a lot.  Yeah and I was five - so . You have to understand I did not know how I would feel when I saw you.  I do understand but I just hate it that you come to my home after all this time and I have practically nothing.  That is - we did not come to see...  I - yeah.  No that is not the point.  Yeah I know.  Well I understand how you must feel but we had some ideas to kind of help out with you.  I will tell you this - I never forgot how much I loved you. Never. But I had a law - you do not take children away from their mothers.  Right.  Right.  Josh and Lisa were not ready to start digging up the past with their dad. They were too busy looking around at the rundown house where Michael was living. There was no power water heat or AC. Feral cats roamed in and out and the smell of mildew and rotting food was overpowering.  Dad you understand that you know pretty soon you cannot stay here right?  Yeah I understand.  OK so because that is why we want to find you a place to live so that we do not worry about you OK?  Well listen - you have gotta get some rest. I mean I would keep you you here all night.  Aw that is OK we are going to come see you in the morning.  Bring it in - group hug. Love you.  Bye Dad.   I cannot believe I am going to pull away and leave him here you know?  He is just itty-bitty. Why is he so tiny?  I do not want to leave him there. I have a heart beating my chest he is another human being and I really really felt the connection to him. That is my dad. And I am not saying he is earned that title but it is my dad.  So I mean we will see what we can do tomorrow you know...  Josh and Lisa have not actually known each other for very long just two months. They are 2 of Michael's 10 estranged children from 6 different marriages. Growing up Josh and Lisa's only real connection to their father were the books of poetry that he had written. Other than this it was mostly guessing about who this man was and why he was not there. When I talked to them that night after they finally met their dad they appeared to be in a mild state of shock. They do not know what to do or whether this man whom they have suddenly rediscovered even deserves their help.  But it is like we have to choose now which side of this are we going to take.  Explain. I mean this is a guy who is been absent from your lives your entire lives. I mean how...  You know what - there is nothing about this guy that I want to like and I liked him.  Yeah you do not want to like him but you cannot help it. He is just this cute little old man. He looks like a little old fisherman guy.  Thirty-plus years there is no reason that we should not have had contact. If he would have called me at any time during those years I would have talked to him.  Are you in on the same page - are you clear in your - are you each clear in your own mind what you are prepared to do for him at this point?  It is tough. It is tough. I do not think he has any food. Like I do not think he is eating. I think that he was literally sitting there waiting to die. I do not have room to care for him because I do not know him and he is never done anything for me or cared for me or shown me anything. You know the damage that is done not having a father figure but there is no way you can look at any person and not feel for the fact that this person is penniless homeless and alone. And what do you do in that situation?  The next morning I go with Josh and Lisa to the abandon house where Michael was living. When we arrive Michael is sitting on a plastic lawn chair out front. He has a bushy gray beard and he is wearing a heavy plaid shirt and a White Sox cap. Michael seems overjoyed though he is so frail that he has a hard time standing up to greet us.  This is Jake. Jake this is Michael.  Nice to meet you Michael.  Glad to meet you.  Can we go in the house for a few minutes?  Sure.  Would that be all right?  It would be fine. In fact I wanted to take you in.  Awesome.  Remember there is no electricity so the inside of Michael's house is dim and gloomy. Much of the place looks like a forgotten storage depot for an art gallery. Michael is a painter poet and sculptor. He was never famous or made much money from it but he is devoted his entire life to his artwork. The walls are covered with Michael's paintings and in the corners they are stacked a dozen deep. Some of Michael's pieces are strikingly beautiful like a series of stones that he is painted with an iridescent enamel. Despite the squalor the inside of the house is a wonderland of artistic creations.  Wow.  And there is another one.  Oh my God I remember that.  Wow.  I remember the picture.  That is beautiful.  What is the story with this?  Let me tell you something at least in my philosophy art belongs to you until you finish it and you let someone else see it and then it does not belong to you anymore. And that is what you are supposed to do. I mean one of my great prides is my children. But I do not own them I just tried to raise them.  I know there is been a period of separation between you and Josh and Lisa Marie what is your hope for where things might go from here now that...  They are already fine. There was never really a separation it was just geographic and chronological. Those children and I loved each other from the day they were born and decades later when they came back we loved each other just as much.  So Michael you clearly consider yourself to be a good father?  That is like asking water if it is wet. Yeah I - I was not a perfect father but that had more to do with my profession. I just did not have a choice sometimes.  In the house Josh and Lisa look around mesmerized. It is as if they are both surprised relieved even a little joyful that something beautiful has come from their father's absence. It is kind of amazing to me because in some ways the poetry is almost like a stand-in for him in some ways.  You know when he was absent and I could read that I felt like he was talking to me.  Look what I found.  Who is that?  It is me and my mom.  Yeah she was kind of a hottie huh?  Ew Josh. Ew.  Yeah it is your mom not mine. She was pretty. My mom said she was beautiful.  So six wives though what happened? Why so many?  I am no day at the beach that is what happened. It is four oclock in the morning I am still working. My wife comes downstairs and asks when I am coming to bed. I look at her and say I am working never get in the way of the work. The rule always in my households was we do the work.  Michael always put his artwork first before his kids. And yet the kids themselves appear in the poems. One of his poems is about Lisa after her mother had taken her to California. Michael at some point might I get you to read Gifts To Lisa Marie?  Of course.  Can you give me a little bit of a background before you read the poem what inspired it?  Never explain a poem.  OK fair enough.   Presents for Lisa Marie. One dozen pine cones still green and just picked from the tree although they will probably be dust by the time they reach California. This is after her mother had taken her to California.  Presents for Lisa Marie a geography lesson a bouquet of autumn from the place that still has seasons. A slap in the face to California's sameness and the distances between us with no apologies or reasons - I miss you so badly. I cannot bear to write or send the photographs you have asked for. Two I would slap the face of God if I thought he was what keeps me from you. But I do not blame God or anyone anymore. There'ill be no autumn celebration this year for me celebrations are for free men and I will not be that 'til I hold you in my arms again. It is autumn Lisa and I am like the trees. Love daddy.  Sorry dad.  It is a tough one. OK if it is possible do not forget my cigarettes. I am going to have to figure out what I am going to do next.  Well we are going to go to the office you were going to go change clothes.  Josh and Lisa are on a particular mission to get Michael someplace safe. But neither of them is willing to take him home and it is not just because he was an absentee father. Both Josh and Lisa remember him actually violent. Lisa told me in private about an incident seared into her memory from childhood.  I remember hearing all the noise in the apartment and there is like banging on pots and pans and stuff. And then I ran out there and he hit my mom and had her through a  and I know it broke. And she was holding her head and she told me to go back in my room. And I stood in the corner and I heard him yell that if I did not stop crying that he was going to keep me so I stopped crying. I was real quiet.  Josh and Lisa both tell me that confronting Mike about the past would sabotage their mission because if they did Michael might become hostile and closed off. So they smile and nod even as Michael continues to justify his absence in their lives with his own version of history.  In his mind he is like world's greatest dad.  Yeah he is quite convinced to that it is true. I would like to note that even though I call him dad I have a dad. Much of this is I need to get him to safety. You know if I were to come in here and be business and not call him dad he is not going anywhere.  I am playing up the compassion a little bit to give him hope. There are parts of me that want to lash out at him and I am squashing those and I am being more affectionate than I might otherwise be.  But for right now I just want him to be save and he is not safe where he is.  I think he wants to come home with us.  Well I am sure he does.  He is not going to come to a  head at some point?  Well we are going to find out.  After some coaxing Josh and Lisa managed to get Michael in the car and they start driving around Bloomington looking for someplace that will take him in. For the time being Michael seems unworried about where we are going and instead he regales me with lot stories about his younger days as an artist. He talks about paling around Ginsberg and Kerouac.  And Kerouac said stay pure man always stay pure.  He talks about his poetry and the standing ovations he received at readings. It is hard to know what to believe. Over the course of the day at various social service organizations Lisa tries her best to explain the urgency and the absurdity of her situation.  I do not really see - let us try that entrance over there.  Do you think that he is still holding onto the hope that if he goes through the motions of all this he will somehow end up going back to Western New York with you guys?  I am thinking that - yeah that he has a small hope of that. I think he is also under the impression somehow or another I am going to stay with him 'ecause he asked me in the house he said if he could only ask one thing he would ask if I stayed with him and if I would just stau with them until he dies. Hi we were just at the FSSA and they said they are going to take my father to Bloomington Hospital and that there is also a nursing home there that they can put them in. This exhausting and we are not getting nowhere.  Yeah.  In the end it becomes apparent that the only real option is dropping Michael off at the city mission which is basically the local homeless shelter. And as this possibility dons on Michael he looks fidgety a little scared. He starts asking what the plan is.  I am just curious about the facility I am going to be at tonight.  Well that is the missionary that you talked to right? That is the one...  Right.  That you had talked to the neighbor about.  Toddy?  Right and I called them and talked to them twice.  As everyone gets back into the car to head to the city mission the mood becomes tense. It is a late spring afternoon and heavy storm clouds have rolled in. For the first time all day Michael's totally quiet. It is as if suddenly he is accepting the possibility that his children really might leave him. Minutes later we are arriving at the city mission. It is a small place. There is a mess hall on the first floor with a few tiny windows. The floors are spotless. It feels like army barracks except for a radio that is playing pop music.  I called earlier and they said we can check him in between 5 and 7?  Yeah who are you checking in?  Our dad Michael.  OK sure. That is not a problem.  Thank you.  How're you doing dad? My name is Al I am the chaplain here.  I am Michael.  Pleased to meet you Michael.  I am Lisa.  Lisa god bless you. Good to see you.  This is my brother Josh.  Hello Josh.  This is our story Jake.  I am doing a story for National Public Radio.  Oh OK for NPR all right good. Well have you had any alcohol in the last 24 hours?  No.  Good OK you are past first base. We got to still go to second and third but you are OK. I will need a picture ID. And yeah we will go from there. And this is his stuff.  Michael's the oldest guy there by a solid 20 years. The other residents look like hard cases - quite solemn young men whose lives for one reason or another have hit rock bottom. At this point Michael looks freaked out. The cockiness that he seemed to exude earlier in the day is entirely gone. He seems close to tears and he keeps asking whether he is going to be able to walk around at night.  I mean remember this is the hard part.  Above all he does not want to be locked in.  It is not difficult to be here unless you have a specific problem you know.  I have a problem and it is my anxiety level.  OK.  That I am very claustrophobia and if I am shut in someplace I go nuts.  Well I do not know. I hate to say this but there is a possibility maybe this is not for him. It is a decision you are going to have to make.  Let me talk to him for a minute.  OK.  Come here dad.  It is my anxiety level I feel it going nuts already.  I am not positive he will stay here tonight.  It is so clear he has a really high sense of his self and his importance in the world and it is come to this in this like homeless shelter in Bloomington Indiana.  He does not want rules he wants to be free but if you want to be free you have to be a responsible man and live you life in a way that you set yourself up for that in your later years. And that is clearly not the case here.  I just feel bad but he will be OK.  Finally Michael agrees to stay - well at least for one night. And so after a lifetime of being abandoned by their dad Josh and Lisa prepared to leave him alone in a tiny homeless shelter on the outskirts of town.  OK all right you ready? We are very proud of you.  I love my kids.  We love you too dad.  We will talk soon.  Just as we leave the clouds which had steadily been getting darker explode into a rainstorm. And so when it finally comes time for us to go Josh Lisa and I all have to bolt out the door and sprint for the car. It is impossible to see Michael or even building that housed the city mission. It all just kind of vanished in a watery blur.  That story was produced by Jake Halpern with production assistance  from Anna Sussman and Ana Adlerstein. You can find out more about Jake Helpern at jakehelpern.com. And when SNAP JUDGMENT returns someone gets a midnight phone call but he is not who they think he is when the Picking Up The Pieces episode continues. Stay tuned. 