 Okay so I just returned from a year overseas in Japan - magical transformative year. And my ex-girlfriend meets me at the airport. Ex because we decided that a full year apart - well she is beautiful beautiful like Whitney Houston before the darkness beautiful - dressed in a white lace dress - pure. I thought of her every single day. And now finally she is wrapped tight against me - tight - tears I hug her she kisses me. And I know right then I know that any reconciliation I may have hoped for it is not going down because something - because someone has happened. And I even know who and I can barely breathe but it is not the time not yet I have just arrived. There is a welcome home that night at my homie's place. And my once girlfriend smiles she is wearing something else exquisite. But I turn away from her pulling me towards the dance floor. I see some of my crew they are like dude you are back man it is about time man. How was it man? It was amazing. That is awesome man. Awesome. And they are shoving shots of tequila in my hand and I drink just like old times. Everybody - whoops - they order another. I go outside and I sit on a car until some guy tells me to get off his car. I - I walk home from my welcome home party. The next morning I go to the Meijer's a huge grocery store and I feel like a ghost - like everyone can see through me like him watching my own life instead of living it. And I stepped out for a year but everyone else kept doing their thing. I do not know why this surprises me. My phone rings and it is my girlfriend and I cannot pick that up. Whatever that conversation is going to take I just do not have it yet. I am staring at the phone and it rings again but this time it is my buddy Ray. He would been my next-door neighbor in Japan. We both returned to the U.S. at the same time but he lives in the other side of Michigan. Funny Ray confident Ray - I pick up - aye aye. Ray says dude I do not know I do not know what is going but I am - I am kind of having a hard time getting back in the swing of things - something's off. And hearing him say it - nothing was fixed nothing was better there was no magic wand but just hearing him say that I knew it was not just me. Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR we proudly present Picking Up the Pieces. Amazing stories from real people pulling it all back together again. My name is Glynn Washington. Always remember and never forget you can tell me anything because this is SNAP JUDGMENT. 