In two weeks it is going to be the 20th anniversary of the assassination of the Prime Minister of Israel Yitzhak Rabin. This was a shocking event in Israel-- basically their Kennedy assassination. Rabin had been in the middle of working through a peace deal with the Palestinians. You may remember a famous picture of him and Yasser Arafat outside the White House with President Clinton kind of awkwardly nudging them both to shake hands. Two brothers were convicted in the murder-- Israelis. Jews. Religious Jews. The one who pulled the trigger is still in prison but the other got out a few years ago. His name's Hagai. Hagai and his brother are still unapologetic about what they did. They killed the prime minister because they did not like his peace deal.   We wanted to do it he is saying. Did not happen by accident.   We did it to save Jews to stop this process that was killing Jews. Hagai talked to one of our producers Nancy Updike and to another journalist Dan Ephron who is also her husband. He is the former Jerusalem bureau chief for Newsweek. They have both reported in Israel for years. Dan and Nancy now join me in studio. Hi guys. Hello. Hi Ira. So where was this interview? We visited him at his house the one he grew up in. It is a small house on a quiet street. He is back there living at home with his parents. It is the same house where Hagai and his brother spent hours together discussing the murder plotting it in their room up on the second floor. And we got there and we asked him to give us a tour and we ended up around back in the backyard. And Dan-- I call him Danny-- speaks Hebrew so he was translating. We are all talking quietly. It is late at night.   This is where he hid some of the ammunition that night before the police came. So the ammunition he is talking about-- Hagai and his brother had stockpiled weapons before the assassination. Hagai made some of the munitions himself. He is a tinkerer. Wow. Yeah. And he was completely open about it. He was kind of proud about it. And he had given us this tour and as he did he said Look I hid the weapons from the police over here in the chicken coop in a bag.   It was a bag. I had built little homemade grenades.   Part of the silencer that I was working on. How long does it take to make a grenade? Ah.  You have to think a lot before you make it.  Uh-huh.  You can make one in an hour but you have to plan it. Hagai took us over to a little prefab shed in a corner of the backyard. It was full of tools and boxes of bolts and wing nuts and all that. And this is the shed where he would spent months experimenting with and perfecting a kind of bullet that was found in his brother's gun the night of the murder. This is the exact bullet mold that you used? Ken. OK so ken means yes in Hebrew. That is one of the few Hebrew words I remember from Hebrew school. Right right. And he is showing us this bar of metal that can fit a bunch of bullets in it and then a second bar fits on top of it and it kind of clamps on top.   He used all this gear to drill into these bullets and drop a ball bearing inside. And I asked Hagai What is the ball bearing for? And he said Ah that was our project. That was our innovation.   The ball bearing-- the bullet-- so the idea was that this would penetrate a vest. A bulletpoof vest. A bulletproof vest. And the way it does it is that the bullet itself would lodge in the vest but the ball bearing would continue through it. And it was-- it is hard enough and deadly enough to kill-- just the ball bearing once it penetrated to kill him. I mean so-- I mean did you-- did you make this mold in order to make the bullets for that purpose to shoot Rabin? Um.   I think you could say yes. The answer is yes. So this was the exact equipment he used to modify the bullets to kill the Prime Minister and he is happy to show it to us. And because he and his brother both had this attitude-- they were both proud of what they would done-- as a murder case this assassination was open and shut. The shooter Hagai's brother his name is Yigal Amir. He was grabbed right on the spot. The bullets matched his gun. There were several witnesses within a few feet of the shooter when he pulled the trigger. There was an amateur film that captured key parts of the scene. The killer confessed immediately in detail. He reenacted the incident with police-- that is on video too. And he is never expressed remorse. He is never recanted any part of his confession. OK but-- I can feel the but that you are about to say. Right. There is a but. So in spite of all this in spite of all the evidence lots of people do not believe it is true. They do not believe that Yigal Amir and his brother killed Rabin.   That is enough? He says Yigal Amir did not murder Rabin. I said Who did? He said the Shabak did. The Shabak is like the Israeli equivalent of the FBI plus they have a bodyguard division. So it is sort of a combination of the FBI and the Secret Service. So even though there is all this evidence that could not seem like more clear-- there is witnesses there is video there is a confession-- there are conspiracy theories? Yeah. And they are popular. These are just random people on the street in Jerusalem one night this past summer.   So he says that it was the Shabak that killed Rabin. He knows that because the bullets were in the front and Yigal Amir had shot from behind.   OK so what she is saying is I am absolutely not sure that Amir actually killed Rabin. There were all kinds of machinations all kinds of intrigue going on at the time and maybe the state was involved. So according to polls fully a third of Israelis doubt that Yigal Amir pulled the trigger. They think there was a conspiracy or a major cover up. Among Israelis who identify as right wing the doubters number at least 50. 50? Five-oh? 50 yeah. It is a big number. And I have been researching and reporting on the assassination for several years now. And as I got deeper I felt like I was in this weird loop where on the one hand all the documents I had read and all the people who were there that I spoke to-- police investigators bodyguards witnesses-- all that pointed to the fact that Yigal Amir killed the prime minister. And then alongside that sometimes in interviews or conversations with Israelis I would get this look like You really believe that? And I just wanted to understand why. Why are the conspiracy theories plausible to so much of the country? And the fact that this assassination is seen so differently by different people in Israel has real implications for politics there today right now. Well from WBEZ it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. We hear so much about Israel here in our country and I should say over the months that we have worked on today's program it has made me understand things about Israel that I never understood before. Rabin's death is a very helpful prism to understand Israel and Israelis today-- even the news these last few weeks this new round of violence. Rabin was assassinated in the middle of a peace deal that the United States had thrown all of its weight behind. Every president since then has tried and failed to broker peace. Today on our program we are telling the story of what happened that night that Rabin was killed and we are telling the story of how Israelis see that moment today and what that tells us about Israel Israeli politics and the chances for peace. Stay with us. And with that I hand things over to Nancy and Dan. Here's what happened the night of the assassination. Rabin was speaking at a political rally and I actually attended that rally. I was a young reporter covering the event. Later I covered the murder trial. And the rally was huge-- there were speeches and songs. More than 100000 people showed up. They filled the main plaza in Tel Aviv and packed the side streets. Most of them were left wing or center left like Rabin. He was the head of the Labor Party. So the slogan of the rally was Yes to peace no to violence. And turnout was important because the point of the rally had been to gauge how much support Rabin had for the peace deals he was pursuing with the Palestinians-- they are called the Oslo Accords. And here's what Oslo called for-- for Israel to gradually withdraw from parts of the West Bank and Gaza so that Palestinians could govern themselves. And a lot of right-wing Israelis saw Oslo as a terrible thing as a security threat and because it involved giving back land God promised to the Jews a betrayal of Judaism. They would been protesting against Oslo and against the Rabin government for months. There was even a small right-wing counterdemonstration that night held near the rally. One of the people at the counterdemo-- and this is in a story I wrote that night-- one of them held up a sign that said A rope for the traitors. I have read through dozens of police reports filed on the night of the murder. One that caught my eye was written by Chief Superintendent Moti Naftali. He helped draw up the security plan for the rally along with the Israeli equivalent of the FBI the Shabak. Here were the Shabak. Over here on the left? On the left. And we were here. A few months ago we went with Moti up onto the stage where Rabin stood. It looks out over the plaza where the rally was held. Moti was also on stage the night of the assassination. There was a police command center off to one side. He is pointing out where that was where other people were. Moti is a pipe smoker the only one I have ever met in Israel. He also speaks German-- he will throw in a word of that sometimes. And today is the first time he is come up here since that night 20 years ago. He is not a sentimental man. You know it is like when I go into my high school. I look ahead. I look forward. The mission for law enforcement that evening of the rally was to maintain order and of course to protect the prime minister. Moti remembers preparing for just one scenario. That the Palestinians they will commit a terror operation. Nobody in all the work before-- nobody talked about an Israeli or a Jewish assassin. When it was finished from here I called my wife and I said  Thank God it is finished. Thank God in German. Yeah.  Nothing happened. It went fine. The rally went fine. It ended Rabin left the stage and then after Moti called his wife-- I heard people running and a noise. And I run with them as well. Was it clear that these were shots? No no. What Moti heard but did not see was captured on amateur video. There is no TV news footage of the assassination because the rally was over-- the news was over. This moment when the shooting happened was a nothing moment. Just the prime minister Rabin walking down the stairs behind the stage and back to his car. In the amateur footage-- we found this copy on YouTube-- we see Rabin's car off to the side with his driver Menachem Damti standing next to it. There is a small crowd at the bottom of the stairs as he comes down. People are applauding. They are mostly just a bunch of dark human-sized shapes. Rabin is pretty easy to spot because he is in the middle and his glasses are glinting. And then one of the shapes who is been sitting off to the side stands up walks through a few people till he is just behind Rabin lifts his right arm and there are flashes and the sound of three gunshots.   The camera drops seemingly in shock and then recovers. All of this has happened only a few feet from the car that Rabin was about to get into. And we see Rabin's driver bend over Rabin and then jump into the driver's seat. The film ends there. Rabin his bodyguard and the driver speed off to the hospital. The assassin Yigal Amir-- the brother of Hagai who you heard from earlier-- is tackled and taken to police headquarters to be interrogated by Moti Naftali. Moti was the first person to interrogate Yigal Amir in the hours after the assassination. This was a few blocks away at the Tel Aviv police headquarters. He was in  we say in Hebrew. How you say in English? Euphoria. Euphoria. Because he had a mission and he did it. There is video of Moti interrogating Amir. The sound quality is terrible in parts of the tape but it is mesmerizing to watch.    Amir talks in small bites and he repeats himself because Moti sitting across the table from him is writing down every word by hand. At one point Amir stops what he is saying to make sure Moti is getting everything down. He says Did you write that down?  Ken. Remember ken in Hebrew means yes. At the start of the interrogation it is not clear yet that Rabin is dead. Moti is just focused on Amir. Who is this guy? Moti like the rest of the police in the Shabak is stunned by the fact that Amir is Jewish an Israeli not Palestinian. He finds out he is 25 years old. He is a law student a devout Jew and Amir to him is just baffling. I see a guy normal guy from a good family student and a murderer. I I am-- I dealed with murderer. They were-- they were criminal. He was not criminal. It is the first time that I dealed with the ideological criminal. I say he is a wet dream of every woman that she will have such a guy for her daughter. Sort of the men every woman wants for her son-in-law. Yeah yeah yeah. He was educated polite good manners-- a murderer. Amir in the video is calm. He is measured. There is no rambly incoherent manifesto. He is not even raising his voice. He seems sane. He is just very smug. He says to Moti at one point Your questions are an insult to my intelligence.    But Amir is happy to tell him everything. He would been developing the idea of killing Rabin for two years. He used his own gun a 9-millimeter Beretta. He would loaded it with bullets from a fresh box before leaving the house then he took bus number 247 from his home in Herzliya to the rally. Amir said he would read the Oslo Accords-- the complete version not the summary that was in the newspapers-- and he felt it was his obligation to stop Rabin from going ahead with Oslo his religious duty under Jewish laws known as din rodef and din moser. He said he had to protect the land of Israel. At the rally Amir told himself that if God wanted him to kill Rabin he would give him an opportunity to do it and the opportunity came.   Moti-- you see this in the video-- he is losing patience. But he wants a full confession so he remains polite. One of my police came in and brought me a cup of tea in a kowc white kowc. You know this-- Styrofoam cup. Yeah. And I told to him Would you also like a cup of tea? He said yes and I told him Bring another one please and he brought him the cup of tea. And he says Do not you have any cookies? And I told him Oh you are-- you are pushing your luck. I remember his reaction when I told him-- when I accused him. And I tell him I me Moti Naftali accuse you that you shot the prime minister and you caused his death. And he was shocked to hear it. He said What? Did he die? Wow! And he jumped like your team make a goal. Like your team scored a goal in a soccer game? Yeah yeah. And this moment you want to come and punch him in the face but you must be correct. You must sit down. Sit down. Would you like a cup of tea? Let us make l'chaim he said. Let us make a toast. Let us make a toast. Yeah. L'chaim means To life! Yeah. To make a toast to life. Yeah to life. To life that he took.   This is the crowd outside the hospital where Rabin was taken after he was shot. It is from a radio report. I had left the rally before the shooting along with other journalists and I got a beeper message-- this was the 90s a lot of beepers-- saying Shot fired near Rabin. So I turned around and ran. I really ran back to the square-- and then from the square to the hospital nearby. I saw this crowd and I heard these shouts. The crowd is furious. You can hear it. They are Rabin supporters and what they are chanting is Bibi rotzeach meaning Bibi is a murderer. Bibi rotzeach! Bibi-- and maybe you know this-- is the nickname for Benjamin Netanyahu. He is the Prime Minister of Israel today. At the time he headed the right-wing opposition the side opposed to Rabin and to the Oslo deal. Israeli politics is always fierce. I once saw on TV a lawmaker in the Israeli parliament throw a glass of water into another parliament member's face. And in the months before the assassination the rhetoric against Rabin had been relentless. There were posters with his face in the crosshairs of a gun. There were posters of him dressed as Yasser Arafat the leader of the PLO wearing a keffiyeh on his head. A poster of him dressed as a Nazi SS officer. People chanted murderer and traitor at rallies and outside Rabin's apartment in Tel Aviv. People chanted Death to Rabin. Palestinian groups who opposed the Oslo accords had killed dozens of Israelis in suicide attacks since the start of the peace process and many Israelis blamed Rabin for those deaths. It was pure rage. The right was enraged at Oslo and at Rabin. But the night of the assassination it was the left that became enraged. The feeling was one man pulled the trigger but a much larger group bore the blame for stoking hatred and violence against Rabin. A left-wing slogan would emerge-- We will not forgive and we will not forget. When Rabin's chief of staff comes out of the hospital to make the announcement that the prime minister is dead it takes him more than a minute of yelling at people to keep quiet before he can make himself heard.      By now the country's chief pathologist Professor Yehuda Hiss heads to the hospital to perform the autopsy. Look I was raised on the investigation into the death of President Kennedy. Into the death of President Kennedy. Hiss did some of his medical training in the United States at Case Western Reserve in the years after the Kennedy assassination and he says the autopsy on Kennedy was discussed a lot-- mainly as a cautionary tale as a lesson on what not to do when performing a postmortem. The autopsy became one more thing that stoked the conspiracy theories. So I promised myself that it would never happen in Israel. That if there is some high-profile case I would be called to perform an autopsy I will do the most accurate thing. And I tried to do it in the prime minister's case and said I do not want you know the same claims that the autopsy was not accurate that there were no photographs and so on. And they tried to do you know everything-- you know regular things. To act regular. Regular meant Hiss insisted on having both his assistants with him during the Rabin autopsy. One of them was a photographer. It also meant that Hiss described aloud every step he took dictating it into a tape recorder. His assistant transcribed the notes later that morning. Hiss found two bullets in Rabin one in the lung and the other in the chest and no exit wounds. The third bullet fired by Amir went through the arm of a bodyguard. There was nothing mysterious you know? There is nothing complicated. The bullets that Hiss found inside Rabin were standard hollow points not the ones Hagai had modified in his shed with the ball bearings after all. Those ended up at the bottom of his brother's magazine. Do the conspiracy theorists contact you? Do they ever try to-- Yes. They call me and Do you know that we know that-- I say I have nothing to add. It is crazy. It is amazing what is happening. The Israeli believe that there was some kind of conspiracy regarding his death. We are asking the questions-- very very simple questions. This is Hillel Weiss. He is a political columnist and one of the early adopters and proselytizers of the conspiracy theories-- also a literature professor emeritus. He is in his 70s he is got a white beard very jolly. In the Rabin era he was on TV a lot and he is cheerful about why. When the television want to see a crazy one from the right wing they call Hillel Weiss. You. Yes. And I supply them the-- the goods. He lives in the West Bank in a settlement he helped found nearly 40 years ago. It is called Elkana. He also helped found something else-- a group that calls itself The Public Committee for the Reinvestigation of the Rabin Murder. Well they think that Rabin himself and his party and all the people that were in the inside circle they wanted to turn public opinion. Therefore they make this fake event to defame the right wing. This is the core of Hillel's theory. Rabin himself orchestrated what was supposed to be an attempt on his own life by the right. It was supposed to be a thwarted attempt. The event would create sympathy for Rabin and for Oslo and boost his approval ratings and it would make the right look bad. In the fake assassination as Hillel lays it out Yigal Amir is either a collaborator or a patsy and what the country saw on video was Amir firing blanks not real bullets. Rabin then pretended to fall and was helped into the car and driven away. But then in the car somehow Rabin dies anyway. And here the theories get hazy. It is not clear what happened in the car but whatever happened it was not part of the plan. Inside the car that is when someone-- or some they-- takes charge. You ask me who are they? And you ask me if they are Shabak. Shabak again Israel's FBI. I cannot give any precise answer. The major claim is that Rabin died from a shot to the chest and not from his back. Hillel has some thoughts about what might have led to that shot. Maybe there was a conspiracy within the conspiracy or maybe Rabin just had a stroke in the car. Maybe it was as simple as that. Because even a stroke if that is what happened would have sabotaged the whole story the left was trying to sell. With a stroke the left would get none of the political advantages of a thwarted assassination. Just a guy in a hospital bed who might not even be able to talk. The only way to salvage the story at that point would be to really kill Rabin-- to shoot him in the chest. They have no choice because it destroys all the story. So you are saying Rabin decided-- It can be a possibility. But one possibility-- or a possibility that might be the one that you believe in-- is that Rabin staged his own assassination-- Yes yes yes. In order to-- Yes I am sure. In order to improve his popularity and the popularity of the peace process. Yes yes. And then got into the car on his own. On his own feet. And then maybe in the car he had a stroke you are saying? It can be. It can be. It can be that he had a stroke. Where did the bullets come from? The simple idea is that someone killed him. This was the push and pull of the conversation. Some parts of his theory Hillel would deliver in the most emphatic tone you can imagine. About other parts he would say Maybe. I do not know. I am just asking questions. It is a prerogative of conspiracy theories not to have to answer questions but just to raise them and keep raising them. But what gives the theories traction-- what makes a lot of people ready to believe them-- is the way Hillel and the other conspiracists connect their story to some real loose ends about the murder that have never been resolved. Details everyone in the country knows. Of course loose ends happen in murder cases. I have heard that from investigators. Those details they just take on more significance when it is an assassination. One famous loose end in this case-- at the moment of the assassination someone in the parking lot yelled Blanks! Or maybe he yelled Fake! or It is not real! Witnesses heard all three. Who yelled it and why that is never been fully resolved. For Hillel it is evidence that Amir fired blanks. A prime minister staging his own assassination all that cloak and dagger artifice-- Hillel believes that is how committed Rabin was to forcing the Oslo deal. At the time of the assassination the country was split almost exactly in half between Oslo opponents and Oslo supporters. Hillel was one of the many Israelis who hated Oslo. He thought the slogan from the pro-Oslo political rally Yes to peace was a farce. We felt that Oslo is a total disaster because it is not peace. It is a mask of peace to annihilate the Jewish state and the Jewish people like in Holocaust. He says annihilate the state because Oslo meant giving up parts of the West Bank and Gaza to the Palestinians. That is land Hillel considers sacred to the Jews and he wrote hundreds of articles against Oslo by his own estimation-- and in the articles he went after Rabin. I want to say to you something that -- when I wrote the articles I thought that I am aiming bullets to the head of Rabin because those words were so sharp. It was these sorts of articles-- plus the posters the chants of Death to Rabin the whole ugly pile of rhetoric-- that after the assassination turned public opinion against the right especially the religious right and caused a spike in support for the Oslo deal. Hillel and the others on the right watched this and a logic took hold-- the who-benefits logic that is common to conspiracy theories. If the left benefited from the assassination maybe the left engineered the assassination. But the benefit was temporary. Within six months the left was out of power the right was in power and Oslo was on its way to being gutted. And that is when the arguments really began. Today and for the last 20 years the Rabin assassination is a club that the right and left continue to beat each other with in a fight over two radically different interpretations of the country's history its future-- two visions that are irreconcilable. This is a Rabin assassination-related shouting match in the debate right before the most recent election.     From the left's perspective Rabin's assassination is the moment that completely reshaped Israel's history. It killed off the last best chance for peace between Israels and Palestinians and Yigal Amir has got to be one of the most successful assassins anywhere. One person told us Look when Lincoln was murdered it did not bring back slavery. When Martin Luther King Jr. was killed civil rights continued. But after Rabin's murder Oslo unraveled settlements expanded and the right has been in power for most of the past 20 years. I have heard people on the left call the assassination a coup. The right is incensed by that version of events. They tell a very different story-- that the peace process had no chance anyway Arafat was never gonna do what he promised. A wave of Palestinian suicide bombings after Rabin's death turned the country against the peace process. In short Oslo was a fantasy and leftists have been sore losers ever since. They have lost almost every election for the past 20 years and to make themselves feel better they bring up the Rabin assassination and try to stain the entire right with that horrible act. A lot of people on the right are offended by the suggestion that Yigal Amir acted on their behalf. We heard again and again in interviews with Israelis on the right and devout Israelis Yigal Amir was not from our camp. He was a loner. He lived in Herzliya. He is not a settler. He wore a different kind of kippah-- kippah meaning yarmulke or skullcap. We do not condone what he did. He is not one of us. That is why we were taken aback when an orthodox man named Menachem Lazar who comes from a very right-wing background told us Amir did not seem foreign to him at all-- just the opposite. But the moment I heard on the TV about the assassination my first instinct was to take off my kippah. To take it off your head. Yeah because I-- I knew the religious origins of the murder the religious justification of the assassination. And I told myself I cannot be a part of it. I do not want to be a part of it. Menachem is tall and soft-spoken. He says after the assassination he heard things in private in the synagogue he attends and at gatherings with friends that disturbed him and that most Israelis would never say publicly. I remember people saying Well that is good. About-- that he was assassinated. He had it coming. That is good. I saw people that were glad that he was assassinated. Menachem did not take off his kippah in the end. He had young kids and he knew it would confuse them. We were interviewing Menachem because he is a pollster and we wanted to talk to him about the numbers the fact that a third of Israelis believe there was some kind of conspiracy or cover-up around the assassination. And among people who identify as right-wing at least 50 doubt Yigal Amir did it. Menachem is a psychologist by training. He was working as a psychologist for the army when Rabin was assassinated and he said he is never been surprised by the high number of Israelis who believe in the conspiracy theories. Yeah most of this part comes from the orthodox Israelis and the orthodox Jews in Israel were blamed for the murder. I am only saying that when reality is too um-- too threatening or too-- it is hard for you to accept what happened. So you come up with the conspiracy theories about JFK about September 11 and about Rabin. The prime minister was killed. He was killed by a religious Jew. I cannot accept that or I have to find an alternative explanation. And they came up with the conspiracy. It is probably clear by now I have always been skeptical of the conspiracy theories. There is just so much evidence proving Yigal Amir killed Rabin. But in reporting on the assassination I did have one moment when I thought Yikes maybe. It was during an interview with Rabin's daughter Dalia who is not a conspiracist and not from the right side of the political map and yet there was this thing that made even her wonder. And she agreed to talk about it but she did not want to be recorded. It had to do with the idea that what killed Rabin was a bullet to the front. Most of the conspiracy theories hinge on that idea. Remember Yigal Amir shot Rabin from behind. The pathologist concluded that he was hit by just two bullets both in the back no exit wounds. But when I met Dalia in her office she told me that even she began to have some doubts. She had a box brought up to her office that contained everything her father was wearing on the night of the assassination down to the socks and shoes. She opened the box and pulled out the shirt her father wore. She held it in that way that you hold something that you do not want to touch with the tips of her fingers. It is a white collared shirt entirely encrusted in blood and ripped in several places. Doctors tore it in the emergency room. Dalia showed me the two bullet holes in the back of the shirt and then she flipped the shirt over and pointed to a hole in the front as well. It was perfectly round smaller than a dime on the lower-left side near the buttons. The undershirt Rabin wore that night also had a hole in the front. On her desk Dalia carefully laid the undershirt inside the shirt the way it would hang on her father and the holes lined up. And I have to say there in her office with these bloody shirts on the table it stopped me short. It is a lot harder to dismiss something you see with your own eyes something the daughter of the murdered man worries about. We just stood there and stared at it. Dalia told me the clothes sat in Israel's National Archive for a decade after the murder. Then in 2005 there was an Israeli TV documentary about the hole in the front of the shirt. It is inconclusive but it ends with ominous music and a voiceover about how this third hole quote Raises the possibility of an additional bullet.    The TV show popularized the notion that Rabin was actually shot in the front-- you hear that a lot now in Israel-- and it turned the shirt into Exhibit A for the conspiracists maybe their single most important piece of proof. Dalia did not want to have the clothes examined herself. She is a public figure and she worried that just the act of her getting them tested would fuel the conspiracy theories. So I asked her if she would let me take the shirt to the US away from the politics to have it tested and she said yes. Dan Ephron and Nancy Updike. Coming up Dan puts the bloody clothing of the dead prime minister into a wheelie bag and brings it to America to be tested. The results in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues.  It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program-- The Night in Question. If you are just tuning in we are hearing the story of the night that Israeli prime minister Yitzak Rabin was assassinated 20 years ago. The anniversary of his death is in two weeks. It is November 4 1995. Nancy Updike and Dan Ephron are telling the story and when we left off before the break Dan was taking Rabin's bloody clothing from the night of the murder to the United States with the blessing of Rabin's daughter to see if the hole in the front of Rabin's shirt was caused by a bullet which is something that most of the