700 AM Tijuana Mexico at a little plaza just outside the border crossing into the United States. About 250 people lots with backpacks and suitcases lots with kids crowd around a woman who holds an oversized notebook in her arms. That is what I have come to see. The notebook.  Anybody else have 532?  Anybody got 533?  534? The notebook is a list of names each neatly written in ballpoint pen. If she calls you then you get to enter the official port of entry. It is just over the fence. Each number has 10 names under it. OK.  You have to get in the book. If you just walk up to the port of entry and say you want asylum in the United States you are running for your life they will tell you to get out. You have to go outside. Get a number. Wait your turn. A couple of people told us this happened to them.  She starts to call out all the names under the number 535. I have edited out the last names here because so many people were nervous about being identified by cartels and gangs when we talked to them.  Alexa? Alexa? Alberto? She is standing outside the busiest border crossing in the Western hemisphere a complex of buildings so sprawling that I never figured out exactly where they started and ended. It is run by a federal agency with 60000 employees. This woman is not one of them. She is seeking asylum herself here with her son. She said her husband was killed by gangs back in El Salvador. Then in July they threatened to do it to her 10-year-old son too if she did not pay up. So she said she quit her job and abandoned her house and came here. That is who we have pulling people from the crowd and lining them up to enter the United States. That is our system for doing it these days.  Calm down. Calm down she says. Now in theory this job should not fall to a random person who is not even a US citizen. Under US law and international treaties the moment anybody seeking asylum presents him or herself to a border patrol officer that officer has an obligation to process them right then. So in theory all the people standing in this plaza should be able to march up to the huge border station and get processed immediately. No wait no notebook with numbers. But under President Trump the government's saying it does not have the capacity to process all the people showing up at our southern border. So people stand outside our border waiting. Not just here but at official ports of entry all across the southwest. Over the last six months Customs and Border Protection officers have been stopping asylum seekers from even walking up to federal facilities at the border. This has been filmed by crews from CBS NBC Fox and many others. They stop people in the middle of bridges that cross from Mexico into the United States at El Paso and Brownsville and turn them away before they can even get to the official ports of entry on the other side to apply for asylum. Customs and Border Protection says the people are allowed in once space becomes available. They expect this will be temporary and I quote No one is being denied the opportunity to make a claim of credible fear or seek asylum. The lawyers for the immigrants point out that in the past these facilities have not had a problem processing the number of people who show up today. So people are kept waiting outside to fend for themselves. Here in Tijuana it is so many people that they wait for weeks. So to keep things orderly they have this notebook. And because it raises legal issues under asylum law for either the Mexican or American governments to keep a list like this it is managed by an asylum seeker.  The woman with the notebook is named Karen. She says that when she first arrived here from El Salvador she put her name in the notebook-- her number is 598-- started paying for a cheap room nearby and volunteered with Mexican officials to help clean the plaza or whatever just to be useful. And then at some point the Jamaican refugee who'd been managing the notebook got his number called and passed the notebook to her.  You really could not pick anybody better for this job. Karen managed people in her old job in the Salvadoran Ministry of Health and says she was also a leader at her church. And she is good at managing people. When she is not shouting names she calls everybody preciosa precious.  And goes about the daily task of disappointing people whose numbers are not picked with as much kindness as anybody could possibly muster.  I am going to ask you all a favor she is saying but she does not say right away what it is. Dozens of tired people look at her.  I want us all to be happy for those who are going in.  Yeah?  OK? Because just like you I am waiting for my number OK?  I know the effort to be here has been hard for everybody. I know this is really difficult. I understand because I am living it too. I am also paying rent. I am also spending money on food. But I want to appeal to your conscience OK?  And here finally she gets to the favor. She explains there is a pregnant woman she wants to jump to the front of the line and she wants everybody be OK with that and feel good about it. Nobody seems too happy with this but nobody complains either.  The person who brought me to see this is an LA Times reporter who first wrote about the existence of the notebook Cindy Carcamo. Although the notebook is supposedly the system that asylum seekers are running for each other to make their wait more orderly Cindy says they probably did not create the notebook. In fact most everything about the notebook is controlled by a Mexican government agency called Grupos Beta. Grupos Beta takes the notebook each night and stores it in a safe. And a Grupos Beta official explained to Cindy and me that every morning they talk to somebody from US Customs and Border Protection. ? Or no.  They just meet talking. And then he says we are taking this many people in today and that is how it works. Every day in the morning US Customs and Border Protection gives a number to Mexican officials and then the Mexican officials give that number to the notebook keeper and she calls that many names. On this particular day only 20 people were allowed to enter the port of entry. One day earlier in the week it was zero. On any given day with over 1000 names uncalled in the notebook it is 20 or 30 or 40. 50's the most anybody had seen. Cindy and I talked to lots of people who were waiting and they were pretty much exactly who you would expect. Many of them said they were escaping violence in Mexico or Central America. Some seemed truly terrified even here in the plaza. One woman said that yesterday her son thought that he would spotted one of the men who was after them at the shelter they were staying at so they fled to a hotel. But we also met a 29-year-old mom named Lara from a tiny Mexican town called Jalapa in Guerrero who is here because her cousin in California keeps telling her that her kids would have a better life in the United States. So she sold off everything and brought the five of them here-- really nice kids by the way-- hoping for political asylum.  No. No. No violence she said. It is not about violence. If she is not fleeing violence she does not really have much chance of getting asylum in the United States. It was weird to talk to somebody and know that she probably would not get what she had pinned all her hopes on and traveled 1500 miles for and that she and her kids were probably going to wait for weeks and then get turned back. I never had the experience of knowing so clearly someone's future that they do not know. It was hard to keep looking her in the eye. You know everything was in Spanish right? So I do not understand Spanish. I did not get anything. So I want to know what is happening. Give me a moment. Yesterday you told me manana. Today again manana. OK. When Karen finished rounding up her 20 people for the day this guy from Cameroon named Ransom approached her. Karen's English does not go much past give me a moment and his Spanish does not go much past manana. So Karen dragged in Cindy the LA Times reporter to translate. But can you ask her how many people will be waiting tomorrow?   When they are done Ransom told me and Cindy that he left Cameroon with 16 other people three months before. They flew to Ecuador which is a path that lots of people take because visas are easy to get there. Then they walked through the jungle north through Central America sleeping in the bush till they got here three weeks ago. It is been a tough journey. It is really been tough. It is been a long way. The money is finished. Like I do not have a way to stay. That is the problem. That is why I am frustrated. That is the problem. Where are you staying? We just live nearby. We just-- you would not understand. It is quite tough. We are like 40 people in one room. One small room. It is just-- I do not know how something like that-- How much do you pay for that? We pay like 50 a month. And he is going to be here so long that he has to pay a second month. He says they were robbed along the way in the jungle. So when he arrived in Tijuana three weeks ago he only had 80. With so little money how is he surviving? Well water in the absence of food. I drink water. The situation he is fleeing should make him a good candidate for asylum in the United States. The government of Cameroon has been killing the English-speaking minority in the country and burning their homes trying to suppress an armed uprising. But it is a hard moment to try to enter our country. The Trump administration is doing all kinds of things to be stricter with potential immigrants. And as you will hear this hour some of them are keeping desperate people waiting outside the border for weeks. Even if you understand that we are trying to be stricter with who is coming into the country it can be hard to understand why we are doing it like this. Today on our program I think at this point most of us have heard about a few of the things that the President and his appointees have done to try to get control of the border. We have heard about the family separations we have heard about the travel ban. But in fact it is a wide-ranging coordinated effort across many agencies. All kinds of things that have not gotten a lot of attention. What is interesting is that so much of their effort lots of the things that they are doing are not cracking down on people breaking the law or sneaking across the border not targeting criminals or bad hombres. Many of the efforts are targeted at the people who are trying their best to play by the rules and do what we ask of foreigners who want to come here. People trying to obey our laws like asylum seekers showing up at our door saying I am in danger at home. Your laws allow me to apply for haven. Today we take you on a tour of the many many things that are all happening the ways that we are shutting our doors to outsiders. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One All Together Now. So to enter the United States from the south you can go to the official border station the port of entry and do it legally like the people who you heard trying to do it in that plaza in Tijuana. Well you might get to that plaza see the line see the wait and pause or maybe try to go to the border station in Brownsville or El Paso. Again you might pause and decide to take your kids and take your chances and head out to cross the border illegally. I was talking to a Customs and Border Protection officer a spokesman for the union Chris Cabrera. He patrols the area around the Rio Grande and he says that he picks up people like this all the time. They tell him they tried the port of entry. The line was too long. They did not want to wait that long. And that is why a lot of them choose to come through the river because they do not want to wait. Once he apprehends them there is something new now that they go through under this administration. A new thing that is happening on the border. People caught crossing into the country illegally are being rounded up and sent to federal criminal court in mass hearings with dozens of people getting sentenced at the same time. The government has done these hearings in the past but never on the scale that is happening now. As of April they are doing them in every district along the border sometimes twice a day with tens of thousands of people convicted. They are prosecuting a crime that did not used to be treated like a crime. Before this if you cross the border illegally you would most likely just get put into immigration proceedings and probably deported. Now you go through criminal court first even if you came here to ask for asylum. This is happening under the administration's Zero Tolerance Policy. You probably heard about the part of that policy that separated children from their parents. That part has officially ended. But this move to prosecute border crossings as criminal offenses this was actually the main point of the Zero Tolerance Policy. Reporter Julia Preston went to McAllen Texas to one of the courts that is had the highest number of prosecutions since this all started to see what this looks like in practice. And what she discovered is what is happening now is just the first step towards much bigger things that are in the works. Here's Julia. Picture a federal courtroom. The defendants sit with their lawyers at one table the prosecutors on the other side the judge up front. The McAllen courtroom was a stunningly different site. Five rows of wooden benches usually meant for visitors were packed with defendants squeezed in shoulder to shoulder. 74 of them. The defendants were dressed in tattered t-shirts and jeans not prison uniforms. Some of the men had trouble keeping their pants up when they stood because their belts were taken away when they were detained. They would been caught by the Border Patrol after they crossed the Rio Grande River. Most of them just one or two days before. Ladies and gentlemen let me ask you please to stand and raise your right hand. Take an oath before the court this morning for these proceedings. That is the sound of 74 people standing up to be sworn in when they are shackled at the ankles and chained around the waist. They all had one hand that was cuffed tightly to the waist chain and just one hand free. In another hearing I went to there were 87 defendants. In that one the marshals had to put some of them in the jury box. The defendants would all be out of there-- charged convicted and sentenced-- in just over two hours. It was mass justice at head-spinning speed. The magistrate judge presiding over this hearing Scott Hacker did not sit in his usual place on the high bench. Instead he spent the whole hearing on his feet right in front of the migrants so he could see each one of them. The migrants were wearing wireless headphones to hear the Spanish interpreter. Judge Hacker took a few minutes to make sure everyone's headphone was working. Sir can you hear? The gentlemen next to you. Can you hear? The defendants awkwardly adjusted their headphones with their one free hand. Throughout the hearing the security guards ran around as tech support resetting the headphones or swapping them out for fresh ones. Judge Hacker ran the hearing like a professor explaining things in plain language and raising an index finger in the air in big gestures to punctuate his points. He addressed the migrants as sir and madam and ladies and gentlemen. This is your day in court. It is important that you hear and understand everything that I explain to you. I will admit I was surprised. I was expecting some kind of rodeo justice. People herded through with no idea what was happening to them. But it was not that. The judge the public defenders even the prosecutors seemed to be working hard to ensure that all 74 defendants got some kind of basic due process. Every time the judge explained something he would go around pointing to each defendant one by one getting them to confirm that they understood. Then I will start with the person on the front row. . He will answer yes or no then I will point to Miss . She will answer. Then I will point to Miss Perez she will answer. When I am finished with the first row I will start with the gentleman on the second row. The third row the fourth row and continue until I get everyone. Have you understood the instructions? Yes or no sir. Next. Yes. Si. Yes. Yes. Si. Yes. Si. Yes. Yes. Si. Yes. Si. Yes. Si. Yes. Si. Yes. Si. 74 yeses. Over the course of the hearing he would go around to every person this way a total of 16 times. Judge Hacker explained the crime they were accused of illegal entry. It is a federal offense but the first time around it is a minor one. A misdemeanor. Do each of you understand this charge of illegal entry? Please answer yes or no starting with you sir. Yes sir. Yes sir. Yes sir. Si senor. Yes yes yes 74 times. A judge I observed in another hearing had a different method. For some questions he had all the defendants answer in unison which sounded like this. Do each of you understand your right to an attorney? Si. Yes. The sheer amount of paperwork that went into that hearing was immense. The documents for each person had to have the right name with correct spelling the right country they were from the right place and date where they were apprehended. The right details about how they crossed the river whether they were on a raft or a boat or they swam or they waded. I found out later that Customs and Border Protection has an office nearby where agents and lawyers and paralegals work through the night to get all those piles of documents ready by dawn on the morning of the hearing. The Border Patrol was not happy about this use of their agents. Officials told me they would much rather have the agents out on the front line patrolling the border. The judge carefully explained their right to a trial and the possible consequences of pleading guilty-- fines jail time deportation. They did have the option of pleading not guilty and going to trial but they still would not stand a chance of winning because for most of them the border patrol had caught them near the Rio Grande. They had admitted when and where they crossed the river so there really was not much room for argument. They would been caught in the act. The federal public defenders all 18 of them in the McAllen office had come to the courtroom in the hours before the hearing to meet with each defendant and basically prepare them to plead guilty. Most of those meetings lasted just a few minutes then everyone declared their plea. Mr. Santos they are saying your illegal entry occurred on the 19th of this month. How do you plead? Guilty or not guilty. Guilty. Mr. Morales they are saying your illegal entry occurred on the 19th of this month. 74 guilty pleas. Even when you know it is coming it is a somber thing to see. A group of people I wondered about during this hearing were the migrants who wanted to seek asylum. Because even with a criminal conviction they can still apply for asylum but it was not clear the migrants understood that. Before sentencing a man from Nicaragua stood up worried and apologetic. He told the judge he would come to the US to apply for political asylum. He would brought evidence of his persecution.  If he took a guilty plea he asked would he be deported right away and never get a chance at asylum? Judge Hacker thought he would get a chance but he could not say for certain. He is not an immigration judge. The way it works is that after the hearing the man will be transferred into detention in the immigration system a different system and there he will have to insist to the officers that he wants to pursue his asylum claims. A lot of people might not figure that out. For many asylum seekers going first to criminal court was very confusing. Then it was time for the sentences. Often in federal court this takes days or weeks. But here the judge did not skip a beat. The sentences came right away. 10 days 20 days for a handful of cases. People who had some kind of record-- who'd been convicted of illegal entry before or had drug or domestic violence convictions traffic violations-- the longest sentence for that group was 100 days. Everyone else though-- the vast majority in this courtroom-- had no criminal record in the US and this was their first illegal entry offense. All of those people were given the same sentence time served. In other words the time they would already spent in detention which for most of them was less than two days. Two days. All of this work to deter illegal crossings and yet most everyone walked out of the court that day with basically no punishment. Leaving the courtroom I had a lot of questions. When Attorney General Jeff Sessions talks about this new policy of prosecuting everyone who crosses the border illegally he says its purpose is to deter people from making those crossings. But how is two days of detention any kind of deterrent? It did not make sense. Especially when you consider the massive amount of resources that go into these hearings. The border patrol agents writing up the charges the paralegals the court clerks the prosecutors checking criminal backgrounds and figuring out who they should recommend for extra jail time. The Justice Department added eight new prosecutors in southern Texas this summer for these cases. 18 public defenders the marshals and security guards getting dozens of shackled people in and out of the courthouse. The buses and vans to get them there. And these misdemeanor cases are sapping away the energy and time of everyone for the other business of the court which is prosecuting more serious crimes including narcotics money laundering trafficking and weapons offenses. I really did not know what to make of it all until I had a conversation with Ryan Patrick. He is the head prosecutor of the federal district that McAllen is part of the Southern District of Texas. And he told me something I had not heard from the attorney general or President Trump. He told me these misdemeanor prosecutions are just phase one of a larger strategy by the Justice Department. So some of the way these cases are handled could very well change as our resources on our side change as well. When you say it could very well change you mean there could be more felony cases? There could be. Yes madam. I see. Is that the goal or is that where you are trying to go with this? As appropriate and for cases that we can prove yes we will file more felony cases. With illegal entry the first offense is a misdemeanor. But if somebody is caught crossing illegally a second time they can be prosecuted for a felony and go to prison for up to two years. A felony conviction makes it very difficult for a person ever to get a visa to enter the United States legally much less get a green card or become a citizen. The government's ramping up to prosecute more people. Border patrol is hiring. So are the US Marshals. In May 32 of people caught crossing the southwest border were sent to be prosecuted. A month later it was 46 of them. Administration officials told me the goal is 100. Literally zero tolerance for illegal crossings. This could mean prosecuting something like 200000 people a year for the misdemeanor offense. Before long it could mean tens of thousands of newly convicted felons in federal prison. President Trump and the attorney general have long said that people who cross the border illegally are just criminals. Now every day more and more of them are becoming exactly that. Julia Preston. She is a contributing writer to The Marshall Project. You can read a print version of her story on The Marshall Project's website marshallproject.org. Act Two The Kitchen Sink. So the administration's immigration policy-- this has been widely reported-- is run from the office of White House senior advisor Stephen Miller. He is 33 years old brings a detailed knowledge of immigration issues and regulations to the task has installed like-minded people at the various agencies that deal with immigration. We requested sit-down interviews with him and with numerous other administration officials throughout the government. They all turned us down. But I am going to take this act and try to give you a sense of the sweep of the changes that they put into place. The variety and ingenuity and comprehensiveness of them. Here we go. The administration has brought back workplace raids at a level that has not been done for years rounding up hundreds of undocumented people at a time. The State Department and Department of Homeland Security have cracked down on recalcitrant countries. Yes that is an official designation that we give to some countries. Recalcitrant. These are countries that do not accept deportees that we want to send them. There were 20 countries like that just after the President took office. His administration has twisted arms imposed sanctions and convinced more than half of those countries to take people back clearing the way for 15000 more people to be deported. The Department of Homeland Security has set up a de-naturalization task force to go after people who lied on their citizenship applications and literally strip away their citizenship. The attorney general has changed the rules so that if you are fleeing gang violence or domestic violence even if immigration agents believe that your life is in danger that is not grounds for asylum in the United States. This affects a lot of people. The Attorney General explained it this way-- Asylum is not generally for those who suffered from a private act of violence or if a gang is in the neighborhood. It is always from members of groups who are persecuted by the state. Asylum was never meant to solve all problems even serious problems that people face every day all over the world. And then there is a whole set of policies the Trump administration has put into place that affects all of the people who are trying to lawfully enter the United States. Filling out forms sending in information waiting their turns. They are all coming under increased scrutiny. The forms are much longer. Applicants are called in to be interviewed about things they were never called in for before. And attorneys who help people through this process will tell you that they are getting a ton of what they call RFE's Requests for Evidence for perfectly ordinary things that in the past would have been routine. Here's an example. Immigration attorney Marisol Perez works at a firm that filed a visa request on behalf of their client the Archdiocese of San Antonio which is trying to hire a priest from another country. They were surprised when they got an RFE from the government-- I have seen this-- asking them to prove that in fact the archdiocese really exists as a functioning business. It was shocking to us. This is the second-largest archdiocese-- Catholic archdiocese-- in the country. Certainly they are in business. Certainly they are flourishing. Certainly they are a legitimate operating business. Do you think it was just a bureaucratic snafu? If I chalked it up to that there are lots of bureaucratic snafus. It did not take much work for me to collect some. There was the musician who was told that the two Grammys he won and the three that he was nominated for but did not win were not sufficient evidence of his musical talent and that more proof would be required before he could reside in the United States. There was the RFE asking a British citizen to have her British birth certificate translated into English please. There was the RFE where the government argued that an architect did not qualify for the visa he wanted because you do not need a specialized degree to be an architect. Even though of course you do need a specialized degree. According to one study in the last quarter of 2017 alone the percentage of work visas getting RFE's tripled. 34 of them got RFE's. The most mundane ones are just asking for documents that you have already sent. Jacqueline Watson is an immigration attorney in Austin. She says she is now seeing this in the vast majority of cases she files. RFE's asking for stuff she is already submitted. If it happens in one case you can say OK that was a mistake. If it happens in almost every case you file there is something wrong. She and other immigration attorneys see it as a deliberate strategy to gum up the works slow the process discourage people from applying give out fewer visas. And she said when you get an RFE it also means you cannot get work permits or travel permits that you would otherwise be able to get while applying. A spokesman for the US citizenship and Immigration Services USCIS emailed me a statement saying that assertions that they are trying to slow the immigration process are quote inaccurate and in fact their reforms are intended to do the opposite. Quote reduce incomplete or frivolous filings thus speeding up the immigration process for many applicants and petitioners allowing them to receive a decision faster. Attorneys say visas and green cards are now being turned down all the time for reasons that they never saw before. One big one that I was told comes up a lot is applications being rejected because the government thinks that you will become a burden on the public. And the attorneys I spoke with sounded truly bewildered by the way that they are enforcing this. For example Marisol Perez has a client who is 11 years old born in Mexico. His mom married an American and wanted to bring him to the United States and the green card application had everything the government has asked for in the past. Father made enough money father was working showed his tax returns. But the kid was turned down because the government said that he would become a public charge. So we inquire and ask we are not sure why this person has been denied. Could you provide more information? Still no explanation. All this has led Jacqueline Watson and a lot of immigration attorneys to conclude that at this point-- The Department of Homeland Security is always looking for new and creative ways to fuck our clients. There is a brand new way that Jacqueline's worried about. You know those Requests for Evidence that lawyers complained about? USCIS has a new rule. If they decide there is not enough evidence to support a claim as of this month they do not need to issue a Request for Evidence at all. They could simply turn down the application. The head of USCIS Francis Cissna is quoted in the press release on this. He says quote For too long our immigration system has been bogged down with frivolous or meritless claims that slow down processing for everyone. He said Doing this would discourage people from gaming the system. This is how all this looks to people on his side of things the people calling for these changes and making these changes in our immigration system. They see every part of this so totally differently from the way the immigration attorneys do. From their point of view the entire immigration system is a mess overloaded with false claims and people trying to cheat their way into the United States. When the Attorney General gives speeches he talks about nearly 100000 people a year seeking asylum. Seeking asylum because they know if you say the word asylum we will set you free in the United States till the judge can see your case years from now. Lots of them never show up for their day in court. The system is being gamed. There is no doubt about it. Mark Krikorian is the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies a Washington think tank that calls for stricter controls on immigration. He makes the case that the United States would be better off if we would just cut the number of people who immigrate here each year to less than half of what it is now. He sums it up this way. He does not see a need for a huge thriving country like ours with hundreds of millions of people to import any workers from overseas. So-- Which categories of people have such a compelling case to be admitted that we let them in? That would be husbands wives and little kids of American citizens genuine Einsteins-- humanity has not produced that many Einsteins a year-- and humanitarian immigration to the extent that people cannot stay where they are for a second longer. You add all that up that is maybe 400000 people a year 350000. It is still a lot of people but it is fewer than there are now. Right now it is about a million legal immigrants in a year. Of course you could quibble with his numbers. Somebody else might argue that there are over a million people in the category people who cannot stay where they are for a second longer. But given this vision that we 