So are you thinking about this a lot?? I got sad about it on the training again this morning. It comes at totally random moments you know? That is David Kestenbaum one of the producers of our program. And to understand what he is been sad about I think it is not going to make any sense unless you know that he is a physicist. He has a PhD in particle physics. He was on one of the teams that discovered the top quark at Fermilab back in the '90s before he became a journalist. So he thinks like a scientist. And he recently stumbled across a story he would never heard before about Enrico Fermi the physicist that Fermilab is actually named for. So the story goes that this is 1950. Fermi's visiting Los Alamos. Los Alamos where they developed the atomic bomb? Yeah. And they are sitting around at lunch. It is Fermi and a handful of other physicists and they start talking about extraterrestrials. One of the scientists who was there remembers that they talked about some New Yorker cartoon which had flying saucers and cheerful aliens stealing our trash cans. They joked about it. And then out of nowhere Fermi says something like so where are they? Meaning? The aliens. And did people know what he meant? Yeah somehow everybody knew exactly what he meant. The idea was basically that like the galaxy is this huge place right? Hundreds of billions of stars. It is been around for billions of years. If you believe that intelligent life is something that just arises given enough time where is everybody? Like there have been billions of years where civilizations could have developed and become way more advanced than we are and traveled from star to star sent signals or something. Where are they? If that is right where are they? This question became known as the Fermi Paradox which goes like this. If it is so likely that intelligent life exists elsewhere where is it? Why has not anybody shown up? And of course the simple answer to that would be well nobody else exists. And I had never thought-- it made me think maybe we are alone. I really thought that for the first time. Yeah it made me really sad. I had never thought about it seriously before. I had always assumed that life was everywhere. But he is making a really serious point here. He is raising a tough question. So for months now when David's brushing his teeth or doing nothing in particular it will hit him again. Maybe we are alone in the universe. Like this morning on the train. The specific thought I was having was that this would mean that there is nobody out there who knows more than we do like about science about-- there are no better songs. There are no better books. This is it you know? Yeah. Like what we know is it. What we are is it. Why is your response to this sadness? Why is your response not sadness? Of course that is sad. This whole thing reminds me of just a really really old Woody Allen movie-- it might be Annie Hall-- where there is a scene of him as a kid. And he is saying to some adult-- she is saying why did not you do your homework or something like that. And he is like well because the universe is expanding. And then the adult is like why is that any of your business? And that is my question for you. Why is it any of your business? Oh I totally read that the other way. I was like he is making a serious point. Why is no one listening to him? Oh.  See that is the problem. I am in his shoes and I am not making a joke. I feel like if you were able to really imagine it it would make you sad. Oh really? Yeah. When you look up at the stars do you think about what they are and the distances and stuff and all that? No not in a deep way. I mean it is so easy not to feel anything. But it is a crazy thing you are looking at just how small we are and how big it is. David tried to explain the feeling that he was having to me in a bunch of different ways. And the explanation that made the most sense to me was when he told me that he would been looking at videos with his five-year-old son Augie who is really into space. Videos of the Apollo moon missions with astronauts happily bouncing around on the lunar surface and driving in that moonbuggy they had. And David found himself just looking at where they were really looking at the moon. Oh look how dead it is. There is nothing there. The moon is just this dusty awful rock. And what if it is like that everywhere. You know liquid methane oceans and whatever rocks but no life at all. What if that is the rest of the galaxy? Space just seemed like some horrible awful dangerous place to me. I see that. There is no hope. It is just death out there. It is a lot of pressure if we are the only thing going on. It is a lonely thought. I first found out that David was thinking about all this at our staff story meeting a couple of weeks ago. And I will be honest when he told everybody that he was upset about the Fermi Paradox we all laughed at him. Like OK that is what is upsetting you? Which he gets but it does not help him. I cannot find anyone to really talk it through with. Because none of us took it seriously? Yeah. I feel like when I say it people are like yeah I do not know or I always thought that. The thing that bugs me about it is he is making a real scientific argument. I wanted to talk through the science of it with somebody. It is not just a what do you think? I bet you they are there. I bet you they are not there. He is making up a physics point you know? Well today on our radio program stories from the one civilization we know does exist stories of people who head out on missions here on our own planet to vanquish their own loneliness. We hear from a 9-year-old girl a married couple and of course David. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Stay with us. Act 1 I Think We are Alone Now. So none of us would satisfyingly engage our coworker David Kestenbaum about Fermi's paradox. He needed a physicist to talk to to help him figure out what to think. So he went to talk to one of his old physics professors from when he got his PhD at Harvard. Her name is Melissa Franklin. Her specialty is particle physics. Here's what happened. I went to see Melissa because I figured for sure she would understand. When I was a student I would go to her with physics problems but also life problems. Arguably this was both. So there is this thing that is been bugging me. And every time I tell people about it they just laugh.  OK I am laughing first. Do you know what the Fermi Paradox is? I told her the story about Fermi at lunch and his question where is everybody? We talk about these things all the time you know casually or just over beers or coffee and it is all a joke. But it felt really serious. I do not think-- honestly you say that we talk about these things all the time over beer but I do not think people actually do. They think about extraterrestrials. We think about what messages-- I have thought for hours about what messages they would send what messages I would send how to communicate with them. But it actually until you walked in here today I would never thought maybe there were not any. Honestly I was feeling a little choked up when I got to the part about how I had been thinking we might be alone. I thought she would be sympathetic but she kind of rolled her eyes just like everybody else. Look I mean there is so-- look compared to seeing all the polar bears die this is not sad. So here the point is there were polar bears and now there are not any. And there there were never anybody and we are sad. There is still nobody there! I guess I get that it is a weird kind of sadness but it is a real thing I feel. I know you feel that. I know. I know. I know you do feel bad but what do you feel about the polar bears? This was something I also felt very alone in my worrying about it you know? Yeah. I would say to my wife you know I was thinking again today we might be alone in the universe. And she is like I know sweetie. I know sweetie? That is really nice. Like just think about it for real like for real. Not just as a hey what are the odds we are alone or this or that. For real because it might be true. Yeah. Do you think it is really hard? Maybe you are just having college thoughts when you are 45. But then we got down to it the thing that I would come for. Melissa started doing this thing that I would forgotten physicists sometimes do when you ask a question. They ask you more questions. What exactly do you mean by being alone? Let us properly define the question here. You are talking about no intelligent life or no life at all? What if there is one crappy plant on another planet? How would you feel about that? What if advanced life like us is just a mathematical improbability a total fluke? And then you would say OK if that is the case I have to believe in God. So that is what you are saying. How many physicists do you know who believe in God? Six. I do not think Fermi thought we were alone. And Melissa did not think we were alone either. Come on she said. There are lots of possible explanations for why we have not found intelligent life. It does not have to be that we are alone. She ran through some of them with me. OK here we go. There are lists of them online that scientists and other people have come up with. I have to say they were not encouraging. For example maybe other life has arisen but just not intelligent life. In other words there are microbes but nothing else which would be a bummer. The next one's a bummer too. It is the nature of intelligent life to destroy itself. That is really sad. If that was the reason that would be really sad. Let me remind you that Fermi when he asked this question was at Los Alamos. They just built the first atomic bombs. They were about to build the first hydrogen bombs which would be thousands of times more powerful. That leads us nicely to the next possibility. It is the nature of intelligent life to destroy others. That would also be sad. Another possible explanation was called the Inflation Hypothesis and the Youngness Argument. Neither of us could understand the physics of that one. Something to do with synchronous gauge probability distribution. This one made sense though. Everyone is listening. No one is transmitting. Yeah I guess it takes less energy to listen than to transmit. Oh that is a good point. Yeah. Then there was the zoo hypothesis. Basically that aliens have left us alone undisturbed as a kind of intergalactic nature preserve. Or this one aliens are here right now we just have not figured it out. Melissa liked that one. I mean how would we know if cockroaches were alien or not? I mean they have DNA. They seem very much like part of our family tree. But maybe they make themselves seem like our family tree in order to live here. Because how could they live here if they were not? Be serious for a second. I cannot believe that you get to decide what is serious. You are so so wrong! You go oh oh stop. Oh do not be silly. And you are the one bringing up the crazy things like you are going to cry because there is no extraterrestrial intelligence. Jesus. OK. Let us go talk to Paul. I need to talk to Paul. I want to ask him now. OK. Paul is Paul Horowitz. He is also a professor here and conveniently one of the pioneers behind the search for extraterrestrial life. He is been at it for decades. He did one of the early searches for extraterrestrial signals at the giant Arecibo Observatory. There is a photo of him and Carl Sagan and Steven Spielberg-- you know Close Encounters ET-- throwing the on switch for another telescope search for signals from other worlds. I know Paul because he taught one of my classes way back. He is 74 years old now. Paul we need your help. Paul David Kestenbaum. Hi hi hi hi. How are you doing? I had not reached out to Paul originally because honestly I was intimidated. I was upset about the Fermi Paradox? I figured he would think that was silly. But now here we were. And it crossed my mind for the first time that we might be alone. And it made me really sad. That felt like a real thing. Yeah. Did you ever go through anything like that? No because I do not think we are alone. You do not? No I think-- I think the Fermi Paradox is a serious question. Yeah. I think there is probably some good answers. The unbounded time is a problem. Maybe he says civilizations do not last long enough to figure out how to travel between stars. Maybe they last 10000 years or 100000 years. And maybe traveling through space is just too onerous the vast distances. Which is sad in its own way. But-- Maybe civilizations live long enough to communicate with each other he says. In which case we could hear from them. We have not been listening that long just a few decades. And who knows? We may not be looking in the right way. Paul's been thinking about that problem. It is interesting because just as you walked in I am working on a new scheme to do the entire sky all the time looking for optical pulses. But you cannot dismiss the Fermi Paradox. Yeah. The best you could do is squirm and wave your hands and say there are some ways for you not to be sad. Are there any physics things that make you sad like that? Well what really bothers me is what happens after you are dead? Is it just like they switch off the light and there is never anything ever ever again that you experience? Can that really be? This was not a physics problem per se though it is a problem. And you can think about it like a physicist. I suppose there is some precedent for it. Because before you were born you know there was nothing right? But I have a hard time wrapping my mind around being dead. And this probably becomes more of a problem when you get old because you realize it is actually going to happen. That bothers me a lot more than the possibility that there is not other civilizations out there doing whatever they do. It just bothers you. You do not want to be dead but you do not want to be alive forever. Well actually if you are dead you probably do not know you are dead. But I just cannot imagine the state of being dead. It is easy to understand. Something dies. It is dead. But if it is you that is not so easy because then there is nothing. It is just-- it is just-- And it bothers you you cannot imagine that. Or it bothers you that you-- I guess. I guess. Because you talk about this all the time. Well because I am an old guy. I could die any minute now right? OK. Right? I am sort of at the average age that everybody around me is dying at. Did I put the at in twice?  Melissa and I went back to her office. Honestly I do think that is part of my sadness about the Fermi Paradox. I am older now. My parents are getting older. I have kids. Questions that used to just seem philosophical they feel very different now much more real. Have not you felt sad? You have never felt-- yeah. You never felt physics-sad like that about something? I am kind of pissed off at the-- I get kind of sad at the speed of light. Yeah? Like why is it so small?  No really. I know. Most people think of the speed of light as pretty fast but the galaxy's a big place. If we ever start text messaging with aliens it is going to be a pretty big delay. You know four years to Alpha Centauri right? Yeah. I mean it just sets a tone that is bad. It is just like a speed limit that you cannot get over. Can we do something though? What is the Drake Equation now? Melissa and I sat down and did what we probably should have done from the start. The Drake Equation is physicist's best attempt to calculate how many other civilizations are out there. It is quantitative to the extent that you can be quantitative about this question. Basically what Fermi might have been doing on a napkin or whatever or at lunch all those years ago. Here you want to read it to me? n equals r star times f sub p. INTERVIEWER DAVID KESTENBAUM Can I erase some stuff? Yeah yeah. You can erase anything. On the left side of the equation is n. That is the number you are trying to calculate. How many advanced civilizations are in the galaxy? To calculate n there are a bunch of other numbers you have to put in and multiply together. You start with how often stars form in the galaxy then what fraction of those stars have planets around them. We actually have data on this. Then you need the odds of life evolving-- which happened pretty quickly here on Earth after it cooled-- the odds of intelligent life developing and finally how long you think civilizations last. The result how many advanced civilizations might there be in the galaxy? 156 million. In the galaxy? Yeah. Yeah in the galaxy. That is crazy. It made me feel great that that might be true but then Melissa kept reading. Oh she says there is a different answer you get if you tweak the numbers a bit based on how likely you think it is for life to evolve et cetera. In that case the number of intelligent civilizations goes way down. As an example of a low estimate combining NASA's star formation rates the rare earth hypothesis Mayor's view on intelligence Drake's view of communication and Shermer's estimate of lifetime the number of civilizations could be as low as 9.1 times 10 to the minus 11th. Oh. What? What is the number? 9 times 10 to the minus 11th. In other words 0.0000. Basically zero. Zero i.e. suggesting that we are probably alone in this galaxy and possibly the observable universe. The physicist term for this is that the problem is poorly constrained. Meaning basically we have no idea. There could be 156 million alien civilizations out there or zero or somewhere in between. So the whole thing is kind of a Rorschach test. I was worried about the possibility that n might be 0. Melissa? What I am worried about is it is 156 million in which case we are probably screwed very soon like any day now. Boom aliens are going to come. 156 million in our galaxy? I love that you are afraid of the other end. Yeah I am afraid of the other end. You should be too. So I should celebrate the silence the great silence? Well I think you know we are in a good place now. I had not thought about it that way until this very moment but it is true. We have not encountered some terrifying alien race. And we have not somehow proven we are alone. We do not know. That is right. Yeah we are in the sweet spot. We are not dead and there is still hope. Right. Yeah. OK I feel good about that. OK good. I am glad. I realize that is the least physicsy resolution you can come to that we should feel good not knowing the answer to some big question. But I do feel better. I think I turned the corner when we talked to Paul because Paul agreed that Fermi had posed a serious problem. But he would looked it in the face and he came out on the other side still believing intelligent life is out there and looking for it. He probably will not hear anything but I think I am OK with that. Maybe it is better than no. David Kestenbaum.  What is this sound? Yeah so nature produces a lot of radio signals. And it is the vibrations of molecules and atoms that are in dust clouds and in stars and in galaxies. Dan Werthimer. He is the chief scientist at the SETI research center in Berkeley. SETI is the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence. He sent us this sound of data from one of the world's biggest radio telescopes the Arecibo telescope in Puerto Rico which points at stars listening for signals sent by other intelligent life. What we are listening for is an eee or ooo. We do not know what frequency. Or maybe a bip-bip-bip-bip. It might be buried. It might be a very weak kind of eee but it would be buried in the static that you hear when you point your telescope to the stars. We have only just begun looking for other life. And of all the radio frequencies we can search we have looked at fewer than 1. In 40 years Dan says we have found nothing promising yet. Coming up searching for intelligent life in your own marriage. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show Fermi's Paradox. We have stories of people heading out on their own on very personal quest to figure out are we alone? We have arrived at Act 2 of our program. Act 2 Two Can Be as Sad as One. We are in this show about loneliness. We now turn to one of the loneliest experiences a person can possibly have and that is marriage. I think the thing that I was least prepared for in marriage is how lonely it can be when things go badly I mean. And there is this recording of this couple trying to get past all the stuff that is dividing them that I think illustrates really well how hard that can be and what it really means to do it. This recording is from this new podcast in which a real-life therapist records her real-life sessions with real couples who have agreed to be recorded. The therapist is Esther Perel who is also the author of the books Mating in Captivity and the upcoming The State of Affairs. I have listened to a few episodes of her podcast now and OK my mom was a marriage therapist. She wrote a book about her techniques and research. She did trainings for other therapists. I have been in couples counseling myself with my wife. So I know about this world and I found listening to Perel to be completely fascinating. She is a very active therapist. I think that is the best way to say it. She talks a ton takes what the couple says to her and then says it back to them in this way where it is like she is a LeBron-level basketball player passing the ball to them and then urging them down the court running alongside and shouting encouragement and instructions and very occasional razzing along the way. She is such an intense listener that it makes interviewing her a very odd experience. I tried to explain this to her after she and I had been sitting in the studio together for over an hour. I rarely am interviewing somebody-- I am not sure if I have ever interviewed somebody who is watching me as much as I am watching them. Yes especially when your throat chokes. When my throat chokes? What does that mean? When I spoke and you would get-- And what does that mean when I do that? When the little polyvagal nerve quivers it means that I am saying something that is reaching you. She is talking about the vagus nerve which runs down your neck and into your body. Apparently very revealing. The therapy session that I found so interesting and all the sessions in her podcast are a kind of session that Perel does a lot of. She does these consultations where instead of people coming in week after week like normal therapy a couple will come in just one time for two or three hours. And then that is it. No more therapy. People fly in from all over for this. Perel only takes couples whose problems she thinks she can make a dent in in so little time. And what can you accomplish in a two or three-hour session where you see the people once? So much. The story that the people come in with is not the story they leave with. That is the first goal. Yeah. The second thing is to see if they can actually experience with each other even a glimpse of it that which they may be longing for. Can they have a different kind of connection a different kind of experience of themselves and with each other in the room? And with most of the couples can you get them to that point? That seems very advanced. Not necessarily. I mean with many. It can make for suspenseful listening hearing her try to get couples to that point. This particular couple came into her office on a Wednesday morning this fall and sat on the couch together. They would been married for nearly 40 years middle class people. They met when the woman was just 15. They have children and grandchildren. And then three years ago the wife discovered that her husband had been cheating on her. Not just like with one person for a few months or a few years but widely and compulsively for most of their marriage. I mean for decades. These were one-night stands and paying for sex he said. They both said they would been happy together all those years in the marriage with a good sex life and she wanted to stay together if it was at all possible because she wanted to keep what they would had that was good. But you know being lied to for decades it is like it robbed her of her past. She could not tell what was real what to trust. She told Perel in the session.  So yeah I mean we had a good marriage and that is why I am still here. I mean he was a good husband. He was the best father ever always there with our children always loving to me. And I do not doubt for one second that he did not love me with all of his heart. I never knew anything was wrong. And I do not want to say I am one of those women who lived in a tunnel without any peripheral vision. If something came up I would question him and he would tell me the story and I would believe him. Why not believe him? He is never done anything to cause me to mistrust him. Now I look at him and if he tells me this pen is red I will turn it 15 different ways today. And that is a huge issue for us now.  They spend a little bit of time in the session not a lot really on what might have led him into this double life. He grew up in a violent home saw his mother regularly beaten by his dad was beaten himself and witnessed way more than he could absorb or handle as a kid. Perel tells him there are lots of boys who go through that and then grow up split their personalities in half like he would done treat women one way when they were away from home and then be super responsible with their families when they are home. He seems kind of wrecked in the recording. It is only now that he was finally facing the truth about what he would done and who he would been.  I have wasted 59 years living a mask living a dual life. My kids did not really know me. I was this other person. As much as I was involved with them I was not present in my life. And I cannot get that back. I wasted my life.  He insisted he was not cheating because he was unhappy in his marriage. He said he was happy. He said he did not love any of these women. And his wife was trying to believe him that this was a compulsion that had nothing to do with her. But she was also struggling with the fact that her friends and relatives could not understand why she was staying with him after everything he would done. They judged her even her own daughter.  And is she mad at you? Yeah she was very mad at me. For not throwing him out? Well I did throw him out but for not ending it. Yeah they thought I was weak. They thought I had Stockholm Syndrome. They felt I-- you know because we have been together so long they just felt that I was too weak in character. And they did not like what they saw.  Perel told me that it was seeing the wife's isolation that made her realize what it was that she wanted to accomplish in this session. She is decided to stay and she needs a dignified way a way with self-respect to feel that her choice is valid. But in order for it to be valid she needs something from him that I sense she has yet to receive that he is struggling to give her. And it is that button that I choose to focus on during the session. And what is the thing that she needs from him? She needs a degree of accountability and recognition about the pain that he caused her. But now he is so busy with his own pain that he has a hard time owning the hurt that he caused her. So he feels so bad about himself that he cannot feel bad for her. So a lot of the session is Perel trying to get the husband to understand and acknowledge his wife's pain and I am going to play a stretch of this now that is several minutes long from the therapy session starting from when Perel first brings this up. And what you hear is this very human thing I think all of us in relationships have done. He is not able to take in what they are saying to him at first. And it slowly slowly gets through. Warning if you are listening to the internet version of our show we have unbeeped the curse words in this version. You can get a beeped version at our website.  How much-- how much does he talk about what he did to you versus what happened to him? I would say he talks more about what happened to him-- Correct. --than what happened to me. I am sensing that. That is off balance. OK. So listen to her very carefully because I think she may have tried to say this already more than once. I really feel that you talk more about you and the pain you are going through than the horrific pain you caused me. All of your pain was self-inflicted. You made choices. You made decisions. You put yourself out there. But everything that was done to me is not something I asked for and not something I wanted to be party to. I mean I know you know you hurt me but I do not think you really get the magnitude. Because it always switches back to you. But the point of the whole story is-- Before you but can you just tell her what you just heard so that we can know that it reached you? That I am not compassionate to your trauma and I talk more about my own trauma than your trauma. Does that pretty well sum it up? Talking about it just brings us both to such a bad place and all it does is bring out anger and hate from you every time I try to talk about this with you. So let me try to help you do this in a way that is more healing and less activating. Because you are in a certain phase. You have gone from the 59 years of trying to deny everything numb myself feel nothing medicate and now I am in touch. I am in touch with myself. I am figuring it out. I am putting the pieces together and it is making sense for the first time. There is no mask in front of me and I am so deep into myself. I am so fricking self-absorbed! It is still more about me. It was about me then and it is about me now. And now you gotta step out of yourself for a moment. If you attend to her primary concern then she can attend to your primary trajectory. But she can only do that if there is space inside of her. And that space is created because you are saying to her how are you doing? from a place of responsibility not from a place of shame. I take responsibility. Yeah. Be very clear. I take 100. There is no excuse. There were a couple of reasons. But the problem is that if you go to her and you say to her I cannot believe how I treated you you have to be able to not say I feel so bad about me for having done this. It is the difference between I feel so bad about myself versus I feel bad for you. That makes a lot of sense. And what she needs is for you to finally step out of yourself and actually be able to say I feel so bad for you. I did not do it to you. I did not cause you all of this pain in your life but you caused me all this pain in my life. You have to find a way to help me through it. I came to you last night. I hug you and you-- And you have to let me say that. But people you are going to help each other help each other. You are going to learn that together. So when you get all upset that he has to he has to he does not know. He does not disagree but he does not know. So you tell him what you want. Do not tell him what he has to or what he does wrong. I ask her that all the time. Tell me what you want I am there. I am all in. I am 100 all in. I believe you. I am self-absorbed. I got to get out of that. It is putting her before my own self needs. And it is important for me-- It is beautiful. It is beautiful. But your wife is more isolated than you. OK. And she needs not an apology. She needs an acknowledgement of her experience. Yep. It is just that. You can use the words you want. You can use your body. Let it out. I love you. I know. I cannot imagine what you are going through--  --but I am here for you. That was good. Do you understand the difference? Yes I do.  So at that point it seems like he is got it. You know nobody ever apologized to him. He has no experience of someone saying I am so sorry I hurt you. So it is not something that he knows to do and that he just sobbed. And then for her too. Because until now see when she would ask for this she would also do it with so much venom and so much anger that it was very difficult for him to come close. It is like she would say feel for me but with such aggression sometimes. Sometimes not-- And to be fair understandable. She is so hurt and she is so upset. Of course. Yeah. It is a given. It is a given that she must have rage inside of her. But it is also a given that when she approaches him with that kind of rage she will not get the kind of care and compassion that she wants. So how do I soften her so that he can soften? Because if she goes at him then he will stay stiff. And if he stays stiff then she will remain more angry an