From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass.  Hello? Hey dad? Hi. Let me pick this up on another phone. I can barely hear you. About a year ago this thing happened to me when I took the train down to visit my dad in Baltimore. And when this thing happened he said to me you know this could be a story on your show. So this week I called him up to have him and my stepmom tell the story. You remember what happened with the business with the train and your suit? You left it on the train. It was in a hanging bag and you left it on the compartment over your set by mistake. So I said Well what are you going to do? And you said Well-- I said well apparently you can go to Amtrak and they will retrieve your luggage at the train's next stop and throw it onto the next Amtrak that is headed back to you. But the problem was my dad had tickets to the Baltimore Symphony that night and train that was hopefully going to arrive with my suit that is if everything went perfectly perfectly perfectly that train would arrive-- I think 630 as I remember or quarter of 7 and the symphony was at 8 oclock. So of course this was very very worrisome. And before I go any further in this story I should say this is the 400th episode one of our radio show. There are eight of us who make the show working together really closely finding stories and shaping them. And for years as we made those 399 other episodes all those years family members have approached us at weddings holidays with all kinds of ideas for the show. Most of them never made it onto the air because-- i will be frank-- they were not so great. And this week we thought OK. It is our 400th show. We should do something we have never done before. Something so difficult we have never dared do it before. And we thought you know after tackling all the subjects we have over the years-- productions of Peter Pan gone awry and investigations into Guantanamo and trying to make the history of mortgage-backed securities into entertaining radio-- what would be the greatest challenge? What would be the greatest challenge that we could possibly attempt for our 400th show? And the answer? Obviously let us do all of those stories pitched to us by our parents. Stories where it is not even clear whether it is humanly possible to make them into listenable stories on the radio. So hence this story with the suit. OK you remember where we are? OK. We are worried about the train and the suit. And we were mulling around about what to do about it and meanwhile eating some late lunch. And it was at lunch that my stepmom Sandy got an idea. Let us buy a cheap suit at Marshalls just in case the train does not come in. Marshalls is nearby. I have seen a lot of suits there that were a really good price. Sometimes a hundred dollars. And you know it could work. And your plan was we are going to buy a suit. Let us try to get a suit for like a hundred bucks with the thought that if I do not wear it you will just return it the next day. That is right. We did not have much time so we hustled over to Marshalls where we learned that Marshalls actually does not sell many suits. They literally have two suits in the store. Miraculously one fits. But another obstacle. The pants. The pants need hemming. Though if we hem them of course we would not be able to return to suit. What to do? What do we do? And I said uh scotch tape. Scotch tape it. So that was the plan. It went off like a great bank heist. Like The Sting. Like Ocean's 11. I got the suit at Marshalls. The train came in. It had my real suit. I change into the real student at the back of the train station. We go to the Baltimore Symphony which was by the way fantastic. They got this new conductor. We went home removed the scotch tape from the suit and returned it on Monday. Everything came out great. And it was just like a normal visit from you Ira. What do you mean by that? Well you know sometimes things like this happen. Wait what do you mean? What kinds of things? You know it is always excitement when you come to Baltimore. Are you saying that this thing that happens every time I come is that there is some kind of unnecessary chaos? I would not say that. I would not say that. No? No. Now you know usually a story on the show for it to work it needs to kind of have some bigger idea or some bigger universal thing that it drives towards. Do you think there is something like that with this story? No not at all. Well at least he could tell. Today for our 400th show each of us who work on the radio show went to our parents got them to pitch the story-- or repitched one that they had pitched in the past-- and then the idea was we each had to make the story they pitched. But there is more. Musical transition please? So we are gathered here not in our studio which actually is not big enough for all of us to fit but in our office in the room where we have our weekly story meetings. So it is nine of us sitting here with microphones and looking around the room. It is Robyn Semien-- Hi. Jane Feltes-- Hi. Alissa Shipp-- Present. Seth Lind-- Yeah. That is our production manager Seth Lind. Sarah Koenig-- Hello. Alex Blumberg-- Hello. Hello. That would be Lisa Pollak jumping the gun. And finally our senior producer Julie Snyder. Hello. Nervous. One of our producers Nancy Updike was called away and is not here. But we are gathered here together today because not only are all of you attempting to execute some of the most difficult stories you ever have-- if that were not hard enough we are going to make it a contest. The ground rules are these. We are going to play each producer's story. We will all listen together. And then at the end of the show we are going to come back on the air together and decide which story was best. Not only will this determined once and for all who is the greatest producer in radio there is a prize that we all decided on together at our real story meaning. I forgot what the prize is. Is it that the winning parent gets a plane ticket to come visit their child producer? And that is how I refer to all of you as child producers. But we also acknowledge that maybe we have no perspective on these stories because who has perspective on their own family and their ideas? And so we also want to turn to you everybody listening over the radio. You will all hear these stories. At the end of the program go to our website and vote for your favorite. And if you listeners vote for a different winter than we choose amongst ourselves then a second parent will get a trip to see their kid. Wow. Oh nice! All right. And so let the games begin. Our first story is from Lisa Pollak. It is funny what your parents forget to tell you until you are recording them for national broadcast. Here's what my mom said when I asked her for a story idea. What if you get the story on planning your funerals before you die? Because that is what we are doing now. She explained that she and my dad had recently bought their cemetery plots. Apparently all their friends were making plans for eternity and they got they should jump on the bandwagon too. I was not really sure why she was laughing but she seemed convinced there was a funny idea in here somewhere. There is got to be funny stories about death and they have never done that on your show. Yeah we have. We have. What do you mean a funny story about death? Yeah. Not death but dying and you know the burial things. Well have you been to any funny funerals? I went to one hysterical funeral. I started laughing. And dad was laughing. You know when you start to laugh and then you are trying to stifle it because you are at a funeral? I was busting a gut. I was laughing so hard. And dad too. What was so funny? What was so funny Mitch? It with the whole-- I do not know what. It was just fabulous! It was the best funeral I have ever been to. So this is the idea. Find funny stories about funerals. Stories kind of like my mom's only actually explaining the funny parts. I started looking and the first thing I found was a New York Times story from January 1902. Clearly I was not the first reporter whose mother had this idea. The headline read Humors of Funerals The Funny Side of a Gruesome Subject As Seen by Clergymen. Or as I like to imagine a clergyman would say it in 1902-- The Funny Side of a Gruesome Subject As Seen By Clergymen. The story was a collection of anonymous anecdotes gets like this one. The first Sunday after I had been installed in my first church I discovered there was to be a funeral and was asked to officiate. On asking who was dead I learned it was a child of seven days whose mother had died in the county poorhouse and the accident of whose advent into the world was in defiance of at least one item of the decalogue. I thought of course there would be no mourners. OK. So the setup's a little dark. But then to the clergyman's surprise a whole crowd of mourners show up. They bring food-- And a real picnic scene outspread itself around the church. It was the sexton who on seeing my surprise explained in all seriousness You see parson there has been neither a lynching nor a wedding in this section for so long that the people have to make the most they can out of a funeral. OK that did not work. So I turned to a more contemporary source a book called The Funny Side of Death published in 2008. The author is a retired funeral home owner who says his sense of humor helped him cope with the job. On page 97 for example he explains how dead people's hip replacements which are metal and stay intact after cremation can be quote shined up and presented to friends as letter openers. At this point I started making phone calls first to the National Funeral Director's Association. I told them what I was looking for and they said they had the perfect person to help me. And next thing I knew I was on hold waiting to talk to a funeral director in Decatur Illinois named Randy Earl. You know nothing puts me in the mood for a humorous anecdote like the stuff they play when on hold at the funeral home. At Brintlinger and Earl Funeral Homes we wanted to let you know about pre-arrangement planning. It is an easy way for you to take the worry of your burial or cremation needs away from your loved ones during the very difficult time-- Hello this is Randy. Randy said he would been expecting my call and that he had a great story. It was about a man who came in one day to make prearrangements for his funeral. The man had his kids with him and one of the things they all talked about was what music to play at the man's service. I said what is your favorite song? And he said well Silent Night. And the kids laughed. They sort of laughed at him. And even the daughter she said well Dad what is it with Silent Night? And he said well it was at the end of the war and they had just declared the war over. And I was sitting in a foxhole. The first song I heard was Silent Night and that is my favorite song. And I said well Bob we will use that at your funeral service. As fate would have it the man died in July. And at the church where the service was supposed to be the whole Silent Night idea was not going over so well. The church organist calls me. And he said that is not even in our liturgy. And he said I am not playing Silent Night when you are exiting a church. So I sat there for a minute and I said well I might have to get another organist. But I promised him that we are going to do this and somehow I am going to do this. So we go to church. We have the funeral mass. And the priest told the story. Bob requested that this song be played because it was his favorite song. And he was in a foxhole when he heard that the war was over and this was the song he heard played right after that. And it is the middle of July. He played that very softly as we exited the church and they started singing very quietly. And it was the most moving powerful thing that I have experienced in a long long time.  But not a funny story? No no! It is not a funny story. It is not a funny story. It is a real story. If you are looking for funny I am probably not your guy. Because I am not a funny guy with my work. Even if I did have something in my repertoire I would not put it out on the radio. I just would not do it. It turns out that in the funeral business humor can be a touchy subject. As Ron Hast publisher of Mortuary Management Magazine told me-- There is always people who are trying to make fun. Oh I understood that everyone's dying to come to you. Ha ha ha. I have heard it 5000 times and they think it is so funny and they laugh and whatever. Well it is just stupid is what it is. It is not funny. It is not funny. Ron spent so much time warning me about the pitfalls of this story idea-- how funny things do not really happen that often in his business how outsiders like me tend to exaggerate and embellish that when he actually gave me exactly what I was looking for I was afraid to react. Instead of laughing I asked a dumb question that killed his whole punchline. There was a lady who was sitting at a funeral and she had had her father's funeral in the same funeral home about a month before. And she happened to notice that the funeral director there doing this funeral that was another person that he was wearing her father's tie. And what had happened was she realized that when he went and shut the casket down out of the view of the family he liked the tie too and took it off and closed the lid and kept it for himself. They went so far as to have the grave open to prove that he had taken it and sued him. And he lost I am guessing? I do not know what the outcome is. But you know you do not follow all that stuff through. At this point I gave on funeral directors and called a Lutheran minister I know. His name is Duke Fries. Pastor Fries told me a story about the time he finished doing a funeral service and made this dignified exit in front of a room full of people only to realize-- That I had chosen the wrong door that I was now in a closet. And I was not sure whether to step back out with all these people watching or just stay in this closet until I heard them moving around which is in fact what I did. Finally I was getting somewhere. I kept at it and before long I had more stories than I knew what to do with. There was the overzealous mourner who fell into the grave during the funeral a woman who wanted to be buried topless to show off her breast job and a funeral home worker who lifted a woman out of her bed only realize that her husband in the next bed over was the dead one. But I was not so sure any of these were what my mom was looking for. None of them were like that funeral she went to where-- I was busting a gut! I was laughing so hard. I was just about to give up looking when our intern Brian Reed told me I had to call his friend Rob. So I did. And after that I made one last call.  Hello? Hi mom. Hi Li. So you know how I have been looking for funny funeral stories? Uh huh. I have one I want to play for you. OK. Um what is that in the background? I am taking something out of the oven. Oh. So there is going to be two people telling the story. Their names are Rob and Andrea. They are married the funeral is for Andrea's grandmother. It takes place in a Ukrainian church and they do not totally know what is going on because the priest is speaking Ukrainian. OK. And the first thing that got us silly was that the priest looks exactly like Bill Murray. Like exactly. Like Bill Murray circa Meatballs with the hair sticking up and the-- so they started the service and it is all in Ukrainian. I mean they are not speaking any English whatsoever. So the priest decides he is going to start speaking in a little bit of English and he is reading-- apparently it is custom in the Ukrainian church if someone passes away you give a donation to the church in that person's name. So he literally is listing off the people's names and how much they gave to the church. And it was a good amount he kind of smiles he is like Maister Zeslinsky 50. He gives a little smile. And if it was like a low amount he is like you know The Zogrokskis five dollar. And he gives like a disappointing look like oh not good you know? And he is doing this whole list over and over he goes through this whole list of money and you know people are adding up the money in their head. So then he decides he is going to do a little bit of a eulogy. Yeah. He does a eulogy in English for us because he knows that we really do not speak Ukrainian. So he comes right in front of us and he says-- And Andrea's maiden name is Drobish D R O B I S H. And that was my grandmother's name was Barbara Drobish. So he comes right in front of us and he says-- He says Barbara Drobish was a good lay! Dee! And that just killed us! She tried so hard to be a good lay-- dee! So then Andrea's sister and her they start to laugh and they are shaking when they are laughing and they are trembling. And I think people especially the people in the Ukrainian church thought they were literally crying like weeping very hard. So the people from the Ukrainian church are now coming and surrounding them and hugging them. Oh the poor grandchildren! And they are crying which is making us laugh. Everyone is crying except us who are laughing hysterically and trying to hide the fact that we are laughing and trying not to mock the Ukrainian church. So that is our-- And that is the funny story. I like it! You like it? I think it is funny. It reminded me of a Seinfeld. So she did not bust a gut. But maybe for my mom that only happens at funerals. Really funny! Wait I do not get the final line. The last line was she did not bust a gut but she only does that at funerals. But she did bust a gut. No she did not bust a gut. That is the problem. She laughed! I feel like you guys are dwelling on the last one. That was amazing. That was great. I was not dwelling. I just there was a moment I was confused. I am nervous. Yeah I know! Beat that. I know! You reported the crap out of it. That was what made it so amazing. I thought we were supposed to. No. I did some reporting but I thought that was going to be my strong suit. I was like well my story sucks but I did some reporting. But I did not do as much reporting as you did. All right. Well our next story is from Nancy Updike who recorded this story but could not be here with us. I talked to my dad. He pitched me this idea a year ago actually. Kind of caught me off-guard with this one. The Erie Canal. What about the Erie Canal? Well you know it is a famous old waterway dug with a lot of brutal labor manual labor a lot of it and it was a tremendous feat of engineering and generated lots of songs and there was traffic that went along it and things like that. But it did not last very long. I mean the railroads came and then the trucks came and water transport went out of fashion. You know. And the question is kind of what is become of it? And before I answer that question I just want to quickly remind our listeners of everything they of course already know about the Canal. Longest canal in the U.S. when it was built. 363 miles. Linking Lake Erie and the rest of the Great Lakes to the Atlantic via the Hudson River dug by hand with travels and pre-industrial tools before our country was even 50 years old. And it was our first big success in physically uniting the United States by connecting the built-up east coast with the midwest. This is Craig Williams curator at the New York State Museum. It must have been tremendously exciting. They were doing something unprecedented. They were building a canal to the moon. And it must have been tremendously confidence-building for a society that was still an incredibly young republic that they could pull something like this off. So I did find out what became of the canal and some things you just cannot express in words alone. The canal is too big so I wrote a song with my friend Dave Hill.  Give it to me woman. Easy easy! They were building a canal to the moon. A canal to the moon.  What do you do with a canal to the moon when the railroad gets to there a lot more soon? You would rather drive your car anyway. And you do not want to go from Buffalo to Albany. But let us say you are a nuclear power plant and you need massive concrete containers for your spent fuel rods. You could do a lot worse than shipping via the Erie Canal. It is still in use.  So you call up Rob Goldman at the New York Sate Marines Transportation Authority because-- If you want to go from New York to Montreal it could save you a thousand miles. True. It could save you a thousand miles. He already said that.  But what do you do with a canal to the moon when your town or your city has passed its industrial boom? No more million of tons of cargo floating by.  More like thousands. Better than nothing but still. How about this though? You could hike you could bike. The trail is now being completed across the state.  He is talking about a 360 mile trail alongside the canal system that is two-thirds complete. Quite a feat! And do not forget-- In many places the locks are parks so you could just go and have a cookout. There are tables there. You could read a book take a nap go to a restaurant bring your kids feed the ducks. Ducks? Everyone likes ducks. I like ducks. It just goes on and on.  And on and on and on and on and on and on and on. What do you do with a canal to the moon when some people maybe you complain three four times a year in op-ed up in Rochester saying-- Why are we spending all this money for rich people to take their yachts from Florida to Lake Erie?  But here's what you do with a canal to the moon. Put a canoe in it or a tire or a kayak-- Or like a floaty lawn chair. Go ice fishing. Play hockey. It is water. This one guy was telling me the canal was makeout city.  That is what you do with a canal to the moon.  It was the eighth wonder of the world when it was built. You are not just going to fill it with concrete. We nailed it. Well everybody what do you think? Nancy Updike with Dave Hill by the way. Yay! Very inventive. I think it is great. I do not know I mean I know kind of a little more about the Erie Canal but I still cannot picture the-- Yeah I agree. I feel like I do not really know anything actually about the Erie Canal. I think you guys are missing the point of this story. That was kickass! She wrote a song! And performed it! All right. Well our next story is from Alex Blumberg. My dad does not watch much TV. He hates sports. He is an atheist. His main pastime is reading. Books on Buddhism philosophy. He loves William Blake and science books and left-leaning blogs. And his story ideas they are generally big and abstract. For example when I called them for this project the other night one idea he thought I should do a story about is the idea of coming out of the closet. This idea has been so key he said in advancing the cause of gay rights and he wanted me to do a story about how other groups should adopt the tactics of coming out in order to seek mainstream acceptance. What other groups? Atheists. Also people who do not like sports. His other idea at least initially seemed equally as unpromising. The fact that law treats corporations as if they were people. He would been thinking about the idea of corporate personhood for years but it was especially on his mind during the conversation I had with him which took place just a couple of days after that Supreme Court decision overturning large parts of campaign finance law. That decision the Citizens United case basically said there is no distinction between a corporation spending a lot of money on campaign ads and a regular person doing it. In the eyes of the law the corporation can buy as many ads as it wants. To my dad that seems crazy and dangerous. We have kind of created these Goliaths these Godzillas parading around as if they were people. But in fact they have a kind of power that no individual person could ever begin to amass. Right. So there is this entity called Exxon Corporation and you read newspaper stories about Exxon says or Exxon was furious. You have never read a sentence that said Exxon was furious. Have you? Well Exxon was upset. So who should I talk to though? Well I think that is the story idea. Is who do you talk to? Who becomes the voice of Exxon? So the idea would be I would call-- I would try-- it would be in search of Exxon. In search of Exxon. Who is this? We treat them as a person. And who do they think they are? Who do you think you are! All right. I will try to do that. I will try to find out who Exxon thinks they are. I am not going to lie. This did not go well. I called Exxon spoke to a media relations person there told her about how my dad and I had this conversation and I wanted to find out who Exxon thought it was. The lady was very nice but she said she did not see any reason Exxon would ever want to talk to me about this. In this way Exxon is just like a lot of people. If they do not want to talk to the media you cannot really make them. I called around to other multinational corporations. Same answer. Then I tried the U.S. Chamber of Commerce the trade group for most of American business. The guy there was a little bit more receptive and he called me back with the name-- Eugene Volokh. He is the guy you should talk to. Although when I reached Eugene Volokh he could not explain why the Chamber of Commerce sent me to him. You know I am not sure. I think somebody at the Chamber of Commerce reads my blog. So Eugene Volokh turns out not to be a spokesman for corporate America in any way. He is a charming libertarian-leaning law professor at UCLA. He runs a popular blog called the Volokh Conspiracy though he is written a lot about constitutional issues in the Citizens United case. And the more we talked the more I had to let go of my Michael Moore dreams-- asking stunty questions designed to expose the fallacy of corporate personhood such as what is Exxon's favorite color? Or what does Exxon want for Christmas? Or who is Exxon's favorite Beatle? That line of questioning Eugene Volokh told me in so many words is stupid. Corporations are generally seen as having many constitutional rights but it is not because somehow they are metaphysically persons. It is because restricting corporations in various ways restricts the rights of persons. It restricts the rights of their owners and it restricts perhaps the rights of others. Others being for example people who want to hear what the corporation has to say. All right. I am just going to stop here and say by the time I got to this point in my conversation with Eugene Volokh I already knew that the story my dad wanted me to do was in trouble. So Dad if you do not mind I took up a different question. The question I took up is this. How worried should he be about the Citizens United case? OK. A little background on the idea of corporations as people. When it comes to property rights corporations are basically the same as you and I. The government cannot take away their property without due process. That is protected under the fourteenth amendment. But when it comes to something the fifth amendment which says you cannot be forced to incriminate yourself in a court of law corporations are not covered. All those TV dramas and congressional hearings where people plead the fifth? Exxon cannot do that. So corporations are legally like people in some respects and unlike them in others. And it is in this context that the issue of corporate spending on campaigns comes up. The Supreme Court has dealt with this issue a handful of times over the last century-- OK. Stop the tape. Stop the tape. OK. I am just going to point out what is going on here. Paul our engineer with all due respect briefly fell asleep. Alex meanwhile had to leave to go to a meeting for his other-- he works on Planet Money and they had a big meeting so he is not even here to defend himself. I just I stopped-- yeah. I went somewhere else. Well I know no. And we did an edit on it the other day and I said in this section like I did not follow it at all. And then Ira said that that was because-- He said it was because we were girls. That was a joke! I just want to say that I really did like that he took his dad's idea and said it did not work I am going to redirect do my own idea. I thought that was a very clever-- I did think he is a good son to take it on. So. They should be proud that he just did such a boring-- All right. So it is looking very very bad for Alex in our competition. Coming up-- more stories pitched by our parents who by the way we all love very very very much. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life from Ira Glass. It is our 400th episode and if you are just tuning in we are doing something very different. After all these years of family members pitching us stories for the show this week we actually go out and make the stories that our family members pitched. The staff of the radio show and I are sitting here in our office meeting room-- hi everybody again. We are listening to each of the stories and at the end of the hour we are going to decide which story was best which parent pitched the best story. Whoever it is will get a prize. We are also asking you to vote online at thisamericanlife.org. Our next story up is from producer Robyn Semien. When I asked my dad to think of an idea he would like to pitch he took it to mean one thing. A clear opportunity to tell his favorite story. Believe it or not this is all the way back in 1950. That is right. 1950. So this is before-- It is like before the invention of fire Dad. You are making this sound like-- This story usually takes him a little over an hour to tell. it is about how he souped up a car when he was 20. But before he tells you about that car he always tells you about another car his starter car a 1953 Oldsmobile. When he was growing up in Richmond California which is near Oakland there was a fad among teens to take some chrome off a car and paint primer where the chrome used to be. My dad took the trend a step further. He took the door handles off his car-- that is right the door handles-- and painted circles of gray primer where the handles used to be. That would have been cool. There was not a whole lot of people running around that had cars that did not have door handles on them and naturally they would want to know how do you open the door? You would open the door or my dad would open the door by pressing the button he would hidden in the chrome trim of the car. It was an electric button that triggered a solenoid which released the door latch. My dad was obsessed with electronics and wondered what else in the car he could trick out. The radio the lights. One day I do not know why. It just came to me-- well sure would be nice if there was only one switch. If I had one switch to control all of this. And just as fast it came to me now how could you possibly have one switch to do everything? That is impossible. And so just as fast as the idea came up the idea went way. Because I said that is impossible. Do not make any sense. After a while my dad bought about another car-- a used '56 Lincoln Premiere convertible. And the attraction was that everything in the car was electric. Power seats power windows the convertible top. It was a perfect laboratory for my dad. His job at the time was at a place where they were manufacturing parts for CB radios and these particular CB radios had rotary dials on them like on a telephone connected to a switch inside. And it was at work one day inspecting those rotary dials when it hit him. He had his Thomas Edison moment. If you dial three to switch it it moves three times. If you dial six  it moves six times. And I looked at that and it just came back to me. I said there is my switch. There is my switch. For the next eight months my dad locked himself in his room. His plan was this. He would attach all of the car's power circuits to a metal box using hundreds of relays all controlled by a rotary dial from an old Princess phone the kind which had a little light behind it. This was the star of the show and needed a prime location-- the center of the steering wheel. So I guess the reward for doing all of that was the day when it was finally finished and I put it in the car. And I call your grandfather out and he came out and sat in the car. And so he was sitting over on the passenger side and he was leaning up had his arm on the window. And I said well this is what I was doing. An he kind of looked at it like what were you doing? And my hand reached f