Mitchell was in his 20s when he learned that his mom was getting on a bus or train twice a week and going to a place that would stick a needle in her arm and take a pint of blood. And they would keep the plasma and give her back everything else and pay her 25 or 35 per pint. Again she would do this twice a week because she needed the cash. And of course that is not the kind of thing anybody wants to hear their mom has to do. And it took him a few years but soon as he had the money to step in and help her out Mitchell told his mom do not do it anymore. You know I will just give you the money. And she turned him down. You know like do not worry about it. I do not need you to jump in. I will take care of myself. Even if it is hubris at least I am not asking you for anything. She loves that saying-- what does she say? We do for today what we cannot do for forever. What is that mean? It is I guess a personal proverb that she uses to trick herself into enduring a crucible. You know? I can do it today. What made this especially hard was Mitchell was in New York. His mom was on the other side of the country in Oregon where he grew up. And he would call sometimes and her phone would be turned off. And he would have to reach out to his brothers to find out what was happening and if she needed help and then organize the help. But talking to her about the blood donations-- and they had a bunch of conversations about it-- led Mitchell to learn everything about it about the multibillion dollar companies that buy plasma from people like his mom about the Black doctor Charles Drew who invented a way of separating plasma from blood and set up some of America's first blood banks at the start of World War II. And because we were still in Jim Crow they would not let Black people donate blood. Like how symbolic is that that the Black guy that invents this process that helps these hundreds of thousands if not millions of people cannot even donate blood? Mitchell is a writer. He is been on our show before-- Mitchell S. Jackson. And he is written about these conversations with his mom and the places that they led him to. Like for instance one day he got her talking about blood and patriotism. His mom's take on patriotism by the way is that anybody who says my country right or wrong no matter what ugly thing happens here is basically just like a mom who sees the best in her kid no matter what terrible thing they do. Anyway during that conversation she surprised Mitchell by describing her blood donations as the most patriotic thing she does even though she does it for the money. I guess if we kind of think about patriotism in its best light it is looking out for the next person. She was just thinking I am giving a part of me which is sacred to benefit someone else. But I think it is also too my mother is one of those people. She really is the mother who will do anything. She is the mother that has like 100 in her account to last her the month. And my brother does not have food in his refrigerator and she gives him 80. And this is not a hypothetical. This is a literal. So this is another way of giving. Mitchell as you talk about it I just feel so struck with all the things that are bundled up in those little pints of plasma. When you tell this story it is simultaneously your feeling of protectiveness about her and how she is doing and is she doing OK and her wanting to be independent of you and her also feeling like she is taking care of other people and also getting money she needs. And also it is blood this physical thing that is all compressed in this little plastic bag you know? Yeah it is both symbolic and literal. I think it is always that way maybe because blood is so fundamental keeping us alive. It is something we all share part of our insides that we all have actually seen with the urgent color of a stop sign. It takes on so many other meanings in ways that other things in our body do not. There is blood ties and blood feuds and bad blood between people and the blood of the lamb and Jesus's blood turned to wine. There is the idea of people who are cold-blooded people who are hot-blooded and the now discredited notion of how much of this group's blood or that group's blood you have running through your veins. Today on our program we dive into all kinds of stories about blood. Picture please if you will right now you know those elevator doors from The Shining opening up a sea of blood pouring out right here on the radio? But do not touch that dial. There is so much to say. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Bloody stay with us. Act One Started From Phle-Bottom Now We are Here. So we begin today with a story about literal actual blood and this joke-- and by the way hello to all the seven-year-olds in our audience-- why did the nurse bring a red pen to work? In case she had to draw blood. OK anyway somebody wrote into our show last summer saying they had a story to tell about being a phlebotomist a person whose job it is to draw blood for lab tests or donations-- using by the way a needle not a red pen. Her name is Adele Levine. And she said she was the worst phlebotomist in her whole hospital. One of our producers Diane Wu found that intriguing naturally called her up and it turns out she is a perfectly fine phlebotomist. But she did get thrown into the job from a different job without a lot of preparation in some of the most extreme circumstances imaginable-- a total fish out of water. Here's Diane. I liked talking to Adele about drawing blood because as a newbie she saw everything with beginner's eyes. She was so into it. She talked about veins in this way that I would never heard before-- just ardently. You have to test the vein and it should feel bouncy. Like you test it by touching it with your finger? Yeah I would touch it and it should sort of bounce. So now I am always bouncing veins my own veins. Wait now I want to try. Oh do it on the back of your hand. OK. Yeah the veins in the front of the wrist are not for us. How come? I do not know. I did not go to phlebotomy school. They just told me that is not for us. Adele did not ever study phlebotomy because she is actually a physical therapist. She had no plans to ever be sticking people with needles and drawing their blood. But when COVID hit last spring the hospital she worked at cancelled all of her physical therapy appointments and started assigning people to new jobs. I really wanted to work on the loading dock. That was what I really wanted to do. I wanted to drive one of those big things around and lift pallets of supplies. But they did not need her there. She ended up in phlebotomy one of the departments of the hospital whose work did not slow down and became a total newbie drafted to draw blood for the very first time in the middle of a pandemic. By the way she did not want us to name her hospital because they did not give her permission to do an interview. Adele spent her first few days following different phlebotomists around the hospital watching closely as they worked. She was so impressed to watch as they performed even the most basic tasks with incredible elegance. This one phlebotomist I just was always mesmerized by the way she put tape on the back of her hand so precisely always exactly the exact size piece of tape. Another one she would hold the butterfly needle not by the wings but actually by the little barrel which is kind of a harder way to hold it but she was just real gentle just the way they could draw blood from the craziest places. I mean because hospital patients they are sick. They are in organ failure. They are really swollen or their veins are shot. And these phlebotomists are doing crazy stuff like just skimming the surface of someone's forearm and just getting this tiny little spider vein you know? Or they are getting blood from the back of someone's thumb knuckle. I think they are total artists. Then suddenly it was her turn to try. Adele flipped around her hospital badge so no one could see she was a physical therapist then went and did her first sticks-- that is phlebotomist lingo for blood draws-- in the maternity ward on healthy young mothers who had big easily visible veins. She made a lot of rookie mistakes. I would keep the tube on until it completely filled with blood. And then when I would retract the needle the blood that was left over in the tubing would spill all over the bed and make a big mess. And then everyone was always yelling at me to retract the needle retract it. Do it do it. It is ready. It is ready. I am like but it is only halfway full. Just do it! I am like OK. After about two weeks of this sort of haphazard seat-of-the-pants training her manager decided she was ready to go in alone. On her first day of working solo Adele walked in and saw that her assignment was in the ICU which at that point in April was full of COVID patients. I got panicked completely panicked you know? I mean-- Why? --I was so nervous. I mean even just going into a COVID room just would fill me with fear terror. It was an incredibly challenging assignment. ICU patients were among the sickest in the hospital often with multiple IVs and swollen limbs. And phlebotomy was only called in after the nurses there had already tried twice to get blood but could not. On top of that all the COVID stuff-- the PPE that made it hard to move and see not being able to bring a full cart of supplies in the pressure to work quickly and minimize exposure. Adele was terrified and overwhelmed. But she did her best to figure out her own little routine. In the beginning I always used to talk to the patients even though-- What would you say? I would say-- I am like good morning good morning. This is Adele. I am from phlebotomy. I am here to draw some blood. But they are sedated or I tell them today's Tuesday. It is April 20. It is a nice day outside. I would tell them what is on the news or what was going on. And I would always tell them that they look great that they were getting better I could tell. How often was that actually true? Hardly ever but I just felt like-- I heard that people when they are sedated they can still kind of hear you. So I always felt like I should say something uplifting. I mean if you want a cheerleading section I mean physical therapy is where it is at. I mean we are so optimistic as a group you know? Adele was not doing great at actually getting the blood though. She was missing something like half of her sticks. She would get all suited up and prepared to go in the room try and try and try for 10 or 15 minutes fail. Then she would have to go downstairs and mark on the whiteboard the patients that she would missed so a more experienced phlebotomist could be sent up to try again. She felt like a disappointment bumbling things up in one of the most serious and urgent parts of the hospital. When they would send me to do blood cultures I would almost always botch it. A blood culture is a test for an infection in the blood. My first blood culture that I got called to do when I got to the room the patient was in a full code. And they were all in there doing CPR and chest compressions. They were shocking him. I flipped out. I was like oh my god. I was about to leave and they are like no no. They are like you stay. They are like you stay because if he lives we need those blood cultures. So I stood there. I was waiting and standing next to me-- we are totally dressed up in all this gear-- was one of the hospital chaplains. Oh wow. And we were standing next to each other. She was there because if the patient died she would need to go in and do last rites. And I got so completely wigged out by that I started feeling like we were the angel and the devil just standing side by side. And the patient lived. And the hospital chaplain just flew out of there. And then I had to go in and I was so rattled by what happened. And then I had to do these blood cultures. It was just-- I did not get it. I did not get it. Remember Adele's a physical therapist. Nobody was dying in front of her at her old job. The chaplain never hovered nearby. This was a totally different game. Adele's first week in the ICU was so stressful that she thought about quitting. But she did not. She kept going. She watched videos about phlebotomy in her free time practiced getting her sticks over and over lining up her tubes in the order of the draws folding gauze into quarters with one hand readjusting the needle to keep the blood flowing. She started to be able to see veins she could not before to draw blood from more challenging places. The first time I got blood off this guy's thumb knuckle yeah I just could not believe it. I was so proud of myself or from a really skinny little vein and I am just trying to-- I just knew if I could just get a centimeter of blood into the tube that would be good enough for the lab. But even being able to draw their blood well did not change her patients' outcomes. Lots died. It got to her. She says she stopped looking at their faces when she went in the room stopped chatting as much with them too. And as she was leaving instead of telling them they looked good and she could tell they were doing better like she used to she just told them goodbye. Adele told me that dropping into this tunnel vision mode just going straight for the vein not looking around it actually made her better at drawing blood more gentle. In the middle of the summer three months after Adele began drawing blood the first wave finally started to recede at her hospital. Then she got a text from her physical therapy boss telling her it was time to come back. I was really furious. I did not want to go back. Oh really? I caused a bit of a-- yeah caused a bit of a-- I guess they could not believe it. I said I was not going to come back. I was surprised to hear this given how she would felt completely inadequate for so long when she was there. But it felt like whiplash to her. She would been thrown from her old job into this one finally felt like she knew what she was doing. She was not prepared to be yanked back out just as quickly. It is been eight months now since Adele switched back to physical therapy. She still notices people's veins especially the ones on the backs of their fingers. Those ones she told me when someone's really sick those ones will stay bouncy. They are the last to go. Diane Wu is one of the producers of our show. Act Two Blood Ties. So we turn now in this blood episode to blood relatives and the importance of family. Or maybe this story is about the unimportance of family and the meaninglessness of blood ties. At the center of the story are 30 postcards and one of our producers David Kestenbaum. I want to start by saying I am one of those people who has never cared at all about family trees who is related to whom genealogy stuff like that. The only family that felt important growing up were the people I saw every day-- my parents and sister and then kind of one circle out grandparents cousins the relatives we would visit with some regularity. Beyond that they just seemed like people I did not know. And-- I think this is the scientist in me-- I have always felt like the whole idea of being related by blood who cares if they have some DNA that I have? It all just seemed kind of dumb. This was a problem when someone would ask me when my family came to the United States. My great grandparents? I think from Austria or Poland some from Russia. At various points it is felt like a thing I should know just so I could not look like an idiot when that question came up. So I would ask my parents who'd tell me. But there were not a lot of details. No one felt real in it. And whatever my parents would tell me I would promptly forget. Then a couple of summers ago we were visiting my aunt and uncle. My kids were running around like lunatics. I was sitting on the couch. And my aunt handed me this stack of papers. They were photocopies of 30 postcards. A distant family member had come across them. And they were beautiful written in Yiddish and the Hebrew alphabet in this meticulous handwriting. I could read who they were addressed to-- that was in English-- Harry Kestenbaum 320 Cherry Street New York America. Cherry Street is a street I have walked by for sure. It runs under the Manhattan Bridge. The postcards were from his father Shmuel Mendel Kestenbaum who was living in a town in Austria-Hungary at the foot of a small mountain. The date on the first postcard? 1904. Shmuel was my great great grandfather's brother. There were translations alongside the postcards. A relative had found someone who could read the old Yiddish. So I sat there on the couch and started to read. Again this was not my thing. I honestly did not expect to get through them. But amazingly these 30 postcards they happened to tell a little story with a beginning and an end. You could glimpse a piece of a life through them of a man living 100 years ago who had my last name. And I know I just said that should not matter. Maybe I am wrong. They gave me a feeling I was not expecting to have. The postcards are only one side of the conversation Shmuel writing to his son. But his son Harry who is 24 at the beginning clearly wrote back. You can tell because Shmuel writes things like You forgot to put a stamp on your last letter and I had to pay a fine. Signed your father Shmuel. I loved that line because I am not proud of this but it reminds me of me. And also it warms my heart to read a guilt trip on 100-year-old postcards sent across an ocean. You can only write like that to someone who is family. Blood gives you permission to make certain demands to be yourself in ways that maybe you should not. Quote You want me to send you a tallis to America? A tallis is a prayer shawl. This is quite difficult. Postage is quite expensive. And did you not buy a tallis for your wedding? It seems possible they wrote back and forth constantly. Quote I am surprised that you have not received my letter. Why do not you write about your business? Mine is completely in ruin and my income is very bad. Here's what we know about Shmuel when he was writing these. He was divorced and his two kids he had not seen in years. Harry because he was in America at 320 Cherry Street. His daughter was closer to home in Europe but would never write him back. Quote She really does not behave like a child of mine Shmuel writes. For three years I have received from her only printed Happy New Year's cards. When she came to me to invite me to her wedding I gave her all the money she asked for and went to the wedding. She has not once written about her situation. Since childhood as you well know she has become a stranger to me. Shmuel is on a kind of mission in these postcards. He seems dismayed by how scattered the family has become. And he wants to hold everyone together somehow. He writes about being lonely having no one to have a heart to heart talk with. Quote Please let me know if you intend to return here with your family. Or do you want to take a pleasure trip? I would be very pleased but the question is if you can do this without any trouble. In the map of our family Shmuel is pretty far removed. He is like Pluto out there on a distant orbit. But I felt some tug on me. He asks after my great great grandfather who is living nearby in Newark New Jersey. Quote Please write to me about my brother. How is he? He does not write to me at all. How are his children? Are they well? I was struck by how consistently miserable he seems. Miserable but also like he has not given up hope. He yearns for the family wants to be with them again. I wondered if it would happen. When Harry's first son gets a little older Shmuel writes Maybe it would be possible for you to send him to me and I could fulfill the commandment and teach our children and your son's children as my son's sons are as my own. Your father Shmuel. There are all these grandkids being born that he wants to see. When Harry has a daughter and names her after his grandmother Shmuel writes My dear son you have done very well. You have added the name of my dear mother. I have great joy from this. But there is also this heartbreaking one. Quote At the end of your letter you did not send greetings from your son Yitzchak which worries me very much. Please disclose the truth to me. May we only hear good tidings. Yitzchak had died of pneumonia at age one. There is one postcard where Shmuel seems truly joyful like he finally had a really good day or something. September 12 1907. The entire postcard is a blessing that he composed himself in Hebrew. The translator was really struck by the poetry of it. May the rays of your good fortune shine on your head and may you always be a fulfilled person love and peace in your home all of you healthy and complete your tents free of fear blessings nested in your house and success shedding its light around you. But making my way through the stack of postcards one thing after another seems to go wrong. He eventually does make contact with his daughter Harry's sister and visits her but he still seems worried. Quote I hope there will be peace for some time. He writes about a fire that cost him a lot of money a dealer he sends cotton wool to goes bankrupt. Quote Business is very bad as credit has been stopped and many people have gone bankrupt. Thank God the fear of war has passed. May God bring us better times. That postcard was from May 27 1913. When I read it I was like wait what do you mean the fear of war has passed? Is not World War I about to happen? Here's a postcard from a little later. The stamp had been removed so some words are missing. But this part was intact. Quote The Russians plundered. We went on foot. Therefore we took nothing with us. We were like a herd. We closed the house and left everything. We left all our property. Everything was plundered and the house was destroyed. May God give us strength and harden our body. Is this our fate? Instead of sleeping in our bed we slept on the ground. That postcard was sent from a town 60 miles from his home. There is a big gap after this. The next postcards are from years later. He is back in the town where he started. Quote I received the package you sent. It contained two pairs of trousers two pairs of underpants four undershirts one skullcap one napkin. I cannot know if anything is missing since I do not have a list of its contents. The Lord will reward you for the mitzvah of honoring our father. And your reward will be great. This was postcard number 27 of 30. There were not many left. Shmuel writes that he had heard that Harry might make a trip back home. Quote This would give me much joy he writes. And also Do you have papers for my journey to America? I was excited that they might all get together but postcard 29 does not mention any travel plans. Quote It is been three months since I have written you. I am desperate not to have received an answer. This is very unusual. Please write immediately. The last postcard number 30 is about a prayer shawl. And that is it. Shmuel Mendel Kestenbaum died some time after that. He was probably 69 or 70 years old. Reading along I was somehow stupidly expecting a happy ending. But I do not think there was one for him. It does not seem like Shmuel ever got to see his son again after he left at the age of 20 or got to meet Harry's kids his grandchildren. And just that idea that you could spend so much of your life waiting for a thing to happen and then one day you do not even know it is coming but it is your last day. And it never does. I do feel some connection to Shmuel. I am not sure I really understand it. You could say it is because we are related by blood. It certainly is a strange experience to read your own last name on a 100-year-old postcard. It sticks with you-- Shmuel Kestenbaum. I keep thinking about the postcards. In them Shmuel never writes about the past. He is always asking about the people who will come after him-- his son his daughter their kids. he cared about the future. I do too. I care more going forward than backward. There is a happy ending to Shmuel's story. It just came much later. It is me and all the family and the giant tree that grew around him. David Kestenbaum is our show is senior editor. Coming up one of the greatest deployments of fake blood in the history of fake blood. Also fixing a human blood pump and a fibroid speaks in English. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Bloody Feelings stories about blood in all its liquidy meanings blood as metaphor blood as the actual stuff moving through our veins. We have arrived at act three of our show. Act Three Stage Fright. So there is this condition. It is called vasovagal syncope. And it is basically fainting in reaction to certain stimuli. It is triggered by all kinds of things-- exposure to heat stress and the sight of blood. And it turns out that the blood it does not even need to be real blood to get that response. One of our producers Bim Adewunmi remembers one bloody Shakespeare production that at its height had scores of people fainting night after night. Here's Bim. Back in 2006 I was a year out of university trying very hard to be a writer and working at a bookshop in central London. I was also almost always broke so broke in fact that I do not think I could afford more than one visit to see a West End show the entire year. What I did do a lot of though was read theater reviews. 2006 was the year of Michael Sheen and Frank Langella in FrostNixon. It was the year Avenue Q came to the West End the year of Wicked's London debut. And all I could do was dream of going to see them. So naturally the review page was the first place I read about a play that was getting rave reviews but was apparently so grisly so bloody audience members were fainting. The play was one of Shakespeare's least loved plays Titus Andronicus three hours of muscular bloody theater that as one audience member quoted in the paper put it had people dropping like flies. I was thrilled at the idea of theater being powerful enough to fell even sturdy London theatergoers. I was jealous. I wanted to go. I wanted to see if I could withstand it. In the 15 years since I have often thought about the source of that production's power-- about the blood. I mean at one point we had 43 people one show 43 people fainted. 43? That was our max. All these years later I was thrilled to talk to the director Lucy Bailey. Because I wanted to understand how she would done something so extraordinary. Once I came into the auditorium and the usher said all the schoolgirls came and they all fainted.  And they are all in this box. We put them all up there. So I came in looked in the room and all these sort of very pale girls all sitting there  having been fainted and being taken out. I used to say to the ushers when I came into see the show and how many people today? Just to be clear-- no one fell and hit their head or got seriously injured. They were simply overwhelmed. Lucy just had not foreseen the fainting. To give you a picture the Globe is an open-air theater a mostly faithful recreation of Shakespeare's original with just under half of its audience standing close to the action on the stage. And the Globe is used to fainters-- the combination of standing and the sun probably. During Titus when a person fainted the ushers would wind through the crowd with an unfolded wheelchair and then take them out of the arena. Later in the run there was a St. John's ambulance parked nearby. It is not surprising. The blood in context and in quantity is inescapable. And it is supposed to be. Titus Andronicus is one of Shakespeare's earliest plays. And there is a lot of young man swagger mixed in with the poetry of the writing. Set in ancient Rome the play was written to speak to some of the fascinations of the Elizabethan era. It is about war and revenge and an over-the-top grief that clouds good sense and moderation. Innocents get slain. Brutes revel in their savagery. Blood is shed in really horrible ways-- ritual sacrifice slit throats mutilation sexual assault plus a memorable cannibalistic pie. It is a play that is drenched in blood. And it often gets written off as a flurry of unsubstantial bloodlettings because of that. But Lucy knew the blood mattered to the play. One of the first things she had to figure out was how to make the blood look real. In an ironic twist to make the blood look like the real thing they had to fake it. If you see a lot of stage blood it often does not feel very real even if it is quite accurate the color of blood. But blood is quite bright. And somehow that bright blood in theater terms makes you go oh yeah yeah that is just theater blood. We sort of looked at how we would make it unreal in order to make it more real. In other words we darkened the blood. Lucy also had to figure out how to make the blood move so it would deliver the most impact. So she turned to another expert-- the fight director. You talk to him about if you are wounded in this way how does the blood behave? Where does the blood come? Why is it coming out of the corner of the mouth? Why is it coming from the nose? What is the journey of the blood? For Tamara who the audience love to hate there is a very careful spurt of blood when she gets a giant fork in the guts. When Titus loses a hand there was more than one source of blood a spurt from a syringe then a slower ooze out of his arm. To make the intense experience more immersive Lucy and her designer Bill Dudley focused on the space itself. They wanted to make it feel oppressive make the audience participate in the blood sport. They achieved this by giving the Globe a temporary velarium roof which reduced the sunlight and created shadows. And then they filled the space with incense. They moved some of the action off the stage and into the crowd to create a sort of theater of chance. The idea was to make it feel like a temple of death. They have to strike a delicate balance-- too little blood and atmosphere and you do not bring the audience along. Too much and it feels like a parody. It is like a huge contract is not it between the audience and the play and the players. The audience given any chance want to believe. So as long as you do everything to suspend the disbelief then you keep that contract. But as soon as you break that contract and do something that shows them the mechanics or overacts overplays your cards over-eggs it too much blood or under-eggs it too little blood at the moment where they are going sorry I do not believe that. And one of the places they decided to underplay happens in the very first bloodletting in the play when Titus sacrifices Alarbus. It happened very quickly in how we did it. And it was so fast. And then they saw the blood. And then we are pulling him and they do not have time to dwell. So we did a very deliberate thing. We really were shocking with it. The audience sees a flash of red and then he is gone almost immediately. Maybe the blood made them faint but it was not just the fact of it that caused them to fall. It was what was happening between the people on stage the feelings they were experiencing. One of the most shattering moments in the play comes after Lavinia attacked and mutilated is brought to her father and unwrapped. The dark viscous blood seeps through the bandages at her stumps and pours slowly from her mouth. Even Titus a war-hardened general who is done his own share of killing is reduced in that moment to an anguished and helpless father. His precious daughter still bleeds and he cannot stop that bleeding. To have your life's blood bleed your kin the blood that is your blood and to see it bleeding and to understand how those wounds were made pushes the brain to a point of madness. As Titus himself says in that scene it was my dear and he that wounded her have hurt me more than had he killed me dead. It is a girl who is still alive but bleeding and causes so much internal bleeding to her father both in the heart and the brain. So in a way he suffers a kind of brain bleed. The entire play is tied together by that ribbon of grief. Parents lose children. Brothers turn on each other. Innocent bystanders are collateral damage. And all the blood is in the service of that raw feeling. The language is hysterical and violent. And it goes on for five long acts. The audience gets pulled into the hysteria because they have little choice. By the halfway point in Act Three they are so far gone that they drop at the idea of violence. We used to have people fainting on a word. So when Aar