From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. I think the thing that gets to me the most about the story that we are doing today is I feel for the parents in this story. Like when you are a parent at some point you are in the situation where your kid is having experiences and friendships with people that are completely out of your reach right? You do not know what is really happening between them. You do not really know what is going through your kid's head. You are powerless. The parents in the story today they thought they were close to their son who was doing really well in school. Things seemed fine. Anyway it is our whole hour today a story we call Chip in My Brain. David Kestenbaum tells what happened which begins with basketball. It would probably be wrong to say that Cody Treybig loved basketball at the beginning. It would definitely be wrong to say he was good at it. He was not at all. He was good at World of Warcraft though the video game. Sometimes I still almost cry thinking about the first time I walked into Stormwind the capital human city. And the music changes. And you see this beautiful huge castle. And you are walking in and it is like-- it is just really-- it is amazing. Cody says he was not exactly avoiding physical activity. The game was just super fun. He and his friends would all log on go on adventures together. As someone who used to play a lot of video games it felt like bad etiquette not to ask who his online character was. Cody told me-- and knowing him a little bit now this seems entirely appropriate-- he was a paladin which is a holy knight who can fight. But also he is nice. He casts healing spells when his co-adventurers get hurt. Cody eventually built them up to level 60 as high as you can go. I was just really proud of having six-eighths of Lightforge gear which was nothing. But-- All of which is just to say that sports were not Cody's top priority. In gym class when they would have to run laps he would always be at the back. Basketball somehow though he kind of liked. His dad had played when he was growing up. So early on in third grade Cody found himself on this local youth league team. I was not very athletic at all. I remember being at basketball games with my friend Daniel. And we would be talking about World of Warcraft while the game was going on on the bench. OK. Well from Mom's perspective I thought he was adorable. That is Mom Drew Treybig. And here's Dad Jimmy Treybig. He was not real aggressive. He is in the middle of the court watching everybody run back and forth. And if he got the ball and someone wanted it he would just give it to them. He would just so sweetly hand it off to another player. I did not really have a problem with that to be honest at that age. He was little. I thought this is my dear sweet boy. And he will get it. He will get it eventually. But it bothered him after a while that the boys were making fun of him. Drew describes herself as a kind of helicopter mom which seems right. While I was there talking to Cody she kept momming us. Are you guys hungry? How about a smoothie? I am going to get one. Drew says the whole family is kind of kooky. Whenever someone was leaving they would be sure to say I love you to the other person. And I do not mean leaving the house just like leaving the room. Cody's dad Jimmy says he had a hard time getting his father to say I love you. So this is their fix. The Treybigs live in Texas in the outskirts of Austin. Jimmy was an early tech entrepreneur. He founded a company that made the computers that ran ATM machines. So they had a nice house on a big piece of land. There were cows around but no neighbors you could walk to which Jimmy told me he regretted. As it happened there was an old basketball court out behind the house. So they decided to get Cody some lessons. Like instead of a piano teacher or something get him a basketball teacher. His dad found someone through the local youth league a guy named AJ. Cody is in third grade at the time. So I remember the first meeting. He came in the front door. And he was just very friendly is what I remember feeling at the time tall 6 foot 6. And I think I probably asked him oh my god can you dunk? And he is like oh yeah I can dunk. He said they used to call him Springs was his nickname because he dunked a lot.   So that first day AJ walks in. They all hang out by the front door. Cody is shy but AJ gets right down on his level. The two of them go out to the basketball court talking the whole way. When they get there Cody cannot really even do a layup. And AJ is like OK we can fix this. Let us do some basics. He teaches Cody this drill where you stand just to the side of the basket try to bank it in off this magic spot. Then you get the rebound go to the other side and do it again back and forth back and forth. And he would put his hand through the hoop and act like a little monster a dragon or something squiggle his fingers around like feed the monster. Feed the monster.  So I thought that was pretty fun. AJ works with Cody two days a week then three days a week. Sometimes other kids come over so they can all train together. And it is great. Mom would bring out snacks for everyone. Or if other kids were not around Mom or Dad would get drafted. We would stand there and pretend to be a player on the other team so that they could-- or he told us to try to move into them or try to steal the ball or you know. So we could kind of be silly doing that too right? Was that fun? Yeah. Yeah. It was really fun-- but not on the hot days. I would say AJ I do not want to do this. It is too hot.  Word spreads around town about this great basketball trainer. Other parents hire him. But AJ and Cody they have something kind of special. They just click and they have this way of being around each other that seems sweet. When AJ was working with Cody they would trash talk on the court which I always thought of as involving a lot of swearing. But AJ taught Cody this really hilarious kind of trash talking-- just messing with someone asking weird random questions in the middle of the game. Hey what did you have for breakfast? He would act like my mom sometimes. He would talk in my mom's voice and be like OK Cody make the shot. Time to make the shot. Let us go. Let us get in there and try hard.  And that would obviously crack me up and it would be hard to focus. Cody played constantly. If the family went on a trip he would deflate a basketball stick it in the suitcase then re-inflate it after they arrived. When you are a kid you want there to be something that you are special at or even just a little good at. Because as a kid you start off being terrible at everything. That is the definition of being a kid. So when you meet someone who helps you get good at something it can feel amazing. Cody remembers this one afternoon-- maybe fourth grade on the court out back-- where it all just felt perfect. We were just doing jump shots. And I was making like all of them like never done-- making all of them. And one of my brother's friends had come to hang out with my brother. And he was up at the top watching us. And I noticed that. And I was like-- to me he was older and cool. And I was making them. And he could see I was making them. And I had just this pride just like it is something I loved the shooting. And I was doing good at it. And I just remember feeling like I was yeah floating on air. It was really nice. And AJ was there? Yeah. He was coaching me. He was rebounding and giving me the passes. The next year Cody got the MVP award for the school team. In some ways AJ was like a big kid himself. Drew says he often seemed more comfortable with kids than adults. And as Cody gets older he and AJ really start to become friends. After his games Cody would always call AJ to tell him how it went. Which kind of drove my parents nuts actually because they wanted to talk to me after the game in the car. And I would be talking to AJ on the phone the whole way home  which just shows how close we were. AJ would sometimes pick Cody up from middle school. Cody started to listen to the music AJ listened to. Young MC Bust a Move was a favorite. When Cody went out clothes shopping with his mom he picked out clothes that looked like things AJ would wear-- simple solid color T-shirts. Cody fell in love with basketball. And he kind of fell in love with AJ. I would hug him and tell him I loved him yeah. I mean I would jump up and he was holding me in the air or whatever yeah and tell him I loved him yeah. I would get sad when he left. I was shy. But once I got to know people I got very attached to them. There is something Cody wrote about AJ that sums up how he felt and also weirdly foreshadows what was to come. It is from early on a school assignment to write about your hero. I had Cody read from it. Some people in fourth grade might have picked their heroes because they are national celebrities. But I picked mine because he has made me a better person. Cody runs through how they met the way a fourth grader would. Ding dong goes our doorbell.  He was here. I closed my eyes and hoped. Then the door opened. 'Hey Cody' he said with happiness. 'Hi AJ' I replied. The essay ends with an interview Cody asking AJ what seemed like innocuous questions. Where did you grow up? What was your favorite subject in school? And then these two questions. What values do you think are important? And he says Communication and 'Thy shalt not have any gods before me' and 'Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.' Did you have a hero in your life? Yes Christ. Is it hard to get back in the mind of yourself writing this when you wrote this? It is very hard because now I know kind of what was going on. And so it is pretty sad I think. Fast forward to the morning of February 7 2012. Cody's in ninth grade. He and AJ have been hanging out for six years. Here's Drew Cody's mom. At that point I was driving Cody to school. And I do not remember why. But I dropped him off. And just as I am getting ready to leave my friend whips into the spot next to me. And so I put my window down. She put her window down. And she is sobbing. She is not even the tearing up kind of person. And she handed me-- she said oh my god oh my god. You need to see what AJ has done. I found some transcripts with my son. Here they are. They were instant messages between the woman's son Lucas and AJ. AJ had been coaching Lucas too. And they would been typing back and forth over Skype. Lucas's mom had printed them out. And I read them. And it was as if my entire body went numb. It is still really hard to talk about.  There did not seem to be anything physical going on. The messages were about religion but not any religion that Drew was familiar with-- stuff from the Bible but also things that were definitely not in the Bible. Some of it seemed really out there and scary. I knew I had to get home. And she told me-- she said go home right away. You have got to check Cody's Skype transcripts. And I am an Apple person. I really do not know anything about the PC the Skyping and the keyboard even. I mean everything seems different. So I say to her I do not know if I am going to be able to do it. I could not get home fast enough because I knew in my heart it was going to be terrible. I got home. Nobody was here. And I went to Cody's room and his Skype log was up. So he must have been on it that morning right before school. She sits there at Cody's desk and starts to read. Cody and AJ had been messaging and Skyping sometimes late into the night and clearly trying to hide it from her. The first pages are from some night when she would been threatening to take his phone away. Cody writes to AJ How do I communicate with you without technology AJ Please turn off everything and remain calm as possible. This is just for tonight. Cody Should I give them my phone if they ask for it? AJ Delete everything and give it to them. She keeps reading and it gets even stranger. Rapture Illuminati there were references to all these things biblical or religious that I was just astounded by. It was like Cody and AJ were living in this other world. And it was vast-- some mix of science fiction and stuff inspired by the Bible particularly the book of Revelation. At the time Drew could not piece it all together. But as best as I can tell this is the basic outline of it. It starts with standard evangelical beliefs about the rapture the end of days when a select group of people will suddenly disappear from the Earth to go live with God. And everyone else is going to be left to suffer. Who will be saved and who will be left behind? Well the devil is trying to capture as many souls as he can. And here's where the sci-fi stuff comes in. The devil is operating through a powerful and secret society called the Illuminati. The Illuminati have built a self-programming supercomputer somewhere in Belgium called The Beast. At some point the Illuminati is going to try to control people by implanting a computer ID chip an RFID chip in everyone's hands or foreheads. This chip it said is what the Bible has been prophesying the mark of the beast a high-tech version of 666. If you get an RFID chip implanted well you are definitely not getting saved. In the transcripts AJ and Cody go back and forth about RFID chips a bunch. At one point AJ writes It is here. This coming up year it will be mandatory for all armed forces followed by medical field then everyone else. What it does to the body is inhuman. Cody What do they do to your body? AJ You lose mind control. Why do you think I took time to study the mind with you? Cody How does it do that? AJ Oh  here we go. Are you sure? You want to know the truth? Cody Yes I do. Then the Skype log indicates AJ called him to talk. You could see how he was manipulating by reading it. Yes there is more. But I guess if you are not ready to hear it-- I mean you could see him how he would reel a child in. AJ writes For now rest. I have so much more to show you. But you have class tomorrow. In some places the conversation seems very middle school except they are texting about the apocalypse. And one of them is 36 years old. Like this time AJ is talking about how he is preparing to assist other followers of the Lord. And Cody compares the whole thing to a movie. Cody So it is like you are that guy from The Matrix who rescues Neo and takes him to the refuge underground. AJ You must be talking about Morpheus. Cody Yes that guy. AJ How do you know I am not Neo? Cody But Neo never goes and rescues people from the Matrix. AJ But he does show them the truth. The most alarming part for Drew reading this is that AJ seems to be trying to slowly separate Cody from his family to drive a wedge between her and her son. At one point AJ is telling Cody that his parents are influenced by quote the other side. One of the first things I had read that popped up was him telling Cody to call CPS. Child Protective Services? Yeah Child Protective-- and to fake that we were abusing him. Cody had been asking AJ what he should do if his parents tried to make him get an RFID chip implanted. AJ writes CPS one phone call 911. You can easily claim abuse which is not a lie because they would be forcing you into hell. Tell CPS nothing about the chip. Stress potential harm to your body and yelling. Drew reads this and worries that Cody is about to run off with AJ. You can just see in this sweet little innocent Cody saying things like well I think I have some money in a savings account. And then because AJ is telling him we are going-- he and Cody are going to need a lot of money. Drew calls Jimmy her husband who rushes home. I was really afraid. And it was obviously-- it had been going on a very long time. The Skype transcripts only went back a month. But they eventually learned from Cody that he and AJ had been having conversations like this for years-- right there in the house right under their noses. Drew and Jimmy call the police but it is unclear if there is anything they can charge AJ with. They decide for sure they need to cut off all contact with AJ which they worry will upset Cody. They do not know how much of all this religious stuff he really believes. But they know he loves AJ. They need time to figure things out. So they just leave Cody at school for the rest of the day. He is going to classes does not know any of this is happening. They call a friend who is a lawyer and they make a plan. When the school day is over Drew will pick up Cody and also his friend Lucas who had been messaging with AJ. She will pretend like everything's normal. But she will take them directly to the lawyer's office where Jimmy and the other kid's parents will be. Last period of the day last class I had off period no class. And I was texting AJ about something I had seen on the internet. And I think he replied. And it was a normal day. And my mom-- my friend Lucas and I were hanging out before my mom came and picked me up. And I think we had a basketball session that day with AJ planned. And my mom said oh I am going to drive both of you guys to our house to play. They were so happy that day when they got in the car. And all I am thinking is oh my god it is just in a couple of minutes when I have to turn left. It is all I kept thinking about. It is just going to all come crashing down. And I do not know if I am strong enough to do this because I am still barely keeping it together. So that was fine. It was normal. And we were going home. And instead of turning right we turn left. And Lucas and I were what is going on? Why are we turning left? And my mom would not answer us. And we could tell something was weird. So immediately Lucas and I are like what is going on? My mind immediately turned to oh my god maybe my parents are taking me somewhere to implant the RFID chip in me. So I am starting to think about how are we going to get out of this car. The other little boy almost jumped out of the car. And I had to beg him to just please not jump out of the car. They had done nothing wrong. They were not in trouble. They were going to be OK. But I could not tell them. For 20 minutes that is all I kept saying. We were texting AJ like what is going on? Do you know what is going on? We were kind of frantic. She took us to I guess our family lawyer at the time's office and sat us down. And they informed us that they had found Lucas's Skype transcripts with AJ. And that prompted my parents to look at my computer. And they found my Skype transcripts with AJ and that they were going to fire him. I would not be allowed to see him anymore and that he was not allowed to talk to us anymore. So I mean it-- my world blew up. My world blew up. It was-- I do not know how else to put it. My world just blew up. Looking at Cody though Drew could not tell what was going on with him. He did not cry. He did not yell. When they got home she says she tried to talk to him about all this but he would not talk. They got him a therapist right away. The lawyer told AJ he was fired and to stay away from the Treybigs. The family sent the school a photo of AJ told them to watch out for him. AJ sent an email to the Treybigs' lawyer threatening to sue them if they said bad things about him. Cody had been a high honors student. But the next day he got a 24 on a test. After school he would go to his room stay in there and go to sleep. In the mornings his parents would break down. They would say please just come home to us today. Do not run away with him. Of course one of the weird things about this whole situation is that before this Cody had seemed totally normal around the house just his regular self. When I first heard this story I honestly did not know what to think. It seemed incredible that all this could be going on and that no one would notice. How did this happen? And why did AJ do it? The Treybigs thought he was grooming Cody for years in some evil plan to control him and pull him away from the family. But maybe AJ was just a devoted religious guy with unconventional beliefs. We reached out to AJ who declined multiple interview requests. Then just before we went to air he did finally agree to talk. So we have some tape of him which you will hear later. He has a different version of most of this. But here is the story from Cody and his family's perspective. Those years where life in the Treybig household felt totally ordinary here's what Cody says was actually going on. Cody says the first time he and AJ talked about religion was back in the sixth grade. AJ had been coaching him for a few years. And this one day AJ starts talking about that video game that Cody loved World of Warcraft. We were in my garage. And that is where we had some workout equipment at the time. And he just turned so serious suddenly. He is telling me Cody the things in your World of Warcraft game-- these demons these warlocks--   --all these things they are real. And they are all around us all the time. And it is not good that you play that game because when you play that game these things they can come into you. And those things come from hell. It is a spiritual war going on around us all the time. You just cannot see it. Only some people can see it. I can see it. I just remember I-- it was truly terrifying. How did he seem? He seemed compassionate like he was looking out for me telling me this information that I needed to hear. And he is saying that is why you need to stop playing that game. That is why you need to start reading the Bible. That is why you need to go to church. That is why you need to start praying. That is why you need to start understanding these things and thinking about these things and maturing. So to me it was like he was protecting me from these terrible things. As for how this could all stay secret this first conversation did not. When other kids came over to play basketball that day Cody disappeared into the house. He started to cry. And he told his mom. Cody tells me there is a computer in the sky that is going to kill me. I am like what? What are you talking about? Drew says people have asked her now why she did not fire AJ on that day. She says she tries to be open-minded about religion. People believe all kinds of things. AJ seemed like a good guy. So when Cody tells his mom we have got to cancel World of Warcraft she is like no we do not. Cody's telling me that I never told him that the game was evil. And why was I allowing him to play an evil game? Well I remember almost laughing about that. I am like Cody you love this game. This is so silly. It is not evil. It is just a game. And I am going to go talk to AJ because this is ridiculous. Drew says she went out to talk to AJ who was coaching the other boys. She said what did you tell Cody? He is really upset. Oh I am so sorry. I did not mean to upset him. He misunderstood me. I will not ever do it again. I am so sorry. And I explained to him-- I said well we are going to have a problem if you do that again. You are hired to be a basketball coach. So do you think that you can not talk about those things? And he assured me that he could. Pretty much immediately they did talk about religion again. And this was a moment if you rewind the tape when things might have all gone differently. Cody could have believed his mom that all this stuff was ridiculous. But instead he wondered why his mom did not want him to learn about this stuff. He adored AJ. And the stuff AJ was saying if it was true it seemed really important. Like it is hard to think of anything that could be more urgent. Cody canceled his World of Warcraft account and stopped playing. And he says after that day their basketball sessions started changing. AJ told Cody he was not really there to teach him basketball. That did not really matter. He said he was sent there because he AJ was one of the chosen. And Cody was special. He would either just start and say that God had instructed him that it was time that he shares this new thing with me. Or he would just start the whole thing off by just sighing and going  they have eyes but they cannot see. They have ears but they cannot hear. You know if only they knew if only they knew. And I would be like what? And he would make it such a challenge for me to get that information out of him. He would be like you are not ready. You are not ready. It was like a story being revealed in many chapters about this whole world around them that was invisible to most people. If you only knew who I am AJ would say. AJ said he could see demons gathering around the house. But when he came over they would flee because they were afraid of him. AJ said he sometimes saw demons around the basketball court while they were playing. And then sometimes he would pause in the middle of the session just look into the field in the distance and then smile and then keep going in the session and like-- As if he would seen something? --as if he would seen something. He would say like when he was talking to my mom he could see the devil behind her smiling. And he would tell me this about other clients he had too. This other client his dad's part of the Illuminati. And the demons are flocked at his house. And when he went there the demons would scream and run. And they hated it when they went there. And he told me as soon as that family fired him he saw the kid that he was working with age 10 years in one day and start getting sick and depressed all the time because the demons were finally able to flock to that kid and attack him because he was not there to protect him anymore. Cody's dad's office had a particularly bad feel about it AJ said. There was a statue of a snake in it. He said that was a sign of the Illuminati. As it happened that is where Cody and I were doing this interview. The snake was there on the table. It is just one of those corporate we did it kind of things from the sales team at his dad's company. But in Cody's mind everything around him started to have a double deeper meaning to it. There is a Bohemian Grove in California where the Illuminati worship a 40-foot statue of an owl. And Cody why do you think your dad takes two-week trips to California? Where do you think he is going? Do you really think he has business for two weeks there? Who has business for two weeks? That is not normal. Is there really a 40-foot statue of an owl in California?  I do not know. I really-- I do not know. There is a giant owl. Bohemian Grove is this enclave for the rich and powerful. Presidents have been there. But Cody's dad says he is never been. The things AJ said were hard to disprove especially if you are in sixth grade. AJ said he could see people talking about him when he was not there that he could see people's dreams sometimes read their thoughts. And those demons around the house he said they are spreading. That one was particularly alarming. When you were playing basketball did you imagine like little demons all around that you could not see? Yes. It was horrible for me because by seventh and eighth grade he started talking to me about the rapture and how the rapture could happen at any second. And to me in my mind he said once you are spiritually sound once your soul is good you will see the things I see. So I was waiting for the day when I could see the demons. And so I would go to the court sometimes and just look and just why cannot I see it? Why cannot I see it? Please God show me. Am I not doing enough? There was an urgency to the whole thing. AJ said there were signs the rapture might happen during the upcoming Olympics which meant the Illuminati were going to be trying to implant everyone with RFID chips. There was very little time left. How do you have that going on in your head and then you get up in the morning eat breakfast with the family chat about whatever they are joking about and then go to school and-- Every second was not normal. It was-- I would walk around school. And I would think all these idiots they do not see what is really going on. The world's ending so soon. I would spend my off periods walking around the school looking for the Illuminati symbols AJ told me are around St. Stephen's. I would spend my offs researching articles he showed me about how my dad's ham radio is proof that he is part of the Illuminati and that he is listening in on people's conversations using his antennas. Was there any part of you that questioned it that was like that does not sound like that is possible? I think for me at the time it was so scary that I would not allow myself to question. I cannot explain like how-- the way it was real to me. It was like I am in this real battle that is happening everywhere. I know something that nobody else knows. I am special. And God had chosen me. Yeah it is like you are put in this fantasy world. It is like-- it is hard to explain the way it built you up but simultaneously broke you down. I mean but it was also this part of you-- it just builds you up like you are this person. And he did it in such a way-- it just was so real to me. It is funny. I feel like it is at a time where you are forming your worldview as a kid. You know what I mean? And like someone snuck this really messed up version of it into you. Yeah. I talked to some other kids who were around at the time. They said AJ talked to them about this stuff too. One of them told me he sees himself as a skeptical person but he still found himself wondering. Maybe AJ knows something. AJ would call him on his cell phone during school and say something like are you in a secure location? It was scary but also kind of exciting like you were a secret agent. But Cody was the one AJ spent the most time with and he believed it all. His friends told me they had no idea. In his head it was like Cody was living inside a movie. And as it turns out it is an actual movie from 1972 called The Rapture. That is where this whole story about a supercomputer called The Beast in Belgium connected to people being marked with numbers-- that is where it comes from. I was not able to get a copy of the film. But we were able to find an LP which has a radio drama version of it in the style of War of the Worlds. The computer will assign each citizen of the world a number for use for all buying and all selling. We are setting it up so that every person will be tattooed with an invisible mark. I have already had my number tattooed on my hand and forehead. That is amazing. I tracked down the screenwriter a Christian author named Joe Musser. He said some of the promotional material for the movie was in the form of fictional news stories which some people thought were real. They got passed around in churches and even published in one Christian magazine. He wrote in to say hey you messed up. This is not true. But it was too late. 40-something years later the idea of a supercomputer in Belgium called The Beast it is still around. Cody says he would wake up in the morning and check CNN to see if the rapture had happened because for sure it would be on the news. The things AJ said were terrifying but the only safe place was with AJ. So instead of running away he would go back to him. My own thoughts were not safe. I had this tic where I was so afraid that I would say I hate God in my head that if I-- I had to talk constantly in my head. I had to say the phrase I love God so much. God is so amazing. I love him so much. Like I am-- I love God. I love God. And that would be every waking hour of my day. I would have to say that constantly throughout in my head or else I was afraid I would let the phrase I hate God out. And then I would be-- I would go to hell forever. I was not even safe with my own self. Cody hid all this from his parents for three years. And just like in basketball how you had codes so your teammates knew what play you were running he and AJ had one too. He might say even in front of my parents or something hey I was talking to my friend John the other day. And he told me he had 12 points and 4 rebounds in a game. And I knew that meant go read in the Bible John chapter 12 or whatever verse 4. Cody's mom says she did notice Cody was more interested in religion. He would pester her to let him talk to AJ about religion. She said no. At some point Cody asked to get baptized. His mom worried that might mean that AJ was still talking to Cody about religion which he would promised not to do. But Cody insisted no no this is just something I want to do. So they said OK. Drew says in retrospect of course all this looks very different. I feel like as a mom how could I not know? This little boy thought he was going to die every day every minute of every day. I mean how could I have not know