Jill's been a flight attendant for years does long flights to Europe and South America where they are on the plane for 10 hours or more. And it is such close quarters and customers can be so stressed out and get testy and she and her co-workers of course always have to seem calm and courteous. They need to totally control the cabin. And at the same time give off this illusion of being servants. Right. When in reality we are in control. It is stressful she says. And it is easy for them to get on each other's nerves like with this flight attendant who was Jill's nemesis for a while. She just talked a lot. I think that is what bothered me a lot. So during our downtime going into the galley sort of getting away from people it would just be incessant talking. And it drove me nuts. And I think my silence would drive her nuts. So we did not get along. Now of course when flight attendants snipe at each other if they are in the middle of the aisle with the beverage cart-- We have to do it in a way that the passengers do not know what is happening. For example she would say can you get me some more Cokes from the galley? And I would say we are out of Cokes. And to the passengers next to us that sounds completely normal. But she knows and I know that we are not out of Cokes. And she is stuck behind the beverage cart. She physically cannot get there and get them for herself. And so it is-- It is war. It is war. It is this tiny little symbol of hostility wrapped in this little sentence about Coca-Cola. She might try like are you sure we are out of Cokes? Because I saw some back there. And I would say no we are out. She would be powerless. If we have to do another beverage service she might take all the red wine. And so I have to ask her every time for a bottle of red wine. And I have to ask her for something every time I need it. It is these little tiny things that you would never know. And then about 2 2 and 12 hours into these overnight flights Jill says it will be time for a sleep break. Some planes have special seats curtained off or hidden behind doors in special compartments or up secret flights of stairs in certain planes there are crew bunks above the overhead bins. Who knew? It is a very tiny little space literally above the overhead bins. So Jill would sometimes have to go to sleep with her enemy with the nemesis. And she says that to function on the rest of the flight they really do need to sleep no kidding. And so they both know its truce. There is no disturbing the other person's sleep at all. I learned to not toss and turn not clear my throat just be very still. I imagine myself like a vampire in a coffin so that I am not disturbing the other person even if I hate them. And then they lie there side by side at peace hurdling through the air at over 500 miles an hour each of them dreaming presumably very different dreams. Jill does not know what the nemesis would dream about but she has certain dreams only when she is in the air. It is strange. I do not know if I should say this but I do have crashing dreams on the plane. It is strange. I do not have those on the ground. I wonder if it is the turbulence. What happens in the crashing dreams? We just crash.   Well today on our program Same Bed Different Dreams we have stories of enemies sleeping together or working together or just stuck together in some way with very different hopes and goals stories of deception and star-crossed haters. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Dream Weevil. That title's going to make more sense as this story goes on. Just trust me on that. In 1986 a man and woman ran into a US embassy in Vienna and said they needed asylum. They were from South Korea. And they told embassy officials this incredible story of kidnapping and intrigue and being torn apart and thrown back together and years of dreaming about escape from their kidnapper while at the same time convincing their kidnapper that what they really wanted to do was stay with him. Nancy Updike has the story. The woman who was kidnapped was a famous South Korean actress named Choi Eun-Hee. I read a book about it by a writer and film producer named Paul Fischer. He spent years researching this story. She was compared at the time to Elizabeth Taylor. Elizabeth Taylor. Imagine if Elizabeth Taylor past her prime but still famous from all her iconic roles had just disappeared one day. Choi was that beautiful that much of an icon in South Korea and she was gone. She found out pretty quickly who had arranged this. When Choi was kidnapped in 1978 she was put on a boat and the boat went to Namp'o Harbor in North Korea. And she actually has a photo which is in the book of her very first meeting with Kim Jong-il. He was there waiting for her off the boat with a photographer. And he had his photographer take a photo and then send it to her as a sort of-- You will want to remember this. Exactly remember that time. Remember that time I had you kidnapped and brought to me? And it is a terrible picture. And he is beaming and smiley and she is got her face covered. For years her family and her country did not know where she was. This happened in 1978. Choi was in her 50s. And her first sickening guess as to why she had been taken was that Kim Jong-il had brought her to North Korea to be a mistress for his father the Great Leader Kim Il-sung who was ruling the country at the time. But no it seemed that Kim Jong-il himself was just a very big fan of Choi's movies. He put her up in a fancy villa surrounded by walls and barbed wire and armed guards. She called it in her memoir Las Vegas meets Vladivostok. Kim Jong-il brought her out to display at parties. That was Choi's life for five years until one particular night and one special party. Choi had been there for a while. And she was standing somewhere in the center of the room. And she was used to these parties by this point. Exactly. They were routine. She had started feeling repulsed by them. People got drunk and groped women and then they went on forever. And somebody had already told her that this is going to be such a great evening for you. And she nodded along because she was used to hyperbole about everything. Choi had no idea that Kim Jong-il that night was planning to show off for the first time another person he had acquired the man who had directed or produced almost all of Choi's movies her ex-husband Shin Sang-Ok. Shin and Choi each did not know that the other was also in the country. Shin had been brought there the same way Choi was. But he tried to escape twice so he was thrown in a prison camp for a couple of years. The best way to describe Shin-- Steven Spielberg's a good comparison in a sense as well. He made films that were very good very commercial very popular. And he also produced other people's films had his own studio. And he was the most powerful popular filmmaker in South Korea arguably in all of Southeast Asia for most of the '60s and into the '70s. And Shin 10 days prior to this he was still in a prison camp got released and for 10 days in a villa they fattened him up tried to restore him to health. He arrives at the party when it is already in full flow. And he walks inside and as soon as he enters there is applause. What an insane thing. 10 days ago you are in a prison camp. You walk in and you are the life of the party. Everyone's applauding. Exactly. And in the pictures his face still looks emaciated. You can tell he is just gone through something terrible. The suit does not fit. Now Choi does not see Shin come in. She just hears people start applauding. And Choi is sort of even unfazed by this. Any time Kim does anything people get up and applaud. She did not know why people were applauding. She had no idea. Exactly until somebody says why do not you look happy? Look who is here. And she turns around. And it is been five years. Shin's got the marks of having been tortured in a prison camp. She does not recognize him right away. And from that point on Kim Jong-il was pulling them together. And they sort of shell shocked hugged one another. And then were then moved around like blocking in a movie scene by Kim Jong-il. What like stand here sit here. Stand here. You stand next to me. Smile to the cameras. They were sort of the guests of honor. Famous people do not get to pick their fans. Kim Jong-il was a super fan who was also unfortunately the son of the all powerful leader of a totalitarian state. Shin and Choi had made their best movies together. Kim loved their movies and he wanted them to be a couple just like they were in their heyday. So he arranged it parent trap style. He told them at the party that guess what he had a newly remodeled villa for them that they would be living in from now on together. Making a joke I think he said something like the newlyweds are going to want to be alone now. What a weirdo. And had them taken to a car and by all accounts seemed extremely pleased and expected them to be equally so. And it is the moment right after that when they went back to the villa closed the bathroom door turned the faucets on-- In order to talk privately they turned the faucets on so they can whisper and actually have a private conversation. Exactly. And they just asked one another what had happened. The way she describes it is sort of a lovely moment where she asks him what happened to you? And he said a lot. I will tell you some other time. And then he asks her what happened to you? And she says a lot. I will tell you some other time. And Shin kind of gingerly again asked her you know you looked very smiley and happy. And have you been brainwashed? And then she made a joke about how the director cannot even recognize acting anymore. And both of them were finally able to be genuine with someone. And they spent the next several hours going through everything. Shin and Choi made a long-term plan and a short-term plan. Long-term they were going to escape. But they would wait until they could do it right so they would not be caught. Their short-term plan involved a small tape recorder which they were able to get because one of the weird privileges of their captivity was that they were allowed to shop at a department store that sold things that were out of reach for most people in the country like tape recorders. Kim Jong-il had long- and short-term plans of his own for them. He told them that soon he would summon them to talk about his vision for their future. Then seven months went by. And during those months Shin and Choi spent hours nearly every week in Kim's huge film archive. He wanted Shin and Choi to see it and be impressed and they were. Kim did not just loved their movies. He loved all movies. It was against the law for ordinary North Koreans to watch foreign films. But Kim had set up a massive bootlegging operation running in countries all over the world so he could build up his private collection with every movie ever made or as close as he could get. The archive was three stories high and heavily guarded at least two screening rooms all for Kim only and now for Shin and Choi. Shin was bowled over by every detail. The way the building itself was set up to run and with admiration over how Kim had set up his own archive and how well everything was kept geeking out over the air conditioning settings and how he was preserving the celluloid and how everything was cataloged and the staff and then how large it was. How is it categorized? Was it by year or by genre or by director? It went by country first. And then I think it went by year as they got them in. And then there is a lovely touch where the South Korean films are in a normal air conditioning room and then the North Korean films were in the most lavish storage and screening room in the whole building. The films were dubbed into Korean after being painstakingly transcribed sometimes by Americans. There was an American defector-- he was one of several actually-- who had been there since 1965. And one of his jobs was transcribing American films but just by listening because he was not allowed to watch them. Yeah. And he would not know that they were films because they gave him and the other American defectors the audio. For some reason they chopped up the film soundtracks into different bits in the wrong order so they would not-- Know what they were doing? Exactly or enjoy them. But he had this experience of transcribing and then suddenly realizing wait this is Mary Poppins. Shin and Choi spent dozens and dozens of hours watching one movie after another in the screening rooms at the film archive and in their villa which was also outfitted to show movies. They did that for months until finally they got word. Kim is ready to meet with you. They went and they brought the tape recorder. And the second they walked in Choi had the tape recorder in her purse and she flicked it on. And I think unexpectedly Kim Jong-il just talked at them mostly for two hours.  Kim Jong-il spoke very very fast. And his mind went all over the place. And he had a very intimidating waiter slash bodyguard who kept walking into to refill drinks and empty ashtrays. Shin and Choi wanted to record Kim for two reasons. First they knew they might not be able to escape. Maybe they would be killed and their children and friends would just never know what had happened to them. A recording if they could smuggle it out would at least be proof of where they would been. The second reason to record him was that they knew that Kim would insist they say publicly that they had come to North Korea on their own voluntarily. Shin and Choi were hoping that in their private conversation Kim might admit to having had them kidnapped and brought to him. And he almost almost did by making a joke. In the first couple of minutes of their conversation Kim talked about how he had brought Choi over first in order to entice Shin to North Korea. I say joke because Kim laughs as he says it. And then all three of them laugh.     It is tyrant management 101. If he laughs you laugh. The rest of what Kim said in that conversation-- well he said a lot of things. But the main thing was North Korean movies are bad and I am sick of it.   They were making the same film over and over again and that there were too long and too boring and history lessons and too melodramatic. And he says there is too much crying. I did not tell anybody to put in so much crying.   Kim Jong-il told Shin and Choi that he knew he was the only person in the country who could get away with saying what he was saying. And he told them not to repeat any of it. He said when it comes to movies we are in kindergarten. And other countries like South Korea are in college. He said if we do not catch up in the next 10 years our movies are going to be the worst of the worst movies in the world. The problem he said just between us is that people in North Korea had it too easy. They had things handed to them. They did not have to hustle like Shin and Choi did. There is a point in the tape where he tells them that-- and I think I am going to paraphrase a bit. But he says there is no incentive in socialism to do any better.   He says my screenwriters they will write something they will get their rations. The other guys make a film they will get their rations. So they get paid no matter what as long as they just turn out the work. Exactly and follow orders. And he seemed very conscious that he needs someone who pushes himself more than that who is used to having to do more than that to earn his keep. Kim Jong-il never mentioned another possible reason why North Korea's movies were wooden and unambitious like fear. He Kim Jong-il had written the book the only book in North Korea about the right way to make movies and think about movies. It is called On the Art of the Cinema. It is still in print. Everyone involved in North Korea's film industry in the 1980s had to have been aware of the potential consequences of doing something as unpatriotic or insulting as trying to realize their own independent artistic vision. Without Kim's explicit blessing and his father's it was better to be crappy than sorry. The conversation continued. Shin and Choi murmured that North Korea citizens were fortunate to have a comrade leader who understood films so well. Kim Jong-il agreed. With his permission the three of them got into critiquing specific films a North Korean one called The Star of Korea and while they were at it a Soviet film called Mother that had a dying scene they all agreed had been atrocious.   They were three movie lovers talking about what they loved. And Kim Jong-il's big plan for Shin and Choi was that he wanted them to make North Korean movies good so that they could compete with films coming out of the West and win awards and be shown in theaters all over the world. He wanted Choi to act in the movies and Shin to direct them. Shin could have his own film company just like he used to have. Shin wanted to call the company Shin Film a very bold request in the circumstances. Yeah nothing in North Korea had been called anything other than The Worker's Paradise this or The Party this or the Supreme Leader this or Kim Il-sung University. So it was a big deal. But it is also very telling of Shin that even in this surreal situation his first instinct is OK OK OK but can we give the company my name? In film noir someone is always using someone and often people are using each other. And we do not find out until the end who gets away with what. Shin and Choi knew that their only chance of escape would be to convince Kim Jong-il to let them film and work in the West. Kim Jong-il knew that if he wanted good movies he had to give Shin and Choi enough freedom to create them. So all three of them wanted to make great movies. But-- Same bed different dreams. Kim Jong-il wanted the films for his own purposes. And they needed the films to get away from him. And it is almost like his ambition of making films that the world will respect completely overtook any sense of logic. So the first film Shin and Choi shot had sequences that they shot in Eastern Europe standing in for the Hague. And they showed Kim Jong-il the film. He said this is fantastic. It is like a European film. It is the best thing we have ever made allowed them to start showing it. And it never crossed his mind that they had done exactly what he would forbidden his own filmmakers to do forever for a reason. They would been forbidden to show the world outside North Korea. They showed people things that they had not been able to see almost in a lifetime for some people in North Korea by 1983 1984. And the second that film started playing in cinemas in North Korea the North Korean audiences did not take in necessarily the higher production values. All they could talk about was the first 10 15 minutes shot on the streets of Prague where OK wait the buildings look amazing. People are walking into businesses. They are all dressed differently. There is cars. What? That is what really had an impact because up until then they had been told you are the luckiest people in the world. The Worker's Paradise is the only place in the world where people have peace and freedom. And suddenly they saw that that was not true. How do you know that that is what people thought? I was lucky enough to meet and speak to people who'd escaped from North Korea who were at varying ages at the time that they were able to watch these films. And there is another German researcher in Japan now called Johannes Schonherr who is done quite a lot of talking to defectors about the same thing. And one of the things that is fascinating is that Shin and Choi's films had a huge impact straightaway. There would have been people in their late 30s who'd never seen anything of the outside world that had not been filtered. But it was not just that people suddenly were able to see footage of the outside world. But Shin and Choi made a film called Love Love My Love which was literally the first love story in North Korean culture post 1945 that was not about love of the leader or love the party. It was literally the first time people were able to go to the cinema and see something that was about two people falling in love. And it was the first time teenagers had pictures on their wall of a matinee idol of anybody other than the leaders. Shin directed seven films for Kim Jong-il. And then in March 1986 he and Choi went to a hotel in Vienna for some film business managed to grab a separate taxi from their North Korean minders sped to the US Embassy and ran in. They were debriefed by the CIA and later by South Korean intelligence. And they were interviewed by The Washington Post and other media outlets. And stories about North Korea are always hard to fact check. For parts of Shin and Choi's story their recollections their interpretations are all there is. But the movies exist. The recording of Kim exists. Kim Jong-il had told Shin and Choi in the recording that when people ask them why they were in North Korea they should say freedom for true artistic freedom. For Shin there was some bitter truth to that because South Korea at the time Shin and Choi were kidnapped had been a military dictatorship with very heavy-handed censors. Shin's studio had been shut down by the South Korean government in 1975. His career was in ruins. In North Korea Shin got to make films again. He wrote unabashedly in his autobiography how much he had loved making movies there. Shin always spoke of North Korea as the place he associated film freedom with and creative freedom with because he could ask for anything and get it. In one episode he asked for a model train to blow up for a scene and he was given a real train packed with explosives on rails to blow up if he wanted to. And if he asked for a wind machine he was sent helicopters. And if he wanted fake snow everybody was flown to a mountain. There was no expense spared. Kim Jong-il felt like the larger than life film producer that you hear about. And he did not have the downside that a film producer usually has because a film producer usually has to say no every now and then. We do not have enough money. We do not have enough time. Shin and Choi had remarried in North Korea at Kim Jong-il's suggestion. And it ended up being a real marriage. They were together until Shin died in 2006. They seemed to have been each other's big love in life besides movies. Although Shin loved movies more than Choi did maybe a lot more. In their shared memoir of their time in North Korea it goes from his voice to her voice back and forth. And kind of the second they start making films her voice kind of disappears entirely. And it is all his from then on. And it is about escaping but in equal measure it is about making the films almost as if he is writing a memoir of his time in Hollywood or something. Choi's 88 years old living in South Korea. When Paul was researching his book he interviewed her for it. And he asked her about Shin and the movies they made in North Korea. And when I met her and spoke to her you could sense the impatience that if she had been able to get out of there three years earlier and not made any of the films she would have been very happy to do so. And him not so much. And him not so much. Even great love cannot protect you from the other person wanting what they want. Nancy Updike is one of the producers of our show. Paul Fischer's book about all this is called A Kim Jong-il Production. Coming up people sharing beds-- actual beds-- with very different dreams. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program Same Bed Different Dreams. We have stories of people who are bound closely together. They are stuck with each other but with very different hopes and goals. We have arrived at Act Two of our program Act Two Smell You Later. There are all kinds of work situations where people very literally share an actual bed so they can do their jobs. These are people who share a bed that they are not ever in at the same time. This happens in lots of places. It has different names-- shift beds hot sheeting hot bedding. Flight attendants do this. The flight attendant Jill who you heard at the top of the program used to sleep in an apartment in New York with bunk beds that she shared with a bunch of airline people. Guys who work on oil rigs and oil fields do it too. Basically the only rules that we had was basically we had to swap out sheets every time that we are going to go to our shift. Swap out your sheets and put my sheets. This guy works in Carlsbad New Mexico. When he and a friend first moved there two years ago to do fracking to save money they rented this small RV just like 15 feet long one bed in it. He worked nights. His friend worked days. They had a rule to always shower before getting in the bed. The sheets my friend's always been real picky on that. He always had the color blue. I always liked red sheets something bright. So every time that I would leave he always had my red sheets on. Every time that I would leave I would always put his blue sheets on. And plus we never got the same sheets because we never wanted to be mixed up and stuff. That would be pretty messed up. I would be smelling him and he would be smelling me and stuff. Migrant workers also have these shift beds in some places in farms around the country. In New York the main agricultural product is milk. There are 5000 dairy farms in the state and lots of them operate 247 so shift beds are common. Stephanie Foo went to see the shift beds at one of those farms. I did not see any cows on the farm. And more surprising I did not smell them. Instead there were just sweet smelling bales of hay in a field with three mobile homes on it. Mexican music was blasting out of the closest one. My interpreter Antonia and I knock on the door. And as soon as we step inside the stench of manure is overpowering from a few mud-caked boots in the corner. It is a two-bedroom trailer with holes in the floor and black mold growing in the cabinets and clutter everywhere roaches and jars of Nescafe and sugar and cans of beans Coronas. It is 700 PM and we are there during the shift change. There are four or five guys milling around all Mexican all undocumented. Some are just getting home and others like this one guy Jose are just making up for work. Jose's shy but he smiles a lot. He shows Antonia and me where he sleeps. Oh wow. There is a bed in the bathroom. Jose lifts up the bed's mattress and a wooden plank underneath knocking over a jar of change and-- Oh. Are you in the bathtub? Si. . He joked that if he wanted to take a bath he could just lift up his bed and get in. His bed is a wooden plank placed over the tub. There are a couple of pillows shoved over the faucet so that the knobs do not turn and flood the tub while he is sleeping. It is happened before. Including the bathtub bed there are a total of seven beds in the two-bedroom mobile home. Sometimes up to 13 people live here and share the seven beds sleeping in shifts. Jose explained how it works. No there are no alarm clocks. No need for them. When you get off work you find someone who has an opposite shift from you and you wake them up so you can take their bad. .  Jose says OK I get here at 400 AM and my friend is sleeping. And I tap him on his blanket and it goes like this. . Who is it? . Me Jose. . It is 500. It is 500. It is 500. And they try to go back to sleep. Let me sleep. And I say it is 500. It is 500. It is 500. And they say OK OK. It is 500. Then I get ready for bed. He wakes up and says OK see you later. I will wake you later. And does it feel strange and intimate? Or did it at first when you had to share a bed with somebody? .  Jose says yes of course yeah. You are used to coming to work. And suddenly someone else comes and sleeps in your bed in your blankets. You should see. It is weird. You flip your pillow over each time. .  But you get used to it to everyone's smells. We become friends. You know that if he showers it is fine but if not I understand. .  Because sometimes you do not get back until 700 or 600 and there is no time to shower. I am understanding of that and he should be too. It is fine. I mean you get used to it really. .  That is what everyone kept telling me you get used to it-- to the hours to the work to everyone else rummaging around in your space. You get used to it. Jose and Antonio work seven days a week 16 hours three days a week eight hours the other four no overtime. I talked to a guy who is worked closely with many farms across the state and he described the pay and living conditions at the farm we were at as quote slightly below average. Jose says it is not that bad. He says other farms he is lived at have been worse. At one the roof leaked onto the beds. And it was so crowded that he would try to sleep standing up. At another he could not sleep because he was afraid that a drunk violent roommate would beat him up in the middle of the night. Here they get along. If someone wants to bring his girlfriend over the rest of them all cram into the other bedroom even sleep together in one bed so that guy can have a room to himself. But mostly they are not too concerned about privacy. As I squeezed passed piles of other people's toiletries and clothes and sheets and condom wrappers all over the floor I was reminded of what a luxury it is to ever feel like you have a space that is all yours. Here at any given moment somebody might be in the next room bumping the Black Eyed Peas off YouTube and singing at the top of their lungs. SINGING Here we go. Here we go. We gonna rock rock rock. Easy come. Easy go. This is a guy named Antonio singing. He got really excited at this part because he knew the days of the week in English. .  SINGING Monday Tuesday Wednesday and Thursday Friday-- Well most of the days. All this is bearable because it is temporary. They do this a few years then move home. And Antonio tells me he makes more in one day here than he would in a whole week in Mexico and sends it all back. One man says he actually owns his own farm in Mexico with his own workers and that he is working here to be able to expand it. Many guys have built businesses. One is putting two kids through college. Jose says he bought a big house for his girlfriend in Mexico. Another man puts it best. He says every head is its own world. I come for my dreams and he comes for his. One of the things Antonio-- the guy who was singing-- dreams about is his bed his future bed. He can picture exactly what his bedroom in Mexico will look like once he is finished building it. .  With a sturdy red floor that is a color I like. The bedrooms each have a bathroom.  with internet  Netflix. What size bed do you want? And is it firm or is it soft? King size no? . King sized waterbed. It is the best no? .  That is why we are here. Antonio cracks another Corona. It is getting late for him. He has to get up in six hours for his shift. I shake his hand but before I go I notice that I do not smell the manure anymore. I have not smelled it in a while actually. The air seems cold and fresh. They are right. You really can get used to the smell. Stephanie Foo is one of the producers of our program. Act Three The Haunted Becomes the Haunter. This next story is about two women who are not sleeping in the same bed. They are kind of inhabiting the same body in a way with very different dreams. Miki Meek tells what happened. Jessamyn Lovell did not know she had a secret doppelganger until she got a phone call. Jessamyn is a photographer who teaches photography at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. And one morning she was heading out the door for work. And I get this call and he identified himself as Inspector Crudo from the San Francisco Police Department Financial Crimes Unit. And he immediately asked me do you know a woman named Erin Colleen Hart? And I said no and why? And he said well did you ever give her your identification your New Mexico State driver's license or any other identification? And I said no no. I do not know her. And what is this about? And I immediately thought of my wallet being stolen a year and a half prior at this gallery in San Francisco. She never got it back and assumed it was gone for good. But now this police inspector was telling her that a woman named Erin Hart had just been busted using Jessamyn's driver's license trying to check into a San Francisco hotel. Then he said look I will send you a police report. She is in police custody right now. And she was in police custody because she had been trying to u