Sullivan High School in Chicago is a school where communication is not the easiest in normal times. Kids constantly have to pass their phones back and forth with Google Translate so they can understand each other. Over half the kids are immigrants or refugees. They come from close to 40 different countries. They speak over 35 different languages. That is Elly Fishman a reporter who spent over three years there and wrote a book about the school called Refugee High. She returned there with one of our producers at the beginning of this school year and was there on the second day of school. Kids are really nervous. They are not native English speakers. They do not know each other yet. So they are sitting among a bunch of strangers at this point. So there is a lot of anxiety and nerves. Sullivan High School is organized to make them feel at home. Each step at the staircase by the main entrance says welcome in a different language private spaces for Muslim students to pray shelves full of winter coats and backpacks for students who arrive with none special curriculum and services tailored to them. This year though was the first time students were back in person since the pandemic which posed some special challenges. Like for instance English teacher Annmarie Handley was going around the room student by student doing one of the most pedestrian beginning of school tasks-- filling out the seating chart with the basics. What country are they from? What do they speak besides English? Abdal? What languages do you speak? I speak Arabic. What languages do you speak sir? OK. Now you heard that student perfectly because our producer was standing right next to him with a microphone just inches from his face. But that long pause the fact that Ms. Handley asked him the question a second time that is going to make a lot more sense if I just play you the sound from the microphone that was pinned to Ms. Handley's lapel. This is how she heard that interaction more or less. Abdal? What languages do you speak? What languages do you speak sir? Yeah. She did not hear him at all. Because she is way up at the front of the room stuck there typing into a computer. And there is an air purifier that they put in for COVID humming towards the back of the room. And there is an air conditioner running that is in the window just to her right. And most important everybody is in a mask muffling the students' voices and making it so she cannot see anybody's mouth move. Now you can see how much I normally read lips. She continues her questions. And what country were you born in? Egypt. Where? Egypt. Asia? What part of Asia? No Egypt. Egypt. Cool. So she keeps going around the room. And this keeps happening. Again reporter Elly Fishman. It seemed to me having spent a couple of years in the school before COVID that it was just exponentially harder. And there was so much more miscommunication. All right. And then we have Claude. What languages do you speak? What say? What languages do you speak? Kinyarwanda. Kinyarwanda. And what country were you born in? Congo. Rwanda. I said Congo. One more table. Dang. Huh? I said Congo. Congo. Uh-huh. Oh my gosh. I am so sorry. I thought you said Rwanda. I will fix it. It is painful to listen to-- hearing these students give the teacher exactly what she is asking for. And she cannot tell. Everybody is trying to connect. And they are not connecting. In the recording you can hear Ms. Handley try to manage this awkwardness save the students from the embarrassment turn it all on herself. Sorry. It is the air conditioner. It is not you guys. Your English is good. It is just this is right in my ear. And it is killing me. When I reached Ms. Handley she said it is a lot harder to conduct this class without being able to see the kids' mouths. But for her it really just feels like one more thing to deal with. I think I worry more that the kid is getting frustrated because especially at the beginning of the year I need them to know that I am listening and they can trust me. And I do not want them to feel as though I am not listening or I do not care.  She says in the months since then it is gotten a lot easier to communicate. The air conditioning is off. And more important everybody is more comfortable with each other and with her which means they are more comfortable speaking up projecting making themselves heard through the mask. Communication is delicate. And if you do not get it right it could be disastrous. They got through it here in Ms. Handley's class. But in our other stories today it does not go so well. Like in one story the future of democracy is at stake. In another a mom tries to say something important to her own daughter so ineffectively. Also Amelia Bedelia-- remember her-- who hears but never understands. Where is she today? Here. From WBEZ Chicago this is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Until The Cows Come Home. So this first story is about a man trying to communicate a thing a very particular thing-- that the 2020 election in the state of Michigan was not stolen that Joe Biden won. This is not an outcome this man is particularly happy about. He is a Republican a state senator. But he says this is the truth. The man's name is Ed McBroom. He chaired the official state committee that looked into all the claims of election fraud in Michigan. In the end they wrote a report concluding that there was quote no evidence of widespread or systematic fraud. Lots of his fellow Republicans do not accept this conclusion. And they are not shy about telling him that when they run into him. So Ed has been on a kind of personal campaign to talk to anybody who doubts him as long as they want in the hopes of being able to give them the facts they need to reach the same conclusion that he did. Our senior editor David Kestenbaum wondered if he was persuading anybody and a few months ago went up to spend a day with Ed at the Upper Peninsula State Fair. Ed promised from out in the open for five minutes with my cows somebody will come up and talk about the election. Here's David. I met Ed in the dairy barn at the state fair with his cows and his kids. That is kind of how he is known the state senator with the cows and kids. Helen Melody Eddie Carl Esther-- These are the kids not the cows. There are more. Brita Royal Odell Oriana Kenny-Jack Edith Magnus and Sayla. So there is 13 of them. You want to say a word about what that life is like? If you had to pick one word. One word-- I think I am going to say blessed I guess. Blessed or hard-- blessed or hard. Five of the kids are Ed's. The other eight were his brother's who died three years ago and lived next door. So the families were always kind of one unit. There is one photo I saw on Ed's Facebook page of a kid who had put together some delightfully crazy outfit. But the thing that stood out to me was the stuff in the background of the photo total chaos in the kitchen behind her. Ed's a farmer a parent and a state senator. He says sometimes it is a bit much to handle. I was interested in Ed because honestly it is alarming to me all the people who still believe the election was stolen. In one poll a third of Americans and most Republicans. It is bad enough that we as a country seem completely divided on everything-- the climate vaccines immigration. But somehow this idea that so many people look at the official election results certified by the states-- the method we have for settling all these disputes-- and say that is a lie. That feels particularly unsettling. And so here was Ed this guy in the trenches arguing for the facts in a way that few people are. I wanted to see how that was going and what the conversations were like. Ed ventures out of the dairy barn where his cows are past the fair games and the rides to this indoor area where various vendors are set up and where the Republican Party has a table. Hello madam. Hi. Hi. I was at Cityfest last week-- Oh. People stop by who know him to catch up. A woman from the Gideon's Bible table across the way comes over to say that they have been praying for him. And then this man and a woman come over. The first thing she says is why are not you having a full forensic audit? Forensic audit is the battle cry for people who want some external group to look at the ballots and everything which for the record have already been through a state-led bipartisan audit in Michigan. So why are not you having a full forensic audit? You need one badly. Those two vans that went in the FTC center in the middle of the night with nobody watching except the cameras-- and I saw it on Gateway Pundit. I know they went in there. And the little black car phone-- Well nobody's denying that the vans came. It is just that we know what was in them-- Bull-- Dan stop. Well I mean the facts are-- You do not know-- Well sure we do. Did you see every ballot that was in there and see that it was folded if it was mail-in? Did you see that it was signed? So listen-- Did you check any of this? So listen to the explanation though. I mean because-- Ed's approach to these conversations is to answer whatever questions people have in detail however long it takes which is premised on an idea that I hope is true but I kind of fear is not. Basically if you calmly present people with facts they will consider them. The thing the man is asking Ed about is something that got a lot of attention online a video of a van arriving at the convention center in Detroit after 300 in the morning with a bunch of ballots. Seemed suspicious to them. Ed lays out what his committee found. Those were ballots that had been placed in drop boxes which he points out he is not a fan of drop boxes. But he says he looked into it. And the ballots were just going through the normal procedure though the van did not have any particular security. So then the question to me is well could somebody have done something to those ballots on the way there? Could the driver have been in on it? Switched to a different van with fraudulent ballots? It would have been super hard he tells them. The ballots would have to have been prepared in advance. The identifying numbers on the ballots and the addresses on them would have to match up with real voters who had not voted elsewhere. And so that is a lot of crazy rigmarole. And in the end what are they going to gain when they know that in Detroit these absentee ballots are going to run 95 for Joe Biden? No way. They always do. No way. They did not the last election. Sure they did. Not 95. The absentee ballots in Detroit? Oh absentee. They tend to run very high for the Democrat side. Trump did better than any Republican for 70 years. And so-- Trump won Michigan the guy said there. Ed told me in the days after the election he started out with the same questions these two people have. There were lots of calls into his office after the election. And it was not like he automatically assumed there was fraud. But there was stuff he definitely felt deserved looking into. Why am I seeing these news reports of chaos at a polling place? Why am I hearing about late night deliveries? Why did one county here flip so dramatically from one candidate to the other? Why are there rumors of overseas-- It was a long list. Ed thought well I can try to figure this stuff out. He heads the Michigan Senate Oversight committee. So he started an investigation. Anyone who had anything to say could testify. The hearings went on for months. And Ed got way into the details. What if someone was given a Sharpie to mark their ballot and it bled through? How does the election management software work? What happens if someone runs a bunch of ballots through the counter twice? That took time for me to learn. And then I had to verify that what I learned was accurate because you do not want to just take one source as authoritative. I wanted to check others. It took way longer than he would thought. He would run down one theory. But then someone would say well what if it happened this way? So he would look into that. As the original ideas started to fall to the wayside I did begin to grow less and less suspicious that I was going to find anything that was going to overturn the results of the election. How much time did you spend looking into it do you think all told? Oh I do not know. It was hundreds of hours. Ed put together a 35-page report with a 20-page appendix. He lays out each of the theories and really why they cannot be true. When the report came out both Trump and Obama tweeted about it. Actually Trump issued a statement since he would been banned from Twitter. Ed says he does not imagine either of the former presidents actually read it. Dan and Donna that is their names did not seem like they had read it. What I want to tell you is that I know you have children. We have seven children. We have 17 grandchildren. And if we do not straighten this out now in 2021-- I do not like Biden. I like Trump. But that has nothing to do with it at all-- our children will never have a free election if this communism socialism crap-- What is so wrong with an audit? Because-- you know because listen. Then you could prove Biden won. What is the question you started with? And he should be one-- That is the question you started with. So for one thing the state has done two audits. Not thorough forensic ones like Arizona did. So I will tell you-- Again Ed goes into all the details. The state had already done a thorough audit where they recounted a sample of paper ballots by hand from all over the state. When we go and recount these precincts by hand we do not find a single one of them to be out of line. Not one of them is out of line. And we did this audit-- So both-- Actually a much more substantive audit than just that because in that audit process they do not just hand recount the ballots. But they are also checking the signatures. They are checking the applications. They are checking the paperwork for the testing. They are checking the test decks that go in. Who is doing the checking? So the clerk's office. And are they all Democrats? No. All over the state. You have more Republican clerks than you have Democrat clerks all over the state. And most of the counties have multiple parties. So you have your county clerk within your townships. You will have Democrats and Republicans. And so these people are all looking at each other. He does not seem to be making much headway. The problem Ed runs into all the time is that he will carefully build this wall out of blocks of facts. But the person he is talking to will just pivot to another claim which is exactly what happens next. I am just wondering what was wrong with doing a full audit? Well and I am glad you asked. I mean-- I mean of the machines too. Right. And did they change the batteries in the machines? So the machines that they changed the battery in-- The idea here is that the batteries had been changed in some of the voting machines causing them to erase data. Ed tells them the machines with the batteries in them were just machines that marked ballots for people with disabilities not ballot counting machines. You sound so calm in a lot of this. Are you feeling calm? You have said these sentences so many times. Is there some part of you that is tired of it? There is a bit of a exhaustion I suppose. But no. I mean I feel very-- I do not know if it is compassionate or just passionate about helping people find the truth. I wanted the truth. I looked hard. I have resources not every person has because of my position. I used them. Now I want to give the benefit that I have found to other people. I feel like that is the perfect answer. I guess I am asking if you actually always feel that way? I would say 99 of the time. Ed's been talking to this couple for about 25 minutes at this point. He does not seem to be moving them. But again this is his strategy answer every question they have. Then something happens though that throws a wrench in this whole thing. By now a small crowd of people has gathered around. And one guy who is been watching jumps in. His first word-- baloney. --have proved themselves less than trustworthy. Baloney. He tells Ed he does not understand why they cannot have an independent audit. He is pretty insistent. Audits should be done for everything. We have don a very substantial audit. We counted the same garbage that was there in the first place. OK why were the elections in six states closed off at 300 in the morning and only to resume at 800 when that is never happened before? It did not happen in Michigan. It certainly did in Michigan. Absolutely did not. That is a lie. People are lying to you. It did not happen. Now Ed says it is no longer just him having a conversation with this couple. It is like a live version of what happens on social media and I think why things go so badly there. Ed's trying to have one conversation and feels like he is maybe getting somewhere. And then this disruptor comes in from the side. And you still had Democrat and Republican poll workers there the whole time. Sounds like you convinced yourself but I know what I saw. I cannot get past the fact that there is no fraud to be seen. Really Ed? I did not say that. The report does not-- Ed later learned that this guy-- he is the son of the couple who was talking to Ed. Ed does not convince any of them. Dan the dad who'd come up with his wife at the beginning who Ed hoped to make headway with said he just did not think Ed had the expertise to evaluate the election. And what are you going to say to that? A whole half hour of careful effort on Ed's part to lead them down a logical path is undercut in a sentence. He is trying Dan said I will give him that. He is trying his best.   I watched Ed talk to one more woman. She came up after the others have gone. She was middle aged and full of questions. She brought up almost an exact list of things the others did-- the van in the middle of the night dead people voting whether the voting machines could have been hacked. You are saying the modems or the computers were not connected to the internet? The conversation feels like it is going exactly like the other conversation. They talk about the hacking possibility for a long time. But then they talk about Afghanistan and the price of electricity in the Upper Peninsula which they agree on. It is expensive. This time they do not get interrupted by anyone else. It is just two people talking at the state fair which I think maybe more than Ed's laying out all the facts is the reason why this might work. If he can put in enough time with someone be with them long enough they get a sense for him. There is a power in physically being in the same space as another person. They are real in a way that someone online or on TV is not. Finally they circle back to the election from so many months ago. Here's how the conversation ends. If something comes up I hope you will support an audit forensic audit. To look for any new compelling issue that we cannot answer with the information we have-- I am all ears to hear it. I am curious too. I want answers. But all the issues they bring forward are either flagrantly impossible or issues that have already dealt with to a deep dive extent. And I just keep on asking them show me where I am wrong. And rather than do that they just call me names or say I am a bad person or paid off by China and shoot the messenger. And I am like please shoot the message for me because that would help me then go forward and find out what I did wrong. But I do not-- they do not do that. And it is frustrating because I am just as curious as you are about it. Just in talking to you and getting the opposite you know-- I appreciate you giving us an open ear to it. And certainly if you have other questions you hear something else just call message me call the office. Certainly. Well it is good to hear from you. Thank you. Thanks for your time. Yep. Can I ask did it-- does it change anything for you? I am going to go back and reread several things and re-listen to a few podcasts and stuff and just-- I hope you will look up the report. Yeah I think I will. I would appreciate it. Yeah. Like you said it is 58 pages. So I will have to take the time. It was the furthest I saw him get that day. Ed tells me he has seen people change their minds. But usually he learns it because they come back to him later sometimes with follow-up questions. He was not surprised nobody switched sides right in front of us. You cannot expect anybody to just disregard their long-held viewpoint or the narrative that they have accepted as being true. You cannot expect them on the spot to really discard that. They need time to think. I pointed out that according to that national poll from earlier in the summer something like 23 of Republicans or people who lean Republican believe Biden only won because of voter fraud. Ed says in his experience it is fewer. But he humors me. Can we do the math for a second? Sure. How many people are in your Senate district? Oh around 270-ish I would say. Thousand-- OK how many of those lean Republican? We go with half.  That is 90000 people would need to be convinced. If each conversation is 20 minutes divide by 3 that is a number of hours. If you are trying to overwhelm you with the impracticalities of me one at a timing it you do not have to. I am already aware of that. It comes out to 14 years. And that is if it works. I was curious if that last woman had talked to had changed her mind at all the one who had told him it was nice to hear the other side and was maybe going to go read his report. So I reached out. She said over email she still believed there was election fraud in Michigan enough to overturn the outcome and that Ed McBroom was covering it up. This is maybe the best case scenario for changing people's minds on this issue. Like I do think if anyone could sway people it might be Ed someone from their own party who also had not wanted Biden to win who explains it all so patiently and clearly. And it is still so hard. Ed reads a lot of American history. I asked him if he worried about the same thing I do. They were so divided. Neither side seems to be able to communicate with each other. No one seems willing to question what they think they know. I asked if he thought we were going off the rails this time. And if what we were going through might be fatal in some way. He said he did not know. He said the social fabric has been stretched before and we have gotten through it. I hope that that is going to be the case now. But I think there is reasons to have some doubt about that too and to have some trepidation. That keeps me up at night you know? It really does. I understand. I try not to let it worry me because I firmly believe that we are in God's hands and the nation is in his hands and will trend in the direction that brings him the most glory. I did not ask what someone was supposed to hold onto if they do not believe that. Ed's going to keep talking to people. There are lots of issues like this he says. You just go person to person as long as it takes. That is the job. David Kestenbaum is senior editor of our show. Act Two How I Met My Mother. So one of the producers here at our show Elna Baker comes from a long line of passive aggressive communicators. By the way they know this they own it. When her grandmother wanted to get a message across like do not leave change lying around she put an article on the fridge saying toddler chokes on penny. And then just leave it to everybody else to connect the dots. Elna's mother communicates in the same indirect way which became a problem in the years after Elena left the church. Elna's family's Mormon. And her mom had some important things that she wanted to say to her. Here's Elna. This all started when I made a joke about me buying weed to my brother. Careful he said. If mom were to hear that she would send an email to the whole family about how you are an addict. I laughed. And then I was like wait what? That was way too specific. Did mom send an email to the whole family about me being an addict? And he was like uh mm nothing. Never mind which could only mean one thing she did. It took several rounds of questioning before I got the whole story. The email he was referencing my mom had sent it 10 years ago. At the time I was about to host a comedy show in New York where me and a bunch of performers would play drinking games on stage. It was called The Drunk Show. The show is being promoted online. My mom a devout Mormon saw an article about it and freaked out. Mormons do not drink. It is against the religion. And what I learned from my brother years after the fact is that my mom was so worried that I was doing this show she sent an email to my family my extended family-- uncles cousins-- and family friends who I grew up with like the Mitchells the Coxes Heidi my middle school drama teacher. Dear friends it begins. I am writing because I am concerned about the direction Elna's life has turned. She is spiraling downward fast. My mom then explains to them that I am doing this event called The Drunk Show. Then writes I am very concerned. In our family you are either an alcoholic or a Mormon. And I think she may be headed in the wrong direction. I do not know what I can do personally. She does not hear me. I am going to interject here that I did not hear her because she never said anything to me about it. In the email she inserts a link to the article about The Drunk Show and then reveals her grand master plan. She is been commenting on the article under fake names warning me not to do the show. Can everyone else please make up fake accounts and also comment? This way I will cancel the show. She ends thanks pray for us both please. When I read this email I was mortified. I drink socially. I am not an alcoholic. But since I would never intercepted the email I worried everyone who got it had thought this for years. I immediately clicked on the link to the article. At the bottom of the page there were four comments from four different people trolling me all clearly my mother. Her first fake character is Carol from the West Village who says quote encouraging irresponsible drinking that could end in hospitalization of performers is an invitation to a lawsuit. Do not be idiots. The three other comments escalate from there. Here's the weirdest part. She wrote all these comments while she was staying with me. She was in town the week of The Drunk Show. We slept in the same bed. But she did not say a word to me about it. As interventions go it was the least successful one I have ever heard of or could imagine. No one else among the family or friends chimed in. And I the target of the intervention never knew what happened. I never heard of or read the comments online until my brother accidentally let it slip years later. Since I found out about this I have wondered why my mom chose to communicate this message to me the way she did. But I have never asked her because I figured it would just lead to a fight and no answers. But we are much closer now than we were when I did The Drunk Show. Why not try? To my surprise she agreed to talk about it but on these conditions. Dad had to be there in case we needed mediation. I had to come home for Christmas in exchange. And most importantly I could only do this story if she got to write the ending which we will get to later. A talk for a second? Hi Elna how are you? Wow mom you sound sexy. Wow Mom. I am trying out a lower voice because I think my voice is too screechy. Do not do that. Do not spend the whole interview not being yourself. We started at the beginning. How did my mother decide that anonymous comments online would be the best way to reach me? She said my sister Julia told her about The Drunk Show. So I am laying there on the couch. I am at your apartment probably about 500 in the morning. And I am stewing over this. I cannot sleep having have not slept for hours. And then I just had this little epiphany. I can put this on here in somebody else's voice. I do not have to use my own voice. And then maybe she will take it seriously. You just need to hear it from New Yorkers. Why? God Elna you are from New York. You live in New York. And you value their opinions. More than yours? Oh absolutely because I am this fuddy duddy old fashioned Mormon lady that does not know anything. You know I am like from 1950. I am like June Cleaver. Are you saying that you are like that or that I think-- you think-- That is what I think you think I am yeah. Before things get too tense my mom and I pull up the comments page together. The first thing I learned was how fleshed out these people were in my mom's mind like Carol from the West Village who warned that irresponsible drinking could lead to lawsuits. She is a lawyer because that is the way a lawyer would say things is not it? OK. She is dealt with lawsuits that have involved drunk drivers or something with alcohol is involved right? To be clear nowhere in the comments does it say Carol is a lawyer. For each entry there is just a name and location like Don from the Upper West Side. Pretty ritzy area right? Who is done in your mind? Don is a comedian. Oh OK. Who is older. He used to do kind of the old-style comedy. Again reading the comments you would never know Don was a comedian. Yeah he is just disgusted with how comedy has evolved in the last 15 years or so. What does Don think about me doing this show? He says comedy where you are laughing at the performers and not with the performers is not comedy. It is tragedy. Is this really what NYC comedy is reduced to? Are you really not cleverer than this? Why did you think like Don saying this to me would reach me? Well you love comedians. I mean it is all about the comedy for you. Mm-hm. So of course if this is not going to be funny then maybe we should not do this. The next comment comes from the East Village from a commenter named Please. OK so I am thinking this is a policeman. And his name is Please? Yeah Officer Please. It does not say Officer mom. LAUGHING It just says Please. Why is this policeman writing me? Why is he so offended by this show? Well he says 10 years after 911 and this is where New York is? Come on. The show was on September 17. I think this week of all weeks we should all be a little more sensitive and full of introspection. OK. Can we just-- I think we can both agree that you went-- you went real big on this one. I hit the 911 button Her last comment is a straight-up Mormon talking point. Alcoholism and all other addictions take away freedom of choice. Seven minutes after she posted that she sent the mass email. My mom said she went so hard because-- So I have two uncles who died of alcoholism poisoning. My uncle died at age 30. My other uncle came to my wedding completely drunk and ended up dead about two years later from alcoholism. Gary's grandfather died of alcoholism. So that is how I get there. It is not like it is a Mormon thing. It is an experience that has affected me. It affected my mother. She was just devastated over her brother and his alcoholism. Stopping The Drunk Show meant stopping me from becoming one of these people. My mom says she saw the promo photo of me sipping a drink on the page announcing the show and thought-- Has she lost her mind? She has relatives who died of alcoholism. She is been taught since she was little girl to be careful around alcohol. Has she completely blocked out everything I have ever taught her? Did you ever consider just calling me? Elna we have already been there. You do not hear me. You just do not hear me. It is just a joke. You have to hear it from somebody who you think is credible. Come on. Admit it Elna you know you would have just laughed. You would have called Kevin. You would have had a good laugh. And you would have had the show anyway. But you did not-- the thing-- Come on. Admit it. You know it. You know you would have rolled your eyes at me. But you did not even try. Elna just tell me. What is the truth on your end? Well I do not think I-- here's the thing. I think if you just told me not to do it I would have done exactly what you are saying. But if we would had a full conversation where we really talked-- like so for example I did not know until just now until we have had this conversation-- like I did not really know that much about your family history with drinking. You do not talk about these unpleasant things. So that like when you are so against drinking I think I did think it was just had to do with Mormonism and not that it had to do with really painful things you witnessed in your life because you never told me about them. 