From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Neil Drumming sitting in for Ira Glass. Every so often I will be talking to another black person usually someone with an accent. And they will stop mid-conversation and ask me where my family's from or if I am from the islands. And I will say something like I am not sure. I think I am West Indian on my dad's side. I have said this 100 times without any actual proof. I do not know where I got it from and there is no evidence that I can find. I asked my dad recently and he was not sure. He said maybe. Going back generations someone stopped at some island between Africa and South Carolina. My cousin Yvonne though her dad was definitely born in Panama. A few years back she invited me to come stand on the road with her and watch the big party Caribbean people throw here in New York every year the West Indian Day parade-- technically the West Indian American Day parade. I still remember how excited she got when a group of Panamanians came marching down Eastern Parkway. My cousin is tall over six feet and loud. And she really made a show of jumping and shouting and waving her flag. I envied her in that moment. This is uncomfortable for me to say but I have sometimes felt a sense of vagueness just being black in America. That is the thing about the West Indian Day parade. There is all these black people who seem to know exactly specifically where they are from. And on this one day they tell everyone. Like this guy for example. It is not just where he is from but it is how he says it. Where are you from? Jamaica. You live in this neighborhood? No I am not living in this neighborhood. I am living in the Bronx. OK so you came all the way down here? Yes mon He and his friend came down from the Bronx and had been partying nearby. I ran into them on Eastern Parkway early that morning. The parade had not even started yet but they were already repping their country. Jamaicans control-- control the Parkway. And go on like saying Jamaican our own things. But we have the best artists we have the best food we have the best culture. And we have the best  too. We have to say no more. These guys they do not even talk like this all the time. So later on around 10 oclock the parade will actually start. That is the big big thing. You will see a lot more people flooding the streets. A few years ago I moved just a few blocks from the parade route on Eastern Parkway the broad tree-lined corridor that passes through the neighborhood of Crown Heights. The parade is actually part of a week-long celebration in Brooklyn called the Labor Day Carnival which is itself just the New York version of Carnival which is celebrated all over the Caribbean and the world. Most days Crown Heights feels a lot like other neighborhoods I have lived in-- a corner bodega here a liquor store there gentrification creeping in. But one weekend every year I wake up to reggae and soca and feathers and floats and people waving flags from all over. There is barely anywhere to stand. There is guys on stilts and there are police everywhere. It feels like the neighborhood's been completely transformed. But of course that is not what is actually happening. It is more like the neighborhood is turning inside out letting you see what is at its core. So many of the people who make their homes in Crown Heights also carry pieces of another homeland with them-- the Bahamas Grenada Jamaica Barbados St. Lucia Trinidad. Every year anywhere between 1 and 2 million people show up. It is pretty thrilling just to stand on the sidelines and watch it all pass by you you know like a parade. But I wanted to live inside it more to understand as best I can how my cousin felt that day to know what it means to have a flag to wave. So that is what we are doing this hour. A bunch of us went out that weekend dove in headfirst. Some of us even got pretty wet. Stay with us. The typical image New Yorkers have of the West Indian Day parade is of thousands of people dancing down Eastern Parkway in elaborate costumes that are as colorful as they are skimpy-- feathered headdresses winged backpacks tiaras and jeweled bikinis. I learned that this is called playing mas. The mas is short for masquerade. My co-producer Jessica and I went out really early on Labor Day and met up with some masqueraders who were dressed in costumes that they had chosen from a selection of different movie themes like The Little Mermaid Coming to America and Showgirls. Just to say the outfits were only marginally related to the films. It was more about color palette than anything. One woman wore a plume of black and yellow feathers evoking Quentin Tarantino's most famous heroine. So explain your costume. Which costume is this? So this is Kill Bill. I regret these big feathers. I do not know where I am going with this. But this is Kill Bill and-- Why do you regret them? Because they are-- do you-- girl I am going to need you put on a costume and try to walk down the Parkway with big feathers on it. It was a bad mistake. Feathers coming out of this some stones came off. What is the experience of putting on an outfit like this and coming out-- It is hell. It took me two hours and a lot of people's breaking down already. We did not even hit the Parkway. Just know if you are going to do it just carry a lot of-- not a lot but carry some Krazy Glue with you. And you are going to be putting yourself together once you get out here. What made you decide on Kill Bill? To be honest with you I am chubby. So Kill Bill had a monokini and I liked it so I went with that. And me and a two-piece we as not friends right now. And we as not hit the gym. So Kill Bill it was. For many people playing mas starts even earlier than the parade at the parade before the parade. It is called J'ouvert and it is a celebration with deep deep roots in the Caribbean. J'ouvert's mythology is populated with outlandish characters like the menacing Midnight Robber with his wide-brimmed hat the insanely voluptuous Dame Lorraine and the many devils. Writer Imani Brown grew up with J'ouvert but she did not actually start going until she got to Brooklyn. Her story starts over 2000 miles away. In Trinidad Carnival is so big that you study it in school. The year I turned 10 we were given an assignment to pick one of the traditional Carnival mas characters we just learned about create a costume and put on a performance in front of the rest of the school. Picking my character was a struggle. But in the end I settled on the jab molassie sometimes called the Blue Devil in Trinidad. I picked it mostly because I knew the costume would be one of the easiest to make and time was running out. I cut holes into an old pair of shorts and a thin T-shirt. I fashioned horns from paper towel rolls and looped strips of paper into a chain that I could wrap around my body. A pitchfork I fabricated from tree branches from my backyard completed the look. On the day of the performance I changed into my costume in the classroom smeared myself all over with blue paint and then headed towards the auditorium. I was the kind of child who avoided attention and everything in me was fighting the idea of being onstage. When I stepped out alone in front of the whole school my heart was racing. My teacher told us that the jab molassie was a demon that terrorizes a creature barely kept on its leash. So on the stage that day I might have crouched or jumped or hissed or bared my teeth at the crowd-- I am not sure. I just remember my anxiety was not painful anymore. It was exhilarating. I felt wicked and nasty and playful and tricky. So completely out of character and still so utterly myself. Deeply inside my body and yet somehow floating above it. When it is good that is what it feels like to play mas. For a long time mas did not really feel like mine. I grew up in Trinidad but my father and mother are from Jamaica and Guyana respectively. Carnival in those places simply does not compare to the space the festival takes up in Trinidad where Carnival is king and its influence swirls year round. Everyone my mother would say laughing and shaking her head everyone from the biggest partier to the most religious church mouse is out on the road come Monday. My family did not go to church regularly but there was no way my parents were going to let me participate in Carnival proper as a teenager. That was for grown people. When I left Trinidad for college in the States the loneliness took me by surprise. I was 18 and homesickness was a physical and nearly constant ache. It was then that I played J'ouvert for the first time at Brooklyn's Labor Day parade. There I finally felt at home again. And in the year since the parade has become a spiritual practice. J'ouvert always begins in the dark. This year climbing up and out of the subway at Grand Army Plaza the sky is not quite pitch black but it is close. Against the glare of police floodlights I can just make out a stream of people trickling down the road in clumps. My friends and I join the stream moving towards the NYPD metal barriers that narrow into a checkpoint. We are patted down and our bags opened. How're you doing madam? Can you just open that up and just show me all what you got in there? J'ouvert is derived from the French Creole word for daybreak. And traditionally Brooklyn starts at around 400 AM ending not too long after the sun rises. But this year the rising sun is what marks the beginning of the parade. At 600 AM the parade is starting much later than usual. The reason given is that it will help curb the violence that many have come to associate with the event. In 2015 a young lawyer in Governor Andrew Cuomo's administration Carey Gabay was hit and killed by a stray bullet along the route. The next year it was reported that four people were shot at the parade two of whom died. Here's what is rarely mentioned in those news reports. The violence that black people experience in these long neglected neighborhoods is year round. It does not end when the cameras leave the parade. And in some cases the incidents that the media have connected to the parade happen away from the parade's actual route. The news coverage J'ouvert typically receives is frustrating but not surprising. No matter what part of the globe you are from you know that this is part of what it means to be black. The things you do to secure joy for yourself in a world that would rather see you dead become the way the world then rationalizes your suffering. For the media for everyone outside of our community the story of the parade is the story of the violence. This is why it feels impossible to smile back when the officer checking our bags grins as if we are sharing an inside joke and comments Just need to make sure you do not have a gun before letting us through. Once we are past the checkpoint the crowd thickens. It is clear that for some people the morning is just beginning and that for others a long night of partying is simply stretching itself a little bit longer. Everyone is drifting tripping down the street in no real hurry. No one is wearing anything they would not mind sacrificing to the J'ouvert gods-- old tanks and short shorts ratty T-shirts and strappy dresses that ride up the thigh. Flags are everywhere tied around waists worn as capes. The red green and gold of Grenada's flag in particular can be seen near and far. The closer we get to the front of the route the more clearly we can hear the sound of whistles and conchs up the road. The tinny sound of somebody beating out a rhythm on a small metal pan is joined briefly by the heavy beat of a cowbell. Both are swallowed up by the sound of the steel pan band warming up. And the devils are out. The Grenadian jab jabs are covered from head to toe in slick black oil. The whites of their eyes and teeth seem to jump out of their skin. Locks and wigs and braids are wrapped up tightly in plastic bags. Sacrificing old clothes is one thing but getting oil and powder out of a new sew-in is quite another. The devils wear hardhats and helmets crowned with black horns. I narrowly avoid getting hit by one of the many shopping carts many of the devils are pushing down the road most of them full of plastic bags and buckets-- and in some cases other passed-out devils. The smell of grease and smoke rose heavier. Two young devils spot my friends and me and loudly proclaim that we are too clean. One of the devils dips his hands into a bucket of oil and the other beckons us closer. He smiles wide and it is both a dare and a promise an invitation and a threat. We shake our heads but we are all laughing as he walks up to us and starts rubbing us down with the oil anyway. You do not come to J'ouvert if you are not prepared to get dirty. The U-Haul vans pulling along the rhythm section and steel pan bands who are now in full swing start inching down the road. A woman climbs on top of the bumper of a van winding her way slowly in a smooth rippling motion that extends from her shoulders down to her legs. A man hoists himself up behind her and she picks up the pace. We flag down a young woman selling Nutcrackers sweet drinks mixed heavily with rum and vodka despite reports of a crackdown on the sale of these drinks. She asks if she can take a picture of us that she then posts on her Instagram to promote her business. We all giggle like we have known each other for years as we pose. Trying to mark the moment the parade slides from darkness into daylight is like trying to track the ripening of a mango. It happens slowly and then all at once. Suddenly I am squinting into the sun and everything that felt clear in the night looks and feels strange to me now. This is a part of it too. Within this space what is real and what is a hallucination? Moko jumbies sure-footed performers on six-foot stilts drift by like clouds without looking down. Three devils covered in white paint are on the roof of a nearby building winding and waving a huge Trinidad flag over the crowd as if claiming territory. How did they get up there? I have no idea. But somehow in the moment there is nothing that does not make sense. J'ouvert began as a way to celebrate surviving the most brutal aspects of slavery. In J'ouvert you can see out of the eyes of the demons that once drove you with the whip. You can embody the worst thing that ever hurt you and come out the other side invincible. When our people were enslaved they were driven into burning cane fields to harvest the land. Those that survived came out covered in soot and ash. The horror defies imagination. But at every turn we have been taught that we are weak that we are cowards that we are less than human. So we play J'ouvert to remember that no one has the power to make monsters of us but ourselves. We play J'ouvert and in that time we become more fearsome than anything that could ever terrorize us. In a world that asks us to be quieter to do less to accept the worst of everything and to pretend to like it J'ouvert becomes the altar where we can finally fall to our knees and worship ourselves. I am two Nutcrackers in when the brass of the rhythm section really gets going. Something deep and sweet fills me. This year has been harder than most. I have not had the money for a plane ticket and it is been over a year since I was in my backyard pressing my feet into the grass watching the sunset feeling the wetness of the air hug my body. There is a person I am when I am home and I miss her desperately. Now a current runs through my chest my belly my legs. I am not home but I am home. I am home. I swing my hips and roll my waist and slow dance and for a moment feel the way I did when I was 10 jumping back and forth between fear and exhilaration getting low to the ground feeling something like awe and pride start to crack my chest open. Imani Brown is a Jamaican writer and poet whose work focuses on race gender and Caribbean folklore. She lives in Brooklyn. Pretty much all summer if you are walking around certain parts of Brooklyn you can hear the sound of steel drums late into the night. But you never really see them. I always wonder where are the steel drums coming from? Because when the parade comes along it is all flatbed trucks loaded with DJ equipment and booming speakers. What was all that steel drumming I heard? As it turns out part of Labor Day Carnival is a whole steel drum competition. It is called Panorama. Those mysterious tropical sounds in the night those are steel jam orchestras practicing sometimes 100 people all playing together. You know when I say to people I practice every night like they will say well can you do this? And I am like no I have practice. You practice every night. I am like yeah I say I practice every night every time. Even members of our family. Even members of our family are like you are going to practice? Yes we are going to practice. It is what we do. That is Angie and her daughter Jona. This is the thing they do together every year all summer long. And they were really hoping their band would win this year. The competition was basically going to be the last thing they did together as mom and teenage daughter. As soon as it was over literally hours after it was over Jona would get on a flight and leave home for her first year in college. I do not know anything about steel drums or pans as they are called. But we found a reporter Marlon Bishop who is also a musician and who loves this instrument. He followed Angie and Jona as they prepared and one of our producers Nadia Reiman went with them to the competition. The band Angie and Jona play in is called Radoes. The name comes from this famous band in Trinidad called Desperadoes. The US branch of it was called Despers but then there was a rebellion in the ranks and the band split. It was like a divorce. The rebels were like you want to be Despers? Fine we will be Radoes. That was years ago though and it is all good now. Well kind of. They are rivals-- friendly rivals. We do not want them to win. Not necessarily we do not want them to win but we want to win on our own. No no no. We do not want-- I do not want them to win. Not really-- Right no it is not that we do not want them to win. It is we want to win. Yeah no no no. I am going to say I do not want-- Really?  Like you can want to win all you want. I am like I want to win. Like I do not want just anyone to win. I want Radoes to win. Their band Radoes has a reputation for being a vibes band. Maybe not as tight as some other groups but compensating with spirit. On the stage they play loud and bold. And for a while Radoes did win three years in a row. But then last year Despers-- Despers won last year. They won last year. It was very troubling. It was the most heartbreaking thing ever. Can you talk about that? I was so sad. Why? We worked so hard.  I first met Angie and Jona at the big lot where the band practices. It is in an industrial part of Brooklyn next to a bus depot-- you know less neighbors to complain about the noise. You are coming a little up a little up. Jona is trying to nail down a section in the music that is been giving her trouble. Ba dum ba dum ba bum ba dum. No no no. No you are changing it. Ba da dum ba dum. You are changing the phrasing. Play it again. Ba da dum ba dum. What is this pan called? This is the-- This is the quadraphonics. I am sorry was he asking you? He asked both of us. This is a quadra pan. That is a really hard one right? It is very hard yeah. But it is fun. It is really exciting to play. This yard is like their second home. Angie the mom left Grenada when she was three years old-- grew up in Queens. When I told my mother I was going to play pan she looked at me and she shook her head. And she said you are the bane of my existence. Just like that. I was like it is not that deep. I am going to play some music. But it is male dominated. Basically. It is just music. Yeah I know. Women did not really play pan back in the day. They do now though. Angie played pregnant with Jona. And after Jona was born as a baby she would ride on Angie's back as she practiced. Jona started playing in the band when she was eight years old-- played every year since. She loves it-- so much so that in this last summer before she leaves for college she is choosing to spend every night right here with her mom getting ready for the competition. The way the Panorama competition works each band plays an eight to 10 minute long incredibly complicated arrangement of a popular soca song. The arrangements are filled with crazy runs and breakdowns which in a kind of Calypso arms race get more and more virtuosic every year. Everyone will tell you the key to winning this thing it is having a good arranger the person who comes up with all the parts. Most bands use local arrangers from Brooklyn but Radoes hires a ringer from Trinidad a guy named BJ. Normally they will bring up BJ for the whole summer to teach the song but this time there is a problem. He had trouble getting a visa so he is been teaching over the phone. Every night someone gets their cell phone with a cable and they connect it to this giant speaker that everyone gathers around. BJ teaches the music by calling out the notes one by one through the phone which this other guy called the drill master then repeats to the rest of the orchestra. It is C and F F and G sharp E and G. It starts on B and F then? C and F. Yeah C and F. C. F and G sharp. OK E and F? C! C! Cat cat. BJ has to teach every note of a 10 minute song this way. And there is not just one part. It is an 100-person orchestra with different sections that play different notes and rhythms. No sheet music involved. This is music learned entirely by ear. Another thing here. F and G sharp. F and G sharp. Right. E and G. I will be telling you. The yard feels like an extended family barbecue that happens every single night. There is a makeshift bar in the back that serves beer and food. That is where all the good gossip happens. Overall it is about half players and half people who are just there to hang out-- lots of kids running around significant others of band members plus a contingent of old guys smoking weed in the back. People said it feels kind of like being back home in the Caribbean. During breaks Jona hangs out with her best friend Z and some of the other girls her age on a set of wooden bleachers. I notice at one point they are talking about neighborhoods in Trinidad. And they do not say my family lives in such and such a place. They say I live there. Where do you live? Arima. You live in Arima? No I live in 'Bago. I live in-- my dad lives in 'Bago. I am over there. You guys all live in Brooklyn. Yes. But you are talking about Trinidad. Yes. You would swear we grew up there though. You do not really think that we grew up in some of these-- Honestly when we turn on our fake ass accent-- because we was not born there we just turn it on. My mom be like you swear you are Trinadi. The high school Jona just graduated from there were not a lot of West Indian kids there. I do not talk to my friends about pan and that at all because I do not think there is a good enough way for me to explain it without people thinking I am crazy. Like I am so serious. I mean I cannot explain to them that I am standing up for hours a night just playing music and coming home at 3 oclock and having to wake up the next day. I cannot explain all the riff raff that happens. I cannot. There are fights. There are fights. Right as an example. It is a family and it has arguments. To me it is like-- I keep on saying it is like the epicenter of forgiveness. Because you can do anything-- You can literally do anything. You can literally do anything and then you can come back. And then cool off a year and a half or so and then come back and people will be like oh hi. They are alluding to something specific here. One year one of the Radoes players got into a beef and brought a gun into another pan yard. And someone ended up getting shot. It was a bad time Angie said. The guy went to jail. But when he got out he came back to the band and people said OK. It is a place of redemption. You belong to us right and we belong in the same environment. And we know how to make peace with one another. That is not something you see all the time. That is not something you see all the time. I come back a few weeks later and BJ the ringer the arranger from Trinidad his visa has finally been sorted out. He is here in person. You can feel the change of energy in the yard. There is way more players and the music is starting to sound really good. As I am recording the band a guy calls me over and tells me in no uncertain terms that I am not to share the recordings with any rival bands. Ladies and gentlemen this is a competition. And therefore we must have judges. Our judges this evening are-- This finally is the night of Panorama Labor Day weekend. My colleague Nadia Reiman was there for that. She is going to take it from here. The competition takes place in the parking lot of the Brooklyn Museum. The streets are blocked off. There is tons of U-Hauls filled with drums and racks tons of people setting up pans rolling them about. It is like being backstage. When I get there an hour before showtime Angie is dashing from place to place setting up drums making sure people have their shirts. The Radoes are all wearing T-shirts that say Hookin' Meh on them. That is the song they are playing. Oh also she is getting people rides who are supposed to be here but are not. Are you ready now? OK get up here as soon as you can because they want you to start hooking up the drums. Tell me the address of the place. I will send you a car. She sees Jona walking toward us in the distance. She can tell just from her walk. Radoes is going to play second which is stressing Angie out. You want to play last. That way the judges remember you. Most of the bands that are going first are pretty set up starting to run through their songs. But Radoes is still not ready still not practicing. Despers is. Jona seems not concerned like at all. Really she is not. Stop talking about it. Despers USA the one who won last year that is them right now. That is like your rival? Ah they just won last year. It is nothing special. I like how every time I ask you are like nah I do not care. No it is not that I do not care but they just won once. That was the first time they have won in a really long time 'ecause I think the last time they won was like in the '90s or something like that. So it was a big deal for them. But other than that they are not a rival. You are like very politely  talking them. Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah. It is nothing special. Finally everyone shows up and they run through their song a few times in practice. And then for real. Ladies and gentlemen on stage we have band number two. They are the Radoes. They roll up on stage. There is about 100 of them. They have built out a float that looks like a tin spaceship kind of. It is even hard to tell it is a spaceship but Angie says it is. I have to say to me standing in the front few rows of the audience with my untrained ears they sound a little rushed and messy. It is honestly hard to tell. As they play more though they get a little more sure-footed. It takes nearly an hour to get each band on and off the stage. When Despers comes on hours later they look like professionals definitely more polished. Their bandleader has this confidence and a little bravado as if they have already won. Angie's not feeling good about this. And as the night goes on she goes through a kind of pre-emptive expedited grieving process. Here she is an hour later depression. My grandmother used to say kingdoms rise and fall all the time. And so I wonder if the kingdom is falling. It is hard to know. And at around 1100 when we are getting closer to the end acceptance. We are not going to win this time around I can see that. You are like we are not going to win? No I do not see that happening. I do not see that happening. The Radoes' reign could be over. Things change people move on. Jona is about to move on. But people from different bands keep coming over to Angie to say hello. She honestly seems to know everybody here. It combats the anonymity of America. Like America is just one big place that you could be lost in. And we come from small places right? And this is as you know West Indians say a kind of catch ass place. People do not have the kind of luxury of time as they do in the Caribbean but they figure out a way to be together. And this is just another way to figure out how to be together how to be together the way we are. How to be together the way we are. Angie says when she was little she could not stand Labor Day Carnival. She would get tired and want to go home. And her dad would always try and linger stretch it out a little longer. Now she gets it. There is a homesickness even in Angie's case if it is for a place where she has not really lived. Is the president here? Please come on stage for the results. Duh duh duh. It is now past midnight or 100 AM. Honestly I do not remember. But it is the moment they have been waiting for. They are about to announce the winners. Everyone gathers closer and closer to the stage. The announcer starts with the last place band. Placing eighth we have Harmony. Placing seventh Cross Fire. This is all good news. It means Radoes has not lost yet. In sixth place Philly Pan Stars. The crowd does not like that. So I am just reading what it said OK? Fifth place Chasm. At this point each time the announcer does not say Radoes Angie lets out an involuntary scream. Fourth Despers USA. Despers their rival took fourth. Third Pan Evolution. OK so now my hands are shaking. Placing second with a score of 458 and the winner 459 placing second Adlib. So that is it. Radoes won by a single point 459 to 458. The Radoes. I got to go. Come. Come Angie says. She grabs my hand and drags me on stage. We are running up this ramp tons of people pushing through. Someone loses a shoe but keeps going. They are screaming dancing-- tons of hugs. And in the middle of the stage Angie sees her daughter surrounded by her friends. In a few hours she will be on the plane to college in California. I am so overwhelmed. I do not want you to leave. 'ecause I am going to leave like now. But then we also won. The person saying I do not want you to leave that is Jona's bestie from the pan yard Z. Jona looks at her and starts to cry. She told me later that she is known Z since she was 10. That every year days after Panorama's over they keep going to the pan yard anyway and hanging out until it got too cold to do it. And so this moment standing on stage looking at her friends that was when it really hit her. This part of her life with her mom and these friends in this world it is over.  Marlon Bishop produces podcasts for Futuro Media Group which makes Latino USA. Nadia Reiman is one of the producers of our show.  Coming up we are going to need a mop in aisle seven. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Neil Drumming sitting in for Ira Glass. Today's show We Come From Small Places stories from the West Indian American Day parade and the Labor Day Carnival in Brooklyn New York City. The neighborhood that the parade goes through includes another group of people that are unapologetically themselves. That is the Hasidic Jews. On this day you will see many of them dressed up in a costume that is particular to their culture. But unlike the mas players they wear their uncolorful costumes year round-- the long black coats and black hats and beards outfits that date back to 19th century Poland. During the parade they all seem to be rushing down the street like people on their way to an important appointment not looking at the festivities at all. My co-worker Ira Glass the regular host of this program was at the parade with us and tried to talk to some Hasids about this huge yearly event that takes place in their neighborhood. Walking up to Hasids on the street felt like walking up to people from another planet people who had a general air of hostility-- or at least suspicion-- towards outsiders like me. They waved me off. The best I got was from a young man who took pity on me and gamely mustered this non-committal quote about the parade. Every person has a right to do what they want what they feel is right. But I finally found one Hasid who would actually talk to me by marching myself over to 770 Eastern Parkway the worldwide headquarters of the Chabad movement. Chabad is the biggest Hasid organization. And 770 is such an important spiritual site for them that a replica of the b