The way that I always heard the story was that Van Halen had something in the contract that they used when they toured that said that everywhere that they went-- in every city in every dressing room on their tour-- there had to be a bowl of MMs and that the brown MMs had to be removed. It is kind of a well-known story I think. And the way that I understood it is that it showed what divas rock stars could be that any whim that they had would have to be met no matter how petty. You hate brown MMs? Poof they will cease to exist in your world. And then a couple of years ago we had this band They Might Be Giants on our radio show. And by the way you are listening to This American Life from WBEZ Chicago distributed by Public Radio International. Anyway we had this band on the show. And I got to know them a little bit. And I had never talked to a touring rock musician about that story. And I remember John Flansburgh saying to me no no no no no. I had the meaning of the story totally wrong. I think there was only one no Ira. This is John. I asked him to come and talk about this with me again today here on the radio. He told me that the music industry name for what we were discussing was the contract rider. The thing that the average rock fan does not realize is that in the itinerant life of somebody in a rock band they are relying on a promoter-- probably a different promoter every day-- to give them everything. And a contract rider is basically the entire show from beginning to end. I mean you are talking about personnel. You are talking about the PA. So a lot of it is very prosaic stuff. People really focus on the dressing room stuff. But actually most of it is just making sure that there is literally enough electricity in the venue so that the show does not end after 10 minutes. And this Flansburgh says was what was so ingenious about the brown MMs. Van Halen had this huge setup with lots of gear. And if the local promoter did not carefully read the contract rider stuff could collapse. It could be dangerous. So the brown MMs were like the canary in the coal mine. The contract rider said that brown MMs were not supposed to be there. If they were there look out. It was a very clever way to make sure that all the specifics of his contract rider were going to be met including technical requirements safety requirements all the things that David Lee Roth is probably more worried about than his actual MMs needs. Yeah actually in his autobiography he writes this. I found this on snopes.com. He explains the MMs this way. David Lee Roth writes Van Halen was the first band to take huge productions into third level markets. Tertiary markets is the word we use. Tertiary markets. We would pull up with nine 18-wheeler trucks full of gear in places where the standard was three trucks max. And there were many many technical errors whether it was the girders could not support the weight or the flooring would sink in or the doors were not big enough to move the gear through. The contract rider read like a version of the Chinese yellow pages because there was so much equipment and so many human beings to make it function. So just as a little test in Article number 126 in the middle of nowhere was quote 'there will be no brown MMs in the backstage area upon pain of forfeiture of the show with full compensation' end quote. So he writes When I would walk backstage if I saw a brown MM in that bowl well line check the entire production. Guaranteed you are going to arrive at a technical error. They did not read the contract. Guaranteed you would run into a problem. Sometimes it would threaten to destroy the whole show. Sometimes literally life threatening. Wow. Now when I e-mailed you to see if you wanted to come on the radio and talk about this you said oh that is really a coincidence. Because you had just spent your whole day yesterday working on your contract rider? Yeah we are going out on tour for two months in the fall. And basically a couple of days ago I was looking at the contract rider which was 25 pages long this crazy Frankenstein document that-- there was some really odd vestigial stuff. I actually found we have all these personnel requirements for loaders and electricians and fly riggers and all these people. There are 30 people that the promoter is going to hire on our behalf. And they have very specific job descriptions. But in only half of them did we require that they be sober. Wait your contract for some of them says specifically they have to be sober? It was such a hodge-podge that in some cases-- what had happened is we had had a bunch of loaders that had come in from another show the night before that had ended at 500 in the morning. And they came into our show at 700 in the morning to literally do another show. And they all got drunk in the couple of hours in between. So in our contract rider we said the loaders have to be sober. But unfortunately the way a contract reads it looks like you are kind of implying that everybody else can be drunk. And no one had ever thought to cross it out. Is there an MMs clause in your contract? It is such a personal thing. It is like asking somebody what is in their medicine chest. There are no MMs on our-- We have like hummus and tabbouleh and like a lot-- I mean you would think it was Sarah McLachlan the way our contract rider reads. I mean more is there an MMs clause is there a thing in your contract that you put in there to be sure that people read the contract? I think the first line of our contract is The promoter needs to call our tour manager when he gets this rider. That is basically-- just getting good communication going-- rather than bullying and threshold tests-- is the way we do it. And so if you do not get the call you know all right. Yeah. And believe it or not oftentimes they do not call. They have got other things to do. Well today on our radio show we have stories of the fine print. We dive into the fine print in places where the fine print really really matters. Act one of our show Side Effects May Include-- Nancy Updike has the story of fine print happening at a place you might never suspect it. Act two Occupancy May Be Revoked Without Notice. In that story David Rakoff brings us the fine print that could fix what therapy fails to. Act three Restrictions May Apply. We visit the place that is like a factory for our nation's most notorious fine print. Act four May Be Hazardous To Children. Susan Burton rereads the fine print that changed her childhood. Stay with us. Act one Side Effects May Include-- A confession is not supposed to have fine print. It is supposed to state this is what happened this is what I did all very straightforward. But of course all kinds of confessions come with asterisks attached. This first story is about a confession that was given in Iran in the Fall of 2004 when things were actually a bit freer than they are right now. Nancy Updike tells what happened. At 30 years old Omid Memarian a journalist in Iran went where he wanted talked to whomever he felt like talking to. Reformists hardliners foreigners the vice president of the world bank why not? Political debate in Iran was robust. Omid's view was he lived in a country that had problems. And he was a critic of those problems. But it also had a constitution elections some independent newspapers. Iran was not North Korea. It was not Myanmar. In October of 2004 Omid was arrested at his office by government men in plainclothes. Did not have badges did have guns. And within a few hours Omid was sitting in an interrogation room at a prison whose name and location he did not know. After a while a man walked in. Like 55 years old with a very short beard and kind of calm. And I felt that this guy might be a nice guy. But when I said hi to this guy then he just started beating me. And I was sitting next to the wall and on a chair. And the guy took my head and was hitting my head to the wall. And he was doing that. And at one point I remember the guy was asking me about my travel to the US. In 2004 I was invited to come here to the US and give a speech. So I got my visa. I went to Frankfurt Airport and then somebody called my name. So they told me that my name was on the No Fly List a list that I think Osama Bin Laden probably is on the top. So I took the first flight. And I went back home. So the interrogator was asking me what happened in Washington DC. And I said hi I did not go there. I was on the No Fly List. Probably you guys are there. We are all on this list. And the guy said no we have tapes of those meetings that you had in Washington DC. We have all the documents. And I said dude I have not been there. Look at my passport. It does not show anything. There is no stamp on my passport. At that moment I learned that they really-- Americans-- they bluff. They just bluff. And once you figured out that part of what they were doing was bluffing was that a relief? Or was that more terrifying? Did that make you feel like I have no idea what to do? When they bluffed at the beginning I thought oh there is nothing here. But the thing was when you have to talk about something that never happened this was much harder than to talk about something that happened. Because when nothing was there it was really hard to imagine that kind of incidence. I mean this guy was beating me and at one point I was on the floor. He was hitting my stomach with his leg. In that case I threw up. And I just could not accept that because I would never been to the US. Forced confessions are not a new phenomenon more like eternal. And Omid got the standard treatment-- beatings and solitary. But every government that forces confessions has its own variation on the process its own way of building up its library of confessions. He gave me a kind of notebook and a pen and asked me to start writing everything you have done over the past seven years. And so I thought that is fine. I can write everything. I do not have any secret. And there is nothing to be worried about. So he was there. I was sitting on a chair. And I started writing. There was a table there too. And every five minutes he asked me to see my writing. Every five minutes. And then when he saw what I was writing he screamed at me and said no this is not what I want. This is not what I want from you. You should tell me the truth. And I said this is the truth. And he said no you are hiding the truth. Tell me what happened behind the doors. I had no idea what he wanted me to write for them. I had no idea because I said in many cases that this is exactly what happened. This is exactly the people I met. Actually I wrote a biography of myself for them. It was a very honest biography. I even talked about things I never talked to my mom or my dad or my friends. They asked about my girlfriends. In Iran you can not have a girlfriend when you are not married. The guy asked me to confess about my sexual relationship. Tell me how you started. Do you use condom? Did you use porn? Did you watch porn? I start crying. I begged him. I begged him please do not ask that. Please do not ask that. I can not do that. And I was like oh my God. Where are you going from here? And he forced me to write that. They told me all the time you are going to stay here for six months a year two years. You are not going to go home. Forget it. And I was so devastated. I felt so hopeless. And I said God please help me. These people are doing this with me with your name you know reading Koran praying five times a day. The guy was beating me and sometimes stopped beating me to pray on time. And the thing is I remember once I watched a movie. Its name is Irreversible. It was in my mind all the time that there is a point in everybody's life that your life separates to before that event and after that. So for me I knew that there is a point that I can not take more pressure. I knew people who stayed for a long time in prison and they never be able to come back to their normal life. They never become normal persons. They never recovered. They never recovered. And I knew those people. I talked to those people. I did not want to be those people at the age of 30. And at one point when their pressure was so high I thought I was entering to the irreversible part. In the third week he gave in. I said OK what do you want me to write for you? And they said so these are the names these are the topics. I drafted my story. It was the only unpaid story I have written in my life. I am always paid. But anyways. The only unpaid story you have ever written in your life was your false confession? Yes. I drafted my story. I gave it to my interrogator. And then he was like my editor. He changed some of the names. And he just changed the order. And then he gave me a few pages analysis. And I had to include those approaches-- those lines-- in my confessions. Your interrogator is literally writing on your draft? He is making notes in the margins and crossing things out and adding things like an editor? Exactly like that. He gave me directions. For example I said I wrote for this newspaper or that newspaper. I went to these countries. I met these people. So in their version it was with the suggestion of that politician I went to this country. And I was a part of a plan. It was a big plan. And I had to say that I intentionally-- and sometimes unintentionally-- I have cooperated with them through my writings through my blog through my travels through my talks and that kind of things. Were there specific words he wanted you to use? Definitely I had to use velvet revolution. And how do you say velvet revolution in Farsi?  And he wanted you to put those exact words in? Exact words. Confessions in Iran are sometimes broadcast on TV. They show up in the evenings on the state-run news programs. Transcripts of confessions are also posted on government websites. And watching reading and hearing about one Iranian confession after another it is impossible not to notice a distinct and unchanging editorial vision at work here. Because the fact is people in Iran who have never met each other have nevertheless been confessing to a lot of the same things in a lot of the same ways for at least 10 years.  In these video clips from this summer following the disputed election one ordinary Iranian after another is confessing to having been manipulated by the BBC and Voice of America to cause mayhem or undermine the regime. And here's another confession. There is no tape. But we have got a transcript. It is a TV confession from a few weeks ago. Maziar Bahari a documentary filmmaker and reporter for Newsweek in Iran was arrested after the election. And he is still in custody. His confession is a classic of the genre. It is so crammed with buzz phrases and bullet points that in some parts it gets hard to understand. It says quote I as a journalist and as part of the huge capitalist machinery of the West sometimes blindly and sometimes intentionally positioned myself on the side that was suggesting that a color revolution was underway. According to the models of color and velvet revolutions we can consider the incidents in recent weeks as classic but defeated examples of a color revolution because it has the same properties as a color revolution. When Omid heard that a transcript of this guy Maziar's confession was going to be released he bet a friend who'd also been imprisoned in Iran that they could guess what would show up in Maziar's confession. So they wrote down their guesses. When they read the confession they were stunned at how right they were. Because what Maziar Bahari said this was not Maziar's language. Everybody who knows Maziar everybody who knows the other guy . I mean  used to work in the same newspaper. Nice guy. They did not talk with their language. It was the interrogator's language. It is the security forces language. What he said was kind of analysis. I read that analysis inside the prison. It was the same. The narrative was very clear. The foreigners they are influencing society. They want to change the society. Velvet revolution. Another recurring part of the narrative is the inclusion of the names of foreign people and institutions whenever possible hopefully famous ones. The BBC CNN Newsweek The New York Times George Soros President Clinton UCLA Princeton all have appeared in various confessions. I talked to one former student activist arrested in 2000 Ali Afshari who confessed to intentionally criticizing the supreme leader and unintentionally trying to overthrow the regime. Ali's interrogator tried to get him to write into his confession that former CIA director George Tenet had personally guided the overthrowing plan. Of course the CIA did famously orchestrate an overthrow in Iran in 1953 a truth that for many Iranians no doubt makes anything seem possible. But for Ali the idea that he as a student activist had been a lackey for George Tenet was absurd and insulting. It was as though his confession was a historical novel. And his editor kept trying to get him to beef up the realness by sprinkling in actual historical figures. By now Iranian political confessions have become so repetitive and recognizable that one of Iran's most famous political satirists Ebrahim Nabavi recently posted a fake one on YouTube.  The comedian is dressed in prison stripes and identifies himself as Mohammad Ali Abtahi the former vice president of Iran. If that seems like part of the joke it is not. Abtahi is one of the hundreds of people who have been in prison since the election. In the spoof the comedian looks sheepishly at the camera and says I confess that when I travelled to holy Mecca I met with one of the agents from the frightening CIA. He called me and offered me to do a velvet revolution. There are obvious edits in the satire video. And over the course of the story the comedian's face gets covered in more and more Band-Aids. As he continues he admits that he eventually agreed to do the velvet revolution as long as he could do it his way. I imported a few bolts of green velvet fabrics from Israel and England. During this time-- in addition to millions of dollars of funding that was handed to me by Christiane Amanpour-- I also started the green velvet fabric business. Later in the story he suggests to one of his co-conspirators that they should change their revolution to focus on a cheaper fabric than velvet. The comedian by the way was himself forced to confess years ago. He no longer lives in Iran. These confessions for all their heavy-handedness have been crushingly effective. They have ended careers driven people out of the country and kept others looking over their shoulder for the rest of their lives. Because the bargain is confess and there is a good chance you will be released. Probably. Eventually. But the state could decide to bring a case against you afterward anyway. Or they could go after your friends and family. Or with all the personal details you have confessed along with the political ones the security services could blackmail you into working for them as a propagandist an informant. Meanwhile many Iranians even today believe the confessions are genuine or at least could be. For those who get their news mostly from the state-run TV channels the confessions seem as real as anything else on the news. Even Omid before he was arrested sometimes wondered if the stories he would heard about torture and forced confessions were exaggerations or even made up all together. Like I said very effective. I really understood at one point that it is not all about me. They are gathering information about the reformists. I mean for example they gave me names at one point. And I said I have never seen these people. I know these people I have never seen these people. And I can not say that I have met them or they have directed me or they have guided me. And they told me that it is OK. When you confess and when you use their names in your confession it will be so alarming for them. So they wanted to intimidate those people those reformists as well. They did not care that I did not meet any of those people. So the people who are in prison now ranking reformists they had been after them like for five six years. They just did not decide to arrest them  after the election. They had been planning for this for years. Omid wrote six drafts for his interrogator by his own estimate. And out of that they shaped a 5000 word version and a shorter 2000 word op-ed style version. Excerpts were printed in several newspapers. And then he had to confess on TV. And they told me my interrogator said this is the last part of the game. You should be on TV and it is over. Do not screw us. Some TV confessions in Iran are the stark looking straight at the camera confession you are probably imagining. But with other people-- journalists or politicians or big activists-- often it is staged as an informal interview-- in a room set up with chairs a table maybe some flowers-- as though they are sitting down for a chat with Matt Lauer. It was a beautiful room decorated beautifully with curtain flowers chairs orange juice. But the thing was I wanted to make it more unprofessional. So they had to cut all the time. Saying cut. Again. Omid what are you doing? A few times I cried. It was unintentional and also intentional. Both. I did not want to make it very easy for them. And was your chief interrogator there behind the camera saying you know you did it wrong. Do it again? Yes he was there. And he asked me to stop. And I had to start again. So it took four hours to finish half an hour confession. After Omid was released in December of 2004 he leaked to Human Rights Watch that he and about 19 others who'd been arrested around the same time had been coerced into confessing. And the shocking thing was many top government officials-- when they heard what had happened to Omid and the others-- were shocked. Officials like the president moderate reformist Mohammed Khatami and his ministers. It caused an uproar. And eventually Omid and another young journalist met with the head of the judiciary the Grand Ayatollah Shahroudi. He is still the head of the judiciary today. He is the Iranian equivalent of the attorney general. And Omid learned that the security force's standard procedure with the confessions was to make copies and send them along to government officials and top ayatollahs as proof that there were Iranian citizens bent on undermining and plotting against the state. And because the interrogators took so much care to make the confessions look unforced-- with the flowers and the vase and the chatty interviewer the confessing person not looking beat up or emaciated-- apparently the videos were pretty convincing. When Omid and the other journalist told the head of the judiciary everything that had led up to their confessions it was clear to Omid that he was hearing these things for the first time. I really trusted this guy. I felt that he was very honest. He had a very honest reaction. I could see in his face he was so angry. And he was saying all the time . You know people use it when they do not believe something or something's very astounding for them. But for all the shock and outrage and the promises to look into what had happened and take action nothing changed. Not because the head of the judiciary or anyone else was insincere Omid thinks. They just were not and possibly are not strong enough to fight what was happening. Many people they are not happy even in the conservative camp even among Ahmadinejad supporters. They are really mad at what is going on. In my case I remember that many people on the judiciary and in the government-- conservatives that I had a chance to talk to them-- they told me that they are so stunned at how these guys are brutal and why they are doing this and how they are not responsible. Last week the lieutenant commander of Iran's Basij militia was quoted saying There are now so many confessions obtained from rioters that even if all the media mobilized for a long time to broadcast them they still could not get all the information out to the people. A few days before that story came out one of the most senior ayatollahs in Iran the Grand Ayatollah Montazeri said in a translation on the Middle East Media Research Institute Website The proud people of Iran know very well exactly how authentic the detainees' confessions are. They are like confessions obtained by fascist and communist regimes. The nation knows that the false confessions and televised interviews were obtained from its imprisoned sons with threats and torture and that their aim is to cover up the oppression and injustice and to present a distorted image of the people's peaceful and legal protest. Nancy Updike is one of the producers of our show. Coming up the fine print that keeps mom in her place. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Fine Print. Usually most of us try to just skip the fine print. You know we do not read the rental car agreements or the software license end user agreements. We just click I Agree. Today on our show we have stories where the fine print has real consequences. We have arrived at act two of our show. Act two Occupancy May Be Revoked Without Notice. This next bit of fine print was brought to us by David Rakoff. The following shall constitute the binding agreement between Mr. Gregory  of Yonkers New York hereafter known as owner and his mother Mrs. Barbara  of Tenafly New Jersey hereafter known as mother in regards to the third floor bedroom of number 41 old  Lane Yonkers New York. One. Upon completion of chemotherapy and surgery at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Mother shall take occupancy for an as yet undetermined period of time hereafter known as convalescent period not to exceed four weeks in duration. Two. A front door key will be left underneath the stone frog near the rhododendron. Mother agrees to return said key to its hiding place for once. Three. Mother acknowledges herewith that she is aware that as a converted attic the third floor and its bedroom are accessible by a retractable ladder. Subparagraph one. Mother hereby waives any and all recourse to the Americans with Disabilities Act and to any liability on the owner's part in the event of any injury. Subparagraph two. Included in mother's accommodation she shall be given 24 hour access to the bathroom on the second floor. Four. Per mother's previous request she shall occupy the lower bunk of the third floor bedroom while owner's eight-year-old son Robbie  shall occupy the top bunk. Five. Mother may take breakfast and supper with the family-- please see attached appendix detailing the meal plan-- and agrees that upon finishing eating she will quote make herself scarce. As has been previously and frequently discussed quote sitting quietly with a magazine and not saying a word even if you begged me to say something unquote differs wholly in spirit letter and intention from making oneself scarce. Mother further agrees not to do quote that thing with the chewing and the breathing. Subparagraph one. Further to the matter of quote making oneself scarce unquote-- and it is herein that this subparagraph not be construed as belaboring a matter to the point of obsession-- but mother further concedes herein that both owner and his wife have been medically assessed to be of excellent to above average hearing. And as such any and all comments-- even those spoken at a whisper-- are perfectly audible. Further owner's wife as a Mexican born Catholic and therefore not possessed of a formal Yiddish education is well aware that the word curva has entered common English usage to mean whore. And the use of said word even when muttered is heard and emphatically not appreciated. Six. Mother may make daily use of the public rooms on the main floor such as the living room from 1100 AM to 300 PM or until Robbie  returns home from school whichever happens sooner at which time mother must relinquish the television remote and quote make herself scarce unquote. See paragraph five. Mother may receive visitors no more than two a day. Although under no circumstances may mother receive her daughter the omniscient and perfect-- it is acknowledged that both adjectives are being employed ironically-- Mrs. Marla  Burns of Ho-Ho-Kus New Jersey for reasons that have been previously and frequently discussed. If Mrs.  Burns's eagerness to see her mother is deemed as so overwhelming then perhaps the entire location of the convalescent period can be reassessed. Just say the word. Go on say it. Say it. Say it. Subparagraph one. Mention is made hereby that in the matter of the husband of the omniscient and perfect Mrs. Marla  Burns the owner's brother-in-law Dr. Howard Burns of Ho-Ho-Kus New Jersey. Mother further agrees that there is a material difference between a dermatologist and God almighty and that there are indeed many things that the former does not know regardless of how much he pulls down annually. Seven. All efforts have been made herein to draft an impartial agreement with malice and favor towards none. This document is to serve as a mutual protection to both parties. And the full execution of which it is hoped will avert any future difficulties that might in any way resemble events of Thanksgiving 2005 2006 2007 or August 2008 at the beach. David Rakoff is the author of several books including Do not Get Too Comfortable. Act three Restrictions May Apply. At this point even die hard news consumers have to admit this sad truth about the health care debate. It is usually really really boring. I ask you is there any writer in the English language gifted enough to compose an interesting sentence involving the long-term financial health of Medicare? No there is not. But a month ago a House subcommittee held a hearing where a handful of congresspeople could tear into witnesses with the zeal of starving men eating their first real meal in months. They found a corner of the health care crisis that anybody could understand that would make anybody mad that anybody would want to get in there and fix. It did not get much coverage this hearing. It was the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. And here is its chairman Bart Stupak of Michigan reviewing the fine print of an insurance application with Don Hamm who is the head of the insurance company that issued it Assurant Health. What the congressman is trying to figure out in this first clip I am going to play you is are these insurance application forms intentionally difficult so an average person would make mistakes filling them out? Mistakes that would later let the insurance company deny them benefits or cancel their policy. As you said your Assurant Health questionnaires are simple easy to understand straightforward language so people can easily and accurately report their medical history. So let me ask you this. In your policy Mr. Hamm it states in question number 14 Within the last 10 years has any proposed insured had any diagnosis received treatment for or consulted with a physician concerning phlebitis TIA  lymphadenopathy or glandular disorder? So tell me what is TIA? I am not aware. I believe-- If you do not know what it is how would anyone filling out your application know what it is? So there is grounds to deny them right there. You do not even know what it is either do I. How about phlebitis or lymphadenopathy? How about lymphadenopathy what is that? I do not know the answer to those questions. Do you sincerely believe that an average applicant would know what these words mean if you do not know and I do not know? Sir I believe that is an application that is not currently used at this time. I would like to-- It is last year's application. Last year's application. Have you changed the application in the last year? I am not aware if we have changed that application. His hearing was the culmination of a year-long investigation by the subcommittee into the fine print of our nation's insurance policies and specifically into something called rescission for people who have their own individual insurance. This does not apply to people get insurance through their jobs or group insurance policies. For people who have individual insurance rescission is what happens when an insurance company decides that you lied when you applied for a policy with them-- you pretended that you were healthier than you really were or you concealed a serious and e