I think probably every two years I read an article about some scientist who thinks there might be a way building off chicken DNA or whatever to figure out the DNA of dinosaurs and bring one to life. I feel like I run into these stories all the time. There were those scientists a couple years ago who were talking about how you could take Neanderthal DNA and use it to create new Neanderthals. Or this is I think the realest one going. I think this is an actual thing. There is a team led by a Harvard scientist trying to bring back the woolly mammoth. That is right the woolly mammoth. And have herds of them tromping through the Siberian tundra. That is the actual plan. And can I just say I know you scientists you have your reasons. But whenever I read this stuff I think did you guys not see Jurassic Park? Have we learned nothing from the movies? Your scientists were so preoccupied with whether or not they could they did not stop to think if they should. Thank you Jeff Goldblum. Dr. Frankenstein collects the body parts of dead people sews them together on a lab table jolts them with some electricity-- very showy electricity dare I say. The creature comes to life and then does things the scientist did not anticipate at all. Unintended consequences my friends. It is not just in the movies by the way. Of course as we all know discoveries in subatomic physics left the lab. Decades later we got nuclear bombs. Scientists constructed ways with computers to network with each other in the '60s. Now half a century later we end up with the Russians trolling our elections through social media. Cylons return to Caprica to kill all the humans who invented them. OK that one's not real. But my point is the same. Unintended consequences-- they happen when the experiment leaves the lab. And today on our show we have three examples three telling examples from three very different kinds of labs one of them-- OK one of those labs is actually just a laboratory of human feelings but still. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act One Breakout Star. OK so we begin with this experiment gone wrong. Like I said this is not a traditional experiment not a traditional laboratory but a laboratory of human emotion one very familiar to lots of people. I am talking about the reality TV show The Bachelor. Been around for 23 seasons. Every season of course is romance made in a Petri dish. They throw in one guy dozens of women. Each week the guy ejects a few women from the Petri dish until there is just one left. And that is how it went until last season when for the first time one of the lab subjects a very important one escaped the lab with yes unintended consequences. One of our producers Emanuele Berry tells what happened. I have been watching The Bachelor for years and I have never seen anything like what happened on Episode 9 of Season 23. There is this one moment that felt so real that I have not shut up about it. OK so it is almost the last episode of the season. It is The Bachelor so of course they are filming in a romantic location a beautiful property in Portugal. The bachelor this time around is Colton Underwood. He is 26 tall sandy hair handsome a former football player. And as the show has mentioned a million times he is a virgin. I could care less. Online I saw fans of the show describe him as sweet and sincere. My roommate once called him America's chicken nugget. I am here to fall in love so hopefully by the end of this I am down on one knee. This show is a Monday night tradition in my apartment. My roommate and I open a bottle of red wine and for two hours we enjoy some choreographed drama contestants who are not there for the right reason bachelors who did not know it would be so hard tearful eliminations. The entire thing it is kind of silly. It is actually a total mess but I am so into it. So back to that dramatic moment. It is nighttime in Portugal and Colton has been dumped by the girl of his dreams. He has shut himself into his room.  I am done. I am done with this. He says I am done. I am done with this. Cue the most dramatic music. He throws open the door and his hand is suddenly covering the entire TV screen. Then this strange thing happens. Suddenly the invisible TV crew becomes very visible. Cameramen find their way into the frame. Colton is running down the stairs. He is taking off his mic and the producers start calling for Chris. Somebody get Chris. Chris Harrison is the host of the show who is forever popping into scenes unannounced. And I always feel like wait why are you here? Colton's walking away from Chris ignoring everyone. And then he reaches this big white fence like an industrial security gate. It is maybe like eight feet tall. And without hesitation in one powerful graceful movement he leaps up and pulls himself over. He is on the other side in a heartbeat. It is the type of move Captain America would do. And then Chris Harrison utters what is perhaps my favorite line in the history of The Bachelor. He just jumped the  fence. Is there a button that opens the gate? The crew takes what feels like a while to actually get the gate open. And when they finally do Colton is gone. He is gone. The bachelor has escaped. For three minutes I watch as they search for him calling his name. Someone starts whistling like they are looking for a dog.  Colton! Colton! I have no idea where he went. Colton. They get into cars and they are driving around. And finally they spot him on the side of the road. I am asking if you are OK. No I am not OK. Colton keeps walking away. Chris tries to get him to talk. Manages to get him to walk toward a car but Colton insists it is over. He says I cannot do this. I am done. Then commercial. And when we come back it is the next day and it is bright and sunny. And Chris Harrison is knocking on Colton's door to talk.  And it all feels sort of normal. Hey brother. What is up? Yo man. And I am watching at home and I am confused. Like did not he just say he was done with the show? Yet here he is talking with Chris planning his next move. On the show it is never explained how Colton went from running away and quitting to being back in front of the cameras. Like where did he go? How long was he gone? And most important what made him decide to come back? Like what actually happened? The TV show gave no satisfying answer to any of that. So-- Hey Colton. Hey how are you? Good how are you doing? I called him. Colton says when he signed up to be the bachelor he would already been on The Bachelorette so he believed he understood how the show worked. I thought that I did. I thought that I had a lot of it figured out and I was wrong. He explained that the whole fence jump goes back to a confusion of his own making. So on each episode there are dates with the bachelor. Some are one-on-one. Some are big group dates. And sometimes contestants do not get selected for a date at all which sucks because it is really the only time you get to spend with the bachelor. And Colton told me something I did not know watching the show that to figure out who goes on these dates producers are constantly checking in with the bachelor to figure out who he likes. Like one of the women he initially hit it off with was Hannah. They always asked to rank the girls. And very early on Hannah was up there. And she got left off of a date. In other words in the beginning when there were over 20 contestants this woman Hannah was his number one pick. But they did not schedule a date with her. And I sort of recall remember feeling a little burnt when they did that. I was like so let me get this straight. Hannah's number one on my list right now and she is not getting a date this week. So from there on out I was like all right if you are going to do that to my top girls I am not really going to tell you who my top girls are. Because I do not want you messing with them. So in a weird way I tried to defend myself and defend the girls by not being truthful to them who my top was. So even after Hannah stopped being his favorite. I just kept the top the same. So Hannah was always at the top of the list when I always made the list for them to see and I never changed it. It is so interesting because it feels like you are learning their game and then coming up with ways to sort of like either foil it or protect yourself or put yourself in a better position. Like did you find yourself doing that throughout the entire process? Well yeah. So like that is just me wanting to set myself up for success. While Colton kept putting Hannah as his number one pick each week the girl he fell for hardest was actually Cassie. How are you? You look amazing. How are you? Good. On a scale of one to hot Colton is hot. I feel like we do have some chemistry and I am looking forward to just diving right in. She is got a surfer vibe blonde hair beachy waves. They had chemistry. But as a viewer she did not seem like a frontrunner. I kind of kept forgetting who Cassie was. I think with Cass the best way to describe our relationship is it was such a slow burn. And it was in a weird way in the dynamic of The Bachelor franchise where it is supposed to be quick and fast and intense it was sort of a relief to find a normal relationship in which it was a slower burn and which it was a more realistic approach to a relationship. And I think it was just it was almost like when I was with Cass it was like a breath of fresh air. So toward the end of the season they are down to just three women-- Cassie his favorite Hannah who the producers think is his favorite and Tayshia the token black girl. They are all in Portugal and they each have an overnight date scheduled with Colton. But someone has to be eliminated by the end of the episode. I do not know exactly what the producers intended. They declined my request for an interview. But watching the show it seemed like they were trying to get Cassie to quit. They threw a wrench in her and Colton's relationship a wrench shaped like Cassie's dad. Colton had met Cassie's dad in an earlier episode when he asked for permission to propose. Mind you he did this for nearly all the remaining contestants. But Cassie's dad said no. So I feel like as far as the hand of marriage that would be a premature blessing. I see where you are coming from. That is not exactly what I wanted to hear. A week later in Portugal Colton's certain about Cassie. Cassie's confused. Again I have no idea what the producers were thinking. But when I was watching it it seemed like they were forcing Cassie's hand. The show allows a special guest to visit. Later in that episode her dad actually shows up which nobody just accidentally shows up in Portugal. So the producers paid a pretty hefty price to fly that man on out to Portugal to come visit and spend time with his daughter to give her clarity. Cassie's dad talks to her and she decides to leave the show. There should not be any hesitation in your mind when you meet somebody that you want to spend the rest of your life with. None. It is a lifelong decision. It is not something you make if you are unsure. Cassie decides to tell Colton at dinner. Normally during the dinners and during that the producers are sort of hovering or they are around to help the conversation flow. Or they are there just to like bounce ideas off of when you guys are talking. When we had that dinner there was not a producer in sight. There was just the cameras and there was just the audios. Everybody else ran. And they did not want to be near it because I think they knew that I knew. Knew that they set him up he means. At dinner Cassie tells him she is leaving. And she mentions that her dad is here in Portugal and that they have been talking. Colton clearly has no idea that this was happening. And he turns as though looking for someone. Oh I was thinking I just got screwed. I was thinking that that was not her doing. I know what the format of the show is. And for me hearing hey by the way my dad came back really sparked something in me. I was like OK. So I do not have the control I thought I had. If I feel like my relationship's going to be messed with or toyed with at all I am going to be done. Especially at this point I have completely fallen in love. I have completely like gave myself all to her. I mean I had nothing to lose at that point besides the girl and the woman that I wanted to spend the rest of my life with. So Colton's about to lose the girl that he loves. And in a perverse way it is kind of his fault. When Colton started lying about who he liked most on his list the show is not really built for that. It is as if an inanimate test subject suddenly became sentient. Basically he compromised the entire experiment. He sort of played himself. I think that it backfired because then they were like whoa we thought it was Hannah because you kept telling us even on your list when you would rank them Hannah's one. And so in the end Cassie ends up basically sort of breaking up with you and leaving right? Yeah. So we walk and I just get up and we start walking to the car. And it was in the dark. I remember there was a sidewalk we were supposed to stay on. It was completely lit and I was like we are not staying on the sidewalk. Like I started-- right then and there I was like I am not doing showy things anymore. I am not doing things just to go through the motions of being the bachelor. So I was starting to run through scenarios in my head as I put her in the van and said goodbye to her. I was like all right I am going to go upstairs. I am going to grab my wallet. First off I got to get away from these people. I have to lose my mic. I have to lose the cameras. I have to just be by myself. And my plan was to get out of there and go grab a new passport because they did have my passport. So I was like I got my wallet. I have-- Wait. You are like I am going to go get a new passport? I am done. I wanted to be done. I did not want to talk to the people on the show. I was about to pay for my own flight to get home. I literally was done talking to everybody. So I went up I grabbed my wallet and I remember opening the door and the first thing I see is a camera right there. And if I had any regrets from the night the only regret would be is actually hitting and putting a hand on the camera because that is not my property. But I was heated so I hit the camera just to get it out of my way and went down the stairs. And that is when I undid my mic. And once I did that I think they had an idea of what was coming next. And I remember walking up to the fence and I had no clue how to open it. I did not want to wait for people to open it. So without hesitation without even thinking I was just like screw it. I am over this thing. Let us do it. And I just gathered myself and jumped over the fence fully expecting the other side to have people producers handlers the food tent. I mean the scale of this show is so big that there is people everywhere. You can never get by yourself. I mean there are so many hands on deck all of these things. But I jumped the fence and there was nothing. It was darkness. It was fields. And for me I was like this is awesome. So I was like I am here. I was like I do not want them to catch up. So I started running. So you ran and you took off. I ran and I took off. And I am the worst with directions. Like I am very directionally challenged. And I had no clue where I was going. I remember having a ton of bright lights over to the left so I was like I am just going to run towards the lights. And hopefully I get there. Granted these lights are like 40 miles away 30 miles away. I was like let us do it. I was running in boots and tight jeans which is the worst combination ever to run in. And I remember hearing in the distance the producers start yelling my name so I knew they were chasing after me. Where did you hide? You are a big dude. Were you hiding behind a tree? Were you in bushes? Oh. It was dangerous too because I had no clue what the laws were in Portugal. I was hopping personal fences. I was hiding behind people's cars. I was laying down in ditches. And finally I hopped through a backyard and there was like a chain link fence. And all of a sudden I hear these animals. And they sort of sounded like dogs and I love dogs. I am a big dog person. But this was like an aggressive growling howling thing. And I was like all right this is probably a little dangerous. I probably am a little in over my head here trying to get back and find a passport. So I will just turn myself in. I was gone for about a good two hours. You were gone for two hours? It was yeah when it is all said and done. So he turns himself in. Not to police of course but to reality TV. He does this by walking to the main road till someone finds him. When they do he is still upset and overwhelmed and not ready to talk. So he plays the system. He says there is a rule that you cannot be filmed or recorded while talking to the show is therapist. So he asked for that. He says they talked for an hour while he vented and figured out his next move. And then finally he was ready to talk to producers. What was that game plan or that conversation like? Did they have to convince you to come back? Because at that point you were saying that you were done right? If Cassie was not going to be there you were like-- you seemed very done also. Yeah. Yes so the game plan-- Yeah what was the conversation like to get you to come back to the show? So the conversation was-- well obviously they just wanted to hear me out. They wanted to hear what I had to say. And then the game plan was to talk to Cass again but I only wanted to do that after I talked to the other two women. The lab rat is suddenly running the lab. Colton wants to break up with the other two contestants so he can make it clear to Cassie that she is the one that he wants and they do not have to get married. This goes totally against the show is format. It means no final two no big bro ceremony no proposal scene. All of these sacred touchstones are just gone from the show. It is like watching the Olympics without the medal ceremony at the end. So you felt like you sort of had more power or maybe a little more leverage to have control when you went back. Well I think it was just me-- they knew I was serious. Like it is one thing when leads say OK I am done. Like it is OK but you turn around and you are in an interview the next minute. It is like you are not done. You are sitting right in front of them. You are doing exactly what they want you to do. So they knew not to really cross that line. In the end he gets what he wants. He talks to Cassie. They decide to date and not get engaged. Colton is still friends with the producers. And he says he and Cassie are still together and very happy. The promos for Colton's season of The Bachelor were all about the fence jump. They tease viewers with footage of the jump. My roommate and I watched every week asking is this the week he does it? There is a Twitter account dedicated to the question articles guessing when and why it would happen. The week he finally jumped we threw a party in my apartment. There was a cake with a fence. One of the things that I think is so sort of interesting about this situation is the very big independent act that you did which was deciding to basically run away from the show which has not happened before. And then that sort of act of independence got taken and then that was the promo for the season right? From episode one it was like when is Colton going to jump the fence? When is Colton going to jump the fence over and over again. Watching those promos how did it feel seeing this moment end up being used as a piece of plot? That was sort of hard for me to deal with because in a way they are teasing it. America's making jokes about it making memes about it. And that is their number one marketing and selling piece. Meanwhile I know the seriousness behind it. I did not really real-- I did not even know if they were going to put that in the show until obviously I saw the trailer of me jumping the fence and then I realized that they probably had to. In the end the most disruptive thing that could have happened-- driving your lead to jump over a fence and run away-- was probably the best thing that could have happened for the TV show. Ratings for Colton's finale were up compared to the previous season which makes sense because hopping a fence it felt real. Those are the moments I like the most in reality shows the rare moments of sincere emotion inside this artificial human experiment. Cameras everywhere insane locations over-the-top clothes-- the producers can control all that stuff. Scientists can control the lab. But they cannot control the results. Emanuele Berry is one of the producers of our show.   Act Two Two Times a Lady. OK so a product is developed in a lab. Then after months and months it is allowed out in the world for the first time. And it does something that its creators really did not intend. It somehow pits men against women industry leaders against an inventor. Lina Misitzis reports. She was most of the way through 2018 and Lora Haddock was making something new. Biomimicry is literally translating human or biological movement and we are translating that into microrobotics. So we have actually created brand new mechanical workings that have never been created before. Lora knew that what she and her team were working on was innovative. But it was not until her newly appointed publicist encouraged her to submit it for awards that she really started seeing her new invention for what it was. That day she looked at us and she said you need to apply for tech awards because this is serious tech. And I mean you guys just made a robot. A robot named Os. Os left its lab in Oregon sent out into the world for the first time to apply for this award an innovation award at CES. That is the Consumer Electronics Show one of the largest trade shows in the world with more than 170000 attendees in recent years. Run by the Consumer Technology Association the CTA tens of thousands of new tech products debut at CES. Among them historically are the VCR the camcorder the game Tetris. Winning a CES award is game changing. With it comes industry wide promotion product listings in CTA's trade magazine and the chance to showcase your product beside the most buzzed about products at the expo. It is a very big deal. It took about a month to get all of our patent documents together that we were submitting. And then we put everything in. And then we kind of sat and we waited. And there is a handful of judges that are experts in robotics and drones. And they decided that Os deserved an award. And we got that email and I think I literally went running through the office like yelling at all of our engineers. And pretty sure some people cried. And it was just absolutely astounding and felt so validating. The Os is a robot-- a robotic sex toy. There is no way to talk about this without acknowledging the existence of sex and the body parts typically involved. So if you are listening with kids or you do not want to hear about it this might not be the story for you. OK. According to its inventors what makes the Os different from other sex toys is that it conforms to each user's particular dimensions stimulating both the G spot and the clitoris resulting in a blended orgasm which is an internal and external orgasm together in the same person at the same time. And then you go holy shit that was awesome. And then do you like-- do you do it again or like-- Of course you do it again.  Then you do it again just for good measure. The biomimicry part what is being imitated by the robotics is what Lora calls the come hither motions made by a sexual partner's hands mouth or both. For Lora and her team which was largely made up of female engineers the award meant a frenzy of activity. The Os was still in prototype meaning the design still needed to be finalized. The marketing and the product launch still needed planning. I was in an engineering meeting and my phone went off and it was our publicist. And I stepped out and I got on the phone. And I said is everything OK? And she goes are you sitting down? You need to sit down. And she tells me that they are revoking our award. She got this news in an email. Apparently higher-ups got to talking. And they said when we had this bigger conversation we decided that we are going to revoke your award. And we are very sorry to have made this mistake. I literally feel like this right now. I welled up. I was heartbroken and angry and very confused. The email referenced a CTA policy that products deemed by CTA to be immoral or obscene or indecent or profane or not in keeping with CTA's image could be disqualified and that CTA reserves the right to disqualify any entry at any time. Lora could not help but notice that CTA had very recently been fine with other sex toys so long as they were oriented towards penises and the people those penises were attached to. In 2017 CES show the company Naughty America exhibited virtual reality porn. You would put on a headset choose from one of three boy-girl scenes each of them through the eyeballs of the male. In one you are a guy on a workout bench and a woman in yoga pants just squats over you. Then you have sex. And at a media partner show at CES the creator of Real Doll showcased his electronic sex doll Harmony who comes with her removable mouth insert that can be washed. Harmony can also be programmed to tell you that she loves you and to exhibit character traits like jealous insecure unpredictable or helpful. Lora took inventory of all this and the fact that Os got banned. And very quickly came to the realization that it had everything to do with the fact that it is an adult product that is geared towards females and people with vaginas. And we wrote a letter back to the CTA stating that this is-- basically that this is absolute crap. This is wrong and you know it. And they stood by their decision. They said we are very sorry. There was a misunderstanding. We did not realize what the nature of your product was. And that I did not buy for a second because we looked at our application. In the very first sentence of our application the very first sentence says this is a robot to elicit a blended orgasm that stimulates the clitoris and the G spot. So there is no questioning what kind of product this was. CTA has had a pretty tumultuous on againoff again relationship with the sex industry for decades. For a long time sex was actually part of the trade show. Remember VHS tapes? Some of the first people to make the leap from film to VHS were porn people. And porn viewers were excited to watch porn from home instead of adult movie theaters and booths in the backs of stores. And CES wanted to connect content creators with tech manufacturers. It was lucrative. So they let porn companies display at their show but there were strings attached. All adult content was relegated to an entirely different building from the rest of tech. Porn was still a part of CES but to get to it you would have to leave the Las Vegas Convention Center and go to the Sahara which was a casino more than a mile away. One of the main porn people back then was Paul Fishbein. He founded AVN Adult Video News the quintessential trade magazine of porn. You go up a little stairwell into this ballroom. And the booths were like any other booth that you would see in any other trade show. And people would have posters of movies and they would have TV's that would play softcore clips from the movies. And they would have tables for porn stars to sit and sign autographs. What were some of the big movies in the late '80s early '90s? Now you are really pushing. Um hold on a second. We are talking late '80s? Yep. John Stagliano started his first Buttman movie in 1989 The Adventures of Buttman. And he went on to become a major player. And even though business was good tensions arose. Porn exhibitors grew resentful. They were being charged the same participation costs as other tech companies but they were not getting the same marketing or show placement. And then things came to a head in 1998 when CES put up signs by the sex industry section bathrooms that said Stop. These restrooms are shared with exhibit personnel in the adult software area. You may choose another bathroom. Thank you. As porn veteran Bryn Pryor who was also AVN's managing editor back then told me in an email the implication of those signs was that sex workers might have quote diseases or molest you or shit on the floor. The next year 1999 the divorce. Porn splintered off from CES. AVN began hosting their own expo only for adult content. And for a while they still held it the same weekend as CES. CES meanwhile banned porn from their show though obviously some sex stuff still found its way onto the show floor. Which brings us back to 2019. With her tech award gone and her sex toy robot banned from CES Lora wrote another letter this one an open letter and posted it to Os's website on midnight January 8 the day CES was starting in Vegas. Our very first bit of coverage surfaced right about 900 AM. And all of a sudden the floodgates opened. The story was picked up by Fast Company The New York Times Fortune Gizmodo Glamour Cosmo Wired The Guardian and more. Headlines like Women's Sexuality is Still Taboo for Tech were popping up and Sex Toy Debacle Reveals Shameful Double Standard at CES. A month later in February Lora gets an email from the assistant to CTA President Gary Shapiro. He says Gary Shapiro would like to talk to you. Can we schedule a phone call? And I mean at that point I am nervous. Like what does he want to talk to me about? OK. We get on the call and the first thing Gary says is I owe you all a very big apology. We did you a great disservice and we are very sorry for what is happened. And we realize that we have made a mistake. Lora and her team were being given their award back. At the end of the press release came a promise of new and updated policies. They would make CES a more quote welcoming and inclusive event for all. The first new policy was that they would include sex products in the CES show on a one year trial basis. It was not clear why they called this a new policy since sex products were actually in the show the previous year. They said these products would now be in the category Health and Wellness. And they rolled out one other new policy to address something else they would gotten a lot of criticism for in the past. They instituted a dress code. Quote Booth personnel may not wear clothing that is sexually revealing or clothing that reveals an excess of bare skin or body conforming clothing that hugs genitalia. What CES was trying to address was booth babes. Booth babes and CES have always gone together since the 1960s. These are models in revealing clothing or body conforming clothing that hugs genitalia hired to stand next to the tech on the show floor. In a 1986 story for the Toronto Star Jonathan Gross wrote quote The quality of the products was inversely proportional to the chest size of the booth babes handing out the literature. Paul Fishbein sold AVN years ago to pursue a career in mainstream TV. But when I told him about CES's new policies he was not surprised at all. It is the same thing. It is the 2020 version of everything we just talked about. Nothing has changed. Sex scares them. I reached out to CES for comment. They put me on with their executive vice president Karen Chupka. But there were conditions. CES would not speak with me about the history of their show the history of sex tech at their show Lora's product the award it got the award being taken away or the award being given back. All I could ask about was the future of CES. It was a short interview. But there was one thing she said that helped shed a little bit of light on their decision making. I asked what would it take for sex to not come back in 2021 after the one year trial? And Karen told me that CES's priority is to make everyone who attends the trade show feel welcome. As long as her 175000 attendees are not offended by seeing sex products at the show sex products can stay. So that is the goal-- satisfying everyone. Lora the inventor she told me that CES actually consulted with her about what category to put sex products into for this one year trial. CES's instinct? Do it like they used to-- sex in its own category in its own room. And I pushed back on that really hard because I did not want to be sequestered off in the corner. So she argued for sex toys to fall under the Health and Wellness category. But 