A quick warning-- there are curse words that are unbeeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version you can find that at our website-- thisamericanlife.org. Darwin's nine. And he is a kid who-- I do not know-- people just give him stuff. When he met my co-worker Aviva he was playing with a soccer ball somebody gave him eating a taco somebody else gave him. And Darwin's mom was explaining all this. Comemos ms porque nos traigan.  Can you just describe what just happened? No tengo ni idea I have no idea she says. A man as you were talking about people just giving him things walked by and gave you-- how much did he give you? Diez? Diez. Wow. Diez. Diez Pesos. 10 pesos. Y por que te dio eso? Why'd he give you that? Aviva asks him. Darwin gives a little shrug like eh what can I say? Porque pensaba que yo estaba pidiendo una moneda.  Because he thought I was asking for a coin. His mom says he was just sitting there eating. You are like king of the camp. Que si soy el rey del campamento!  Yes I am the king of the camp he says. As Aviva sits there with Darwin's mom Elizabeth he runs off for 15 20 minutes at a time. And then returns with cash. Ay Dios mio santo Dios. Cinco dolares.  Cinco! Dolar! 5. She hugs him. Ay tan lindo. Muchachito.  Darwin runs to their tent to pull out all the money he is saved and show Aviva-- 279 a huge wad of cash which for context they are living in a makeshift tent camp in Matamoros Mexico right over the border from Brownsville Texas. And I mean immediately on the other side-- nestled against the US and the Rio Grande and the customs office. You can see the big red arches of the border station it is so close. Over 2500 people living here hoping to get asylum in the US. Darwin and his mom came here from Honduras. 279 bucks here is huge. Most people even the migrants who came with a little money saved have been here so long they have spent it all. Our family sends us money his mom says. Lots of families do that. But he brings in so much more than they send. Es inteligentsimo. Aviva then follows Darwin as he walks from the tents to the long line of cars that is waiting at the border to cross into the United States. He is a happy-looking kid with neatly cut hair and a big smile. Really cute. Darwin gives a fist bump to the fruit stand guy. Claps the man selling corn on the back to say hello. Nods to the half-dozen other vendors working the line. Remember he is nine. When we asked one woman in the camp about him she was like oh El Terremoto-- The Earthquake. He holds a finger in the air asking for one coin. He says that is his move-- ask for a coin and then hopefully they will give you more than a coin. And in fact a car with three women waves him over. And the woman in the passenger seat rolls down her window and hands him a dollar. Gracias. Que los bendiga! Thanks. Bless you. Are you Cuban? He asks her. Es Cubana?  He says I knew it-- from your accent. And she is like right. You thought I was from Cuba. And they laugh. The woman asks his name and he tells her. She says she likes his hair. I like your hair he says. He reaches out to stroke her hair. It is straight and blond. I like your hair because it is pretty he says. And she laughs and claps her hands. Look at what a flirt he ended up being. Mira coqueto sali este. Ay Dios mo tu tienes novia?  Oh my god. You have a girlfriend? Usted es! Usted es! You you. Bye Darwin! Bye. Bye. Darwin runs to his mom who is watching all this and gives her the dollar. Both of them and the thousands of other people camped here at the border-- to be clear they are trying to follow the rules and enter the United States through a border station and formally apply for asylum. It used to be you would show up. If you passed a basic interview-- which most people did-- you would wait in the US for your day in court. But now it is all different. Under the Trump administration's Remain in Mexico policy you get turned back to wait in Mexico. This policy is still pretty new. It really kicked in full force this summer but it is a profound change with massive consequences. One of them? The size of this camp which did not exist before President Trump and which grows in size every day. And all across Mexico in cities just on the other side of the border there are now tens of thousands of people-- according to the Department of Homeland Security-- stranded under this policy in shelters on the streets and in encampments like this one sent by our government without much of a plan for where or how they would live once they got to Mexico. This camp for instance is totally improvised-- long rows of scruffy blue and white and gray tents over 700 of them donated by do-gooder groups and churches in America. These are Coleman tents meant for weekend camping not designed for rain and direct sun and cold for months at a time. There is no regular water supply here. Volunteer groups from over the border in Brownsville haul in over 3000 bottles of water each day and these are just the little 16-ounce bottles like you would buy with your lunch at a fast food place. There is no proper sanitation just five toilets for 2500 people-- yellow Porta Potties which get precisely as gross as you would imagine. One of the fathers here Elwin David Baquis told me that when his eight-year-old daughter needs the bathroom-- No pues si cuando tengo dinero le busco otro bao. Well you know if I have some money then I will look and see if I can find her another bathroom to use but if there is not any then I will take her out into the woods-- into the mountain so that she can you know use the bathroom do her business and then we will go down to the river to wash up. Para tantas personas. No tienen ni cinco horas cuando ya estn repletos. And honestly with the amount of people using them in five hours they will be totally full. And people still keep on going to use them especially women because as you can imagine you know like there is a bunch of men out there in the woods that are using the bathroom and they do not want to be surrounded by that. There is a nurse at the camp named Helen Perry who runs a very small relief group with a very grand-sounding name-- Global Response Management. With some volunteers she started a medical tent in the camp modeled after the battalion aid stations that she learned to set up back when she was in the army. Anyway I mentioned all of this to Helen-- that this father and daughter were going up in the woods. And she was like oh yeah knew that. Yeah. And then when it rains all that rainwater washes down there or it washes into the hard spaces in the camp and they get you know infectious diarrhea. Are you seeing a lot of infectious diarrhea? Yes. Most everyone here has some form of GI something or other-- you know different types of tapeworms and ringworms. And the problem is is that you treat it and then they come right back out and they get it again. I actually met Elwin because he was Helen's first patient of the day. He and his daughter both had pinkeye from bathing in the Rio Grande which is not clean. Helen's trying to organize a fix for that. So this is actually one of areas that we are talking about bringing in a water purification system. So the Rio Grande is like right down there. Hola. Hola. And so what we want to do is put in a water purification system right over here run a hose out into the water. It will suck up the water purify it and they will have their own water source. And you are the one organizing this? Yeah. Not a government? No no. Not the UN? Nope. Just you a person. I have never-- people are like have you done water? And I am like no but like I will Google it. I have to say this is the thing that hit me hardest in Matamoros. You have thousands of people stuck there right on our border two big governments-- the United States and Mexico-- one of them of course a lot richer than the other and nobody's looking after these people with food and water and shelter except a bunch volunteers who raised their hands and said we cannot ignore this. Buenas tardes. Hoy da tenemos voluntarios que vienen de Indiana.   Good afternoon. Today we have volunteers from Indiana. Y de Indianapolis From Indianapolis. Muy lejos! Really far. A cocinar para ustedes. To cook for you. Porque todos somos hermanos verdad. Because we are all brothers right? So les vamos a decir gracias. Un aplauso para nuestros voluntarios.  So let us say thanks with a round of applause. Eight very nice ladies from Indiana in fluorescent green t-shirts start serving food out of aluminum foil trays food for 1000 people. It cost 1900 which they raised back home in 20 dollar donations. They also paid for their own flights and everything. An impressively competent group that calls itself Team Brownsville started by a bunch of teachers all volunteer has organized it so a different bunch of people shows up five nights a week with food. They also pay for a Matamoros restaurant to deliver hundreds of breakfasts each day. The food today is fresh but very north of the border and very plain-- slices of ham and cheese on white bread tangerines grapes baby carrots. Everybody we ask about the food though is polite enough to say how great it is. Pues rica. Si? Todos los dias It is tasty this guy tells Aviva.  La comida es rica? Bien rica. Si.  It is tasty right? He says to the woman next to him. Oh sure very tasty she says. As soon as Aviva walks away the interpreter who was with us for the day Gabby Muoz overhears what happens next. Oh yeah then afterwards like her friend or like the guy or the person's friend was like what did she ask you? And he is like well she asked me how good the food was and I said it was good but what the fuck else was I supposed to say?  Generally they try to get the volunteers out of the camp by nightfall because Matamoros is not safe. The cartels are here. The city has one of the highest kidnapping rates in Mexico according to the US State Department. Its web page about Matamoros says murder carjacking and sexual assault are common. Gang gun battles are widespread. Anybody here is at high risk. Not far from where they serve the food like just 20 feet or so from the actual border station a woman named Jenny and her husband and her daughter set up their tent. I asked her if she chose that spot because it seemed like the safest closes into the border like that. Si es ms seguro She said yes and explained that she and her husband and daughter had been kidnapped in the last city they were in. Fue en Reynosa. Quince das estuvimos secuestrados. So it was in Reynosa and we were kidnapped for 15 days.  She starts to tell the story of her family and the cartel and the house they were held in but as she does a man quietly approaches and just kind of hovers nearby listening. And she says atras atras atras-- look behind you-- and covers her face. Atrs atrs atrs. Estn viendo. Atrs. No hay que hablar de eso. Estn atrs. You cannot talk about this. He is behind. Peligroso.  We switch the subject. He goes away. A journalist who is in this camp a lot confirmed that he was a cartel guy. How much violence there is against people in the camp is not clear. The nurse Helen Perry has heard about people being kidnapped from the camp but that is hard to confirm. And she told me this story. When I first showed up in the camp a woman came up to me and asked me if we would be bringing in condoms because when she got sexually assaulted again she wanted to be able to ask her attacker to wear a condom so she would not get pregnant. In her relief work Helen's been to lots of places where migrants and refugees are stranded like this. But the security issues here-- the lack a predictable food and water and sanitation five toilets where there should be 125 no proper tents for people-- When I first saw it I was literally just dumbfounded because I have seen refugee situations like this. I have been to Bangladesh. I have seen Cox's Bazar. I have been to Iraq. I have seen the IDP camps. I have seen the refugee camps from Syria. I would say this was the worst. Yeah I would definitely say that this is the worst if at a bare minimum for a lack of humanitarian accountability for what is happening to these people. You mean that nobody's keeping account of who is here and who is not who goes in and who goes out? Who goes in who goes out who goes missing. At a proper refugee camp she says like a United Nations camp they would have that-- a big tall fence somebody keeping track of who comes in and out. When we asked Mexican officials about conditions in this camp they said they are not helping the 2500 people here because they do not want a permanent tent city in the spot. They want people to move to government shelters. And the United Nations said they will not step in unless the Mexican government invites them to step in. The United States whose policies landed people here in the first place has also donated 5 million to house them in Mexico. The money does not go to tent camps like this one but to the official Mexican government shelters. It is enough money to shelter 8000 people but we sent way more people than that back across the border-- over 57000 under the Remain in Mexico policy plus another 21000 who immigration officials have not even begun to process. We have told them the system's backed up. You should sit on a waiting list stay in Mexico and we will get to your cases in a few months. And these were mostly people who in the past before President Trump would have been allowed into the United States to wait for their asylum court dates here. It is so many people we are pushing back across the border resulting in refugee camps that we do not call refugee camps right on our country's doorstep. Today we try to understand what this new policy means for the people we send across the border. And we also hear from US officials who sent them there who are not feeling so great about it themselves. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act one Goodbye Stranger. So let us start today with the US officials on the front lines whose job under Remain in Mexico is to send people back. Lots of them have been resigning saying no that is actually not my job. Los Angeles Times reporter Molly O'Toole talked to a bunch of them. Before the Remain in Mexico policy began and upended the asylum system and completely changed what it is to be an asylum officer here's how the job used to work. When a Central American showed up at the US-Mexico border and said let me in I am afraid of going back to my country that is where the asylum officer came in. The officer did something called a credible fear screening to check if the person was likely to face harm or death if the US sent them back home. If there is even a chance that they would the asylum officer would let them into the United States to wait for a court date where an immigration judge would make the final call. Doug Stephens says people do not understand how hard the job is. At the time all this started he was an asylum officer in San Francisco. And so I would have people come into my office and my job essentially is tell me the worst things that have happened to you. You have an hour. Go. And then I will decide if you are telling me the truth and I will decide if you get to stay. You are expected to be-- or really to do the job well need to be-- an expert in the political cultural social and economic situations in innumerable countries around the world and you are expected to be a human lie detector all at once. President Trump talks about asylum itself as if it is fraud. He says it is a hoax a big fat con job that people come in with fake asylum claims that asylum officers just let everyone through and then asylum seekers never show up for their day in court-- that it is a border-wide 2000-mile loophole. And it is true that most people do pass that first stop with an asylum officer and enter the United States but there is a good reason for that. It is built into US asylum law-- a commonsense humanitarian idea. We do not want to send people back to situations where they would get tortured or killed. The legal term is non-refoulment. And so US law set the bar low. If there is basically any chance an asylum seeker could get killed or harmed the officer is supposed to let them into the US and does not need a lot of proof or evidence at that point. Later when they get before an immigration judge-- and by the way the majority do show up-- there they need proof and most of them get rejected. Even before President Trump took office less than 15 per year got asylum and that is because most people do not meet the specific criteria in the law or do not have enough evidence or it does not check out. All of the asylum officers I have ever spoken with see it as their job to weed out the fakers the people who do not really need protection the ones who are just trying to game the system. Oh my god. Like here's where I am going to be real with you. This is an asylum officer we are calling Ursula. This is not her voice. She is afraid of getting fired so we had an actor copy what she said as closely as possible. The fraud is like happening on a scale that is huge. We are talking like hundreds of people a month. I interviewed three asylum officers for this story and all three said the groups that have been the primary target of President Trump's immigration policies they actually are not the main ones committing fraud. It is not the Central Americans. It is not the Middle Eastern people. It is the Indian people and the Chinese people. They all have the same bullshit story about getting beaten with hockey sticks three times because they are part of a Sikh party and the police told them they are going to jail them if they ever bad-mouth the ruling party ever again. Bullshit. They all just happened to do the same thing and suffer the same fate even though there is absolutely no confirmation in any media that any of this persecution is happening and studies done by our Department of State counterparts in the country are straight up like this is not a real thing. The Chinese are running a similar scam with Christian claims. In the fall of 2018 asylum officers started hearing about these big changes coming. The policy that was first called Remain in Mexico and then later Migrant Protection Protocols MPP. But the asylum officers who were going to have to implement this thing they did not know any of the details of how they were supposed to do it. It was all shrouded in so much secrecy. This is another asylum officer. We are calling her Anne. We used an actor here too to protect her identity. Over the next few weeks Anne starts picking up around the office that some of her colleagues were being called in quietly and asked to go to the border in San Diego. And instead of the credible fear screenings they would always done they seemed to be doing something entirely different under MPP-- a whole new kind of interview with different rules. She knew she was going to have to start doing them too so she pulled aside a coworker who'd already been sent to the border. I was asking her hey like what is the training? Like what is this? And she was like I am not allowed to talk to you about it. Another asylum officer? Yeah. Yeah. Is this someone who you would like consider a friend or just sort of like professional colleague? Good colleague-- a good colleague someone that we had mutual trust for sure and then was told-- was brought in by a supervisor for like a special brief about it before I was going to start doing these interviews and was told here's the skinny on it and do not tell anyone. Why? Because I think they knew that it was legally dubious and suspect and they wanted to keep the leak to a minimum. The leak being a major policy rollout that was going to change asylum? Yeah. That is the leak? That is the leak. Yeah. Two months go by before they do a formal training session with the full asylum corps and it is just a PowerPoint. Here's Ursula again. Hands we are going up and being like wait how is this legal or how are we going to be doing this and how do we know how this works? All three of the asylum officers I talked to said that the presentation left them with lots of questions including the biggest one how is this legal? These officers knew better than almost anyone how dangerous Mexico is and this policy seemed designed to send tons of people back to Mexico. It seemed to be in direct contradiction with US asylum law which says that at the very least we cannot send people back to a situation where they would get harmed or killed. We cannot violate the principle of non-refoulment. And the the response was like I am just the messenger bringing this down from HQ and this is the PowerPoint they gave us. I was like well if you do not even care about double checking that this is legal and you are just the messenger as you say you are a fucking asshole you know? All three officers say they raised concerns and got roughly the same response-- just get out there and do your job. What they found out soon enough was just how radical a change the new MPP interviews were from the old credible fear screenings. For starters not everyone would get an interview. Only the people who volunteered that they were scared to go back to Mexico would. If they got an interview under MPP asylum seekers would have to prove that they would be harmed in Mexico not their home country. And not just any harm-- they cannot just be threatened by gangs or the police they have to be threatened by gangs or police or whoever because of some very specific reasons laid out in the US law-- because of their nationality race religion politics or being part of a particular social group like LGBTQ. And they would have to show that the Mexican government like a cop or an official was unable or unwilling to protect them. And the asylum seeker could not just say all this happened like they could under credible fear screenings. Now they would need to prove it. It is like as asylum seekers were traveling through Mexico fleeing for their lives they should have been gathering evidence of all the screwed-up things happening to them there making a paper trail. And they should have had all of this evidence on them right then right after crossing the border which of course is next to impossible especially because they had no idea any of this was required. Doug saw all of this happening and wanted nothing to do with it so he tried to keep his head down to try and avoid having to do these interviews hoping the courts would kill MPP but they did not. By June MPP returns had skyrocketed and it was all hands on deck for the asylum corps. Doug could not dodge it anymore. And I got the email. It said you are doing MPP interviews today. So I had a father and son. The son I think was preteens 11 or 12. They are fleeing from Honduras because of violence and other problems. We did not talk about that much because it does not matter for the purpose of MPP right? I am focused only on why they are afraid to go back to Mexico. Of course the guy and his son do not understand why they are even talking about Mexico. They do not understand any of this at all. The interview continued. So he had tried to find a place to live there had tried to get a work permit in Mexico and was essentially denied. And as they are transiting he is talking about you know encountering cartels and witnessing other migrants being murdered and tortured in front of his son and fleeing and barely getting away you know while death threats are being shouted at him and you know talking about his son having nightmares for weeks because of this. And then they get stopped by the police and the police take all of their money their cell phones and because I cannot get them to say these magic words of like yeah they threatened me because I am Honduran but that is all they had to say. But they do not know that right? Because I am Honduran. Those would be the magic words that would put them in a protected category. They were targeted because of their nationality. Though even if the father had said because I am Honduran they probably still would have been sent back to Mexico because odds are he did not have any evidence proving that any of this happened. Doug he did what the policy told him to do. He sent them back to Mexico. The old credible fear screenings usually took an hour or less. These MPP interviews can last four five six hours. When I asked these asylum officers to describe what these interviews are like for them for the migrants in front of them Ursula gave the most vivid picture. She told me about the very first MPP interview she did-- a family from El Salvador two parents and two kids. She had a script she had to stick to. The family was exhausted and traumatized and totally unprepared. You are put into a cell. You are separated from your kids and your wife. You have no idea what is going on because you thought today you were going to be interviewed about El Salvador and you were going to get to enter the United States. A couple hours later they lead you into this freezing cold cell where they chain your hands to a table in handcuffs and someone is sitting across from you who does not speak your language and starts talking to someone in the phone who starts translating to you that you are going to talk about Mexico. You smell like shit because you have been living in a shelter you know without any running water for a month and half plus you have traveled all the way across Central America to get there and you do not understand why someone is talking to you about Mexico. This interview goes on for an hour and a half and the person keeps pausing it so they can talk to someone on the computer which they say is their supervisor and another guard leads your wife in that you have not seen in the last 12 hours into the interview room and you can you know brush her hand as she passes by. You are so happy to see her because you have been separated and you have no idea what is going on. So where are my children? I do not know sir I am sure they will be fine. Your wife goes through a similar interview but she keeps being confronted about the answers she is giving because they are different from yours and the officer cannot understand why this story varies so differently between two people who experienced it. Half an hour passes before her children are brought into the room and then the officer has to talk to a 10-year-old boy about whatever his parents said and then confront the 10-year-old boy on inconsistencies between his story and his parents' story. And then the wife is like when am I going to see my husband again? And the officer's like I have no idea let them know if you need to use the bathroom. Ursula made the case that the family should not get sent back to Mexico and to her shock her supervisor agreed. In fact she happened to walk outside the moment the family got released. They have got their backpacks on. They are holding hands. She thought maybe this will not be so bad. But that was the last time. The very next interview a woman told her over and over she was afraid of being raped and killed in Mexico. Ursula believed she was going back to a place where that was very possible but because the woman could not name a specific person who'd assault her Ursula had to send her back. Since then it is essentially been no after no after no. Asylum officers told me that even when they find one of those unicorn cases where they check off all the boxes and recommend not returning to Mexico their supervisors overrule them. Anne told me and my producer Nadia Reiman about one asylum seekers case where their attacker even spelled out their motive and it still did not fly. It was basically a situation where there was a really clear connection to the nationality. Like the persecutor had like really said like I am harming you because of this nationality-- your nationality. And the harm was really really severe. It was like definitely torture. And it was really clear that the police like were not going to do a thing about it-- did not care at all. And the supervisor rejected it. Why? Like did they say why? They said we cannot show that if this individual went back to Mexico the persecutor would be able to locate them. So the standard today is upside down from what it used to be under credible fear. Instead of let us err on the side of letting people in because we do not want anyone to be tortured or die under MPP the standard is almost impossibly high so almost nobody gets in. The Department of Homeland Security says only about 960 people interviewed have not been sent back to Mexico. Ultimately of a little more than 47000 MPP cases registered as of October with about 37000 of those still pending of those only 11 people have been granted asylum or some other kind of relief according to Syracuse University which tracks all of this using government statistics. 11. And that is what the policy was meant to do. The administration credits MPP for a sharp drop in the numbers coming to the border. Mark Morgan the acting head of Customs and Border Protection calls it a game changer and absolutely successful. It only took Doug two days and five interviews to go home after work and pull out the law books. He is a lawyer. He actually owned a beat-up copy of the Immigration and Nationality Act the law hundreds of pages long that makes it the foundation of the US immigration system. He grabbed that off his bedroom shelf along with a few of his other books from law school. He printed out a bunch of court cases and Supreme Court decisions with more cases pulled up on his computer screen. In the middle of all of this was his pen and white legal pad. As an attorney he wanted to get his feelings about MPP-- how much worse it felt compared to everything else they did-- down in writing. He worked for hours and he wrote down seven bullet points the main ways he thought MPP was illegal. Once he saw the list laid out there on the lined white paper Doug knew what to do. The next day he went to tell his supervisor he was not going to do any more MPP interviews. His response was I know these interviews are hard. We are all required to do them. That is why we are trying to spread it out that it is you know on a rolling basis et cetera et cetera. And you know at that point there was like this moment where I could have just said you are right I know this sucks and gone back. And I paused and I told him you do not understand. I am not doing these interviews. And he looked at me and he is like what do you-- you are not doing these interviews? And I was like no. I was like I think they are illegal. They are definitely immoral and I am not doing them. His boss was stunned. He did not really seem to know what to say. Eventually he told him he was probably going to have to write him up somehow to start disciplinary proceedings. Doug went home that night and decided to escalate. He went back to his legal pad. I essentially wrote a legal memo explaining all of the reasons that I thought it was illegal and why I was refusing to do it. And then on that Monday I emailed that to all of the administration in San Francisco and the two supervisors that were involved in the disciplinary proceedings. And then nothing. Nothing happened. Instead of sparking some kind of rebellion or at least forcing a confrontation it is crickets. So he took it a step further. He sent his memo to a senator's office then he drafted his goodbye email attached his memo and sent it out office-wide to all of San Francisco Asylum about 80 people and to a representative of the union for asylum officers across the country. And with that Doug shut down his work computer and walked out. He quit. They make one change and everyone at the office is like oh this is terrible but we will figure it out. And then they make another change. And they are like oh this is terrible but I need my job. I am going to do it even if I do not want to and I will complain about it and I will complain about the work and I will complain about the hours. At the end of the day I am going to do it and the more I do it the easier it is to do. And that is terrifying. I mean that is how all of the awful things in the world have happened. That is how you get so many good people doing really bad things. And that is what is happening and it is terrifying. You are like literally sending people back to be raped and killed. That is what this is. The three officers I spoke with are not alone. A union representing the asylum officers and USCIS employees filed a brief and a lawsuit against the administration arguing that