Hey everybody Ira Glass here and I am in the studio right now with one of our producers David Kestenbaum. Hey David. Hi Ira. So this whole episode came out of something that you have been thinking about and so I am just going to hand the whole program over to you right now. OK. All right. It is something I have been thinking about for a while. But actually it came out of this conversation I was having with Diane Wu on staff here. Diane and I are the two trained scientists on the staff. Before I was in journalism I studied physics. Diane went to grad school in chemistry. And she was telling me the story about this time she was at a conference. This was in a small town in Germany. And this Nobel Prize winner a guy named Harold Kroto was giving a talk. I think he discovered the buckyball. Those are the little spheres of carbon like Buckminster Fuller-shaped sphere? Yeah like the geodesic domes of carbon. For both of us one of the things we liked about science was this promise that we could understand how the world works-- in a deep way. Everything except people of course. Anyway it was satisfying. I found it comforting. Diane did too until this day she was telling me about when that changed. She was sitting there with all these students listening to the Nobel chemist talk. And in the middle of the talk kind of out of nowhere he asks this question. He goes how many of you believe that the sun revolves around the earth? The sun around the earth-- that is wrong right? Yeah. Right. The opposite of how things work. And people kind of giggled and nobody raised their hand. And then he asked how many of you believe the opposite? How many of you believe that the earth revolves around the sun? And we all kind of begrudgingly raised our hands not knowing where he was going. I raised my hand. And then he asked us how many of you know the evidence for that? How many of you know the evidence that the earth revolves around the sun? Like how do we know it is true? What is the proof of it? Right. Exactly. And I could not put my hand up. And I looked around me and very few people were able to raise their hands. Basically none of us knew what the evidence was for that thing that we believed to be true. Then he asked us you-- or he kind of chided us you took that on faith. How much else have you accepted without evidence? Because that is one of the most serious problems facing our civilization today. Like they were all running around talking with complete confidence about stuff we think we know but we do not actually really know. Yeah. What else do you take on faith? What else do you agree with without knowing the evidence behind it? And I realized very quickly it is a lot of things. Diane said she really could not pay attention to the lecture after that. She was thinking what do I really know? And also because she found his particular example distracting how do we know the earth goes around the sun not the other way around? I start wondering I mean I should-- what is the evidence? Maybe I can sort it out. Like it probably has to do with planets and angles or something.  And I just kind of tune out the rest of the lecture. I am trying to figure it out but I cannot. I could not quite figure it out then. After the lecture Diane goes home newly aware of this vast universe of her personal ignorance just realizing so many of the things I think are true they are just things I have heard from someone who probably heard them from somebody else probably without evidence either. And this sits with her for months until some point she decides you know what? Things do not have to be this way. I am going to do something. I am going to fix this. She makes this list calls it Things I Mean to Know. And there are seven things on that list that I started out with. And I thought I would go through them one at a time. And then once I have figured out those seven then I could go on to the next things that I meant to know. Can you read me the list? Here's the list. One Schottky barrier. The Schottky barrier is a physics chemistry thing. OK back to the list. Two yams versus sweet potatoes what is the difference? Three evidence for earth around sun. Four difference between Sunni and Shia. Five Burgundy versus Bordeaux. Six composition and how steel is made. Seven Obamacare.  It is quite a list-- very comprehensive. One of the things I love about this list is just the total honesty of it. Diane told me she knew really as a person living in this world she should have understood the difference between Sunni and Shia especially after reading the news all those years. But she was just like I do not. That was the truth of it. So Diane makes this list. She actually starts a blog where she is going to answer them titles it Loose Ends. Then she starts researching and writing the answers starting with this one yams versus sweet potatoes. If you are reading and eating from the United States the sweet yellow- or orange-fleshed and potato-shaped vegetable you know as a sweet potato is just that. It is unrelated to potatoes and yams. It is related to morning glories. She writes a very detailed answer to the question even includes some old botanical drawings. She said it was really satisfying to do. Yeah. Because then whenever you are like are they different? Now I know. OK and what is the next one you wrote? That is the last one I wrote. I wrote one. I asked Diane what happened? What about the mission? She said the next day she was going to start on the next question which was going to be that chemistry thing the Schottky barrier. But she just did not get very far. I think I just went to work. And I think I started looking into it and it was too hard. So I never wrote the blog post. Diane says she never felt like she gave up. She always figured at some point she would get back to it turn the things I mean to know into the things I know but she has not which of course is the way most of us deal with this. We never figure those things out. Essentially Diane had this moment where it seemed like she was going to evolve to a higher level than you and me. She was like a fish deciding to climb up on land. And she tried that out for the length of time it takes to write one blog post then took a deep breath decided meh I am going to stay in the water. It is easier. And she jumped back in the ocean with the rest of us dummies. I really do think that it was just even getting to the bottom of one thing is a lot of work. I mean does this still make you anxious? Yeah it does. It just feels like-- it is like all the things you-- like it is so hard to know what is real and true. And when you think hard about what you know that is real and true it just gets smaller and smaller. Well today on our show we do not run from that fact. For once we admit it. We embrace it try to do something about it. We have stories today of people doing the hard work to confront the things they think they know try to figure out how they know them and if they are actually true and persevering-- not giving up until they get to the very bottom-- including a story about a question that brought our staff meeting to a complete halt the other week-- do women who live together actually get their periods at the same time? Is that real? What is the evidence? Oh and a story about whether the earth secretly shifted on its axis without you and me and the rest of the world noticing. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Stay with us. Act One Fraud Complex. When I was just starting out as a young reporter I had this kind of mini crisis about how much I really knew and how I knew what I knew. I was covering a Congressional hearing where the head of NASA was testifying. It was this guy Sean O'Keefe. This was just after the Columbia space shuttle accident. And when I was reporting on it I said this one sentence on the radio nothing to do with the accident. I said that when O'Keefe had walked in he was carrying a cup of coffee. But after when the story aired I was listening to my voice come out of the radio and I kept thinking was it really a cup of coffee? I do not know it was coffee-- could have been tea or hot water or room-temperature tang. I told this to a veteran reporter who said basically relax. If you see two cows on a hill you can say there are two cows on a hill because you know how deep are you going to go? I have always wished I had not said it though. I was thinking about that because of one line I have been reading in news stories a lot recently about voter fraud. You can almost feel the reporters digging through the thesaurus they have written it so often. Quote Academic studies show instances of voter fraud are very rare or Nationwide studies have consistently shown that voter fraud is almost non-existent. Another used the word minuscule. But I wanted to know in a deeper way for myself so I looked up some of those studies. And I have to say I did not find what I expected. I thought there would be some kind of nationwide government audit that there would be official reports from the election authorities in all the states detailing how they had looked for fraud. But there is not anything like that. In fact most of the independent studies that have been done are just attempts to count up alleged cases of voter fraud. They look at court records or news reports and anecdotal accounts. And they never find much which is good to know but it did not feel like proof. Maybe we are not looking in the right way or maybe voter fraud is hard to find. I did find this one paper that seemed different from all the others. It was an attempt to do this big ambitious thing. It was the only study I saw that actually dug into the voter data nationwide all the votes cast in the United States looking for one specific kind of voter fraud to try to see in a comprehensive way did this kind of fraud happen? The specific type of voter fraud the study looks for is called double voting where someone votes twice. The Vice Chair of the President's Commission to Investigate Voter Fraud Kris Kobach has called double voting a big problem. He said people double vote all the time. This paper is 72 pages long. I printed it out read it several times and I called up one of the authors. His name is Sharad Goel. He is an assistant professor at Stanford. Does social science work but also has a PhD in math and sometimes talks like it. I had him walk me through what they did. When you started this did you have an open mind about what you might find? Be honest. I would say I have trained myself not to have super-strong priors on what is happening-- so to discount my intuition. At the same time I would be very surprised if we actually found hard evidence that a million people had double voted in the presidential election. It is hard enough to get people to vote once. It is hard enough to get people to vote once. And what are the incentives? I can tell you. You can decide if it is something you would do. If you get caught voting twice you can go to jail. On the other hand if you get away with it one extra vote for your candidate. It does not seem worth it but you might get away with it. How hard would it actually be to double vote? How hard would it be? So I do not think it would be that hard. I just asked because I used to live in Massachusetts and I remember one of my roommates moved out to California. And I went in to vote there in Massachusetts and I remember seeing his name on the rolls. And I thought I could go back again just say I am him and vote for him. Please do not do that.  I did not. Oh. Yes. But it did strike me that it would be easy to do that. It is not like robbing a bank. You definitely can double vote. When you look at the voting data he says there is definitely stuff where the numbers do seem funny. Like every election there are a lot of cases where it looks like someone might have voted twice-- cases where you have records of two votes cast by someone with the same name and birthday which is weird. Kris Kobach President Trump's voter fraud guy actually set up a program called Crosscheck that highlights these cases. States that want to participate send in their data and Crosscheck looks for matches. It finds lots. And so this is often presented as evidence of large-scale voter fraud. And we are not talking just like date of birth like month and day. Like year also right? Exactly. And it is not a crazy argument. I mean it feels like well what are the odds? What are the odds that someone has my exact same first name last name and date of birth down to the year? It is pretty small. And it does seem weird right? It does seem weird. Yeah why is this not evidence of widespread voter fraud? Sharad and four other researchers wanted to check this out for themselves so they got a hold of an enormous database that had the voting records gathered from all the states. They started this a couple of years ago so they used the most recent presidential election at the time which was 2012. And they looked how many times in the whole country did you have two votes cast where both votes have the same first name and last name and birthday-- day month and year-- attached to them? 3 million-- 3 million instances. It is a lot. It is a lot you know? And I was actually surprised. So I was thinking in my naivete that this would be kind of a simple exercise. We look at it we just actually count the number of ostensible matches and we are going to find that there are really not very many. But 3 million? That is a big number. It is actually the number that Trump has been talking about. You know it is not far off. They looked closer and realized that first off a lot of these were just problems with the data. Like some states when they did not have a birthday had put in January 1. So it looked like those people shared a birthday but they did not. And there were other errors where you had say a John Senior and a John Junior living in the same house and they somehow showed up as having the same birthday. Sharad says they threw out a handful of states where the data seemed to be a problem. And the number of matches did go down but not all the way down-- from 3 million to 750000. I mean you are talking about close to a million instances where it really does look like these are double votes. OK so what is the next step? OK so now comes the math.  Now comes the math. And I think this is where ordinary people would stop. But my friend sometimes when you want to get to the bottom of things when you want to know are people voting twice? How secure is the foundation of our democracy? When you want to know that you have to do a little discrete probability calculation. Specifically you have to know about something called the birthday paradox. I first heard about it years ago. I was at a dinner party and someone told me this thing which is that if you have just 23 people in the room there is a 5050 chance that two of them share a birthday. I was in grad school at the time studying physics and I was like that seems crazy. Just 23 people two are going to share a birthday? Come on. There are 365 days in a year. I left the table in the middle of dinner and went into this other room shut the door and tried to work it out on a piece of paper. I could not. Neither could Sharad at first. He got assigned the problem in college. I was actually really bad at math. I mean I liked it a lot but I was really bad at it. Wait do not you have a PhD in math now? I do. I do. It was a painful journey. Turns out there was an easy way to work out the birthday thing and a hard way. I had been stupidly trying to do it the hard way. I think I also tried to do it the hard way. But it turns out to be in some sense a very simple problem to solve. And when I realized what the answer is it struck me as one of the most beautiful results I had seen-- this fundamental piece of math that I had been missing my whole life. It is this classic example of how what you think is right can just be so wrong when you do the math. And also it might be the key to why it looks like so many people are voting twice. A simple way to think about the birthday paradox and why it is right that if you get 23 people in a room the odds are about 5050 that two of them will share a birthday is just to think about picking two people in that room. Sure the odds are small that those two share a birthday. But in a room full of 23 people it turns out there are a lot of possible pairs. Person one might have the same birthday as person two or person three or person four or person two might share a birthday with person three or person seven with person nine et cetera. If you add it all up it is way more common than you might think to get two people with the same birthday. So Sharad and the other researchers did the math-- not for a room full of 23 people but for a nation with over 100 million voters. And remember how they had 750000 instances where you had two votes with the same name and birthday? The birthday paradox explains 720000 of them. That is how many should share a birthday just by chance. This weird math thing explains most of the instances where it looks like someone voted twice-- most but not all. They still had about 30000 cases unexplained which would be a lot of fraud-- not enough to sway most presidential elections but still way more than he expected. Sharad says at this point he thought that was the real number. It would mean something like one in every 4000 voters had voted twice which seemed like who knows? Maybe. When they started out Sharad says they figured this whole thing would take a couple of days. But the bottom is often deeper than you think. The beautiful math I just told you about-- turns out it is not quite right for a reason that is both subtle and very human. It gets messed up by parents doing stuff like this. So when do you think that people who are named June are born? Oh in the month of June? In the month of June. A lot? Uh yeah. And that of course means that the odds of two people named June sharing a birthday are higher than usual. The paper has a whole appendix just dealing with how to correct the calculation for our peculiar naming habits. It is 12 pages of equations and theorems. It is not just that babies born in June the parents sometimes name them June. Girls named Autumn tend to be born in the fall. Also babies in general are more likely to be born during the week than on weekends. Sharad says they knew this stuff might be an issue but when they looked through the voter data it was a bigger complication than they thought. So let us say your name is Carol. What day of the year are you most likely to be born on? Carol? Just like Carol? Carol C-A-R-O-L. Nothing fancy just Carol. I do not think-- any day. It is all random. No it is not random. So what is surprising is actually there are a lot of patterns to a lot of these names that you think are totally reasonable. And so Carol-- so OK let me give you one that is really-- let us say your name was-- Wait do Carol. Why Carol? Well look-- OK so why Carol? Let me give you a hint. What if your name was Christine? I do not know. So Christines and Carols tend to be born on the same day. What are you talking about? OK let me give you another one. Christines Carols and Jesuses tend to be born on the same day. Oh what-- Christmas? Christmas. I knew I was going to look dumb in that. Another example-- Josefina with an F 1 in 10 chance you were born on March 19. I thought I would figured that one out. There is an American Girl doll named Josefina with that exact birthday. Sharad does not think that is what inspired people though. March 19 is also St. Joseph's Day. In any case all this was a problem. So Sharad and the other researchers redid all the calculations to account for the fact that if two people have one of these particular first names they are more likely to share a birthday. And it did reduce the number of possible fraudulent double votes from 30000 to 20000. So now I was becoming increasingly convinced that this was the real number of double votes out there. And we did everything. How many months into this are you at this point? Oh you know we are probably a solid year into it at this point. We are also getting tired. And you know we have really been hammering on this problem. They could have published their work and this number 20000 possibly fraudulent double votes. But there was one other thing to consider. They started wondering if there might be errors in the data. Like maybe the data file says someone voted but that is wrong. The person did not vote in which case what looked like a double vote might actually just be a single vote. Maybe that would account for some of the 20000 double votes. But to check this after doing all that fancy math they had to go out into the messy world. The researchers sent out a team of undergrads to go through some poll books in Philadelphia. I talked to one of the students who did this. He said the books were in this forgotten building in a run-down part of town-- three-ring binders with the names of registered voters. On election day at your polling place you find your name and sign next to it in the book. It was super boring work he said. They double-checked 11000 names-- people the data file listed as having voted. And they found in about 1 of the cases according to the poll book the data file seemed to be wrong. There was no signature. It did not look like the person had actually voted. So before this you had 20000 what looked like double votes that were unexplained. How many of those 20000 does this explain? All of them. Wow. Sharad is not saying there is zero double voting going on-- just that it seems like a really small problem. And to be clear voting twice is just one way people can commit voter fraud. There are others-- non-citizens voting dead people voting vote buying corrupt officials just changing the tallies though there is no evidence any of those is happening in any substantial way either. Sharad says they finished up their research just days before the 2016 election which was pretty good timing. The issue of voter fraud was in the news. After Trump won he started going around saying that he would have won the popular vote too if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally. And once he was in office he set up his Commission on Voter Integrity that would collect data from the states and look for fraud. Sharad says in all of this there is one number he is come across that he just does not understand. There was this survey done before the election in which half of all registered voters said they thought voter fraud was very common or somewhat common-- 61 of Republicans and 30 of Democrats. This is tens of millions of people believe that voter fraud is a serious problem. Yeah. Sharad says their paper did not get a lot of attention-- mostly just a line or two in some news stories. Do you think you convinced anybody? I doubt it. My feeling is people are not really convinced by science and statistics these days. It feels at times like what am I doing? I have devoted my entire professional life to this type of work. And really it is not clear to me that any of it matters. I was interested in your research because I wanted to know for myself like in some real way this thing that I had been reading in the paper for some time-- you know that voter fraud is super rare-- I wanted to know in some real way that that was true. And I feel like I got kind of close. Like I read your paper a bunch of times. LAUGHING Well you probably read it more than anybody else. You know I found an error in a table in the appendix? I do know that that is a very impressive find. But as far as I went I still feel like I am not all the way there. Yeah and you should not be. Yeah. Sharad meant this in a technical way. Like the paper is still being peer reviewed they do not know if the error rate they found in the Philadelphia voter data can be applied to the whole country stuff like that. I meant it differently. Sure we would talked for hours. I would read the paper a bunch of times but I did not actually check the math. Honestly I do not understand all the equations. And I did not go over their computer code or look at the data sets. I believe what they found but I do not know it. It looks like a cup of coffee so I am going to say it is a cup of coffee. And later today I will get in my car whose engine is a mystery to me. I will drive on roads built with a tax system I only roughly comprehend and I will pick up my two little kids from school. They are full of questions these days. I always pretend to know more than I do. Act Two Flake News. Sometimes there is a thing that you think you know even though right in front of you staring you in the face is clear evidence to the contrary. That happened this week to one of our producers Zoe Chace. In her case the thing staring her in the face was a US senator. Here's Zoe. I have spent the last few months following Senator Jeff Flake from Arizona. We talk every other week pretty much. I tag along with him to committee meetings and speeches in the Capitol. The plan was I was going to follow him all the way through his re-election campaign next year. And then this week as you might have heard Flake announced he is not running after all. He gave a pretty emotional speech on the Senate floor about it. It must also be said that I rise today with no small measure of regret-- regret because of the state of our disunion regret because of the disrepair and destructiveness of our politics. I was shocked. I did not see this coming. Now people are talking about this speech as a turning point for the Republican Party-- one more old-school conservative realizing he cannot win in the age of Trump. Like every reporter in Washington I ran after Flake when his speech ended. OK just-- what happened? Why today? I did not expect this.  Oh you expected it. After last week? We did talk last week. We had had this unusual moment. But at the time it did not seem like a big deal. Knowing what I know this week I hear it differently. It was last Thursday a beautiful day in DC. It was vote-a-rama in the Senate. Vote-a-rama is this weird Senate procedure where senators have to vote on a different proposal like every 20 minutes or so in order to ram the budget through. I was waiting for the senator like I often do right outside the Senate gallery. He came out but instead of getting on the elevator to go back to his office he goes let us go out here. And he takes me through this door only senators are supposed to use to a place reporters are not allowed to go-- onto the Capitol steps. She is with you? Thanks. He tells the guard she is with me and we are out. Pretty nice outside. Yeah-- Nice out here he says. Sunny. We sit down next to each other on the world's biggest stoop gazing out at the Capitol Grounds and the Supreme Court. And then suddenly it is like he is looking back on his 18 years in Congress. I have spent a lot of time in the gym and I-- Charlie Dent for years I have played him in a game called paddle ball in the House gym. I got to know for example Chuck Schumer and Dick Durbin. They used to come to the House gym. And then when I got to the Senate they were part of the Gang of Eight and-- The Gang of Eight was this bipartisan group of senators who worked together on immigration reform. They wrote a big bill which did not pass but Jeff Flake's really proud of that time. I asked him if he was feeling nostalgic. And for some reason he started talking about 911. Yeah this is-- right over there on those steps was-- after 911-- it seems like a long long time ago now both in terms of the way the-- you know the way the Congress was and how it was perceived. Wait. What was it like on the steps over there after 911? No that was really quite a day. I will never forget it-- gathering on those steps singing God Bless America. And there was a lot of unity certainly. So yeah that was a different time. I hope it comes back. For the life of me I could not figure out why we were talking about 911. And it was only after I heard his speech this week that I realized what it was about. He was nostalgic for Congress working the way it used to-- Republicans and Democrats wanting to work together to make a thing happen. 911 was the biggest example of that that Jeff Flake could think of at that moment. You know we have had some instances since that time but too few where people really come together. That seems pretty foreign now because votes are taken as a way to kind of distance yourself from your opponents. And you do not want legislation that everybody agrees on you want legislation that you can paint your opponents as lacking. And that is not a good development not a good trend. I knew that Flake was not sure he would win the next election. But now I see he was coming to terms with the decision he was about to make. This could be your last year huh? Talking to Flake that day was like talking to a friend who knows his relationship is over but cannot quite say it. He was coming to grips with a breakup. I mean I guess you could say you have a choice on how you run but I really do not have a choice because I cannot run the way I would have to run to have an easy re-election. I just-- I cannot do that. It would not be genuine anyway. I think people would see through it. So if I do not run again this has been a great run.  It has-- 18 years. I should have known what he was about to do. I have got to go back in and vote. Vote some more? Vote some more. OK man. Thanks for your time Senator. Zoe Chace with Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona who bowed out of the Senate this week. I thank my colleagues for indulging me here today. I will close by borrowing the words of President Lincoln. We are not enemies but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained it must not-- Coming up the sun kind of. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am David Kestenbaum. Ira Glass is out this week. Today on our show Things I Mean to Know stories of people questioning some basic things in their lives and the world that they have always taken on faith. Act Three The Sun Also Rises Over There. So among the things I accept as true is the fact that the world is round. But I have to say there is not a lot to remind you of that in day-to-day life. Like the ground does feel flat. If you happen to live up in the Arctic though you are sometimes reminded that we live on this ball that is spinning through space. Our next story is about a researcher named Ian Mauro who went there-- way up on top of the earth where people still hunt seals and walruses. He was helping make a documentary interviewing people about climate change. He figured they would probably seen all kinds of stuff we never hear about and he was right. Selena Ross tells the story. When Ian asked people about climate change he heard a lot of the stuff you would think you would hear-- glaciers are melting and one year it got super hot for a couple of weeks-- like LA hot. You could wear shorts and no shirt. But then Ian heard this other thing that really took him aback. He could not get it out of his head for months. He was going around from one remote village to another assisting a well-known local Inuit filmmaker named Zacharias Kunuk. And that weird thing they heard it over and over again. The person who laid it out most dramatically was an elder named Augustine Taqquraq. They were in Igloolik a small town way up in northern Canada above the Arctic Circle in this little office with a window that faced a sandy beach. He stood up and he literally walked over to the window. And the sun is just coming up. It is in the morning. He is drinking his coffee. And he says when I was a young man the sun used to come up over here. And he is pointing kind of 45 degrees with his left hand and pointing out the window. And he says now I am an old man and after the long polar night the sun comes up over here. And he is pointing 45 degrees out with his right hand. In other words the sun was coming up in the wrong spot. When Ian heard that he really took notice. The sunrise Augustine was talking about was not just any sunrise. He was talking about the year's first sunrise after the polar night that it was happening at a different place on the horizon than usual. This is the kind of thing people pay close attention to in the Arctic-- the first ray of sunshine after months of 24-hour dusk and darkness. When the sun goes down in the Arctic it is amazing. It is kind of like the longest all-nighter you have ever been a part of. The sun goes down for six weeks seven weeks