Tuesday Tucson Arizona. How are you feeling? I am scared. Rediet Seifu moved to the United States from Ethiopia four months ago. She is learning English. And once a week one of her teachers from the City High School in Tuscon Sarah Bromer takes her to Ike's coffee shop to practice a simple English conversation. It goes like this-- Rediet orders tea. That is it actually. That is the whole thing. Usually they walk past the door four or five times before she even gets the courage to go inside to do this. And they rehearse beforehand. So she is going to go-- she calls everybody hon. Do you know what that means? Like honey? Yeah. Today for the very first time Ms. Bromer is making Rediet order without her help. She might say hey hon what do you want? Or I bet she will say hey hon what can I get for you? You will say-- I would like a tea please. And then what if she says what? What? Pardon me? A tea. You confused me. Ms. Bromer's actually teasing Rediet by saying What? She knows that this is Rediet's biggest fear that people will not understand her that they are going to say what? What? What was that? Well that is what you are afraid of right? You confused me. You are afraid right you are going to say can I have a tea? And then she is going to go what? What? Tea. No you are saying it just fine. She is going to know what you want. I am just kidding. You will say I want a tea. OK. I want a tea. Good. She will say what kind do you want? Honeybush tea. Huh?  OK they practice a few more times. And then finally Rediet approaches the counter. Hello. Hi. Have a good one. Bye guys. I would like a tea please. I am sorry? OK I just have to stop the tape right there. Did you hear? It happened. Exactly what she feared. The lady did not understand her. And listen how she handles this. She is so good. Let us take that from the top again. I would like a tea please. I am sorry? I would like a tea please. Sure. Hot tea. Hot tea? Yeah. Do you know which kind you would like sweetheart? Yeah honeybush tea. Honeybush? Yeah. Anything else? No. OK. She does not giggle. She does not panic. She is perfect. 1.69. It is her first time buying something by herself in the US. And 0.06 is your change honey. Welcome to America Rediet. You bought something. You are engaging in commerce. You are talking to the lady at the counter. We are so glad to have you here. Have some tea. You will be paying for it yourself. I am not scared. You are not? Yeah. Really? You felt brave? Yeah. Well I think you did a really good job. Yeah I think. Yeah. I am Ira Glass. This week on our radio program we are trying something unusual for us. This is the second time we have done this. Instead of our usual picking a theme and finding stories on the theme the theme this week will simply be the week the week that we all just lived through these past seven days. Everything on the show has just happened including stories that are so small and personal-- like you know Rediet ordering her first tea-- that they would never belong on a regular news show. And we have stories that are bigger too like this next woman whose husband is Syrian. They lived there again in Syria till January when it got too unstable. And she came to America where she grew up. And then something bad happened. I do not know. Really I do not believe this could be happening. It seems like something that would happen in movies or in a book. We are just normal people. Her husband's still in Syria. He owns some businesses there. And two of their employees were taken hostage by the rebel forces who are fighting President Bashar al-Assad. President Obama has called for him to step down of course on Thursday. The Pentagon warned him not to use chemical weapons. Did you talk to your husband today? Yeah I did. What is the very latest? He told me this morning they said that they would accept 80000 and my husband said OK. And you and I are talking on Wednesday. Yes. Yeah I mean I think their objective is to get the money and hopefully not to kill somebody in between. And it must make you feel so strange to feel like oh and these people who you guys are negotiating with those are the US allies in the war. Yeah. They are trying to clean up their act and get rid of this type of stuff or appear like that. And I do not know-- So have you spent most of this week just like on pins and needles just to hear what the next thing is with these employees? Yeah. I have not slept because of this. So hopefully-- I do not know if you are familiar with how things work in the Middle East but everything always takes forever. We do not really have 25 days. We have a few precious hours left. We are at a critical juncture. In Doha Qatar this week at the latest United Nations Climate Change Conference the main goal that they were trying to achieve seemed incredibly modest. The things that the world originally negotiated in 1997 in Kyoto about climate change are about to expire. If all goes as planned the delegates here hope to recommit to them. But their bigger mission-- for instance limiting the increase in world temperature to 2 degrees Celsius which the world's governments committed to in 2009 in Copenhagen-- is starting to seem impossible meaning more hurricane Sandys more drought more floods more frequently. A typhoon called Bopha hit the Philippines on Tuesday with a death toll that'ill probably be twice that of Hurricane Sandy. This man speaking is the lead negotiator from the Philippines Naderev Sano giving a speech that becomes as you will hear very unusual for this deeply bureaucratic diplomatic setting. An important backdrop for my delegation is the profound impacts of climate change that we are already confronting. And as we see here every single hour even as we vacillate and procrastinate here we are suffering. Madam Chair we have never had a typhoon like Bopha which has wreaked havoc in a part of the country that has never seen a storm like this in half a century. Finally Madam Chair I am making an urgent appeal not as a negotiator not as a leader of my delegation but as a Filipino. I appeal to the whole world. I appeal to the leaders from all over the world to open our eyes to the stark reality that we face. I appeal to ministers. The outcome of our work is not about what our political masters want. It is about what is demanded of us by 7 billion people. I appeal to all-- please no more delays. No more excuses. Please let Doha be remembered as the place where we found the political will to turn things around. No choo-choo out of the train. No train whistle in the train. No doorbells. As we poured gases into the atmosphere that are slowly heating the planet threatening our very existence we also put on plays for children and the disabled this week. In Montana the Missoula Community Theatre prepared a special performance of the musical Miracle on 34th Street for people on the autism spectrum. This meant no sudden loud noises lower lights volunteers with glow sticks signaling when to applaud and lower sound levels in general. Director Michael McGill discussed the changes with the cast before the show. Young people when you come out for Donald Duck you come out quickly but you do not scream. Just know that Mrs. Sawyer's going to be very quiet in the trial scene.  OK here we go. Our first group coming up. We have got Hype-- Hyphen. You all give it up for Hyphen. They are doing some step for us today. Give it up give it up give it up give it up. At the Best of Both Worlds Dance and Step Competition in Charlottesville Virginia Akayla Brown Aquasia Baker and Destiny Grady ages 10 10 and 11 told reporter Eric Mennel that they were confident of winning even though they were competing against college kids. And I think they would be like oh we can just beat the little kids and this and that. They just think that they can just get in our Kool-Aid when they do not even know the flavor. Ooh! That is a good one  That same day in Newark New Jersey a stranger on the train that carries you between terminals at Newark Airport got into the Kool-Aid of a man named James Braly asking where he was headed. I am on my way to meet my brother-- or my half-brother depending on how you look at it. The internet is a very very strange thing. Oh really? Yes. First day? For the first time. Seriously? I am absolutely serious. The half-brother Jan who is from Norway recently learned the name of his father for the very first time did an internet search discovered James' family in the United States and was coming to meet them. The guy on the train asked James what proof do you have? You going to get a DNA test or something? Uh not unless he asks me for a lot of money. When James gets to terminal A he scans the crowd and spots him. I think that is him. His half-brother's a 52-year-old man with a waxed handlebar mustache hair thinned from chemo and his dad's eyes. He is instantly recognizable James says as family. Can I get you a drink? Welcome to WBEZ Chicago. It is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. Coming up all this hour stories of all kinds from all over all from the past seven days. Stay with us. This past Saturday the first of the seven days that we are covering in today's show I Skyped with Hyder Akbar-- he is in Kabul Afghanistan-- to find out if anything was happening there that might be interesting for the radio. Hyder's been on our show a few times. He grew up in California but his family is from Afghanistan. After college Hyder moved there. He said that one of the guys that he is close to Josef was thinking about traveling to Kunar Province. That is where he is from. This is an area that is been a Taliban stronghold in the past. It is on the border with Pakistan. If the Afghan government were to lose control of the country to the Taliban it would probably start in Kunar. And that is a real possibility-- civil war the government falling. So what is happening in Kunar right now tells us whether that is in the cards in the future. Let me grab Josef who is here who actually was trying to get my dad to let him go back home tomorrow. I can bring him in here and talk to him about what is going on. That seems great. Yeah bring him in. What are you doing when you ? OK just a second. Let me-- So Josef shows up. . And Hyder asks him what is happening in Kunar right now. . Oh. Oh. He says the most interesting thing is that the Americans have just pulled out of an area called Pashangar in his area where there was almost like a local militia with them and then the Americans controlling them. And they pulled out of that base. And now the problems have started. And they are warning everybody they are telling everybody look the Americans are leaving. The Americans are out. We are coming for you guys. We are going to go after whoever cooperated with the Afghan government with the Americans. You guys better be careful. And they have started attacking the Afghan National Army. That he says is the main thing going on right now. Wow. There might be a chance to get interesting audio there too that this might be of interest. So let us see. Let us see. So they went to see in an ancient Toyota Corolla. They drove up there. They would have to be careful stay under the radar. A few days before Hyder said a few guys with the Afghan National Army were stopped on the road coming from Kunar and killed. They left on Tuesday. They were going to be back Tuesday night or Wednesday morning. Our plan was to talk again 6 oclock Wednesday night Kabul time. Then Wednesday Hyder was not answering any emails or any phone calls. 6 oclock came and went. I started to get worried. And then after an hour or so I saw that he was online on Skype. So I tried him.   Hello? Hyder? Hey Ira. So it is Wednesday and you just got back from Kunar Province. Yes I did. I just got back from Kunar. This was probably the most intense experience of my life a few hours ago. So that is kind of at the forefront of my mind. What happened? I was coming back with a story. And I was very excited driving down taking in the view of Kunar which is actually very scenic. So I had my headphones on. And I am driving down. And I have Josef who lives with me now and works with me. And Sartor who you have been introduced to through the previous documentaries was sitting in the back. And I wanted to drive myself. And we were coming by this bend in the road where it slows down a little bit. And we were passing by that bend when all of a sudden somebody jumped up behind this wall. He jumped up behind the wall and he tried stopped the car. He put his hand on the car twice like--  --and yelled stop. And I had my headphones on so I just looked through the corner of my eye. And I see confusion. And I see Josef next to me yelling go go go! And I looked at him and he had his AK-47 pointed straight at us. When he had his AK-47 pointed straight at us and I saw that I just floored the accelerator. I floored the accelerator and I was like oh not time to stop. And my music was still going on in my ears. And then all of a sudden I just see firing. And they had a few men on that side of the road firing at our car and then a few men on the other side of the road as well too firing at our car. They are just emptying into our car. Josef is ducked down. Sartor is ducked down in the back. I had my head up because I have to look at the road. Here the tires go flat. They hit both tires. And as they hit both tires I am kind of looking up and trying to still make it. We are probably going a few hundred meters past them now. And then all of a sudden I see another person jump out. And he had an RPG in his hand. And he is looking right at me and I am looking right at him. And he shot the RPG right at me. He shot the RPG at me. And I am seeing this rocket come towards me and I am like OK it is fine. I have done enough here. I had a pretty fun life. Obviously all of that went through my mind. I was like OK it is done. It is done. I am done. And the RPG-- this is why everybody was so shocked. So at that second we hit like a little bump on the road. And the RPG goes straight through the engine of my car instead of coming directly at me. So it hits the engine right in front of me. And is the car on fire? Are you in danger of the car blowing up?  the engine on fire at this point.  being able to take a picture later on. I could probably email this to you later on. But I am going to show you on webcam real quick. You might be able to get a sense of how damaged it was and-- OK. All right you are holding this up to the webcam. We are talking over Skype. Yeah. Can you see the car? Oh my god. So the whole front is dented in. And then is the windshield busted in? It is hard to see. Everything's busted in. The whole car went on fire. Do you see that hole right there? Yeah. So there is a huge hole in the driver's side in the front on the hood.  right now. Yeah that is where the RPG went through. And you are looking at it in reverse right now I think because of the cam. But that is basically where I was sitting right above it. And that is where the RPG came through. And that is where I missed the bump of the RPG. I mean he was aiming straight at me. Like I said when I saw that RPG come at me I thought it was done. So-- So the car is on fire. You guys are in the car. These guys are shooting just a couple of hundred meters behind you. And maybe have they stopped at that point? So at this point it is quiet for a second. We are all kind of looking around. Right then these two pickup trucks of ANA soldiers are driving by on the opposite side going in their direction. This is the Afghan army. This is friendly to you-- The Afghan National Army yeah. So we see the Afghan National Army two pickup trucks plenty of guys in there. So we are like OK-- phew-- coast clear. The ANA's going to be able to take care of this. And we get kind of relieved for a second. We get out of the car we just see the ANA drive off. They saw it. They saw our car on fire. They definitely heard the RPG his us because that does not make low noise. They heard the gunfire. And they just drive off. They just drive off and I am like OK. All right. They drive off in the direction of the guys who are shooting at you or just in some other direction? No past them. Past them. Past them. They were driving in that direction and they kept driving. So at this point Josef just runs off. Josef has run off. He is a good hundred meters away from us at this point. And me and Sartor are kind of just looking at the car on fire and we are like what the hell? And we are looking at it and Josef's screaming get the hell out of here! Get the hell out of here! And I just looked at Sartor and I was like dude my laptop bag's in there. Everything's in there. So we both run in. We open the door to go inside to grab the laptop bag out of it with my laptop and other stuff in there. And so as we do that they start firing again. Luckily the car covered us. And the bullets just hit the back of the car as we were on the side of the car trying to get the laptop bag out. We managed to get the laptop bag out. And then I am kind of hiding behind the car. I take out my iPhone because I am like OK I have got to record this a little bit at least for you guys. I was like I want to record this thing. This is an interesting thing. I look at my iPhone. It has like 1 battery 2. I am like . So I have this on record and I see Josef just come running back down. And it was kind of funny. He is like what are you doing? I am like I need to record the car I need to record the car for the thing. Remember we came here to do the radio thing. And he cursed you guys out and punched the hood. And basically he said F This American Life. What the hell are you going to do with This American Life when you are dead? And he started dragging me away. And right then the phone turned off too. The phone turned off too so it did not save the recording either. And he is dragging me away. As he is dragging me away-- OK soon after this in the conversation I let Hyder know that if he is ever again in any situation where he might get killed it is OK if he runs away and stops recording for the radio show. So he explained that they went around the bend. They saw two civilian cars stopped there. They were still being shot at. So they got into those cars. They got away. This was the first time Hyder said that somebody specifically tried to kill him. And he thinks that they wanted him because they were letting other cars pass by on the road and they specifically tried to stop his car. But who was it who was targeting him? And why were they targeting him? That was not clear to him at all. That is something I am going to have to think about and figure out tonight in the next couple of days. Well what are the possibilities? List through right now tick off a couple of possibilities just so I understand. What could it be? It could have been the Taliban. It could have been the Taliban who might have been following me a lot more closely than I realized following my locations where I am spending the night where I am living. They definitely knew exactly where I was. I cannot think of anything personal in terms of any personal feuds et cetera. So it would be most likely the Taliban or people in Kunal that are with the insurgency that do not see me I guess as a threat. And Hyder is it as simple as you and your dad are not necessarily so crazy about the current government in Afghanistan but they know you definitely do not like the Taliban? And is it as simple as that? Almost as simple as that. The one thing I would add onto that is they could see us as being even more of a threat because we are not that close to this government anymore because we do not approve of many things that are going on in the government. They can sideline a lot of other people very easily by saying oh these guys are corrupted individuals involved with the government fattening their pockets. But when they see me driving around in a  Corolla and just talking to people engaging them and being pretty sincere in my efforts that is seen as much more of a threat because they could delegitimize the Afghan government and the officials involved with them much easier. And it is not crazy to think that Hyder is now at a point where he would be worth killing. His family's from Kunar. His father and uncle were in the insurgency in Kunar that drove out the Soviets in the 1980s. When the current Afghan government came to power after September 11 Hyder's dad was appointed governor of Kunar. They have friends there. They have a base of support. And as the Americans pull out in the next two years there is going to be a power vacuum in the country. And people are getting in position for that including Hyder. He is setting himself up to do politics. The way that he explains it he says he wants to be the Afghan equivalent of a congressman though with a militia. You need a militia because it is Afghanistan. We talked for a while. Hyder insisted that he is planning on going back to Kunar soon. And he is going to do it just like he did this time in another beat-up old car to prove that they did not scare him to prove that he was not going to stay away which I really hope that his mom and his dad and his uncle talk him out of. And then we finally got to the reason for his trip in the first place the story that he was so excited to bring back that he ended up risking his life for of what was happening in the province. So just review the highlights for me. So let us talk about what you saw when you were there. What is interesting? OK so we drove up there. We drove up there yesterday. And we went into the Pesh Valley. It is actually kind of funny. So the Pesh Valley's sort of like the valley of death. It was the place that was considered very dangerous. And some interesting new dynamics have emerged there with the ANA the Afghan National Army. Again this is the government's army. This for the government of Afghanistan. The ANA the Afghan National Army is in control there now. The Americans have pulled out. What is going on because of that is that a lot of people especially the civilian population is siding with the ANA now. The ANA is just culturally much more aware. They have been able to make inroads amongst the population. They have been able to push the Taliban out especially from the main roads. I was driving by areas where people used to get stopped and beheaded government officials or those considered working with the Americans driving past all of these potholes in the road where they had laid down IEDs. And that was fine. It was fine. And we are all taking in the scenery. And it was a very heartwarming story actually. I was actually very excited to come back. I was kind of aware I was like OK maybe good news is not always that fun to report about. I was like but it will be exciting to finally come back. And I was very hopeful and feeling pretty jolly. Because it was so hopeful that the Afghan National Army was doing a decent job? Exactly. Exactly that there is hope for this country there is hope for security in this country there is hope for stability in this country. And as somebody who has spent the last 10 years involved in this place that was incredible news for me. Hyder Akbar. He is the author of the book Come Back to Afghanistan. This song that is playing right now is one that he swears was playing on his iPod when he was ambushed. And it is such a weird choice that it is hard to believe that he would make that up. It is the Geto Boys' 1991 hit Mind Playing Tricks On Me.  Well if you live in a part of the country that has already had snow this year you may find it hard to relate to the thrill experienced by some people in Arizona this past week. Lisa Pollak explains. When I heard that an outdoor mall in Tuscon was promising snow on Saturday a day when the high temperature hit 77 degrees I figured there were only two possible explanations-- a pre-Christmas meteorological miracle or a ski resort style snow machine. But there was in fact a third option. I heard about it from Melanie Sutton the senior marketing manager at La Encantada mall the mall that sponsors the annual event known as the Enchanted Snowfall. She said that what we were about to see falling from sky that night was a desert style snow. As our tagline we say 98 magic 2 soap. Oh wow. So it literally is like that is the ingredient is soap? I mean besides the magic. Correct. The ingredient is soap. But they are shaped as snowflakes. Got that? Me neither. But minutes later along with hundreds of parents and kids in the mall's open-air courtyard I had a chance to see it for myself. Oh oh here we go. Oh oh here we go I heard one of the dads say. Then there was a whooshing sound followed by white stuff falling from the sky. It is snowing! From a distance I can report that it did indeed resemble snow-- heavy white flakes lit up by spotlights in the darkness. Up close though it was hard to be fooled. Imagine little clumps of bath suds or globs of latte foam with a faintly fresh smell. There it is look! This man is talking to his three-year-old son Cameron who at first seemed to be saying how much he liked the snow-- I do not like snow. You like snow. --but on closer examination was actually saying how much he did not like the snow. Do not like snow. It is OK. I do not like snow. It is OK. Cameron was the exception. All around me kids seemed to be going insane with joy. Over by the Apple store a group of them had planted themselves under one of the faux snow machines and seemed to be trying to get as much white foam on their hair and clothes as possible. Others ran around with outstretched hands trying to catch enough to make mushy snowballs and smash it on each other's heads.  My hair! One boy walked up to me with a mass of suds in each hand and a look on his face like he could not believe his good fortune. Look at how much snow I have. Suddenly I felt a sense of duty. Should not these kids know the truth? I would break it to them gently. It looks kind of like soap. That is because it is soap. It is kind of like regular snow. But if it gets in your eyes your eyes just terribly burn. It is just bubbles but I cannot believe it! I have never seen this happen before! So fun! And it is soap! I tasted it. It tastes like soap. About halfway through the show I noticed I was starting to cough. And I was not the only one. I overheard this lady talking to her husband. Everyone's coughing she said. We are all going to get cancer. What did you say? We are all going to get cancer. Why did you say--  Just listen. Everybody's standing here coughing right? So it cannot be good for you.  Yeah. Right? There you go. There you go. Get you some. I checked with Melanie the mall's marketing manager. She assured me that whatever was in the bubbles had been tested and was nontoxic. Though I believed her I was a little relieved when the Enchanted Snowfall powered down after 15 minutes. Like a lot of things about the holidays it was at its best from a distance and a little went a long way. Lisa Pollak. Coming up a guy walks into a bar-- usually not a life-or-death situation. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. This week instead of the usual sort of theme we do on our show our theme is just the seven days that have just passed. We have stories small and personal and big and national and international. Monday you probably heard House Speaker John Boehner issued his counterproposal to avoid the fiscal cliff. It was promptly rejected by the White House. By Wednesday there were front-page stories that Republican leaders are considering a fallback plan to extend tax cuts to the middle class now fight about the rest of it in January or February. Also this week Boehner cracked the whip in his own party. Republicans who did not vote his way lost committee assignments. He warned to other House members that he would be watching. To put all of this in perspective I called veteran Congress-watcher Norman Ornstein who happened to be in Prague when I phoned him. His official title is Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. But all I care about is that you mention the book-- And the title of the book is? --which is It is Even Worse Than It Looks-- How the American Constitutional System Collided with the New Politics of Extremism. Consider it mentioned. OK. So you are in Prague this week. Is not this kind of a big week not to be near Capitol Hill for somebody like you? It is a good week to be away from Capitol Hill in a lot of ways. How so? Well it seems like a big week. But the fact is we are in the middle of an end game. And I have been kind of bemused by all of the focus on the every-minute maneuvering of Speaker John Boehner and President Obama including a heavy focus on the fact that Boehner did not pose for a picture with the President at the White House Christmas party. And there is one important principle to keep in mind. When does an end game end? At the end. And the end is not this week. Are you basically saying that this is a week we might as well ignore the news from Capitol Hill? Yes. I am saying that there are naturally going to be people who follow every little twist and turn. But it does not really matter. So this is the thing that I was wondering is when you look at this maneuvering can you tell how it is going to play out? The answer is two-fold. The first part is no you cannot tell how it is going to play out. But all of these ploys and in some ways histrionics are par for the course. So taking the temperature on any one of them does not really tell us that much. Now what I would have to say though is the second point. And it is frankly a giant caveat here. We are going through the most dysfunctional politics I have seen in 43 years. So I think there is a pretty good chance we will get a patchwork deal to get us past this dilemma before the end of the year. But I also think that there is a substantial chance much higher than it would have been if we were looking at the process 20 years ago or 10 years ago even 5 years ago that we will slip over into January. And it might take a jolt a serious jolt from the markets to bring us to some kind of conclusion here. Norman Ornstein. I asked him why do they even bother going through the theater this week? Why not just skip to the part where they actually hammer out the deal? His answer I thought was interesting. He said that the Republicans need to demonstrate to Grover Norquist and Rush Limbaugh and all their own constituents that they tried everything their back is against the wall there was no other choice before they can raise taxes. The Democrats have their own version of it. They have to demonstrate to their base they had no choice but to cut entitlements before any deal. Both sides need to say no he says for a while. Wednesday night New Orleans French Quarter. A 25-year-old blonde girl named Joni Cooper is going up to everybody in this bar asking a question that you probably would not expect to hear on a night out drinking. Hey guys. How are you? Can I come chat with you? Sure. Well my name's Joni. And I am here with NOAIDS. We are doing free HIV testing today. Would you all maybe be interested in getting tested tonight? NOAIDS is an organization in Louisiana that works to prevent and reduce the spread of HIV and help treat people who are infected. Louisiana has the fourth highest estimated AIDS rate in the country. In 2011 nearly 60 of new HIV diagnoses in Louisiana were gay man. 74 were African Americans. So NOAIDS tries to make finding at your HIV status as convenient as they possibly can which means for them going into bars asking people to put down their drink for 15 minutes and come get tested. They get the results on the spot. It is my birthday so-- . Happy birthday! Joni is pitching a group of guys who are out for their friend's 30th birthday. You might think this would not be a receptive crowd but listen to what happens. You are doing it right now? Like what time? We are doing it right now. Let us do it. You want to go? Let us go. All right! Let us go. I am going to get tested. You coming? Where? Right here right now. You catch someone by surprise. You kind of catch someone off guard and they are like oh well I guess it is here. I have never done it. Robin Pearce runs the testing program which has testing sites all over New Orleans not just in bars. The statistic is that 1.2 million people in the United States are living with HIV and one in five of them do not know they have it. So finding the people who do not know that they have 