The first thing you need to know about Lori is that normally she is not the kind of girl who does this sort of thing at all. She does not write to strangers. She does not do fan mail. But she is looking at-- you know the page in certain magazines where they have the little pictures of the people who write for the magazine? She was looking at that and she saw the photo of this writer who she liked. The picture was blurry but he had this intense look in his eye. And you could tell he was smart and cute both at the same time. But I saw this picture and I was like that guy's my soul mate. And I know that is completely insane. But I knew that I could not not contact him because I would always regret it if I did not. So I wrote this letter to the magazine to him care of the magazine. And I made up a story. I said I think that-- I know this is gonna sound really weird. But I saw your picture on the contributors page. And you look exactly like this guy that I met in the airport years ago. This is a complete lie. Right. So I said I was changing planes. And you were going into one gate and I was going into another. And we struck up this conversation. And you were talking about how you wanted to become a writer. And I said you know I am not sure if it is you. I know this sounds really strange but if you remember this let me know. And if it is not you let me know also just so that I know that it was not you. She figured that in the extremely unlikely event that they actually sort of got along and it led to something bigger well then she would admit the truth and no harm done. Remember she had never done this kind of scam before. She had no idea how complicated it could get. So I do not hear from him which I was relieved by actually. After I sent the letter I really regretted actually sending the letter because I was really sort of just embarrassed that I had done this. So then one day like three months later I get a call. And I was actually waiting for the cable guy. I would been waiting for like three days for the cable guy. So I am on the phone with the cable company and they are saying the guy in the field is going to call you any second on your call waiting. So we are gonna hang on with you while we contact him and he is going to call you. So then my call waiting beeps in. And I say hello? And the person says is this Lori? And I say yes. And the person says I am the guy. And I think he is the cable guy. So I say where have you been? And he says I know. I am really sorry. I meant to contact you earlier. And this whole thing goes back and forth until I realize that he is not the cable guy. So I said you are not the cable guy? And he says no. I am the guy from the airport. And I am floored because I cannot believe that he is calling me that I am actually on the phone with him that I am talking to this guy that I was momentarily obsessed with. And it is him. And he starts to tell me that he is really glad that he heard from me because yes he is the guy from the airport. And what a coincidence he is coming to LA to do a story the next day and can we see each other again? And I am thinking to myself again? This did not happen. And I am really worried that he thinks that I am somebody else. Like maybe he met some other girl in the airport a long time ago and he thinks that I am that girl. And when he meets me he is going to be really disappointed that I am not whoever he was thinking of. Right. But I also do not want to correct him because then I think if I tell him you know what? Actually I made the whole thing up and I just wanted to get to meet you he will think I am insane and he will not want to meet me. So I decide that I will meet him but I will tell him the truth immediately upon meeting him. Wait. You know there is a third option. And that is that he knows he did not meet you but he just wants to meet a girl. You know I thought about that. And there was actually a fourth option which was he knows that I am screwing with him and he is just getting back at me by kind of playing the game. Wow. I have to say like you were meeting him-- like for him to be the person on the phone when you are expecting the cable guy did that make it seem more romantic? Like you guys were meeting so cute. Or did it make it feel like you did not even want to deal? Oh no. The minute I found out that it was him I completely regressed back into my state of obsession. And in terms of meeting cute actually he was coming to LA and I was going to New York. And we were going to miss each other completely. It was like a romantic comedy but it turned out that my flight back to LA was an hour before his outgoing flight back to New York. So it turned out we were going to be in the same terminal at the same time at LAX. So he said would not it be great to meet in the airport again? Which of course was the single most confusing thing that he could possibly say. Because on the one hand you know how fated how romantic comedy can you get? Both at the airport right? And then on the other hand what the hell is he talking about? They have never met. Well today on our radio show we have three stories of mind games situations where a simple deception goes way out of hand and leads to all kinds of things that it was never intended to lead to. You are listening to This American Life by the way from Chicago Public Radio. I am Ira Glass. Later in our program today we have the story of self-appointed secret agents going around New York City hoping to serve the forces of good and not evil till things get more emotional than they planned. And a musician talks about a very unusual slightly mind-bending request by one of his fans. But before we get any of that consider what happened to Lori. Her travel plans change. She cannot meet the guy at the airport. And so instead she shows up and she has a drink with him at his hotel. And the first surprise is he looks nothing nothing like his picture. And I did not quite know what to do about that because he looked so unlike his picture that at that point I wondered if he was actually the guy or if he had sent-- like he was playing a mind game with me. And he had sent some other guy to kind of go on the date with me. Wow. I love how because you are running a con suddenly you believe everybody's running a con. Well your sense of reality gets turned upside down. It is like you think I am an honest person and I did this. So who knows what other people are doing? So she sits there. And the longer she sits there the more that she could see that yes when he turns his head this particular way he probably is the guy in the photo. Not that that helps anything. She is not liking the real him not attracted. And because I am not interested I am kind of deciding do I need to even tell him that I made this up? Or can I just leave? Oh right. He does not need to know that I made up the story. But then on the other hand it was sort of strange because he kept talking about our encounter in the airport. And it was kind of frustrating to me because I felt like why is he doing this? I could not understand why he would do this. It was not just that he had seen my letter and kind of went with it. It was like he then took the letter to a whole new level of deception. First he said when I met him at the bar-- the first thing he said to me was oh I recognized you immediately. You look exactly the same as you did in the airport. Then when we were talking he would come up-- he would just like pepper the conversation with all these little lies like he said that when we were in the airport he remembered that I was confused about what I wanted to do with my life. So he says to me-- you know the bar closes. And he says do you want to come up and continue talking? And I wanted to leave really badly at that point. But because I would been there for so many hours I thought I cannot leave and not find out not get to the bottom of this story. And I feel so guilty at this point that I really feel like I have to come clean. Right. So I go upstairs. And I say to him you know I have to tell you I really do not think that you are the guy from the airport. It is been really nice meeting you but you are not the guy. And he says no no no. I am. And he is very insistent about it. And it is sort of like once he had his own position he did not want to change his position. So I say to him you know actually it really was not you because I made the whole thing up. And he is stunned into silence. And I think oh god. He thinks I am a freak. And I am sitting there thinking I just want to crawl into a hole right now. I should never have told him the truth. And then he just looks at me very calmly and says no you did not. I remember this. And I look at him like what is he doing? I cannot imagine what he is doing. Why is he doing that? Is he trying to save face for me? And he was not like sort of excited about it. He was like cool as a cucumber. He was like no. It happened. I remember. And it was like it made me seem crazy. Yeah. You know like all of a sudden you know how you appear crazier when you are trying to prove to somebody that you are not crazy? Yes. And basically I said look I got to go. And oddly then he said at the door he is like can I kiss you? And I just gave him my cheek. And then he gave me his card. And I left. But there are only two possibilities. Either he actually believes that he met you or he knows he did not. Right? Right. But let us say that he believed that he met me. Reverse the situation. If somebody said to me you know I think I met you in the airport and I believed them and then they said I made it all up I would believe them. I would say oh huh. You know I thought that actually you were telling the truth. But if you say you made it up you must have made it up. Like what would be my motive for telling him I made the whole thing up? Yeah. I find that very convincing actually. I was not actually sure what I thought up until you said that. But actually now I actually believe that he completely knew that he was lying. I actually believe there is no chance that he actually thought he met you. There is no reason for him not to believe me except for the fact that I have already established myself as a liar because I am telling him I lied and sent you this note that was a complete lie. I love how this started off as like this innocent little romantic lie. And then before it is done you yourself are caught up in this whole world of where you cannot even figure out how to convince him and you cannot figure out why he is saying what he is saying. Like your mind is so messed with by the end of this story. Yeah. I do not know what to make of it. I mean years later I do not know what to make of it. It is this thing that I sort of-- whatever went on in that room that night it is like it stayed with me for so many years because it was so confusing to me. Lori Gottlieb. She is the author of Marry Him-- The Case of Settling for Mr. Good Enough. She is now a psychotherapist in Los Angeles. Act Two The Spy Who Loved Everyone. We have this story of good intentions and where they lead from Jorge Just. It is a Saturday in January dead of winter a crowded subway car New York City. Stand clear of the closing doors please. At the Canal Street Station a guy walks onto the car. He is wearing a hat gloves scarf and coat but no pants. At the next stop Spring Street someone else gets on with no pants. This continues for a half dozen stops. The car's filling up with pantsless people who do not seem to know or even notice each other. Reactions vary. Some riders avert their eyes. Some laugh out loud. Some stare turn away stare again. Finally at 33rd Street somebody new comes through the car. It is a vendor. She is selling pants. Short pants! Medium pants. Anyone need pants? 1. It will not shock you to know that this whole scene was staged. The pantsless people are part of a group called Improv Everywhere led by a New Yorker named Charlie Todd. He pulls stunts like this all over New York. He calls them missions. The people that carry them out are called agents. Here's how Charlie explains it. It is always hard for me to describe it because I always want to use the word prank. But prank always has that negative connotation of in order for there to be a prank there has to be a victim somebody who has been fooled and has been embarrassed or humiliated or had the best of. And what we try to do is really the opposite. We try to make people happy. For Charlie happy means fun and fun means making strange things happen in boring locations. Take mission 27 the Mobius. The Mobius mission was a time loop in a Starbucks. It worked like this. Charlie and six friends choreographed a five-minute sequence of events to repeat over and over again. They planned it at a Starbucks and they performed it at another the one across the street. Each agent had their own action. Charlie and his girlfriend started off. They walk in and get in line. Charlie notices a pack of cigarettes in her purse and confronts her about her smoking. She says do not tell me what to do and storms out of the Starbucks. And I run out after her yelling her name-- Katie come back. And then four minutes later we walk back into Starbucks get in line again. And so that is our loop. Agent number three spills his water stands up gets napkins comes back to clean up the mess and repeats. That is his loop. Agent number four answers a phone call walks to the window for better reception then goes back to his chair. Agent number five gets up to go to the bathroom decides the line is too long returns to his seat. Agent number six simply sneezes at a precise moment. And the capper was my friend Ken would walk through the Starbucks with a boom box playing Shiny Happy People by REM. And he would walk in one door go through the entire restaurant walk out the other door. We repeated that sequence 12 times in a row for an hour total. Charlie says that for the first few repetitions nobody noticed a thing. It was the argument between Charlie and his girlfriend that finally caught people's attention. By like the third or fourth time that I had run out the Starbucks chasing after my girlfriend people were starting to say like well if I was him I would just break up with her. But it was not that they thought that they were in a time loop. It was that they thought that we really just kept getting into a fight. And then by like the fifth and sixth time that we did it people kind of started to get freaked out. There was one woman in particular who we had on the hidden camera who called her friend and said you have to come down here. I am at the Starbucks in Astor Place. I do not know what is going on. I do not know if you have ever been in a Starbucks but if you do go you will notice lots of people doing the same sort of thing over and over again-- sip the coffee read the paper update the blog. Stare hard enough and everyone looks like they are in a time loop. It took people almost an hour to find the line between staged scene and reality. By the end of it-- by like the 9th and 10th time we are doing it-- the whole Starbucks is talking to each other participating in this thing. It is almost as if everybody in that Starbucks felt like they could predict the future. And they started kind of like conducting it. Like they would point at Chris and say oh and he is going to sneeze right now. And here comes the boom box guy again. And oh that means the couple's coming back. And there they are! And then after the 12th time we just left. In a way this might be the most surprising part of the Mobius mission. After going to that much trouble just to provide a roomful of strangers with an unforgettable memory the members of Improv Everywhere get up and they leave and not just because you cannot close a curtain on a coffee shop time loop. Charlie posts pictures and descriptions of the missions on his website but that is as close as he gets to a standing ovation. He is got loftier goals anyway. I want to live in a world where anything can happen. I guess what I mean by that is-- I do not know. I guess we should not have to rely on like television or movies to show us fantastic things and fantastic stories. Let us attempt to bring some of that excitement to the real world I guess. Charlie's missions are cool but it is his objective that is intriguing-- to create fun inexplicable experiences for random strangers. It is like giving people a small unexpected gift and in the process making the world seem a bit more enchanted. But as anyone who is read a children's book can attest mess with the forces of enchantment and things can go terribly terribly wrong. And that is what happened with a mission Charlie calls the Best Gig Ever. The Best Gig Ever an idea. My friend Mark Lee came up to me one night. And he came up to me and said let us find a rock band a struggling rock band and give them the greatest gig of their life. So I researched on the internet for the next couple of weeks trying to find the perfect gig the perfect band who I knew was setting themselves up for just a horrible audience. And I found this band Ghosts of Pasha from Vermont. Never heard of them before. Nobody in New York had probably heard of them apart from their friends because it was their first tour ever. And they had just recorded some songs this summer and they were gonna tour in October. And they were playing a gig in New York on Friday night at 8 oclock for a 5 cover. Then they had a gig two nights later on Sunday night at the Mercury Lounge for an 8 cover at 10 PM. So I knew even if they had friends in New York those friends would come to the Friday night show and they would not come back. No matter how good the show was they are not coming out at 10 oclock on a Sunday night to support their friends again. Charlie recruited 35 agents to act as hardcore Ghosts of Pasha fans. They downloaded the six songs on the band's website and they memorized the lyrics. Some agents made T-shirts and temporary tattoos using the Ghosts of Pasha logo. They timed their arrival getting to the club as the next-to-last band was getting off the stage. People entered separately or in pairs did not act like we knew each other. And by the time they were doing their sound check all of us were in the room. Not only were they getting ready to perform we were getting ready to perform too. And everybody from the previous gig had left. They had three paying customers that night not counting us. But instead they had 38-- the 35 of us and the three paying customers. And once they got on stage and said hello Mercury Lounge or whatever they said we definitely exploded.   We are Ghosts of Pasha.    You are listening to footage from a video camera that one of Charlie's friends snuck into the Mercury. The club was dark and the camera was hidden in a bag. At first you cannot make anything out but then the camera goes into night-vision mode and it is all there in black and pale green and white. 35 people is not much of a crowd but somehow they make it seem like the place is packed. I sat and watched the video with Charlie who pointed out his favorite moments and showed me how the agents reacted to the music in their own particular ways some pushing to the front others hanging back. He points out another guy near the front of the stage. He is dancing spastically flinging his arms shaking to the music. At a show there is always that one guy who is dancing too much. And the guy we are looking at now he is that guy. You know? So it is appropriate. We are not all doing it but he is.   Charlie spends most of the show taking pictures. Each rock crowd has one of those kids too. But at a certain moment even he gets swept up in the excitement and starts acting more like he does when he is seeing his favorite band The Cure. And then I will say that at this moment right here I am definitely like into the show.   We were requesting songs. You know we only knew the names of like six songs because they only had six songs on their EP which they had on their website. And I was screaming for-- they have a song called What About the Shut-Ins. It is like  what about the shut-ins of the Second World War? And I was screaming for Shut-Ins. I just yelling Shut-Ins! Shut-Ins! And they played it. I think probably coincidentally they were playing it next in the set. And I just went crazy when they started. When I heard the first notes I was like yeah! I got my request.    Where is the difference in really really being into a band and pretending to be really into a band? Yeah there is not much difference for that night. It felt just like I was at a Cure show singing along to Just Like Heaven. You know I was at Ghost of Pasha singing along to What About the Shut-Ins. Whatever. It was the same thing basically.   Thanks a lot. Audience audience audience audience! The band gets offstage and Charlie and company leave the bar to go celebrate another mission accomplished. A couple of days later he puts up pictures and reports of the evening on his website. Charlie figured the band would find his page in a month or two. It is basically inevitable once he is posted everything online. What he was not sure of is how they would react. When I would tell people this idea like as I was preparing for this event one of the main responses I got was people saying like that is so cruel. You know what is going to happen when this band does their next gig in New York City and nobody shows up? That is the cruelest thing I have ever heard. And I just-- I really do not buy into that logic. I think-- I mean it is kind of an interesting thing to think about. Like is it cruel to give somebody the best day of their life just because they will never have another day like that again? And I do not think so. I mean it is kind of like you have a wonderful dream and you wake up. And do you wish you just had bad dreams every night? And I think it is great to have wonderful dreams. And yeah it kind of sucks for a second. But you always have that moment.   We got punked. That show at the Mercury Lounge was a fake. And it just seemed like a blow. Like it was like a blow to my heart. This is Chris Partyka the guitarist of Ghosts of Pasha. It turns out that finding Charlie's website was a bit worse than waking from a dream and it happened faster than Charlie expected. Lead singer Milo Finch found out only three days after the show. His discovery was a disturbing capper to an already long and bizarre few days. To understand how weird this was for the band you need to hear the story from their perspective. They had not even wanted to play the Mercury show in the first place. They were exhausted. They would just driven from Vermont to Boston for a show Thursday and to New York for a show on Friday. Ezra the drummer and Brad the bassist had then driven the six hours back to Vermont on Saturday and then turned around and returned Sunday. Milo stayed in New York but he would been up all night partying. I remember being on the street before the Mercury Lounge show completely exhausted just sitting on the street waiting to play. We did not even want to do it. But you know I remember just sitting there. And it was pretty dead. And we thought it was just gonna be dead. And we were like cool. It will be dead. We can just go up there and play and just get out of here. Get it over with. It turns out that the band Charlie picked was not just obscure. It was practically brand new. They would only been together a couple of months. This was their fourth show ever the third on their tour. It was really weird because we knew this was our third show. I remember turning to the drummer to Ezra and being like what is going on? Like in the middle of a song like a drum break.   What started weird soon got weirder. Keep in mind they had not put out an album. Nobody anywhere had ever heard of them. But somehow a crowd of New Yorkers knew their lyrics. The first song we noticed it was in New York New York. It is one of our songs and right off the bat is the chorus. And they came right in with it. Like I think they came in with it on better timing than I did. They came right in. And they nailed it.    Honestly it was really odd. I mean there was moments where guys were ripping off their shirts and swinging them over their heads in like a helicopter fashion. There were girls that were pointing at the stage and interacting with me as we were pointing back. It was just-- it was bedlam.    The exclamation point on the whole evening for me was how creepy it was when the guy jumped up on stage with no shirt. And I just remember him being up front the whole time punching the air and spinning in circles and he was all sweaty. And he jumped up on stage at the end of the last song and hugged me. He is all sweaty and clammy. And he is like thank you. Like he just kept saying thank you in my ear. And I was just like all right. Thank you. Agent V. Yeah Agent V. He seemed like he was not really acting just getting it out you know? The band got into it too. Milo's favorite moment came at the end of the set. During the solo in Power Bitch I had kind of just laid on the stage. And the crowd rushed the stage and was grabbing my hands like this because I was right on the lip of the stage. And I put the microphone out into the audience and they were screaming and grabbing at my hand and touching the microphone. And I made sure I slapped every hand that came up just so no one felt like they did not get it. And however the act was going on or whatever they were pulling or whatever they were doing I felt that at that point in the show we answered it back with something real. And at that point everybody in the room was on the same page.      The show was exhausting. They played the tour's first ever encore and left all the energy they had on stage. Like Milo said when a crowd screams at you like you are The Beatles you act like you are The Beatles. Only this crowd stopped screaming the moment the last notes were played. Chris remembers unplugging his amp looking up and being shocked that the place was empty. Ghosts of Pasha were suddenly alone. I remember we were all standing out on the street smoking our cigarette after the show and totally confused. Oh yeah. Kind of speechless for a little bit. I think I remember Brad broke the silence. He is always good for breaking the silence. He was like what the  just happened? What the hell was that I think was the-- what the hell was that? As he was lighting his cigarette. It was just creepy. Creepy but also pretty sweet. You know we just had nothing in our heads so we just decided to fill it with well OK. We are really excited and we are in a really good mood. So this is great. Finally 35 people from New York City randomly came to our show and knew our words and stuff. And that is a good feeling. You know what it was? I think some of the talking was we were addicted to it. We were like that felt really cool. Let us play like that all the time. Let us get shows like that all the time. That warm feeling lasted exactly three days until somebody emailed them a link to Charlie's site. The band met up at the local computer lab and read it together. The next 48 hours were the worst. Email poured in mocking Ghosts of Pasha. Their website's bulletin board was flooded with people making fun of them. It got so bad they had to shut it down. The band felt like the butt of a big joke. They struggled to take it all in stride but inevitably one member would get mad and the others would have to talk him down. A couple of hours later they would be on the phone with each other again making each other angry calming each other down. The guitarist Chris Partyka was most affected. He got teased a lot as a kid which is why he started playing music in the first place. It was something he could do by himself in his room where nobody could make fun of him. News of the prank hit Chris pretty hard. It is the worst thing I could possibly think of ever happening to me in my life because I would been avoiding confrontation my whole life so I would not get made fun of. And the moment I decide that I want to try and be real and do what I really want to do all of a sudden it is reacted in the same way as it was when I was in kindergarten. And it is just like what is the difference? You know? I am 30 years old now and I am still getting made fun of by people. Knowing all this it is surprising how Chris feels about it now six months after it happened. It was a gift. It was the gift of like yeah everything's OK. At this point I do not really feel like anything can hurt me because I have dealt with what I have never thought that I could deal with before. It was like psychotherapy for my childhood. You know what I mean? Like everybody in the world look at Chris. And everyone was like duh! Look at him! Duh! You know? And then what am I supposed to do with that but be like hey how you doing? I am Chris. I play the guitar and I like it. After mulling it over for a few days the band decided what to do. They wrote into Charlie's website with their own enthusiastic reports of the evening. Brad the bassist was terse. Chris the guitarist was thoughtful. And Milo the lead singer was the lead singer. Here's Charlie. The lead singer was really enthusiastic and upbeat about the whole thing. But you could tell that he definitely had if not an ego definitely had a lot of pride in the band and made that clear too. And he had one line in his report that said like no matter what happened we rocked the house that night and you knew it. So there were elements of like we realize that it was a prank. But just so you know we did rock it. And I agree with him. They did. They rocked it. They rocked the show and snatched the opportunity. Bands need publicity and Ghosts of Pasha knew a happy story sells better than a sad one. And they were right. The band was interviewed in Spin magazine. An AR guy gave them a call. In other words Ghosts of Pasha played along. They took Charlie's story about what happened that night and made it their own. But not everybody's ready to make themselves at home in Charlie's world. Some people prefer their life just the way it is. All right. My name's Christopher Rawson. I am a fine art student going to New York University. And they basically threw me a fake birthday party. The idea was to throw a birthday party for a stranger-- go up to someone in a bar at random and act like it was his birthday. Charlie gathered about 30 Improv Everywhere agents and headed to a bar called Dempsy's to pick the evening star. He decided on Chris who was sitting with a friend and a full pitcher of beer. It looked like they were settling in for the night. Charlie called the other agents and described Chris and then he walked over and started the party. And I said hey Ted. How is it going? Sorry we are a little early for your birthday party. But thank you for inviting us. They came up to me and they just really addressed me as this other person as Ted and were just like hey what is up buddy? Happy birthday. You know he looks at me. And at first he thinks it is just a case of misunderstanding. He is like I am sorry. You got the wrong guy. I am not Ted. And I just laughed and said ah that is really funny Ted. You did invite us to your birthday party. We got the Evite. A few minutes later more people started coming in and everybody was wishing me happy birthday and calling me by Ted. And everybody seemed to have this memory or this experience that they had with me in the past which obviously was completely foreign to me. I had sent out an email to everybody involved with some specifics about this guy Ted Hine and said that he was 25 years old that he went to UNC Chapel Hill that he worked at Oppenheimer Funds that his favorite band was Dave Matthews. Like we came up with all these specifics about him. And I told everybody pick out what your relationship is to Ted. Figure out what your story is and stick to it. People were giving me hugs and being like oh I have not seen you in so long. What have you been up to? And they had all kind of brought in little gift cards. And on all of them they said remember spring break things relating to school. A few of the people thought I worked for some sort of bank or something. And he got really freaked out which I did not necessarily anticipate. But looking back on it I guess I probably should have anticipated that that would freak somebody out. I was definitely freaked out and suspicious. I mean it seemed very confrontational and very grotesque even I would say. So yeah it was kind of like a really bad dream. Chris it turns out was not the brash 25-year-old East Vil