In May of last year about a month after the bombings at the Boston Marathon there was this weird news story-- maybe you saw this-- about a guy in Florida who was shot by an FBI agent. We are getting word this morning about a shooting in Orlando Florida. It involves the FBI and a man who may have had ties to the Boston bombing suspects. Our senior correspondent-- The shooting victim was a Chechen guy named Ibragim Todashev and he would known one of the guys accused in the Boston bombing. Ibragim Todashev was a friend of the older brother in that case Tamerlan Tsarnaev. He was in contact with Tamerlan Tsarnaev. He had been to Boston to visit him and he was planning a trip-- Remember that Tamerlan Tsarnaev was the older brother in the Boston Marathon case. He is the one killed in a shootout in Watertown after that crazy car chase. He is usually portrayed as the more radical brother in news reports. That is who the Florida guy was buddies with. And the Florida guy was shot in his own apartment by the FBI seven times during an interview they were doing with him. The FBI said almost nothing about this. But of course there were leaks. And officials tell us that the man attacked the FBI agent who then shot and killed him. Some reports said that he came at the agent with a knife. Others said it was a pole. Others said a broomstick maybe a sword. And the story was leaked to the press by law enforcement was that before the FBI shot this guy Ibrahim Todashev he confessed to something. He implicated himself and the alleged Boston bomber in a crime a gruesome crime a triple murder of three drug dealers who were killed gangland style in a Boston suburb two years earlier long before the marathon bombings. According to the leaks this guy in Florida was just about to write out a confession when he freaked out attacked a federal agent and they had to shoot him to death. Weird right? The FBI kills somebody in his own home and then says sure we killed him. But you know he was a murderer. He confessed to it. OK well we do not have a recording or a signed confession but believe us he really did it. As one editorial put it in a suburban Massachusetts paper quote When a key witness to a serious crime is killed during questioning people deserve to know why. When prosecutors say he revealed a critical fact before he was killed people expect proof. The father of Ibragim Todashev-- the guy the FBI killed in Florida-- held a press conference calling for answers and he pointed out it was hard to understand why federal agents would need to actually kill his son. He spoke in Russian. Even if he lost his temper and became violent they could have restrained him or wounded him shoot him in the leg or the arm or the shoulder. But what happened was murder. Maybe my son knew something the police did not want to come out and they killed him to keep him silent. Theories sprang up. On the more conspiracy-ish side of things there had already been persistent rumors that the alleged Boston bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev had been an FBI informant. Maybe this guy in Florida knew something about that and they wanted to shut him up. These theories were especially rife in Boston where the FBI has colluded with its criminal informants in the past. At the very least people wondered if the FBI was being so silent about the incident because it did not want to admit its own blunders during the interrogation blunders that led them to shoot a man seven times. The Boston Globe Boston Herald and dozens of other newspapers have called for an explanation of how and why this happened. The Washington Post declared The last thing the US government needs is to fuel wild conspiracy theories. The Obama administration must move heaven and earth to get to the bottom of what happened and make it public quickly. And the FBI promised to clear the air. They promised an investigation into the shooting. That was last May. Since then officials keep saying essentially it is coming it is coming. Now it has been nine months and still nothing. Nine months. At this point the mother of one of the men killed in that triple murder now agrees with the dad you heard-- the dad whose son supposedly committed the murder murdered her son-- that things do not seem to add up. This mom Bellie Hacker wonders why would the FBI kill the one person who could shed light on who murdered her kid? I know there is some sort of a cover up somewhere. I do not know what it is and I do not have any theories about it. But it is too strange. A full and swift release of information would clear the air about that. Massachusetts congressman Bill Keating sits on the Homeland Security committee and he says that in general when it comes to anything related to the Boston bombing the FBI is peculiarly unforthcoming much worse than any other law enforcement agencies when giving out information. And he says investigations into police shootings just do not have to take this long. He knows this because he is been involved with them himself back when he was a district attorney. I think the longest one we were involved in was maybe two months. Versus this case. In this instance there was a crime scene that amounted to a room and just a few individuals so it is something that should have taken short order. And even though there is an extensive report making vetting that goes on that delay now continues eight or nine months later. And that is puzzling. From the outside it just makes it look so suspicious. Do you know what I mean? Well that is what happens when you know delays occur. Today on our program we dive into this mystery. There is a triple murder in Massachusetts linked to the alleged Boston bomber and this other guy in Florida. Both of those men are dead-- the one in Florida in circumstances that are still very unclear. And as you will hear the deeper that we dug into these questions the weirder the story got. The police and FBI were doing all kinds of things that just did not seem to make much sense. We are going to bring you the facts that we have been able to find. We are going to tell you the ones that we could not find and then at the end of the hour our best guess as to what we think might have happened. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Well Susan Zalkind is a reporter who lives in Boston and she has spent the last six months looking into all this for Boston magazine and for us and also for herself. She has a personal connection to what happened this triple murder the one that the guy in Florida supposedly is connected to. Her connection is that she was friends with one of the victims in that original crime-- one of the three drug dealers who was killed Eric Weissman. So here's Susan. I met Eric five years before he was killed. It was the summer after my freshman year in college. I was 19 and he was 26 and we hung out a few times that summer usually driving around aimlessly in his car listening to music talking and smoking pot. He had wire-rimmed nerd glasses and a Jewfro and honestly he was just really sweet. He sold high-end weed flew to Amsterdam regularly for special seeds and talked about selling pot as if it were a community service. Over time I stopped smoking weed. We grew apart. The last time I spoke to him was eight months before he was killed. My dad's a criminal defense attorney and Eric wanted his number to hire him. Police had raided his apartment. A few years earlier he told me he only sold pot but police also seized coke and OxyContin. He sounded scared. I told him it would be OK. Approximately 230 PM today the Waltham police responded to this scene a-- sorry-- very graphic crime scene. There are three dead bodies in the apartment. This is a fluid ongoing investigation. The day Eric's body was discovered Middlesex County District Attorney Gerry Leone faced a scrum of reporters outside the crime scene in Waltham a suburb of Boston. Leone said he could not release many details not before they got in touch with the victims' families. He would not even confirm the victims' genders or their approximate ages. There was not a lot of information except for this which seemed very specific. It does look like the assailants and the decedents did know each other. We have no evidence of a break in the apartment and we have other indicia that the decedents and the assailants were known to each other. You are saying assailants plural. You mean you are thinking that more than one person is responsible? We are not sure at this time. We know there were at least two people who are not in that apartment now who were there earlier. It was later revealed that the killers slit their throats. The three bodies lay face down heads turned to the side each in a neat pool of blood. Two of the bodies had about a pound and a half of marijuana dumped on them. The scene did not scan like a robbery. There were eight and a half pounds of pot left in bags and glass jars and 5000 lying next to the bodies. They were killed sometime after 730 on the night of September 11 2011. Weeks passed and months. My friends and I would convene nightly meetings huddled in our apartments and run through all the possibilities of who could have killed our friend. But there did not seem to be any leads and certainly no arrests. I did not hear much more about the case really until a year and a half later after the Boston Marathon bombings when news reports said police and FBI were beginning to look into the connection between the alleged bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev and the Waltham murders. Tamerlan had been close friends with one of the three murder victims a guy named Brendan Mess. But after the murders Tamerlan had acted suspiciously Did not go to Brendan's funeral. I talked to one guy who said he went up to Tamerlan to offer his condolences about Brendan and Tamerlan literally laughed it off. People actually told investigators to look into Tamerlan Tsarnaev back in 2011 right after the murders but police never followed up. After the marathon bombings there were rumblings of a scandal about all this. If police had questioned Tamerlan back in 2011 is it possible he would be in prison instead of placing two homemade bombs at the finish line? But then pretty quickly came the same news reports you heard at the beginning of the show that some guy in Florida named Ibragim Todashev supposedly admitted that he would been involved in the Waltham murders and that Tamerlan had been with him. There was no written confession. There was no reporting. And then Todashev was shot by an FBI agent. I had no idea what to make of it. A year and a half had gone by with no news at all and now suddenly they had found the killers and both of them are dead? Should I really believe that these two guys murdered my friend? So I start to look into everything I could learn about the guy in Florida Ibragim Todashev. I talked to anyone I could reach who knew him-- friends family former coworkers-- and asked them all what kind of guy Ibragim Todashev was. But it seemed like he was a hard person to get a read on. Well OK the one thing I noticed about him he never smiled in his pictures or anything like that. I used to see him at the mosque. He was a good guy nice guy. Like you know doing his prayers and all that. Ibragim-- I never liked that dude. I am gonna be honest. He was like a douchebag. To be honest this guy seems like he had a temper. He was-- I cannot speak how he was with somebody else but with me he was grateful thoughtful husband. He was actually if you get to know him he was a pretty good guy. I learned Ibragim was religious and prayed regularly but he also went to clubs and hit on women. He liked to hang out with a close-knit group of Chechen friends and he was a fighter. He trained seriously in mixed martial arts a sport where boxing wrestling kickboxing and jujitsu are all mixed together. He wanted to go pro. He would emigrated from Chechnya to Boston in 2008 lived there for a few years worked a few odd jobs got married got separated spent some time in Atlanta and by the end of 2011 a few months after the murders in Waltham he had moved to Florida. But one detail caught my attention. At the time of his death Ibragim had been living with a woman named Tatiana Gruzdeva. The Boston Globe wrote that Tatiana had been detained for having an expired visa and was on her way to being deported to Moscow. But later they reported that Tatiana had been mysteriously released and was still living in Florida. I found her the way anyone finds anybody on Facebook. A slight 19-year-old with bleach blond hair and huge green eyes she posted a lot of selfies. Impulsively I sent her a friend request. It did not surprise me that she did not respond. Months went by. Then one night in September while I was working on my computer in my living room a little alert appeared on my screen. Tatiana accepted my Facebook request. We started messaging. Soon we switched to the phone. The first time I talked to Tatiana I did not know it was going to be doing a radio story. I do not have an audio recording but I took notes and I tried to get down as much of her rapid fire Russian accented voice as possible. She told me she would only known Ibragim for six months. They began as roommates. First it was just friends she told me and after we started having relationship and we were sleeping together like boyfriend and girlfriend. Tatiana told me the night Ibragim was shot was not the first time he talked to the FBI. I think most people had the impression that the FBI showed up started asking Ibragim about a murder he freaked out and they shot him. In fact though both Tatiana and Ibragim had been cooperating with them for more than a month. The relationship with the FBI had become almost cordial businesslike. Agents contacted the couple regularly on the phone visited their home and called them into the FBI offices for more questioning. I wanted to know what they were asking about. Did it seem like the FBI had connected Ibragim to the Waltham murders? Were they asking about them? Tatiana said no. Waltham did not come up as far as she knew. She said their questions for Ibragim were mostly about terrorism the Boston bombing and his relationship with Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Ibragim admitted he was friends with Tamerlan back when he lived in Boston. She said the agents asked about a phone call Tamerlan made to Ibragim about a month before the marathon bombing. Ibragim told them the call was nothing important that Tamerlan was just checking up on Ibragim after he had surgery on his knee. But later Ibragim deleted the call from his phone history. When agents asked him why Ibragim told them he was scared. Then three weeks into the interviews Tatiana was in the lobby of the FBI office waiting for Ibragim to be done with another round of questioning and an agent asked her to come with him. It is fine she says they told her. Ibragim knows about it. She went to a room with them. They asked her a bunch of familiar questions about the marathon bombing. And then they brought up something new. We think he did something else before in Boston 2011 with a knife Tatiana says they told her. It was the first time Tatiana had ever heard about the Waltham triple murder. She told the agents she did not believe that Ibragim had anything to do with it. She said the agents then asked her if she would be willing to let them know if Ibragim started doing anything suspicious basically to inform on him. She says she said no because he was not doing anything and she did not know anything. So the agents called immigration and they locked her up. She was in the States on an expired student visa. Tatiana was held in an immigration detention facility for a week. The day after Ibragim was shot she was transferred to the Glades County Detention Center and placed in a medical unit. She asked officers why she was being moved and they told her they would tell her in the morning. The next day she learned the truth. Her boyfriend was dead. She did not return home for another 11 weeks to the apartment she would once shared with Ibragim. I am just gonna leave the recorder running. All right. Three days after I talked to Tatiana on the phone I flew down to Orlando to meet with her in person. And this time I brought a tape recorder. But sitting in the tiny living room of her apartment the room where Ibragim had been killed she was much more reluctant to talk about Ibragim or the FBI or really much of anything. What first made you fall in love with Ibragim? I really do not want to do this. One reason Tatiana was scared why she responded to my Facebook request at all weeks after I sent it was because earlier that same day she and her friend had been driving when they got pulled over by six or seven unmarked police cars and her friend was taken away. She did not know who had taken him or why but she was afraid she might be next. I know but I am really scared you know about just-- I understand that you are just scared like in general. Because after this jail and right after I am really scared. It was also weird being in that apartment with a 19-year-old girl whose bed was covered with stuffed animals. She showed me a video she would taken with her phone of her and Ibragim in a Hallmark type store on Valentine's Day. She is giggling and trying to get him to put on a silly hat. She seemed to be like any other teenage girl with a standoffish boyfriend.  She knew about my connection to the Waltham murders. She knew that her boyfriend is thought to be the person who killed my friend. But she did not think it was even slightly possible he did it. I tried not to push her on that point but it was practically all I could think about. Did her dead boyfriend slit my friend's throat? Instead I told her I thought it was wrong of the FBI to kill Ibragim even if he was a murderer. After a few hours of talking I decided to leave Tatiana alone. Well keep in touch with me. If something happens you know and you-- keep in touch with me. Let me know what is going on. All right. I hope nothing. Hopefully nothing but-- nothing bad's going to ever happen to you but-- I hope. I hope not because it is already a lot. Uh-huh. . OK OK Tatiana who-- who-- who is the immigration officer who told you that you are here because of an interview you gave to me? . Give me the-- A week after I left Orlando Tatiana called me from an immigration detention facility. She told me because she did that interview with me and I wrote a story about it for Boston magazine's website she was now being deported. I cannot believe that that is happened though. And if that is the only reason it is really concerning. Right? It is stupid right? It is crazy! I cannot believe it is true but-- because of this interview. After Tatiana had been released from detention the first time she was given a special permission to stay in the US-- something called deferred action. Now she was telling me that permission had been revoked. Because now they are still overstating that. Have you been speaking to the FBI since you have been detained? No no. Oh my god. Thank god no. I do not want to talk to them. Maybe I will have more problems now. Uh-huh. I wanted to . OK. I want to be-- I just want to be deported. I just want to see my mom my family. I just want to go to Russia. But I want to be safe in Russia. I do not want to stay here anymore in the jail. I frantically called immigration officers to find out what was going on. They would not tell me anything. Later when I asked again they referred me to the FBI. But the FBI would not talk about it. After spending 10 days in jail two immigration agents accompanied Tatiana on her flight back to Moscow. Even when she got home to her mom's house in Moldova she told me she was too scared to do another interview. I called around to a few immigration lawyers because I wanted to know if it is even legal to deport someone for speaking to the press. It turns out because of Tatiana's status it was. Under her deferred action Tatiana was legally allowed to stay in the US for another year. Now that she would talked to me her stay was mysteriously cut 10 months short. But why? What did not the FBI want her to say to me? Or maybe they were trying to send a message to other people who might talk. I did notice the FBI seemed to be paying a lot of attention to anyone who was close to Ibragim. In these recent weeks how much contact have you had with the FBI? Me? This is Ibragim's best friend in Florida Khusen Taramov. The morning after Ibragim died he talked to TV reporters with another friend of Ibragim's who did not want to be identified. They have been following us. They are watching us. Every time we go somewhere there is two three cops undercover. We see them. You know what I mean? Like they still watch us all the time. They know everything about us-- where we from what are we doing. They know everything. Everything. Everything. Everything. So-- Khusen had actually been with Ibragim the night he was killed. He went with Ibragim to the final interview at his apartment but agents told them to wait outside. They wanted to question Ibragim alone. Khusen waited outside for four hours before being told to leave. About an hour later Ibragim was shot. I wanted to talk to Khusen about this but when I reached out to him I learned something strange. Khusen had gone to Russia on July 4th to see his family and when he tried to come back to the US afterwards authorities would not let Khusen or his two brothers on the plane with no explanation. Khusen has a green card. He went to high school in the States. But for some reason he is not being let back into the country now. When I finally did get a hold of Khusen he said he did not want to do an interview. He just wanted to put everything behind him. Here's one more thing. The FBI stopped the medical examiner from releasing Ibragim's autopsy report. The only reason we know how many times he was shot was because pictures were taken of Ibragim's embalmed body. Khusen is the one who took those pictures. So here's what I was working with. The FBI killed Ibragim. They released no official information about exactly what happened and would not say when they would release that information. And then these people close to Ibragim were whisked away. His girlfriend his best friend-- both of them were kept out of the country. I did not know if it was a cover up but it just did not look right. Susan Zalkind. Coming up a third person close to Ibragim is politely ushered out of the country by federal authorities. And at the end of the hour our theory about the truth behind all this. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. All this hour we are hearing Susan Zalkind's investigation into a few deaths-- a triple murder in Waltham Massachusetts in 2011 where a friend of hers was one of the victims and a killing last May where the FBI shot a man Ibragim Todashev in his own apartment in Florida seven times while questioning him about the triple murder. So far as you have heard Susan has found that two of the people closest to Todashev his girlfriend and his best friend have both been more or less booted out of the United States. And there is a third person who was close to Ibragim whose story is even stranger Ashur Miraliev. That is where we will pick up. Here's Susan. It took five months to convince Ashur to talk to me. When I first heard about him he was in a maximum security prison in Florida. Nine weeks later he was deported to Tajikistan. During all this time I reached out again and again and he just kept turning me down. His lawyer said he did not want to talk because he would been traumatized having his friend killed by the FBI and then being arrested himself. But finally a month ago-- Are you there? Can you hear me? Yeah. Can you hear me? Yes. We talked over an internet phone line. Ashur moved to Florida in 2011 on a student visa. He started hanging out with a crew of Russian speakers and that is how he met Ibragim. Ashur is only 20 years old so he was nearly eight years younger than Ibragim. He said they had a good friendship but because of the age difference it was not super close. Ibragim did not confide in him. He said Ibragim was more like a brother than a friend. Ashur was questioned once by the FBI about Ibragim two days before Ibragim died. But after an FBI agent shot Ibragim during an interview Ashur and his friends decided they did not want to sit down for any more interviews themselves. They stopped cooperating. Four months passed. It seemed like the FBI had moved on until a Wednesday afternoon in September when Ashur was driving near Universal Studios and an undercover car pulled him over. And then there was a bunch of cars like five six cars were right after them. Why did they say they were pulling you over? Because my driver's license was expired. That is the only reason they told you you were being pulled over by seven undercover-- Yes. --cops? They said your driver's license was expired? Yes. Ashur says people who identified themselves as FBI agents asked him to come to their office. They told me that like let us go to the office you know there is air conditioning blah blah blah. We can chill and talk you know? Did they tell you what they wanted to talk about? So you have an expired license. Did they say they wanted to talk about that? Yeah. I told them what do you want to talk about? Like what do you want? And they just kept saying let us go to the office you know? We are gonna talk over there. You can stop the conversation anytime you want you know? You can come back at any time you want blah blah blah you know? I was so shocked. I was so shocked and I was so interested. From one side I wanted to go with them because I was so interested. I wanted to know what they want for me like you know? So I decided to go with them because I was so scared. I was so shocked. And it was so interesting you know? Ashur was driven to a police station where they entered this in their system as merely a traffic stop no other information. But according to documents from the County Sheriff's department Ashur was soon headed over to the FBI where he says agents aggressively questioned him about his relationship with Ibragim. They were convinced that he would been one of Ibragim's closest friends that he had to know something. What kind of information about Ibragim were they interested in? Like what kind of relationship he had with Tsarnaevs when he was in the Boston. Do you know his Boston friends? Do you know who was with him at the time of triple murder you know? What do I know about triple murder? What did Ibragim told me about triple murder you know? Like these kids of questions. It surprised me that they were asking Ashur about the Waltham murders four months after Ibragim had been killed four months after Ibragim had supposedly confessed. Ashur told me he knew nothing about the triple murder. He would never met the Tsarnaevs. He is never even been to Boston. Did they imply that you had anything to do with this triple murder in Waltham? Me? Yeah. Was that what the-- No no. Was the FBI asking you about that? No. But they were pointing at Ibragim like for sure you know? Like for sure he did it? Yeah exactly. They was not interested about me. They-- can you hear me? Yeah I hear you. They knew that I did not do nothing. They was not interested about me. They just wanted to get some information from me you know? I could not figure out if the FBI thought Ashur actually knew something or if they were just fishing. It made me think that even if Ibragim confessed they did not have much evidence besides it. They needed anything they could find to close the case. How long did this interview go for this first interview? Um it was like a few hours. A few hours yeah. And when I told them I wanted to stop the conversation they told me you are gonna go to the jail you know? That is the first time they told me about the jail. I really thought they were kidding you know? Because I knew that I would not go to the jail for my driver's license because it was only nine days expired. I could get only a ticket you know? I thought they were kidding but they were not. They just put handcuffs on me. They took me to the jail. I went to the jail you know? Ashur had no idea what he was being arrested for and when they told him he could not believe it. He thought there was some mistake. I just want to stop here to take a detour in Ashur's story in order to explain his arrest charge. It sheds light on how the FBI was operating down in Florida in this case and the lengths they were willing to go to get to Ashur. Ashur was arrested for threatening the victim of a crime. The formal charge was tampering with a victim by threat and the story behind it starts here at the Ali Baba Hookah Lounge just outside Orlando. Ali Baba sits in the front of a small shopping plaza on Polynesian Isle Boulevard. Disney World is down the road but the plaza is like this international oasis in the middle of American tourist country. There is a small grocery store owned by Egyptians a hair salon owned by an Iraqi Turkish guy and the hookah bar which is owned by a Moroccan. The incident that put Ashur in jail happened here and the person who pressed charges against Ashur was the manager of the hookah bar this guy. My name is Youness eit Dammou. I used to work at the Ali Baba Hookah Bar. Youness actually works at a different hookah bar now across the street. When my producer Brian Reed and I found Youness it was midnight. He graciously sat down and told us the story of how he came to press charges against Ashur. It actually begins with Ibragim. One day Youness says Ibragim was at the hookah bar and he was hitting on a woman who worked there making her feel uncomfortable so Youness went over to intervene. Ibragim he got a little bit frustrated and you know he thinks he can manage the place. I told him honestly I am the manager over here. You are welcome. You can have a good time you know enjoy yourself. But if you want to rule this place as you want you are welcome to leave. So obviously he did not like what I said. After this Youness says he walked over to the grocery store in the plaza. Ibragim followed him telling Youness he wanted to go out back with him behind the plaza. Youness turned away and then all of a sudden-- Boom! I lost consciousness. Ibragim knocked Youness on the side of the head with his fist. A few seconds later when Youness came to-- He grabbed me from my legs like this. Youness says Ibragim lifted him high off the ground until Youness's knees were level with Ibragim's chest. Then Ibragim slammed him onto the sidewalk like in a wrestling move. Remember he was training to be a professional fighter. Ibragim climbed on top of him. At this point a crowd had gathered and Youness yelled for someone to call 911. He heard me say call 911. He ran to his car and ran. When police came Youness told him everything he knew about Ibragim which was not much. He did not even remember his last name. After police left Youness was trying to get more information about the guy who beat him up so he went to a pizza shop next door where he would seen Ibragim hanging out a lot. That is when he ran into Ashur. Ashur was a delivery guy there and Youness says Ashur did not like the fact that he was asking about Ibragim. When I asked Ashur got pissed and he told me you are not a man. Why you call the cops? Why you did not fight him like a man? He starts cursing and he was coming toward me. Did he threaten you? Yeah. What did he say? I do not remember exactly but it is like he wanted to provoke me to get into a fight. And did you consider calling the police? No I did not because I would just called him like an hour and a half ago something like that. There is better things for the police to do than a fight between me and someone you know what I mean? This incident this little shouting match this is what Ashur ended up being arrested for. Because Ashur yelled at Youness for calling the police on Ibragim. This is the tampering with a victim charge. What makes this especially strange is that Ashur was not arrested until more than a year later even though he worked right next door to Youness. That is because in all that time Youness never thought this was a big enough deal to even call the police about. Youness's only beef was with Ibragim for beating him up. He did want to press charges against him but 10 months went by and there was never an arrest. Then the Boston Marathon is bombed and Youness says one da