Maybe you saw this story about a month ago. This couple was sailing across the Pacific Ocean on a boat with their two young daughters. And one of the kids was three and the other was just a baby like a year old. And the baby got sick and they called in rescuers. Four Air National Guardsmen parachuted in. A Navy vessel traveled 2000 miles to reach them. And this got a lot of play can I say kind of weirdly in newspapers online on morning TV. Emergency medics parachuting in to save a sick baby on board a sailboat adrift at sea. ABC's Martha Raddatz here with that story. And Martha so many questions about what that family was doing out there in the first place. So many questions this morning George. This rescue was as harrowing as they come. On Good Morning America George Stephanopoulos and Martha Raddatz updated viewers on the rescue. But also it raised the question that seemed to animate a lot of the interest in the story. That question were these bad parents? --but their trip immediately sparking criticism on the family's Facebook page. One person calling them irresponsible parents. Another writing how selfish to jeopardize the lives of their tiny and helpless children. The family's boat has now sunk along with everything on it. But this was indeed a very costly rescue. Everybody is very happy the baby was saved. But I do not know about you guys but when I have children by a swimming pool I am nervous. Do not know how they did it. Yeah. I do not know how they could do it at all. OK Martha thanks very much. The front page New York Times story on the family was headlined quote Two tots a Sailboat and a Storm over Parenting and quoted experienced sailors arguing pro and con weather was OK to take a baby to sea. People went online and they read the blogs that these parents were keeping of their voyage online. And what a surprise this being the internet they found things to get angry at. Comments on the internet ranged from why take a baby out to see when she is a baby? After all she will not remember it. To a point a lot of people made quote This family should be forced to pay for the rescue. Who in the hell takes two little kids on a voyage like this. So that is how the whole thing looked from dry land. But 1200 miles out in the middle of the ocean in the cabin of a 36 foot boat it looked pretty different. The parents their names are Eric and Charlotte Kaufman say that a whole bunch of things had gone wrong besides the sick baby. The boat was taking on water. Eric is an experienced sailor with a Coast Guard Master's License. It takes 360 days on the water to get that and it means that he can captain a commercial vessel which he has done. And he says that when things started to get bad on his sailboat he started thinking about this piece of gear they have on the boat. It looks like a fluorescent green Big Gulp cup with electronics inside and a little antenna that is sticks out. It is called an EPIRB. EPIRB stands for emergency position indicating radio beacon. And basically when all else fails you break a seal you push a button and this device transmits your coordinates to authorities who know that it means that you are in trouble and they need to send help. And on day 16 of the trip-- well here's Eric and then also Charlotte. I just looked over at the bulkhead and there is the EPIRB sitting up there staring back at me. And I ran through it in my head a few times like have we done everything we reasonably can do? Is this real? Is this really happening? We are not sleep deprived. This is a real thing. We did the math that we were going to lose the boat. I was going to have to scuttle it. I mean we were married and lived on our boat. We were engaged and lived on our boat for that. Both of our kids grew up on that boat. And we were in the middle of crossing an ocean going to the South Pacific. I mean how idyllic can you get right? They write songs about that stuff. And instead we were about to push this button that shifts that whole reality into a whole different reality and a reality we did not want. This eventually became national news the fact that you called for help. Did you have any sense of OK so we push this button and now we are famous? No. Never. We were we were completely thrown aback by that. We thought some of the sailing message boards are going to have a thread about this. After all they knew about other boats that had called for help and it never seemed to land anybody on morning television or get talked about on The View or even make the paper. And as for bringing two small children with them it literally did not occur to them that that could be an issue for anybody because they knew lots of other families through sailing message boards that they were on with kids just as young as theirs. Oh yes. In fact three other boats did the Pacific crossing this year. The youngest baby was four months old. And in fact our daughter was the oldest baby. The one-year-old she was the oldest. The rest were all younger. We reached somebody from the American Boat and Yacht Council which writes the safety guidelines for these kinds of boats and he confirmed that there are in fact thousands of families living on boats tooling around the world with children of all ages. And he said that what the Kaufmans did was not unusual at all. In fact he said however it may sound to people who do not sail crossing an ocean on a sailboat is routine. He said it was on the adventurous side of routine but it was routine. So when Eric and Charlotte Kaufman got to safety and realized the reaction their story was getting they put out a statement on the internet. It said quote For those who are more critical we ask that you kindly await all the details. They thought that if people heard the whole story everything that happened to them their choices would seem reasonable. But they did not say any more. They did not say anything else. They gave no interviews explaining what really happened until today. Today on our program we have them and their story. And we also have other stories of people calling for help. It turns out that when you call for help it can lead you to places that you never suspected that it possibly ever could. Including by the way we have former Wyoming Senator Alan Simpson stepping in to lend a hand about a matter that is not the kind of matter that one usually turns to the United States Senate for. Not actually the kind of thing that the Senate usually handles at all. Stay with us. Act One When May Day Falls in April. OK. Some basic facts about Eric and Charlotte Kaufman. First off OK whatever impressions you have of people who own boats they are not rich. The boat is their house. They have no other home. This is where their savings went. Before they set sail last month Eric made his living doing a computer job for a financial services company. Eric and Charlotte had been preparing for this trip seriously since 2010 when they started buying safety gear and did all the careful steps you do to make a ship as safe as possible replace the rigging and chain plates that kind of thing. The plan was they were going to travel to the Pacific Islands make it to New Zealand before November then live in New Zealand for a couple years and then on to Micronesia and Indonesia then who knows where. When I asked Eric how long the trip was going to be he did not have an answer. Years for sure. The idea was they would head out and then just figured it out. Which made me especially interested in the moment that they decided to give all that up and call for help. What happened that made them abandon everything they had been hoping for and planning for for years and years? Well Eric said that one of the big problems began the day before they called for help. Basically they sailed into a part of the ocean called the Intertropical Convergence Zone where they hit some nasty weather and waves. Not horrible Eric said. You would expect this kind of thing on an ocean crossing. But they were getting rained on every 30 to 35 minutes with squalls waves are going over the boat covering the deck. And then-- here's the bad part-- they get broached which is sailing language for a wave pushed their boat onto its side just for a few seconds and then it righted itself. We got knocked over several times. And people have asked Eric were you scared out there? And Eric always says no I was not scared. But I was in the cabin with the girls and one time our oldest was going to the bathroom by herself-- because she is three she is almost four and she want's to do everything by herself-- and when that wave hit it is the scariest sound. Because it is just a big bang? Yeah. It is this huge bang. It is like you were in a car accident. You are expecting to go up and see who just T-boned you. But it was a wave. And so you guys are downstairs in the cabin and Eric is upstairs driving the boat. Is he upstairs out on the deck when the boat gets turned on its side? Yes. He was definitely on the side decks. But he goes out there clipped in and we all maintain the rule one hand for you one hand for the ship. So he is always holding on. So he is clipped on with straps and stuff so he cannot just go into the water? Right. Yeah. I think the hardest part for people who do not sail to really imagine about this trip is that you are constantly in motion. You are burning calories just by sitting because your body is constantly fighting to keep you in an upright position. We could never stand still. When I am making food I have to brace my feet at a really far angle or I had to wear a belt a galley belt just to stay upright. We would have to-- our youngest daughter she slept in a little chair a little kid seat strapped down in her bunk because if we had just put her in her berth her body would literally have been just rolling five inches. Rolling five inches. Rolling because she was too little to lay spread eagle and brace herself at night to sleep. Now to get broached by itself is not such a big deal. Eric says lots of boats get broached. Yeah. I mean you want to minimize it as much as you possibly can. And you probably did something wrong or you could have been more active on the helm or something like that. But it is not like oh my gosh this is horrible. No boat has ever experienced this. That is not the case. It is sailing across an ocean. It is what it is. If you do not want to take hits like that do not go across an ocean. The problem he says is that when their boat got knocked on to its side it put the boom into the water. Now I did not know what a boom was and so he had to explain that to me. If you picture a triangular sail on a sailboat there is the mast which runs vertically from the deck sticks into the sky. And then the horizontal pole that runs along the bottom of the sail parallel to the water that is the boom. And when they got broached the boom went into the water. And when the boat bounced back upright-- the boom is connected to the mast and the rigging which is connected to the hull with wires and chain plates-- and with all that pressure on the boom-- That basically yanked on enough stuff that it caused breaks in the hull in a couple different places which-- I knew where a couple of them were. And then some of them actually just proceeded to get worse and worse. And then at that point we started having a lot of leaking at the hull deck joint on the starboard quarter. Sorry for turning into boat nerd on you but that is-- I think we ended up maybe about taking on 60 or 70 gallons a day which is not really that bad if you think about how quick you can move the bucket if somebody put a gun to your head and said move that water. He had a big heavy manual pump on board that pumped a gallon with each stroke. So 60 to 70 gallons took a few minutes. No biggie. Yeah. The boat's not going to sink at that point. We are not all going to die because we have got a bunch of water coming in. It is a pain in the ass but it is not the end of the world. There you are. It was under control. So that was one thing but there was another. Their baby daughter Lyra was sick. Now contrary to what you might have read or heard about this part of the story if you followed this story at all the baby was not sick when they started their trip. She would had salmonella poisoning before they set out on the trip but they waited for her to get better. They delayed their trip. And they only went to sea after they got a clean bill of health from her doctor. For the first week of the trip she was healthy. But then seven days in she got a rash. Here's Charlotte. Kids get rashes so we did not freak out. But then her ears started to smell like cheese. At first we thought it was because we were not bathing enough. We were all pretty dirty. So we cleaned her ears up and they still smelled like cheese. So now we have got two things going on. And then she started getting diarrhea. And then she started acting lethargic. And when your kid starts to act differently that is when you need to really pay attention. So they got on the satellite phone and they called Lyra's doctor. And he said to give her amoxicillin an antibiotic. Which they do for a couple days and it does not work. The kid's still sick. And now they do not know how worried they should be. With kids within 24 hours you should see results with antibiotics. And there was no improvement. Now the two days that Lyra is taking antibiotics are the same two days that the boat enters those rough seas where they are getting broached and water starts to leak in. And so on the morning of their 16th day at sea Eric decides as safety precaution to advise the Coast Guard of what is happening just in case things go south. We are just going to let them know hey this is the situation this is our medical situation this is who is on board this is the sea state we are at right now so that if this gets any worse they have some context of what is actually happening. And he called them with our satellite phone and gave them that update. --which in the Maritime world it is not the most common thing to do but it is certainly smiled upon to do that. And they said OK we are going to talk to the doctor here. Leave your satellite phone on for a certain amount of time and we will call you back. And when we hung up with them the satellite phone never worked again after that call with the Coast Guard. We were not able to reach anybody else. It just said SIM card error SIM card error over and over and over. And I tried everything. I took the thing out and cleaned it and prayed to it and begged it and put it back in. And I tried dialing the emergency numbers and then it was like sorry from where you are you cannot dial the emergency number. And I am like this is so awesome. They found out later what happened. Apparently a week after they would headed out to sea their satellite phone company changed the brand of SIM card that it used. And the company mailed new SIM cards to everybody who had a phone through the mail the regular mail even though people with satellite phones-- the whole point of a satellite phone-- is that you are not anywhere normal. Right? You are off far away on a mountain or a desert or anywhere that regular phones do not work. So they mailed us a new SIM card and then they deactivated them a week after they mailed them. So there was just some guy in some office somewhere that was drinking his coffee and at the exact same time I hung up the phone with the Coast Guard he like ba-dupe pressed this little button and then that is it. Game over. But have no fail we have a long range radio. There is two different radios on the boat and we use that. But that seawater that I was talking about coming down the starboard quarter well the battery compartment is under that stuff and so was the radio fittings. So all the radio over the last few days now was all getting bathed slowly but surely in a nice coating of seawater. And I get on the long range radio and I started issuing pan-pan distress calls which is like the step under a Mayday on the emergency-- Pan-pan? Pan-pan yeah. Pan-pan pan-pan pan-pan. This is the sailing vessel Rebel Heart at position da-da-da-da-da. Yeah. OK. So we started doing the pan-pans and did not get anything back. Does that mean that the radio is not working or does that mean that no one is close enough to hear you? I do not know. I thought how are we going to do this? I made him do the math. I said how much longer do we have? if she is sick and she does not get better will we be there in a week? And he did the math and three weeks and I thought oh gosh how are we going to do this? You would not be there for three weeks. Wow. Yeah. Now it is not just that they are three weeks from where they are going. Where they are going is incredibly rustic-- the Marquesas island chain in French Polynesia. A beautiful place but a place that is not notorious for its medical services. Right? Like they do not have a blood testing facility there. Right? The first place we were going to go to does not even accept-- they do not even use money. So he and Charlotte sit in the boat's cabin and they talk. He remembers he had his logbook in his hand. So at that point you have got a boat that is not horribly bad. But you have got a boat that has flooding that your automatic bilge pumps will not keep up with anymore. No one would go to sea on a boat like that. It is not good. It is not fatal. But it is not good. We have unknown other structural damage that is causing water to come in beyond what I have been able to see. Yeah. One of our solar panels was ripped off. Some of our electronics were starting to fail because the water was going into the battery compartment. Our satellite phone was out. So now if we needed any other kind of medical care at all-- if somebody bonked their head anything-- my child had whatever medical stuff was going on with her. The symptoms are pretty clear and laid out as they are. And I do not see it getting any better. When you lay it out this way it seems like it was not actually a difficult decision. It seems like it was obvious what to do like you did not actually have to struggle. Do I have that right? Yeah. It really took about 10 minutes once I realized-- I mean really once you know that you have a person on board that is sick with an ailment that is not responding to the treatment that is provided to it and you no longer have access to medical care and you will not for weeks to go and that that person is-- once you know that right there what else would you do? I mean what would you do? Would you just keep sailing for three weeks? Now of course if they take action if they use the EPIRB-- remember the EPIRB is the emergency device that calls for help-- nobody is going to tow their boat to safety they are boat which they had been living on their boat that was their whole life. Nobody was going to pick them up and save their daughter and then return them to their boat later. And at that point he said we have got to use the EPIRB. And I had walked forward in the boat which is a challenge. Forward is always the bumpiest part of the boat. And I was kind of feigning like I needed to go to the bathroom but I was really just trying to walk away from the decision. And he just followed me forward and sat there talking and saying this is what we have got to do. And I am standing there holding onto the boat bumping up and down because I am in the bumpiest part of the boat. And you know that if you hit the EPIRB help will come. But when you hit it you also know that  your home is gone. Damn. Yeah.  So that is the hard part. You are safe. Well hopefully you will be safe. But that is it. Logistically I go and take it and strap it up to deck up on one of the handrails up on the foredeck So it has a little sticker that says keep a clear view of the sky. And then it just sits there strobing which is interesting because you wonder is it actually doing anything or is it just strobing. And then you wait. There is nothing no magical sparkles that come out. There is nothing that says we got it. We got your message. You just have to trust that somebody somewhere in front of a computer is getting this message and it is going to help coordinate getting you help. So that was in the morning of their 16th day at sea that they pushed the button on the EPIRB. It took until near sunset for anything to happen. First there was a burst of static on the radio which they thought was dead the radio. They had not heard anything from anybody on it in a week. It was a plane with rescuers saying they were on their way. And then this C130 just comes screeching out of the middle of nowhere and buzzes us-- it seems like maybe 100 feet 200 feet off the deck-- really close comes right on top of us. And then in my head on the one hand you want to start singing the national anthem. Right? You are seriously like dude no corniness aside this is awesome. I live in a country that can do this. This button I pressed caused this plane to show up. And then you start wondering you are like wait a second. It is a plane and we are on a boat and we need to get out of here. How is that going to work? Yeah. Yeah. What? You know. Sure enough they throw smoke grenades out the back and out come-- they kick some gear out the back that comes out on a parachute. So then these four guys all jump out of the back with their parachute gear and they have a Zodiac an inflatable boat with and outboard on the back. And they press some buttons and  this thing pops to life and they all hop in it. And then long story short they got close to us. We got close to them. And then we bring these guys on board and they just hop on the boat. And then one of the guys immediately went down and started working with Lyra. This is the baby. Yeah. They are all very highly trained medical professionals. So one of the guys just immediately went to her. The Pacific Ocean is so big that it took three days for a Navy vessel to get to them at full speed. The four guys stayed on the sailboat with the Kaufmans during that time with all their gear in the tiny non-air conditioned cabin. Six adults and two kids in this small boat. Eric says everybody got to know everybody pretty well. When they transferred off the boat to the USS Vandergrift Charlotte had the kids say goodbye to their home and she said goodbye herself. Eric cut some hoses inside the boat which flooded it with seawater and sank his own boat. He did not watch it go down though. It is been a month now. They never did figure out what exactly Lyra had that made her so sick. And she is still not completely recovered but she is doing better. And Charlotte and Eric say they do not regret the decision they made. And I do not really need anybody to validate that. I know there is people out there who have their thoughts and their commentary about things sending emails that me and my family should go drown. I could not really give a  less what a whole bunch of people think. I mean we were where we were. We had the situation that we had and here we are. Alive. Yeah. So I could flip it around the other way and say I am a 35-year-old man who made his family homeless. If I am feeling negative about it I could look at it that way too. Eric Kaufman. Coming up Senators gone wild. Well one Senator anyway. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Call for Help. We have arrived at act two of our program. Act Two Government Assistance. This next story is about what might be one of the strangest constituent requests of a politician ever. it is told to us by a fellow Public Radio reporter from WNYC Anna Sale. One day last fall my cellphone went dead at work. I left it to charge on a co-workers desk. When I picked it up a few hours later there was this odd message. Ms. Anna Sale. This is Alan K. Simpson in the wilds of Wyoming. Former US Senator. I need to talk to you about an urgent matter. Nothing life threatening at all I can assure you. But give me a call. I was covering politics at the time but there was no reason that former Republican Senator Alan Simpson should be calling me out of the blue urgent or otherwise. Anyway give me a buzz at your convenience. As I say I am in Laramie right now I was in San Francisco yesterday. Headed for Washington Saturday. And so there your are. OK. Thank you. Bye-bye. I wanted to call him back immediately but it was weird enough that I waited a few minutes until I was out of the office. It was the end of the day. I was on my way home walking up Sixth Avenue in Manhattan toward the subway. Senator Simpson I said this is Anna Sale. He sounded delighted to hear back from me. And then he started telling me why he called. It did not have anything to do with the national debt or anything else Al Simpson is known for in politics. He wanted to talk to me about my ex-boyfriend Arthur. In other words Senator Alan Simpson a total stranger wanted to talk to me about my love life. I better explain. A month before Arthur and I had broken up. We would been mostly long distance for two years. He is an ecologist and he was spending a lot of time in Wyoming doing field work. He was finally going to move to New York to be with me but I had the feeling it was not for keeps. I asked him if we were going to buy a couch together and he dodged the question. So on the day I was going to sign a lease for our new apartment we got on the phone and agreed to call it off. After we hung up I backed out of the apartment and he had to deal with a half-packed U-haul in Wyoming. No. It was not half packed. It was entirely packed dammit. This is Arthur. Our breakup was one of those classic I love you but this is not going to work breakups. Our version was we are in our 30s. I am a reporter in the city. You study wildlife in the wild. This does not have a future. Arthur returned the U-haul. And just a tip if you are ever in this situation he got all his money back when he mentioned the breakup. A few weeks went by then Arthur texted and called. He would changed his mind. He wanted to get back together. Arthur kept insisting he had a plan for how our lives really could fit together. I thought he was panicking about being alone. We were just in different places. You thought it was impossible for me to figure all that out and I knew it was possible. And you remember what you said to me? Well I basically said this is not the way it is going to happen. No. It was even sadder.  Oh really? You said Anna I know you are the only one for me. And I am one of the only ones for you. I know that. Oh God.  Wow. It was so hard so sad but I just was not convinced. So I pushed ahead. I got busy with work. I even went on a few dates. I heard from friends that Arthur was a mess. And at some point I was just sitting there and I just thought well I cannot-- there is no argument that I can make. I have said everything I can say. So either she changes her mind or something else has to happen. Something funny has to happen. Things had just gotten too hard and they had gotten too-- our story had just become too-- Heavy. Heavy. Dear Senator Simpson the love of my life Ms. Anna Sale lives in New York City. We have known each other for two years and three months. I love Wyoming and have indulged its pull a little too much. And so a month ago Anna stopped believing I would ever close the distance to be with her and she cut me loose. I do not blame her. I was being a fool and I took her for granted but now I see eyes wide open my mistake. Senator Simpson-- this is the one-- I poured my heart and soul into Wyoming for six years. I hope you will consider this as a favor for a man who is risked it all for that place. Perhaps-- Arthur wanted Al Simpson to call me and invite me to a ball in Wyoming. All the Wyoming political royalty would be there-- Al Simpson Dick Cheney. I would known for months that Arthur was going to be a guest of honor at this ball. He was getting this big prize for Wildlife Research. I was supposed to be Arthur's plus one until I told him I was not going anymore. That is when Arthur wrote to Al. And Al and his wife Ann got involved. OK. When you first read that what did you think? I just thought it was the auditor the agents. And I looked at it put it away and then Ann and I were in Denver. And I said I got to do something with this thing. I think I will just toss it. And Ann looked at it and she said worth a try. This is just the sweetest letter. And I thought that would be a shame not to call. With esteem and humility he ends. He seemed very desperate. He was desperate and some of that had rubbed off on Al. When he reached me on the phone that first time I got a hard sell. You confessed he did not know much about us. But he told me all couples have hard times. Then Ann got on the line and asked me what have you got to lose? It was bizarre. But I was also moved. Arthur's Hail Mary was totally romantic. I told Arthur I would go to the ball with him. And that weekend in Wyoming was wonderful. The Simpsons were just as sweet and open as they seemed on the phone. They were easy to talk to. Arthur and I ended up telling them stories about how we would met and why we would split up. They chimed in with their own. And then a few weeks after the ball Arthur and I got back together. He even moved in with me in New York. And strangely we kept talking to Al and Ann Simpson. After that first phone call we talked a lot. They gave us advice. I needed it. I was still uncertain about the future. Because look I am divorced I am in my 30s I want to be a mother. I was so afraid of making the wrong choice again and losing time. And after things had been so strained with Arthur it was a relief to listen to the Simpsons who'd been together 60 years but had not always felt like they were on solid ground either. They did not always know what was going to happen together. Ann struggled in their marriage when their three kids were young. And before that when they were dating Al was drinking a lot and Ann worried that he was an alcoholic. They were not just telling me these stories to get them off their chest. It did seem like they really wanted to help Arthur and me. It was surprisingly intimate and useful. So much so that I asked if I could come to their house in Cody Wyoming and talk to them some more. They said sure. They are like these elder statesman of relationships. They enjoy showing off what they have learned. Take this story about one big fight that started on a dance floor. Al and Ann were at some event. And she was dancing with a guy who I knew was a horny old toad. And I thought-- and she loves to dance. And so she is whirling around the floor and giggling and laughing. And so anyway I got home and I said I want to tell you something. I saw you snuggling up to that horny bastard there. And she said look I am not into this to play games. But I am not going to be under a glass lid just because of your jealousy. And I love to dance. And I will do that. And I am not going to jump in the sack with somebody so I think you better get over it. Which really pissed me off. So I gave her a lecture-- it was a beautiful thing-- about life and fealty and love and loyalty and all the rest. I thought she will not sleep a wink. And 10 minutes later I look in she . Absolutely dead but asleep. Guilt free. Guilt free. And me? I got boulders in my gut down here. I did not sleep but I did one important thing. I would always loved Shakespeare. And I went in and read Othello that night-- took a long while-- how he killed the most beautiful person in his life Desdemona choked her smothered her right in the bed the marriage bed. I thought Jesus this is one sick son-of-a-bitch. This is not me. This is totally destructive and has nothing to do with her. The Simpsons say they learned to get past things like Al's jealousy by doing the obvious thing-- talking about it. Sounds trite until you hear just how corrosive not talking about something can be. The Simpsons told me there was one thing they did not talk about until they were at least a decade into their marriage and it did not come out until after they did some couple's counseling through their church. And one time-- I do not know we would been married 15 years-- she said I have never told you something. And I said well go ahead. I would had an experience of being molested. And it was just something that I was always aware of when I had sex. And once I was able to talk about it it diminished. It was a gift. It must have made you feel so safe. It did. I felt safe. That is exactly right. The hardest thing for all