OK here's a weird fact that one of the reporters that we work with around here stumbled upon. There are these little pockets all over the country where like 20 25 of the people in a given county are on disability. They get government checks for disability. For example Hale County Alabama. Nearly one in four working age people are not working because they are disabled. One in four. What is going on there? Well last fall this reporter Chana Joffe-Walt who is with Planet  Money she went to Hale county to try to figure out what was going on there. And her experience there was the beginning of a six-month-long obsession with our nation's disability programs. Hey there Chana. Hello. So these are government checks going out every month to a fourth of the population of this county. Of this county and other counties. There are other counties and towns like this. And the disability programs that are run by Social Security if you could prove to the Social Security Administration that your disability prevents you from holding down a job the government will pay you money. The average people get is about 1000 a month. And the government also covers your health care. Oh they cover your health care? They cover your health care benefits yeah. I did not realize that. Yeah and in Hale County people have all kinds of theories why this might be. Why one in four adults are on disability. And are freeloaders on the list? Is that it? Freeloaders fakers people who are faking disability was always the number one theory. Oh I do not know. Do not get talking to me on that. But hey there is people on disability in this town that I can write a list out is able as much to work as I am. It is going to ruin the country. This is John Jay. He is a fit guy in his 70s. I met him in Greensboro the county seat in Hale County. And John Jay is the head of the utilities board in Greensboro. He used to be the mayor. He sits on the board of a local bank. Basically a guy who is used to people listening to him. And he has some theories he wanted to share. Is it OK with you that I am recording? I am doing a story for the radio. You just have anything you want I say. Because I will tell anybody to the world. I will get out there in front of the thing. But doctors oh whoa my shoulder hurts and my knee hurts doctor. I just cannot work no more. Can you get me on disability? And they keep going back and back and they will put him on disability. And then nobody comes checks them. OK so fakers is one theory. So fakers is one theory. But there were actually lots of theories. I sat in on dozens of conversations like this where people were just trying to explain the high numbers to themselves. For instance a group of ministers I met in a coffee shop were sitting around wondering if it was because of the food. It is very hard to find healthy food in Hale County. There is lots of obesity. I heard there is something in the water in Hale County. I sat with one couple on beach chairs on their porch and the wife  said it could be because people here just live life full force. But as she was talking her husband Cecil was shaking his head Like I said we was always hard playing hardworking. I do not know what that is got to do with the thing. Well we did things to our bodies that we should not have done. Drinking smoking. You think people in Hale County just drank and smoked nobody else did? No but my age group. Then what is the difference? Look you have got heart trouble. So I drank and smoked too. Yeah. I was just saying how we lived. That is-- Same everywhere else. People do smoke in Hale County. There is lots of obesity in Hale County. I think there are definitely people who are faking a disability. But the reality is much more complicated. One in four people in Hale County are disabled because of this much bigger story happening in our country overall. And that is why six months later you are still talking about disability programs. It is. Because I feel like what I figured out is that these numbers and the growth of disability programs overall tells a story about the economy that is very different from the one we usually hear. Run me through the numbers. OK so the growth numbers are pretty staggering. Some of this is the Baby Boomer generation. As they age more and more of them qualify as disabled. Because basically when any generation gets older they get more disabled. Exactly. But Baby Boomers is a big generation. Still it does not explain all the growth. Today there are 14 million Americans receiving payments for a disability. And how fast is this growing? Fast. The number of workers on disability has basically been doubling every 15 years. And part of what is surprising about that is that it is happened despite all these other factors that you would think would have exactly the opposite effect. That would take people off of disability. Right. And that would drive the numbers down. For instance the Americans with Disabilities Act. Remember that is supposed to ban discrimination against people with disabilities. So you would think in theory that more disabled people would be working because of that. But during this period the numbers grew? But during that period the numbers grew. In the 1990s unemployment declined crime declined welfare was down the economy was doing great. And the numbers still grew? And the numbers grew during the 1990s. And there are so many more services available to people who have disabilities. We have perfected artificial hips and knees to help people walk. And we have better hearing aids to help people hear. And computer programs that read for blind people from their computers. And as all this is coming in the disability numbers still grow. The disability numbers have still been growing and growing and growing. And we have barely paid attention to this. The number of disabled workers is not reported alongside unemployment data or welfare numbers or jobs numbers. Oh that is right. You never hear these numbers on the news. Never. So it is basically 14 million people who do not show up in any of the places that we look to to explain how things are going to tell us how our economy is doing. And the jobs numbers that is the thing that we pay a lot of attention to right now. The monthly disability numbers are just as big. Since the economy began its slow slow recovery in late 2009 we have been averaging about 150000 jobs created per month. In that same period every month almost 250000 people have been applying for disability. Wait wait wait. It is 150000 new jobs created every month and it is 250000 people applying for disability every month? Right. Every month 250000 people want to be on the disability programs. OK so you are saying this massive change has been unfolding for 30 years right? It is millions of people hundreds of billions of dollars? Hundreds of billions indeed. Most of us have no idea that this is happening. And so today on our program we are going to look at why these numbers are ballooning why so many people are going on to disability. I have to say this is a view of the country that upends a lot of the stories that we tell ourselves about the economy that we hear about the economy. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us for this hour. Chana Joffe-Walt has been trying to figure this out for a half of a year. She will be our guide. Here she is. Hale County Alabama is a place where people have nicknames. Where people tell you whether the man they just mentioned is white or black before they tell you his last name. And it is a place so deeply shaped by the fact that one in four adults are disabled. That fact explains daily life in town. It is why the banks are open late on the first and the third of the month when the disability checks come in. It is why it is hard to find a parking spot on Main Street that entire week and grocery carts are always full to the brim. Pam Dorr moved to Hale County 10 years ago. And she did not know the disability numbers when she arrived. So she spent her first year so totally confused about the local economy. Well I love yard sales and I am such a crazy yard saler. But I would be on my bike the third weekend of the month or the fourth weekend of the month and there would be no yard sales. I would be like really? What is going on? And then I would notice the first of the month every place in town had a yard sale. So it just took me a while to understand why. If you live in Hale County and you have got an old TV or armchair you are looking to sell you put it out when you know the neighbors have money to spend. A retired judge in town Sonny Ryan told me here is what Hale County's got-- lawyers and trees. One gets you your disability the other keeps you breathing. Judge Ryan's court did not hear disability cases. But he says it came up all the time anyway. When they would come to court I would say where do you work? I am on disability. I would just shake my head and I would say sometimes to the clerk I wonder what his disability is because he does not look like he is disabled to me. When you live in a place where disability is so common the question inevitably arises how come I am working and you are not? I remember I had one guy in court one day. And I mean he was robust looking. And I said just out of curiosity what is your disability? I have high blood pressure. I said so do I. I said what else? He says I have diabetes. I said so do I. What else? The reason this question can come up at all is that disability is basically a made up concept. There is no diagnosis called disability. There is not a blood test you can take. You do not go to the doctor and the doctor says well we have run the tests and it looks like you have disability. It is by definition squishy. Squishy enough that you can end up with one person with high blood pressure who is labeled disabled and another who is labeled judge. When it comes down to it all disability is is the label we as a society give to people who when we hear their story we decide they have suffered enough and it is not fair to make them work anymore. I was in a 1990 Jeep Cherokee Laredo. I flipped it both ways. Flew 165 feet from the Jeep going through 12000 to 14000 volts of electrical lines. Then I landed into a briar patch. This is Dane Mitchell. He is a 23-year-old in a Greensboro coffee shop. And you just feel like meeting him OK buddy you have earned it. And he is not even done. I broke all five of my right toes my right hip 7 of my vertebrae shattering one breaking a right rib punctured my lung and then I cracked my neck. So I am on disability for that very reason. I talked to person after person on disability in Hale County. And there were plenty of stories like this where it is like if anyone deserves disability it is this person in front of me. But there was a range. There were definitely stories where it just did not seem that clear. It seemed bad but maybe not bad enough? It was hard to tell. A car hit us from behind. I felt it right then. I got about five herniated discs in my back. So that is what disabled me the herniated disc in my back. And that was the end of my work. I sat with lots and lots of women in Hale County who told me how their backs kept them up a night. Made it hard for them to stand on the job to lift children to lift the elderly. I used to cry to try to work. It was so painful. You would cry on the way to work? I would cry at work. I was hurting so bad I would cry. Because they did not allow us to sit down. Our job was to stand. I met people who filleted fish at the fish plant with shoulder injuries had asthma attacks diabetes and lots of back pain. Back pain is everywhere. The number of people suffering from disabling back pain in Alabama doubled in 10 years. But it is confusing. I have back pain. My editor has a herniated disc and he works harder than anyone I know. So who gets to decide this? Who decides if the story the condition is bad enough? Who makes that determination? Well in Hale County it basically seems like there is one guy a man whose name was mentioned in almost every story people told me about becoming disabled Dr. Perry Timberlake. He saw Dr. Timberlake and Dr. Timberlake sent him right on to a heart doctor. Dr. Perry Timberlake. He suggested I apply for my disability. Who was that who recommended it? Dr. Timberlake from here. I became very curious about Dr. Timberlake. And I began to wonder if he was the reason for the one in four. That could explain it right? There is one doctor in town and he is running some sort of disability scam referring every person he sees to the program. And here is what I knew about Dr. Timberlake. He is the only general practitioner in Greensboro. He dodged me and my request for an interview. And he spent some time abroad. Nobody could tell me why. And then after sitting in his clinic waiting room several mornings in a row Dr. Timberlake finally agreed to see me. In the first two minutes he explained his international travels. I started a project in Africa and I ran out of money. So I came back to work. Where were you in Africa? Uganda. We give people-- help them get mosquito nets. There is absolutely nothing shifty about Dr. Timberlake. He is a doctor willing to move permanently to Hale County and serve the rural population. I was told he is one of only a few white people in town who chooses to live in a black neighborhood. Dr. Perry Timberlake it turns out is your classic bleeding heart. A doctor in a very poor place where pretty much every person comes into his office to tell him they are in pain usually back pain. Well we talk about the pain and what it is like. Does it move in your legs? And I always ask them what grade did you finish. What grade did you finish is not a medical question. But Dr. Timberlake feels this is information he needs to now. And rarely rarely-- I am not sure if ever-- they have said well I have finished college four years. A lot of them have finished the 12th grade. But a lot of them have finished less than that. And just a high school education and not too many sit down jobs with that. I do not care how smart you are. You just do not get the chance. So you think about that when you think about whether or not somebody is going to benefit from disability? Yeah yeah right. He is asking about their education because what the disability paperwork asks about is a patient's ability to function. And the way Dr. Timberlake sees it with little education and poor job prospects his patients cannot function. So he fills out the paperwork for them. Well on the exam I say what I see and what turned out. And then I say they are completely disabled to do gainful work gainful way you earn money now or in the future. Now could they eventually get a sit down job? Is that possible? Yeah but it is very very unlikely. Dr. Timberlake is saying one in four people in Hale County are disabled not because they eat bad food or party too hard or because they are cheating. He is basically saying one in four people should be classified as disabled because they cannot get a job. A fact that does not really seem like it should be taken into account at all. You are either disabled or you are not. But the more I talked to people in Hale County the more I wondered how important a person's education or job skills really were when it came to a disability. Because of this interaction I kept having over and over again I would listen to someone's story of how back pain meant they could no longer work or a shoulder injury had put them out of a job. And when I said things like what about a job where you do not have to lift people or a job where you do not have to use your shoulder or where you do not have to stand all night long or just simply have you thought about other jobs that you could do people gave me such bewildered looks. It was as if I was asking well how come you did not consider becoming an astronaut. So by the time I was sitting with Ethel Thomas I had had this conversation with so many people that after hearing about her work at the fish plant and then as a nurse's aid until she got disability for back pain I tried to ask the question in a different way. In your dream world if you could have a different job that you could do with your back what would that be? You are shaking your head. Mmm. I had not really thought about it. Ethel and I talked for another long while about the town her church. I met her husband Joseph who is also on disability who has nerve damage in his hands. A good 45 minutes passed. And I was getting ready to leave. And Ethel stopped me. You asked me a while back what would be the perfect job. I thought about it and I said that the perfect job it would be like I would sit at a desk like the Social Security people and just weed out all the ones that come in and file for disability. Wait so what is your perfect job? I could sit and weed out all the ones that do not need it. At first I thought Ethel's dream job was to be the lady at Social Security because she thought she would be good at weeding out the cheaters. But no. After a confusing back and forth it turned out Ethel wanted this woman's job because she gets to sit. That is it. And when I asked her OK but why that lady? Why not any other job where you get to sit? Ethel said she could not think of a single other job where you get to sit all day. She said she would never seen one. I brushed this off in the moment. I was getting in my car. It was getting late. And also it just did not seem possible to me that there would be a place in America today where someone could go her whole working life without any exposure to jobs where you get to sit until she applied for disability and saw a woman who gets to sit all day. There had to be an office or storefront in town where Ethel would have seen a job that is not physical. And I started sort of casually looking. At McDonald's they are all standing. There is a truck mechanic no. A fish plant definitely no. I looked at the jobs listings in Greensboro-- occupational therapist McDonald's McDonald's truck driver heavy lifting KFC registered nurse McDonald's. I actually think it might be possible that Ethel could not conceive of a job that would accommodate her pain. It is that gap between the world I live in and Ethel's world that is a big part of why the disability program has been growing so rapidly. A gap that prevents someone from even imagining the working world I live in where there are jobs where you can work and have a sore back or in her husband Joseph's case damaged nerves in his hands. Did you try to look for jobs that did not involve your hands? What would you do? What kind of work could you do without your hands? I do not know. What could I do? I do not think mashing grapes is going to work here. We do not do that kind of stuff here. Mashing grapes with your feet. With your feet. So we do not do that here. So that is probably all I could have done. So I do not think I know. Every job I ever be in my life I had to use my hands to do it. Joseph and Ethel Thomas live in a depressed town in a poor state in a national economy that is basically in the process of fully abandoning every kind of job they know how to do. Being poorly educated in a rotten place that in and of itself has become a disability. This is a new reality. This gap between workers who are fit for the US economy and millions of workers who are increasingly not. And it is a change that is spreading to towns and cities that have thrived in the American economy. Places that made cars and steel and batteries and textiles. The disability programs are acting like a sponge sopping up otherwise desperate people. This is happening so often in so many parts of the country this shift from work to disability programs that I have actually been reporting on it for years and I did not even know it. A small town already struggling through financial troubles just found out a major employer is shutting down. Warehouses were closed. One of the largest sawmills in the state. This is a familiar narrative a small town or city loses its main industry. When the mill closed in Aberdeen in Washington state I covered it. I stood in the dead mill with a bunch of laid off workers memorializing the end of an era. An era in America where you could graduate high school get a job at a mill and live a good life. We grew up together. We have gotten married. We have had children. We have raised families. Them were the best jobs on the harbor. When you had one of them jobs you had a great job. For NPR News I am Chana Joffe-Walt. And that was it. That was the end of the story. That is always the end of the story. I had no idea what would actually become of these guys because I like every other reporter showed up at the worst possible time to answer that question. The exact moment no one knows what this new reality will look like. So a couple weeks ago I called some of the guys I met four years ago in Aberdeen. OK is that better? I can hear you but not real well. Not well? OK let me turn my volume up. Scott Birdsall told me after the mill closed all the worker retraining agencies from the county came in. They set up a bunch of meetings delivered a bunch of pep talks. Scott says he went to every one even though they all basically had the same message. Oh just there is programs available and schooling and stuff like that. Retraining programs and they could help you with resumes and things like that. Scott was 56 at the time. The last time he set foot in a classroom was 1972. And he hated school. But the worker retraining people were encouraging a forestry degree. Scott had his doubts. And then he went to yet another worker retraining meeting at a place called WorkSource. And right in the middle of a pep talk about resumes and the value of education one the staff pulled him aside. There was an older guy there that worked for WorkSource and he just looked at me and he goes Scott I am going to be honest with you. He goes there is nobody going to hire you. He goes we are just hiding you guys. That is all we are doing. What do you mean hiding you guys? We are just keeping you you know out of the picture. And there is no place for you around here where you are going to get a job. Just draw your unemployment and just suck all the benefits you can out of the system until everything's gone. And then you are on your own. Scott says it was the most real thing anyone had said in a while. After the mill closed Scott had a heart attack. And he did try school for a while hated it once again. I thought well you know since I have had a bypass maybe I can get on disability and then I will not have to worry about this stuff anymore. Scott was essentially taking the advice of the rogue staffer at the worker retraining office. He could have stayed in school until he was 60 in the hopes of getting a park ranger job making half the salary he made at the mill. He made about 60000 a year at the mill. Or as he says he could just accept that he was no longer useful to this economy. Did not have the right education right skills. He could just accept that and check out. Turns out there is a way to do that. And then that is how I wound up getting into the disability thing. And it was not just Scott. I talked to a bunch of mill guys who took this path. One who shattered the bone in his ankle and his leg one with diabetes another with a heart attack. When the mill shut down they all went on disability. And they all like Scott would prefer to be at the mill. Scott says if circumstances had been different if the entire economy had not changed underneath his feet and the mill was still open he would be there. I do not know what that one rogue staffer meant when he told Scott Birdsall they were trying to hide those mill guys. But signing up for disability benefits is an excellent way to stay hidden. People on disability the way the government counts you you are not part of the labor force meaning you are not counted in the unemployment figures. An economist David Autor at MIT told me macroeconomically speaking people on disability are invisible. Well that is kind of an ugly secret of the American labor market that part of the reason our unemployment rates have been low until recently is that a lot of people who would have trouble finding jobs are on a different program. They are on the disability insurance program. And they do not show up in the labor force statistics. And so it artificially reduces the unemployment rate that we observe. So you are saying we all already knew it was bad. It is actually worse than we think. It is. It is been worse than we thought for a long time. This has been going on pretty rapidly for now more than 20 years. David Autor says disability has become a sort of de facto welfare for people without a lot of education or job skills. Except it is the worst kind of welfare program because it includes one feature you never ever want from your social safety net. Once people go in that direction they are unlikely to come back. The problem with using our disability programs as a sort of quiet de facto welfare system is they are not designed to help people to deal with their disabilities to get jobs to make increasingly more money over a lifetime. They are not there to catch you when you fall down and help you back on your feet. Once a worker gets on disability there are really only two ways out. You get old enough that at 65 66-years-old you move on to a different government program Social Security for seniors or you die. Those are the two ways people exit disability. Almost no one gets better. The benefits do not get you rehabilitative services or supportive technology. They just give you a monthly income. And it is not a great income about 13000 a year. But if your alternative is a minimum wage job that will pay you 15000 a year-- a job you may or may not be able to get may or may not be able to keep that probably will not be full time and very likely will not include health insurance-- disability may be a better option. Well let us just think about what that option means. You will not work. You will not interact with coworkers get promoted make more money get whatever meaning people get from work. And assuming you rely only on those disability benefits you will be poor for the rest of your life. That is signing up for disability. That is the deal. And it is a deal 14 million Americans have chosen for themselves. Chana Joffe-Walt. Coming up we meet super nice highly effective people who have one dream and that is to get you-- yes you-- onto disability. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Our program today Trends with Benefits. Why are so many people now ending up on disability? And it is hard to talk about all the money that the government pays to poor and disabled people without getting to a very basic question-- what should the government do for people who are not making it in this country for the nation's most vulnerable people? We have argued about that question answered that question in different ways at different times in our country's history. For decades now there have been some efforts to get people off of government checks. One of the biggest back in 1996 you may remember President Bill Clinton signed legislation to quote end welfare as we know it. The idea was nudge people off of public assistance give them job training. It has generally been seen as a big big success including by President Clinton. Here he is in 1998 just two years after it was passed. We can be proud that after decades of finger pointing and failure together we ended the old welfare system. And we are now replacing welfare checks with paychecks.  Last year after a record four-year decline in welfare rolls I challenged our nation to move two million more Americans off welfare by the year 2000. I am pleased to report we have also met that goal two full years ahead of schedule. Now the premise of that of course was that there are jobs for all these welfare recipients to move into and get paychecks. But over the last 30 years that has changed. The economy has changed. Lots of good jobs have vanished. And government has not really kept up with all these changes. Has not figured out a way to address the needs of all of these workers. And so in the place of the government doing stuff others have stepped in volunteers from the private sector to see to the needs of those workers. Chana Joffe-Walt introduces us to some of these civic-minded Americans in this half of our show. In the absence of a government answer to an enormous American labor problem what I am going to go ahead and call the vast disability industrial complex has sprung up. Its leaders are these guys. Disabled and cannot work? Get the money you deserve. Call Al Gemma at 1-800-677-9030. Al Gemma gets results. Lawyers. Look my law firm Brown and Crouppen has collected over a third of a billion dollars for injured people. Not million billion. See I fix problems. Disability lawyers offer to fix American's problems on billboards taxis and aggressively on television often with props. Gavels slammed down to show they mean business or even better swords.  Has your disability claim been denied? There are disability lawyers who golf who dust their desk plants while making commercials musical lawyers.  Call the Davis Disability Group. Put us on your side. Lawyers who know how to listen. Call a lawyer who is also a psychologist. Call Dr. Bill LaTour. Disabled? Get the money you deserve. And then there are the YouTube lawyers. One disability lawyer one webcam. Usually the lawyer offers a handy anecdote that lets you know they are selling something you could buy. I want to talk to you today about how disabled you have to be in order to get Social Security disability benefits. Well the bottom line is you do not have to be an invalid. You do not have to be out on a stretcher. You do not have to be home wracked in pain to get Social Security disability benefits. Let me give you an example. Almost every ad and YouTube tutorial makes sure to mention that the lawyers do not get paid unless you win. So let us talk about how the lawyers get paid for a second here. The economist David Autor was the first to explain this to me. If a person applies for disability is denied hires a lawyer and then wins he gets back pay for the time he waited for his hearing. Lawyers get a one-time fee a portion of the back pay up to 25. The money comes out of the disabled person's back pay. But the disabled person does not hand over a check to the lawyer the government does. The Social Security Administration makes that payment directly to the attorney not to the individual. So the individual gets their cut the attorney gets their cut. So each year the Social Security Administration makes more than 1 billion in payments directly to attorneys that have prevailed against it in front of ALJs. Wait so the government employs lawyers to fight the government. No no. It does not employ the lawyers. It just pays them. It just pays the ones who win. It pays the lawyers that win suing the government. Right exactly. It pays the lawyers that defeat it. Social Security set it up this way to encourage lawyers to represent poor clients. But I think it is safe to say the government did not expect that this financial incentive would lead lawyers to find people who had been denied disability four times put them on television and tell them and the viewing public-- Do not give up. If you have applied and been denied call attorney Ed Tend. He is local. He knows your doctors. Social Security denies a lot of people at least the first time around. Only about a third of those who apply are awarded benefits and the rest are denied. So more and more people see these ads and appeal the decisions. Not everyone appeals a little more than half. And those who do have much better chances. Almost 23 of the time usually with the help of representation they win. This fact is new the explosion of appeals and disability lawyers. And there is one firm that proudly takes credit for it for transforming the way Americans win disability benefits. Nobody intimidates our clients nobody. That is one reason we are America's most successful Social Security disability advocates. America's most successful disability advocates are Binder  Binder. And we make you this very special promise. We will deal with the government. You have enough to worry about. Call us. That guy making the promise is a cowboy-hatted Charles Binder pointing straight into the came